1 2012-10-01 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Monday's selection includes a lot of news being read on tablets in the morning and at night, a surge in the use of prefabricated mobile data...
2 2012-10-01 To the checklist of signs that the technology industry has entered a "post-PC" era, add this: Google's stock market value passed that of Microsoft's for the first time on Monday....
3 2012-10-01 Lincoln Center prepares to open a new bridge on Monday that spans West 65th Street and connects two parts of its campus....
4 2012-10-01 Marissa Mayer, Yahoo's chief executive, gave birth to a baby boy on Sunday. Ms. Mayer has said she plans to return to work within two weeks and work remotely during her maternity leave. A Yahoo spokeswoman confirmed the birth on Monday morning....
5 2012-10-01 Some new studies suggest a link between poor gum health and cancer, and researchers hope that gum disease may help identify people at greater risk....
6 2012-10-01 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
7 2012-10-01 Mr. Day-Lewis, the Oscar-winning star of "There Will Be Blood" and "Lincoln," will be among the 180 new members inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences at a ceremony on Saturday....
8 2012-10-01 When Goldman Sachs bought the commodities broker J. Aron & Company in 1981, the cultures clashed, but now J. Aron alumni control the elevator to the executive suite....
9 2012-10-01 The Colts announced that Coach Tony Pagano has been diagnosed with leukemia but they are hopeful it can be treated successfully....
10 2012-10-01 Owners of Apple's new iPhone 5 may notice that the phone is guzzling more bytes over the cellular network on Verizon Wireless than it should, which could lead to a hefty bill. It turns out there's a bug....
11 2012-10-01 Oracle's Mark V. Hurd on investing in data....
12 2012-10-01 Up Next in Technology
13 2012-10-01 A look at Glencore's takeover of Xstrata, the merger shaking the commodities world. | Value reigns at the Paris Motor Show. | Oracle's Mark V. Hurd on investing in data....
14 2012-10-01 Judging from the statement released by the banks, the author says it remains difficult to determine whether they have done anything to make credit more available to small businesses....
15 2012-10-01 Shares of Goldman Sachs rose as much as 4 percent in trading on Monday morning, as investors considered a bullish argument for the firm that appeared in Barron's this weekend....
16 2012-10-01 Go to next slide
17 2012-10-01 If you're ready to make changes in your financial life, start by figuring out the difference between what you owe and what you own....
18 2012-10-01 Ceradyne shareholders will receive $35 a share in cash through a tender offer that is expected to begin within the next two weeks, a 43 percent premium to the ceramics maker's closing price on Friday....
19 2012-10-01 Founding Led Zeppelin members Robert Plant, Jimmy Page and John Paul Jones, along with Jason Bonham, will attend a an Oct. 9 press conference at the Museum of Modern Art prior to the premiere of the concert film "Celebration Day" at the Ziegfeld T...
20 2012-10-01 Workday, a provider of cloud-based applications for human resources, said on Monday that it would seek to price its initial public offering at $21 to $24 a share....
21 2012-10-01 This fall, 110 engineers from high-tech companies are teaching computer science classes as part of a Microsoft program aimed at getting high school students excited about the field, Nick Wingfield reports in Monday's New York Times....
22 2012-10-01 The top 50 start-ups, cold-calling strategies, cash flow concerns - and what would you do to revive Myspace?...
23 2012-10-01 Metropolitan Diary: A man and his cute mutt were the stars of the subway car, until an unusual handoff at Times Square....
24 2012-10-01 But in an address last week, Charles W. Eagles, an Ole Miss history professor and the author of “The Price of Defiance: James Meredith and the Integration of Ole Miss,” created a minor stir when he questioned the tenor of the celebration. Professor Eagles asked whether an institution of higher learning should be acclaiming an event that was imposed on it after a century of institutionalized racism, rather than focusing more intently on the history that preceded it.

“The doors were open for 50 years yes, but they’d been closed for a century,” he said. “We don’t want to talk about that do we?”

Professor Eagles’s comments reflect the South’s continuing struggle over memory and its racial legacy a half-century after the most heated period of the civil rights movement and 150 years after the Civil War. Several Southern states support attempts to overturn portions of the Voting Rights Act on the grounds that they are relics of an unfortunate past, while debates over voter identification and immigration enforcement laws have led some to insist that the South has never truly reckoned with that past.

Bryan Stevenson, the executive director of the Equal Justice Initiative in Montgomery, Ala., argues that unlike South Africa and apartheid or Germany and the Holocaust, the United States has never fully confronted the legal oppression and widespread violence that occurred between Reconstruction and the civil rights era.

“If you only talk about the moment when someone achieved something, you look at this history as infrequent periodical achievements, as if that was just the only thing going on,” said Mr. Stevenson, whose group is working on a campaign to mark lynching sites and publicize the legal features of the South in the Jim Crow era.

Ole Miss officials say they are confronting the university’s history head-on. Daniel W. Jones, the chancellor, said he recognized that Ole Miss would be criticized for not going far enough in its commemoration, just as he has heard complaints that the university is paying any attention at all. He said he was satisfied that the program struck a balance between acknowledging the disgraceful past while honoring the progress since.

“There have been many occasions during the celebration of the success of integration to also commemorate the difficult and sad events of the time,” he said, adding that “our university is still an imperfect place, our state is imperfect, our country is imperfect.”

This semester, Marvin P. King Jr., a professor of political science, and Curtis Wilkie, a journalist who teaches at Ole Miss, have led a special honors course on the university’s history on matters of race.

Professor King, who is 39 — and like more than half of all Americans was born after Mr. Meredith enrolled at Ole Miss — said he was troubled by how little his students knew about Mississippi’s history. There is nothing wrong with celebrating accomplishments, Professor King said, but he added that Ole Miss has an obligation to do much more.

“You have your memorials and you have your markers,” he said, “but you need to ask the harder questions. And that’s what a university’s for.”
25 2012-10-01 Second-seeded Richard Gasquet won his first tournament of the year by beating Gilles Simon, 6-2, 6-1, in an all-French final at the Thailand Open in Bangkok.
26 2012-10-01 Eddie Bert, a jazz trombonist whose virtuosity and versatility allowed him to fit comfortably in a wide range of musical contexts, from the infectious swing of Benny Goodman to the wild experimentation of Charles Mingus, died on Thursday at his home in Danbury, Conn. He was 90.

His death was announced by his daughter Laura Csatay.

Mr. Bert was in the pit orchestras of “Bye Bye Birdie,” “How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,” “Ain’t Misbehavin’ ” and other hit Broadway musicals of the 1960s, ’70s and ’80s. He played on countless radio and television commercials and was a member of the house band on Dick Cavett’s television show from 1968 to 1972.

But he was first and foremost a jazzman, and his peers in the jazz world recognized him as one of the masters of his instrument.

So did the critics. Reviewing a 1989 performance by a quintet led by Mr. Bert, Jon Pareles of The New York Times praised his solos as “unfailingly lucid, fully formed melodies grounded in the blues and strolling with an unhurried swagger.”

If his reviews were almost invariably positive, they were also infrequent. Although Mr. Bert recorded more than a dozen albums as a leader, he was best known as a dependable and adaptable team player. The list of ensembles to which he made important contributions is extensive.

He worked with the big bands of Stan Kenton, Woody Herman and many others, and with singers including Lena Horne and Bobby Short. He was a member of the 10-piece bands led by the pianist and composer Thelonious Monk at Town Hall in New York in 1959 — the first time Monk’s notoriously tricky compositions had been arranged for a large ensemble — and at Philharmonic Hall (now Avery Fisher Hall) in 1963. He spent several years with the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Jazz Orchestra, whose Monday-night residency at the Village Vanguard revitalized the big-band tradition in the late 1960s. He worked with the New York Jazz Repertory Company in the ’70s and the American Jazz Orchestra in the ’80s and ’90s, two of the first bands whose repertories encompassed the full spectrum of jazz history.
27 2012-10-01 “It’s just a tough, tough fit,” said Steve Kerr, an analyst for TNT and the former general manager for the Phoenix Suns, for whom Stoudemire previously played. “Both are used to being the center point of the offense — not really creating, but catching and finishing.”

Phil Jackson, an 11-time champion as an N.B.A. coach, has gone further in his critique, saying last summer that the Knicks were clumsily constructed because of the Anthony-Stoudemire combination.

Shaquille O’Neal, who has four championship rings, seemed skeptical that Anthony and Stoudemire could perform at the level of LeBron James and Dwyane Wade of the N.B.A.-champion Miami Heat. Chris Webber, a former N.B.A. star and current television analyst, said he doubted Anthony and Stoudemire could play off each other.

“Carmelo is a one-on-one player, and Amar’e needs the ball off the pick-and-roll,” Webber said. “I think what you have to do is delegate possessions.”

Walt Frazier, an analyst on Knicks broadcasts for MSG, wondered if Stoudemire would be willing to come off the bench. Kerr thought that was a logical option.

“It sounds crazy, but maybe you minimize the minutes where they are on the floor together,” he said. “That way, each of them becomes the focal point when they are out there on their own.”

Anthony and Stoudemire are signed through the 2014-15 season. Woodson and Grunwald are clearly hoping that the more experienced players they have brought in will make the Knicks formidable during this two-season window. Woodson said in July that young teams do not usually win N.B.A. titles.

“It will probably be comforting to Amar’e and Carmelo to have veteran guys in the locker room that won’t go off and really don’t care if they lose, say, four or five games in a row,” Webber said. “In a city like New York, you need guys in the locker room that don’t get shaken easily.”

The Knicks won their first playoff game in 11 years last season, an 89-87 victory over the Heat in the first round. For one game, the Knicks showed that maybe there is a blueprint for Anthony and Stoudemire to build on. Anthony scored 41 points in 41 minutes and had 4 assists. In the next game. Stoudemire, returning from a hand injury, had 20 points and 10 rebounds.

Kerr wondered if a specified system — maybe the triangle offense that Jackson used in Los Angeles and Chicago — could force ball movement and trust for the Knicks. Jackson did get O’Neal and Kobe Bryant to buy into the triangle, and to believe in each other. The result was three titles.

Webber called the Knicks Anthony’s team. He said Anthony should shoot more than anyone else, and the ball should be in his hands late. To Webber, it’s Stoudemire who should evolve and focus on rebounding.

“It’s not a question, and it’s not even close,” Webber said. “Carmelo is one of the best small forwards the game has ever seen.”

The Knicks are depending on Anthony and Stoudemire for success — more now than ever, in a two-year window.

“You have to consider everything,” Kerr said. “All ideas have to be on the table.”
28 2012-10-01 ¶The Food and Drug Administration, Washington, will work with at least six agencies and a foundation on a new antismoking effort, which has a budget of up to $390 million to be spent during the next five years. The roster includes three agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies: Campbell-Ewald, DraftFCB and Mullen. Among the others will be the American Legacy Foundation, the organization that works to reduce smoking among teenagers; the Grey Group, part of WPP; and Riester. Adage.com reported that some of those selected may subcontract work to agency partners; for example, the foundation works with the agencies Arnold Worldwide, part of Havas, and Fenton.

¶Fidelity Investments, Boston, named DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as agency of record for what the company calls its acquisition-based direct marketing business aimed at personal investors. The assignment had been handled internally. Spending was not disclosed.

¶The Clorox Company, Oakland, Calif., chose Grupo Gallegos, Huntington Beach, Calif., for a new assignment, to lead the company’s digital efforts aimed at Hispanic consumers. Spending has not been determined.

¶Bartle Bogle Hegarty, London, part of the Publicis Groupe, is shaking up its New York office after undergoing what Gwyn Jones, group chief executive of the agency, called in a statement “some real challenges on the business side.” In addition to the dismissals of an undisclosed number of employees, Greg Anderson, chief executive of the office, is leaving to pursue other interests, Mr. Jones said, and Richard Stainer, managing director of the office, will return to London to seek a post there. The New York office will now be led by Emma Cookson, chairwoman; John Patroulis, chief creative officer; and Sarah Watson, chief strategy officer. Adage.com estimated that 25 to 30 percent of the office’s 120 employees could be let go.

¶Beth Lawrence, who since December 2009 has served as executive vice president for advertising sales and media solutions at the Weather Channel Companies, New York, is leaving, she wrote in an e-mail last week addressed to her “friends in the ad business,” as the company reorganized and her role “will effectively not exist any longer.” She did not disclose her plans.
29 2012-10-01 “Our goal going into the season isn’t to clinch a wild card,” Derek Jeter said. “It’s to win a division, and we haven’t done that.”

While the stirring win did ensure that they would at least get a chance at a one-game wild card playoff, the Yankees are still ensnared in a dead heat with the Orioles for the division crown because for the ninth time since Sept. 4, when the Orioles first tied them for the division lead, the Yankees refused to fall into second place, although they came perilously close.

Trailing by 5-1 after five innings, the Yankees chipped away with a run in the sixth and three in the seventh to even the score, and then went ahead for good in the eighth.

“Tonight was a season-defining game for us,” Nick Swisher said. “We could have gone down big like that and just packed it in. But that’s not this team’s M.O.”

Robinson Cano continued his recent surge, hitting two doubles and dropping down a shrewd bunt single against an infield shift, and the Yankees scored two runs on wild pitches, one of which enabled Alex Rodriguez to slide home in the seventh with the tying run.

After Phil Hughes gave up five runs in four and two-thirds innings, the Yankees were staring at a potentially catastrophic defeat. They had lost two of the first three games here against a fourth-place team, and another loss could have been debilitating.

But in the seventh, Cano hit a run-scoring double to pull the Yankees to 5-4. Then Rodriguez, who had two hits and drew a critical walk after falling behind by 0-2, took advantage of Aaron Loup’s wild pitch.

An inning later, Curtis Granderson walked and scored on Eduardo Nunez’s sacrifice fly. Jeter singled past the reach of second baseman Adeiny Hechavarria and the pinch-runner Brett Gardner scored the eventual winning run.

The bullpen, especially Derek Lowe, who threw one and two-thirds perfect innings in his biggest outing as a Yankee, kept the Jays in check while the offense finally came to life.

The Orioles travel to St. Petersburg, Fla., to play their final three games against the Tampa Bay Rays. The Yankees return to the Bronx to play three against the last-place Red Sox, their traditional rivals, who may enjoy ruining the party.

“No one wants to see the other team celebrate,” Jeter said, “and they have a lot of pride over there; a lot of those players have a lot of pride, and I expect it to be a tough series for us.”

The Yankees are expected to have first baseman Mark Teixeira back after he missed more than a month with a calf injury. Teixeira played in an instructional league game in Tampa, Fla., on Saturday, and Manager Joe Girardi said Teixeira would probably start on Monday.

Whatever happens in that game, there won’t be any celebration over a wild-card berth.

“I don’t think in the history of Yankee baseball we’ve shot for the wild card,” Swisher said. “That’s not how we get down over here. This city, this team expects to win, and that’s what I expect us to go out and do.”

For that, the magic number is four.

Eric Chavez hit his third home run in his last five games. It was his 16th over all, the most he has hit since 2006 when he hit 22. ... The utility infielder Jayson Nix was found to have a Grade 1 strain of his left hip flexor and was told he will be out 10 to 14 days. ... Joe Girardi said Ivan Nova was still scheduled to start Tuesday, but would not discuss whether a possible change is being considered.
30 2012-10-01 “We have a major socioeconomic crisis in which several hundred thousand Greeks are losing ground,” said Nikos Demertzis, a professor of political sociology at the University of Athens. “And you have a rising number of immigrants in Greece, many illegal. This is creating a volcanic situation where all the classic parameters for the flourishing of a far-right force like Golden Dawn are present.”

Golden Dawn’s tactics are similar to ones it used before parliamentary elections in June. Preying on fears that immigrants are worsening crime rates and economic hardship, the group has been stepping up attacks against immigrants, many of whom are legal citizens, with the police frequently standing by. It is also trying to expand its reach with the Greek diaspora.

The group recently opened an office in New York, announcing its presence with a sleek Web site depicting a stylized Swastika against a darkened Manhattan skyline. The Web site was disabled by hackers less than a day later and remains down, and the American Hellenic Educational Progressive Association condemned the group’s outreach, saying that “fascism has no place in the United States.”

Golden Dawn has also established an outpost in Australia, where Greeks have been emigrating by the thousands to escape the crisis in their homeland.

The group is still far from being a major threat to Mr. Samaras’s party, or to his fragile three-party coalition government. Most Greeks express alarm at the group’s rise, and anti-fascist organizations in Athens are continuing efforts neighborhood by neighborhood to counter its increased vigilantism.

Yet, rising political and social discontent is rich fodder for Golden Dawn as it tries to cultivate a larger base. These days, it is not uncommon for conversations to evolve into laments about the ineffectiveness of Mr. Samaras’s government, before a mention of Golden Dawn’s rise in the polls slips in.

“People have no faith in the political system,” said Dimitris Kaklamanos, 41, a worker at a Shell gas station in the town of Piraeus, on the outskirts of Athens.

Mr. Kaklamanos said he had long voted for Pasok, the Socialist party, but grew disillusioned with corruption and the ineptitude of its politicians. Now, he feels attracted to Golden Dawn, he said, whose popularity he expects to continue to rise, especially as the group replaces police and government services in poor areas where the state has almost ceased to function.

Other political parties “know that Golden Dawn is gaining power and they see that as a threat,” Mr. Kaklamanos said. “But Golden Dawn are the only ones out there demonstrating they care about the Greek people.”

He cited food and clothing drives conducted by the group across a widening area of Athens, as well as protections it extends to vulnerable Greeks in neighborhoods where crime has surged in tandem with illegal immigration.

Kaiti Lazarou, 55, the owner of a newspaper and cigarette kiosk in Piraeus, agreed. “I myself have gotten food and potatoes from them in Syntagma Square,” she said. “I would not be surprised if they become the government one day, and why shouldn’t they? They protect the Greeks, while Samaras and the government are out of touch with the people.”

In an interview last week, Mr. Samaras said that hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants fleeing hardship in Africa, South Asia and now Syria were creating “major distress” in Greece, which they use as a gateway to the European Union after entering through Turkey. He appealed to Greece’s European partners to modify immigration accords so that other countries could take on a greater share of Greece’s immigration burden.

With more than 1.5 million immigrants in a country of about 11 million, “this is creating extremism” that feeds the popularity of Golden Dawn, Mr. Samaras said. Outlawing the group could backfire by fueling their popularity, he added.

Mr. Demertzis, the University of Athens professor, said Golden Dawn was effective because it did more than just utter political platitudes. Its members “do their propaganda through deeds, exactly the same way that the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt does, or Hezbollah in Lebanon.”

In Golden Dawn’s case, the most high-profile activities center on anti-immigrant campaigns, like the one documented in the video, depicted as the actions of good Samaritans.

In another raid, filmed and posted on YouTube, in the town of Missolonghi, Greek shopkeepers shout at Golden Dawn members as they walk through a fruit and vegetable market kicking over stands loaded with produce. The raid was led by another Golden Dawn lawmaker, Costas Barbarousis. “These tactics were used in the dictatorship!” one woman cries.

After the episodes, Golden Dawn lawmakers were barred from receiving the protection of the police, who human rights groups say are increasingly looking the other way when confronted with evidence of violence by Golden Dawn sympathizers, with some officers seeming more sympathetic to them than to their victims. Mr. Samaras played down concerns that the Greek police were sympathetic to the group. “I’m very happy with the way they’ve done their job,” he said in the interview.

Justice Minister Antonis Roupakiotis condemned the Golden Dawn attacks, saying they created “conditions for the growth of neo-fascist practices in the country.” He added that his ministry would consider tougher penalties for racist violence. New Democracy, Pasok and independent Greeks also condemned the attacks.

But such talk may only go so far.

“It’s the current government that brought more power to Golden Dawn because the people are angry at what the government is doing,” said Iakovos Zorzios, 73, a retiree whose pension has been cut as part of Greece’s austerity measures.

“How can we not be angry when the government cuts our earnings so much?” said Mr. Zorzios, who is bracing for yet another reduction in the latest austerity plan forged this week. “How can they expect us not to support Golden Dawn?”
31 2012-10-02 Credit: Steve Hebert for The New York Times
32 2012-10-02 Read updates from Tuesday's extra-inning victory by the Marlins over the Mets, a game where R.A. Dickey failed to win his 21st game....
33 2012-10-02 Does the G.O.P. candidate know the difference between deferred action for unauthorized immigrants and actual visas?...
34 2012-10-02 A new report suggests that the recent decline in emissions is unlikely to continue without substantial changes in production and consumption practices....
35 2012-10-02 I was 34, and my son just a few months old, on the morning I called my husband at his new job and asked him to come drive me to the Emergency Room....
36 2012-10-02 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Tuesday's selection includes a new claim that Microsoft is working on its own cellphone, two rivals wanting a deal like the ones the Kansas ...
37 2012-10-02 Scenes from the Paris fashion week photo diary of Schohaja....
38 2012-10-02 Four nonprofit groups are sponsoring free one-on-one sessions with financial planners in two dozen cities....
39 2012-10-02 A reader asks whether the Obama administration really has cut small-business taxes 18 times....
40 2012-10-02 The share price of Chipotle is dropping like a lead burrito after the hedge fund manager David Einhorn called the Mexican eatery overvalued....
41 2012-10-02 Cargill finds trouble in Japanese 'love hotel' deal. | Why Americans could pay higher taxes come January. | American Express to pay refunds over debt collection practices....
42 2012-10-02 Based on a documentary about an endurance contest in Texas, the show features music by Trey Anastasio of Phish and Amanda Green....
43 2012-10-02 Shares of MetroPCS Communications shot up more than 21 percent on speculation it was nearing a deal with Deutsche Telekom....
44 2012-10-02 The Finnish bank official, Erkki Liikanen, was chairman of the panel after being assigned the task early this year by Mr. Barroso and Mr. Barnier. His group’s report blamed excessive risk taking, often in trading of highly complex securities or in real estate-related lending, and excessive reliance on short-term funding, for helping create the financial crisis.

Already, though, the group’s proposals have met opposition from major lenders, which want to avoid additional banking restrictions. Europe is already pushing various other reforms in banking and finance, which include requiring larger capital reserves for risk-taking parts of the business, as well as expanded powers for the European Central Bank to oversee every bank in the euro currency union.

Guido Ravoet, the chief executive of the European Banking Federation, a group of national associations representing 4,500 banks, said his members “are concerned over the proposal to ring-fence trading activities of the bigger banks into a separate part of the banking structure.” He said the proposal “seems not to fully acknowledge the major regulatory changes already put in place and those still forthcoming.”

Some bankers may also take affront at the singling out of activities like trading of complex securities known as derivatives, which the panel identified as risky but that they consider integral to modern finance.

Simon Lewis, the chief executive of the Association for Financial Markets in Europe, which represents the investment banking and securities industries, said, “We do not believe that further changes to the structure of the banking industry are necessary or will contribute to Europe’s economic growth.”

Mr. Barnier, the financial services commissioner, said Tuesday that he still must decide whether to proceed with legislative proposals based on the recommendations. The report will “feed our reflections on the need for further action,” he said.

Should things reach that stage, the European Parliament would probably become involved. Ultimately, any specific measures might need the green light from each of the Union’s 27 member governments before they could take effect.

But turning the Liikanen group’s idea into law would be “very difficult because of the power of large banking groups in Europe,” said Karel Lannoo, the chief executive of the Center for European Policy Studies, a research organization.

“Legal separation means separate capitalization of the different entities, which may become very expensive for large banks,” said Mr. Lannoo, who cited Deutsche Bank of Germany and BNP Paribas of France as examples. “Today, several larger E.U. banks already have low levels of capital. Separation of trading from retail will further weaken the capital base. This is why I expect these proposals will be resisted.”

Europe is much more vulnerable to banking crises than the United States because of the size of the financial sector in relation to the economy, said Jan Pieter Krahnen, a professor of finance at the University of Frankfurt who was a member of the Liikanen committee.

The total assets of European banks — the amount of money they have at risk — is equal to 350 percent of gross domestic product in the Union. In the United States, the corresponding figure is about 80 percent.

In addition, some institutions like ING in the Netherlands, HSBC in Britain or Santander in Spain have assets larger than the economies of the countries in which they are based. If they get in trouble, national governments have little choice but to bail them out at taxpayer expense. As happened in Ireland, the expense can drive government debt to perilous levels.

“The problem has a completely different dimension here than in the U.S.,” Mr. Krahnen said at a press briefing in Frankfurt. “A structure like this is easier to destabilize.”

Mr. Liikanen acknowledged that some members of his panel wanted to recommend far less aggressive forms of regulation, like requiring banks with investment banking units only to put extra money aside in the form of so-called capital buffers.

But Mr. Liikanen, who is a member of the European Central Bank’s governing council, argued that structural changes that included splitting off investment banking would be the best way to protect the “socially most vital parts” of commercial banks, which include everyday deposit taking and the kinds of lending that businesses rely on to finance operations and growth.

The group included former bankers, economists, regulatory experts, and a representative from a consumer group. The release of their report, though, signals a lack of global consensus on how to change the structure of banks.

In the United States, regulators are putting the finishing touches on a rule first proposed by Paul A. Volcker, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, that aims to prevent banks from engaging in proprietary trading, or trading securities for their own accounts. Meanwhile the British government has taken up the recommendations of John Vickers, an economist, to place retail and small business deposits in separate subsidiaries.

“With the Liikanen report, there are now three proposed models for changing the structure of banks on the table,” said Iain Coke, a financial services expert at the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, a professional body. “We are not convinced that any of these proposals have a sound basis,” said Mr. Coke. “It is doubtful whether it is possible to identify types of banking which are not important or are especially risky,” he added.

But Mr. Krahnen, the committee member, said that the panel had studied the Volcker rule, and ended up doubting whether it was possible to effectively quarantine proprietary trading. The European approach is designed to be “more surgical,” he said.

The activities that should be separated, according to the Liikanen report, would include banks’ trading of derivatives for their own accounts, and other closely linked activities. Many of the banks conducting these forms of risk taking would need to place those activities in units that were financed separately from regular commercial banking, the report said.

The separation could be carried out using a single holding company, the report said, and it would only be mandatory if the risky activities amounted to a significant share of a bank’s business.

The report also recommended additional limits on how bankers should be compensated, including making the overall amount of bonuses less than what banks pay in dividends.

But Philippe Lamberts, a member of the European Parliament for the European Green Party, said the report should have also backed an absolute cap on bonuses, rather than opting for a structure that “may seem attractive” and “does not address excessive pay in the banking sector.”
45 2012-10-02 Scientists say that in principle, the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir could be removed so the valley could be returned to its lush natural state....
46 2012-10-02 Was the Cambodian journalist Mam Sonando fomenting rebellion - or merely criticizing the government over yet another land grab? Either way, a court has handed him a sentence of 20 years in prison. The U.S. government, Amnesty International and oth...
47 2012-10-02 “States,” he said, “must have a genuine choice.”

Citing that decision, Cindy Mann, the federal official in charge of Medicaid, said, “A state may choose whether and when to expand, and if a state covers the expansion group, it may decide later to drop the coverage.”

Since the creation of Medicaid in 1965, the federal government and the states have shared the costs. The federal share now averages 57 percent.

Ms. Mann said that while “there is no deadline” for expanding Medicaid, states would pay a price for delay.

Under the new law, she said, the federal government will pay the entire cost of Medicaid coverage for newly eligible beneficiaries for three years, from 2014 to 2016. The federal share will decline to 95 percent in 2017, 94 percent in 2018, 93 percent in 2019 and 90 percent in 2020 and later years.

The federal payment rates “are tied by law to the specific calendar years noted,” Ms. Mann said. So if a state defers the expansion of Medicaid to 2016, the federal government will pay 100 percent of the costs for only one year. After 2016, the federal share will drop to the levels specified by Congress, and states will be responsible for the remainder.

“I am hopeful that state leaders will take advantage of the opportunity provided to insure their poorest families with these unusually generous federal resources,” said Ms. Mann, a deputy administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

Governors of some states, like Louisiana and Texas, oppose the expansion of Medicaid. Other governors, like those of Illinois and Washington, have said they want to expand the program as Congress intended. In many states, action by state legislatures will be needed to expand eligibility or to authorize the spending of federal money.

In Colorado, State Senator Ellen S. Roberts, a Republican, said she had heard presentations by federal officials who support expanding Medicaid. But she said: “I have no faith in Washington, D.C., to deliver on promises being made to entice states into making these changes. It would be a mistake for us to rush into this.”

Many states that have difficulty paying for their current Medicaid programs are carefully weighing the costs and benefits of changes that could, for some of them, increase enrollment by one-quarter to one-third.

In its guidance to states, the Obama administration left major questions unanswered.

Matt D. Salo, the executive director of the National Association of Medicaid Directors, which represents state officials, said the biggest question was “whether the expansion of Medicaid is all or nothing.”

Some states, he said, may want to expand Medicaid to cover people up to 100 percent of the poverty level, rather than 133 percent.

State officials are asking: Will the federal government pay for newly eligible beneficiaries if a state carries out a partial expansion of Medicaid? Will it pay 90 percent to 100 percent of the costs? Will it pay any of the costs? And if the administration concludes that the new health care law does not allow a partial expansion of Medicaid, will it nevertheless grant waivers allowing states to try such an approach?

The answers may depend on the outcome of the presidential election.

Mitt Romney, the Republican candidate for president, wants to repeal the 2010 health law. He would give each state a lump sum of federal money — a block grant — for Medicaid.

If Mr. Obama is re-elected, most states will expand their Medicaid programs, says a new report from the consulting firm created by one of Mr. Romney’s top advisers, Michael O. Leavitt, a former secretary of health and human services under President George W. Bush.

The report, prepared for the State of Idaho, says: “If President Obama is re-elected, Leavitt Partners believes the administration will do everything in its power to incentivize states to opt in to the full Medicaid expansion, offering program flexibility as needed. Under this scenario, most states will ultimately choose to expand their Medicaid programs, although some Republican states will be slow to move.”

The report adds, “Alternatively, if Republicans take both the White House and Congress, Leavitt Partners believes the administration and Congress will effectively repeal the Medicaid expansion” or reduce the amount of federal money available, so “the expansion will no longer be an attractive option for most states.”
48 2012-10-02 An interview with David Downs, commissioner of the North American Soccer League....
49 2012-10-02 “That taught corporations a lesson about candor,” John F. Welch Jr., the former chairman and chief executive of General Electric, said on Monday in a telephone interview. “It was a huge legacy to leave: When you have a problem, deal with it openly, up front.”

Those who knew Mr. Burke said he thrived on lively debate and sought opinions wherever he went. Three days into the first Tylenol poisonings in 1982, he traveled to Vermont to visit his son for parents’ weekend at Middlebury College. His son said he had assumed that his father would be too busy to make the trip, but Mr. Burke insisted and took eight of his son’s friends out to dinner.

“He sat and he asked each one of them, ‘If you were me, what would you do?’ ” James Burke, who is an independent film producer, recalled on Monday. “He asked everybody he could think of what would be the right thing to do, and then took what made sense to him and his values.”

Within months in 1982, Johnson & Johnson had returned Tylenol to the market in new, tamper-resistant packaging — the scare prompted Congress to pass antitampering legislation — and it took just one more year before the company recovered its position as the top-selling over-the-counter pain reliever.

James Edward Burke was born in Rutland, Vt., on Feb. 28, 1925, a son of James and Mary Barnett Burke. He grew up in Slingerlands, N.Y., a small town outside Albany.

During World War II, Mr. Burke was an ensign in the Navy. He earned a bachelor’s degree in economics in 1947 from the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., and continued on to Harvard Business School, graduating in 1949.

After a stint as a sales representative for Procter & Gamble, Mr. Burke went to work at Johnson & Johnson in 1953 as a product director.

Over the next two decades, Mr. Burke took on increasingly important roles as a marketing executive on the consumer side of the company’s business. He became vice president of marketing in 1964. In 1973, he became president of Johnson & Johnson, and three years later he was named chairman and chief executive.

After his retirement, Mr. Burke became chairman of the Partnership for a Drug-Free America, a position he held until 2005. He also served on the boards of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the Carnegie Institution of Washington and on the Chairman’s Council of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

In 2000, President Bill Clinton awarded Mr. Burke the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian award, for his business leadership and his antidrug efforts.

Mr. Burke was a longtime resident of Princeton, N.J. Besides his son, he is survived by his wife of 31 years, Didi; a daughter, Clo Burke; a sister, Phyllis Burke Davis; and four grandchildren.
50 2012-10-02 WASHINGTON — Americans of working age are going to the doctor less frequently than they were 10 years ago, according to a new report by the Census Bureau.

In 2010, people age 18 to 64 made an average of 3.9 visits to doctors, nurses and other medical professionals, down from 4.8 visits in 2001, said the report, which was released on Monday.

The precise reasons for the decline were unclear, said Brett O’Hara, an official at the Census Bureau and a co-author of the report. But the changing demographics of the American population most likely had something to do with it.

As baby boomers retire, for example, they leave a working-age population that is on average younger and that tends to use less health care. Still, that is likely to be only a small part of the explanation, as the baby boomers began to move into retirement only at the end of the report’s period, about two years ago.

Another possible reason for the decline in doctor visits, Mr. O’Hara said, is that the share of uninsured working-age people has expanded over the past decade. People without insurance are less likely to visit a doctor, said the report, which was based on the Survey of Income and Program Participation, a long-running survey of more than 80,000 households. The share of working-age Americans without health insurance was 21.8 percent in 2010, according to the Census Bureau, up from 17 percent in 2001.
51 2012-10-02 ZOLLIKOFEN, Switzerland — When Christian Oesch was a boy on his family’s hog farm, cellphones were a thing of the future. Now, Mr. Oesch tends a herd of dairy cattle and carries a smartphone wherever he goes. Occasionally he gets an SMS from one of his cows.

That is because Mr. Oesch, 60, who cares for a herd of 44 Red Holstein and Jersey dairy cows, is helping to test a device that implants sensors in cows to let farmers know when they are in heat. When that is the case, the device sends an SMS to the farmer’s phone. The Swiss do not settle for half measures: the SMS can be in any one of Switzerland’s three main languages — German, French and Italian — plus English or Spanish.

If there is anything to be learned from this project, which will bring the devices to market early next year, it is that Heidi’s world of goats — or cows — placidly grazing in Alpine meadows is gradually becoming the stuff of storybooks.

The electronic heat detector is the brainchild of several professors at a technical college in the nearby Swiss capital of Bern. It fills a market gap, they say, because dairy cows, under growing stress to produce larger quantities of milk, are showing fewer and fewer signs of heat. That makes it harder for Swiss farmers to use traditional visual inspections to know when to bring on the bull or, in about 80 percent of the cases these days, the artificial inseminator.

The sensor implanted in the genitals of Fiona or Bella (favorite names for Swiss cows) measures body heat, then transmits the result to a sensor affixed to the cow’s neck that measures body motion. (Cows in heat become restless.) “The results are combined, using algorithms, and if the cow is in heat an SMS is sent to the farmer,” said Claude Brielmann, a computer specialist who helped design the system. The detector on the cow’s neck is equipped with a SIM card so the farmer can pay for the calls.

“Our recognition rate is about 90 percent,” Mr. Brielmann said.

The device, known as a heat detector, raises concerns among animal rights advocates, not so much because of its intrusiveness in the private parts of the cow — its use involves inserting a thermometer with a tiny transmitter and antenna in the cow’s genitals — but because of what it says about the stressful lives of Swiss cows. It also prompts skepticism among dairy farmers, who are startled by its cost, which is expected to be at least $1,400 per unit.
52 2012-10-02 Mr. Taylor, 51, and Mr. Young, 49, of Hernando Beach, Fla., were indicted in August in Utah, where prosecutors say they used a bank to structure money transfers. They and a third man, Christopher Harris, 48, another former member of the Special Forces who was then working as a civilian contractor in Afghanistan, split $20 million from the contract, according to prosecutors.

On Saturday afternoon, Mr. Lustyik, 50, was arrested at his home in Sleepy Hollow, in Westchester County. He worked in sensitive counterintelligence operations. At his arraignment on Monday in Federal District Court in Manhattan, his lawyer, Raymond Mansolillo, said prosecutors had misinterpreted a legitimate relationship to exchange valuable intelligence as a corrupt enterprise.

“They take that information and elaborate on it wildly,” Mr. Mansolillo said in court. “It’s like something out of a novel.”

An affidavit filed in Mr. Taylor’s case refers to an F.B.I. agent as “person one,” who Mr. Mansolillo said is Mr. Lustyik.

The affidavit said Mr. Taylor certainly got wind of the continuing investigation of the Afghan contract by Sept. 8, 2011, when the federal government seized $5 million from a bank account of Mr. Taylor’s company that was traceable to the Afghan contract fraud.

Mr. Taylor had already begun cultivating Mr. Lustyik to help, according to prosecutors. In June 2011, prosecutors say, they began working on business deals that Mr. Lustyik kept secret from the bureau.

According to prosecutors, Mr. Taylor gave or promised Mr. Lustyik $200,000 in cash, and promised shares in several foreign enterprises, including a contract for security and surveillance equipment to the United Arab Emirates expected to be worth more than $100 million.

In one of many e-mails obtained by prosecutors, Mr. Taylor promised to “make you guys more money than you can believe” as long as investigators do not conclude “I’m a bad guy and put me in jail.”

Mr. Lustyik promised Mr. Taylor he would get the Utah investigation shut down, saying in e-mails that he would “blow the doors off this thing” and “crush the Utah case agent.”

The affidavit says Mr. Lustyik tried to create an internal F.B.I. record that would identify Mr. Taylor as a confidential source. He also created a dossier of staged interviews to show his bosses that Mr. Taylor was too valuable to indict.

“I will not stop in my attempt to sway this your way,” Mr. Lustyik wrote to Mr. Taylor.

In March, Mr. Taylor sent Mr. Lustyik an e-mail saying that very soon none of them would ever have to worry about money again.

“From your lips to God’s ears,” Mr. Lustyik responded. “Although I can retire in 2 months I believe it is in our best interests if I hang on until we have the Utah situation handled.”

Mr. Taylor and Mr. Young face bribery, wire fraud and other charges. Mr. Young is free on a $7,500 bond. Both men have denied guilt. Under a separate indictment, Mr. Taylor faces additional charges of obstruction of justice and conspiracy related to his contact with Mr. Lustyik. He is being held without bail at a federal prison in Utah on those charges. Mr. Lustyik is charged with obstruction of justice, conspiracy and wire fraud.

In court on Monday, a prosecutor, Maria Lerner, asked the judge to hold Mr. Lustyik without bail. She said the Justice Department recently learned that Mr. Lustyik also “attempted to sell law enforcement information to the target of a murder-for-hire investigation.”

The judge, Frank Maas, ordered Mr. Lustyik released on a $2 million bond. He must appear in Utah on Tuesday and return to New York to be fitted with an electronic monitoring device.
53 2012-10-02 “We remain very humble that we’re in that top spot,” said Joseph V. Tripodi, executive vice president and chief marketing and commercial officer at the Coca-Cola Company. Mr. Tripodi has spoken frequently about how increasing the effectiveness of ads will help the company increase its revenue to $200 billion in 2020, from $95 billion in 2008.

Although “nothing lasts forever,” Mr. Tripodi said of the streak, the company will strive to keep the Coke brand relevant through innovations in how it engages with consumers. For instance, he said, on Facebook Coca-Cola has more likes, 51.98 million, than any other brand.

“A lot of staying relevant is not being afraid to take risks or do different things,” Mr. Tripodi said. “It’s less about what you sell and more about what you stand for as a brand and company.”

Despite the status quo atop the list, eight of the remaining top nine brands changed ranks from last year, Interbrand reported, including Apple, which rose to No. 2 from No. 8, and Samsung, which rose to No. 9 from No. 17.

Also, two brands dropped out of the top 10: Disney, which fell to No. 13 from No. 9 last year, and Hewlett-Packard, which fell to No. 15 from No. 10.

“Brands like Apple and Samsung set the pace” for the 2012 report, said Jez Frampton, global chief executive at Interbrand, which is dominated by strong performances by technology companies. Indeed, of the top 10 brands, five are in technology: Apple, Google, Microsoft, Intel and Samsung.

“Technology companies are doing so well because they’re showing real understand of human beings” as they “change the way we live our lives,” Mr. Frampton said.

“It’s irony, a group of technology companies showing the way how to be human,” he added.

Another prominent technology company, Facebook, entered the list for the first time, at No. 69. Facebook was among six new entrants; the others are Pampers (34), Prada (84), Kia (87), Ralph Lauren (91) and MasterCard (94).

“It’s very flattering for us to be part of it,” said David Lauren, executive vice president for advertising, marketing and corporate communications at the Ralph Lauren Corporation. “It’s always nice to be recognized.”

Some brands from the 2011 report are absent from this year’s list. One is Barclays, which was in 79th place last year; Mr. Frampton attributed the departure to the “adverse effects” of the accusations that Barclays had tried to fix key interest rates for its own benefit.

Several brands that were ranked lower on the 2012 list compared with last year’s have also been suffering setbacks. Among them are BlackBerry, which tumbled to 93 from 56; Goldman Sachs, which declined to 48 from 38; and Nokia, which dropped to 19 from 14.

Conversely, several brands in the top 100 took noticeable steps up. They include, in addition to Apple and Samsung, Amazon, which climbed to 20 from 26, and Nissan, which rose to 73 from 90.

“It’s by far the most significant leap we’ve had,” said Andy Palmer, executive vice president for marketing and planning at the Nissan Motor Company. “It’s the ultimate external proof point that we’re doing the right things as a brand.”

Among those things, Mr. Palmer said, is that “we’ve become a heck of a lot better at telling stories,” as this year, “for the first time in our 80-year history, we created a global brand campaign” for Nissan.

He also cited advertising efforts like a Nissan channel on YouTube with “one new story every single day of the year,” he said, an app with about 54,000 downloads and Twitter feeds for models like the Nissan Leaf as well as for regions like Nissan USA.
54 2012-10-02 Furthermore, he’s too insular. As Woodward reports, he’s constantly leaving people in the dark — his negotiating partners and people in his own party. They’re perpetually being blindsided and confused by his amorphous positions. There’s no trust. If I were in business, there’s no way I would do a deal with this guy.

The second reason there’s been no budget compromise is that Republicans have been too rigid, refusing to put revenue on the table. I’ve been part of the problem. But, globally, the nations that successfully trim debt have raised $1 in new revenue for every $3 in spending cuts. I will bring Republicans around to that position. There’s no way President Obama can do that.

The second wicked problem the next president will face is sluggish growth. I assume you know that everything President Obama and I have been saying on this subject has been total garbage. Presidents and governors don’t “create jobs.” We don’t have the ability to “grow the economy.” There’s no magic lever.

Instead, an administration makes a thousand small decisions, each of which subtly adds to or detracts from a positive growth environment. The Obama administration, which is either hostile to or aloof from business, has made a thousand , regulatory and spending decisions that are biased away from growth and biased toward other priorities. American competitiveness has fallen in each of the past four years, according to the . Medical device makers, for example, are being chased overseas. The economy in 2012 is worse than the economy in 2011. That’s inexcusable.

My administration will be a little more biased toward growth. It’ll treat businesses with more respect. There will be no magic recovery, but gradually the animal spirits will revive.

The third big problem is and rising health care costs, which are bankrupting this country. Let me tell you the brutal truth. Nobody knows how to reduce health care inflation. There are two basic approaches, and we probably have to try both simultaneously.

The first, included in Obamacare, is to have an Independent Payment Advisory Board find efficiencies and impose price controls. The problem is that that leaves the painful cost-cutting decisions in Washington, where Congress rules. Congress wrote provisions in the that have already gutted the power of the advisory board. The current law allows Congress to make “cuts” on paper and then undo them with subsequent legislation. That’s what Congress always does.

The second approach, favored by me, is to scrap the perverse fee-for-service incentives and use a more market-based approach. I think there’s ample evidence that this could work, but, to be honest, some serious health economists disagree.

I’m willing to pursue any experiment, from any political direction, that lowers costs and saves Medicare. Democrats are campaigning as the party that will fight to the death to preserve the Medicare status quo. If they win, the lesson will be: Never Touch Medicare. No Democrat or Republican will dare reform the system, and we will go bankrupt.

At last, I’ve tried to be on the level with you. This president was audacious in 2008, but, as you can see from his negligible agenda, he’s now exhausted. I’m not an inspiring conviction politician, but I’ll try anything to help us succeed. You make the choice.
55 2012-10-02 A well-functioning market can accommodate some hyperactive turnstile traders as long as it has enough legitimate investors — people who are thinking about the outlook for companies down the road.

The reason that market squares like me harp on the long term isn’t because we’re technologically illiterate. It’s because, again, society relies on the market to allocate capital. If market signals are based on algorithms that become outmoded in a nanosecond, we end up with empty factories and useless investment.

How much effort do high-speed traders devote to analyzing the future prospects of Apple? Precisely none. Their aim is only to exploit tiny price discrepancies that disappear in milliseconds.

Incredibly, we have let capital formation become subordinate to traders on electronic steroids — with some hedge funds setting up their servers just inches away from stock exchange servers to get a jump on other steroid-crazed traders. David Lauer, a former trader, told the Senate panel that high-speed technology was “a destructive force in the market” with “no social benefit.”

He’s right. The “liquidity” H.F.T. provides is long past the point of being helpful. When high-speed trading was new, trading costs for all investors seemed to dip, but that trend has stopped, suggesting a point of diminished returns. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange now is four times the level it was in 1999 — a year with so much excess liquidity that it witnessed the greatest stock market bubble in history.

And in exchange for providing the markets with more liquidity than they need, H.F.T. is creating a problem of a potentially enormous scale. It’s not just that such trading is unfair to traditional investors who, obviously, cannot take advantage of price movements they cannot see. (The truth is, parlor investors who try to beat the pros at short-term trading have always been easy fodder for Wall Street.) The greater concern is that it will subject markets to more destabilizing crashes and that prices will come to reflect the “judgments” not of investors, but of high-speed robots.

We’ve seen evidence of that already. In May 2010, several publicly traded companies briefly lost nearly $1 trillion of market value in a so-called “flash crash” that the S.E.C. said was triggered by a single firm using algorithms to rapidly sell 75,000 futures contracts. Unless something is done, the markets will grow only more volatile and less responsive to investment values.

Lawmakers in Germany, Australia and other countries are proposing to address the problem by imposing new restrictions on high-speed traders, and considering options like erecting superfast shutdown switches that might be able to cordon off damage in a crisis. But the better way to discourage this excessive, short-term market myopia is to take a page from anti-tobacco efforts: let high taxes discourage the antisocial behavior.

We already encourage long-term investing by taxing capital gains on investments held for more than a year at a rate of just 15 percent — in contrast to short-term capital gains, which are assessed at much higher rates. We could simply fine-tune that incentive even more. Intraday trades should be taxed at 50 percent. And “investments” that mature in 60 seconds should be regarded as, in effect, electronic errors — with any profit going to the government. This will greatly reduce high-speed trading and divert its remaining gains to the public.
56 2012-10-02 David Quammen raised an often overlooked but vitally important public health issue in “Anticipating the Next Pandemic” (Sunday Review, Sept. 23): the threat from zoonotic diseases, which develop in animals and spread to humans.

Mr. Quammen makes a well-founded prediction that a zoonotic virus will be the next “big one” — a pandemic that costs heavily in lives and economic losses. He addresses the importance of monitoring both domestic and international sources of zoonotic diseases.

This is significant because zoonotic diseases are most likely to originate where humans come into contact with species already well known to us: bats, rodents, primates, chickens, to name a few.

Mr. Quammen identifies research as one of the best safeguards against pandemics developing near and far. As director of a program at the United States Agency for International Development (U.S.A.I.D.) to enhance zoonotic disease detection and form response strategies, I welcomed the validation of our efforts from a knowledgeable source.
57 2012-10-02 In “Visas for Scientists, With a Catch” (editorial, Sept. 27), you claim that there is a catch with the STEM Jobs Act, which I sponsored, but you are simply fishing for opposition.

According to a recent poll, three in four likely voters think that we should allow the top foreign graduates of American universities with advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering and math — known as STEM fields — to remain in the United States. And that’s exactly what the STEM Jobs Act does.

Gallup recently reported that four out of five Americans also do not want to see higher levels of immigration. That’s why the STEM Jobs Act eliminates the fraud-ridden diversity visa program and reallocates these visas to those who could help make us more competitive in the global economy.

We should eliminate the diversity visa lottery because it bases our immigration system on the luck of the draw by selecting people at random to receive green cards. No family ties to the United States or strong skill set are required to be eligible. And former State Department officials and the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office have found the lottery to be an open invitation to fraud and a jackpot for terrorists.

The United States has the most generous legal immigration system in the world; we admit more than one million legal immigrants each year. We should maintain this generosity, but we need to make our immigration system smarter by allowing the best and brightest foreign graduates to stay here.

Unfortunately, some Democrats voted to send the best and brightest foreign graduates back home to work for our global competitors. Their vote against this bill is a vote against economic growth and job creation.
58 2012-10-02 Commission officials said they did not intend to discourage companies from emphasizing their legitimate claims to environmental benefits or commitments to sustainable practices.

“Most marketers are honest,” Jon Leibowitz, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, said in a news conference Monday to announce the new guidelines. “They are not in the business of lying to consumers. But what we need is a little more clarity.”

The Green Guides do not cover some other familiar environmental labels used by companies, however, including claims of being organic, sustainable or natural. In the case of sustainable or natural, the commission said it did not have enough basis to define and substantiate those claims. Sustainable, for example, could mean that a product was durable as well as refer to how it was made.

The organic label already is subject to regulations set by the Department of Agriculture.

The Federal Trade Commission guidelines prescribe some specific attributes. For a company to say a product is biodegradable, it must “completely break down and return to nature” within one year. That means no products destined for landfills, incinerators or recycling facilities can make such a claim.

Similarly, saying that a product is green because it is made with recycled content could be deceptive if the environmental costs of creating and using the recycled material exceed the benefits of using it.

As a result, the guidelines include a tougher-than-expected requirement under which companies must do a sort of trade-off analysis, verifying, for example, that the environmental damage caused by long-distance shipping does not outweigh the benefits of importing recycled material.

“Every marketer ought to be looking at them carefully,” said Christopher A. Cole, a partner in the advertising and marketing practice at the law firm Manatt, Phelps & Phillips. “These are not laws, but they are guidance. You ignore them at your peril.”

Mr. Cole added he thought that the commission, which is responsible for enforcing Truth in Advertising laws, will increase its enforcement efforts in the environmental field, now that it has finished updating the rules.

The commission also warned about the use of certifications and seals that supposedly document a product’s claims to being green. Because those seals are likely to convey general environmental benefits, they must clearly state exactly what claim the company is making.

Companies must also disclose any material connections that they have to the certifying organization, the commission said. But Mr. Cole said that the final guideline was a little looser than originally proposed, in that it allows certifications from trade groups in which a company is a member as long as the process in developing the seal is open and transparent.

More than 430 eco-labels are in use worldwide, according to Ecolabel Index, roughly a quarter of those in North America.
59 2012-10-02 A court sentenced Mam Sonando, 71, a radio journalist and land-rights campaigner, to 20 years in prison on Monday after convicting him of trying to incite a rebellion. Human rights groups condemned the verdict, accusing the government of trying to stifle free speech. Mr. Mam Sonando, who runs Beehive Radio and is a critic of Prime Minister Hun Sen, was convicted of inciting villagers in Kratie Province to rebel against the government. He denied the charges. Land disputes in Cambodia have increased as companies try to exploit the country’s natural resources. Human rights groups accuse the government of granting economic land concessions to companies and then forcibly evicting people who live or work on the land.
60 2012-10-02 Some device makers and surgeons heavily promoted the technique as a breakthrough that would allow younger patients to remain more active. But the procedure’s popularity has fallen in recent years as concerns about it have grown.

Resurfacing devices belong to a class of products know as metal-on-metal implants in which both the cup and ball of an implant are made of metal. Over the last two years, the use of all-metal implants has largely ceased because of evidence that they generate metallic debris as they wear, damaging tissue and muscle.

In a commentary accompanying the new report, an expert in this country, Dr. Art Sedrakyan, noted that the apparent failure of resurfacing devices raised questions about how such products were reviewed by the Food and Drug Administration.

“If hip resurfacing devices are found to be unsafe, then the implications are grave,” wrote Dr. Sedrakyan, a researcher at Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell University.

While traditional all-metal implants were marketed in this country with little testing, the F.D.A. required producers to run clinical trials of resurfacing implants before they were sold here. As a result, patients who got traditional metal hips that failed can sue their manufacturers, while those patients who got a resurfacing that failed are barred from doing so.

Companies that market resurfacing devices such as Smith & Nephew, which sells a product known as the Birmingham implant, have repeatedly argued that the devices are not prone to the same problems as traditional all-metal implants. And some patients who got a resurfacing have also said that it has allowed them to participate in more physically demanding activities, like skiing.

In a statement, Smith & Nephew said that the new report underscored the company’s longstanding position that “patient selection” is important to the success of the Birmingham device.

“In the right patients, it has a record of superior clinical performance,” the company said.

Dr. Blom, the British researcher, reported that data showed the Birmingham device was used in about 50 percent of all resurfacing procedures captured by the registry.
61 2012-10-02 Bayer, the German pharmaceutical company, will cut the price of its implantable contraceptive for 27 million women in poor countries under a deal worked out with international donors that was announced last week.

Bayer will halve the $18 price of its Jadelle implants, matchstick-size plastic rods injected under the skin to slowly release progestogen, a birth-control hormone. They work for up to five years and can be cut out if a woman wants to have children.

Implants are popular in poor countries, especially for women living far from pharmacies or wanting to hide their contraceptive use. The World Health Organization says that spacing births two years apart and breast-feeding lower the chances of death for both mother and babies.

Donations from the United States, Britain, Norway, Sweden and the Children’s Investment Fund helped pay for the deal, which was brokered by the Clinton Health Access Initiative.

The implants are controversial. Some studies have found that injectable progestogen greatly increases a woman’s chances of getting H.I.V.; other studies disagree. In February, the World Health Organization issued new guidelines endorsing injectable birth control but adding that women should be “strongly advised” that condoms be used with it, especially where H.I.V. is common among heterosexuals, as it is in Africa. Some experts feel that leaves African women caught in a bind, having to choose between a risk of health problems caused by frequent pregnancies and a possibly elevated risk of AIDS.
62 2012-10-02 LONDON — A senior Scotland Yard detective was accused in court on Monday of illegally leaking information to a tabloid newspaper about a 2010 police inquiry into phone hacking.

The officer, Detective Chief Inspector April Casburn, was charged with misconduct in public office and with violating the Official Secrets Act. She is the first person so far to be charged in an investigation of corrupt payments to the police and other public officials by journalists. More than 50 other people have been arrested on suspicion of making or receiving payments, but none have been charged.

Ms. Casburn, 53, is accused of contacting The News of the World, the weekly paper at the center of the scandal over illegal eavesdropping on private phone messages and other practices, in September 2010, and offering information about Operation Varec, a police inquiry into whether a closed investigation into the practices should be reopened. The police did reopen the investigation several months later.

She is also accused of keeping secret documents at home without permission. It was unclear what kind of documents the accusations referred to, or whether they are connected to the misconduct allegations.

The charges are significant because, if proved true, they would illustrate the longtime symbiotic coziness between the police and journalists at The News of the World, which was owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation. Mr. Murdoch closed the paper in July 2011 after it became clear that its reporters and editors had routinely broken into the voice mail messages of public officials and people in the news, including Milly Dowler, a teenager who was abducted and killed.

Several investigations related to the scandal are under way, including one of phone hacking at The News of the World and The Sun, another Murdoch tabloid. More than 20 people have been arrested in that investigation, and several have been charged, including Andy Coulson, a former News of the World editor who was the chief spokesman for Prime Minister David Cameron, and Rebekah Brooks, a former editor and chief executive of News International, the British newspaper arm of News Corporation. Mr. Coulson and Ms. Brooks are scheduled for trial next fall.
63 2012-10-02 And she charmed with her youthful glamour. Life magazine, reporting on her 1947 world championship victory in Stockholm, called her “a shy, blue-eyed Canadian beauty” who was “undeniably lovely in face and form.”

When Scott returned to Ottawa, her hometown, after her world and European figure skating triumphs in 1947, tens of thousands greeted her, and the mayor presented her with a yellow convertible on behalf of the city, the license plate reading 47-U-1 (for “1947, You Won”).

Scott gave the car back when Avery Brundage, the head of the United States Olympic Committee, questioned whether her acceptance of it might jeopardize her amateur status and make her ineligible for Olympic competition. But the car was returned to her after she won Olympic gold in 1948 and decided to turn professional. It was repainted blue with the license plate updated to 48-U-1.

Scott usually dominated the compulsories, the tracing of figure-eight variations, which accounted for 60 percent of the scoring in her era, but she deftly executed spins and leaps as well. At 13, she became the first female skater to complete a double lutz in competition.

“She was delicate, precise, exact, meticulous — simply perfect,” said the American skater Dick Button, who won the men’s singles in St. Moritz, joining with Scott to herald the international emergence of North American skaters.

Button, who won again at the 1952 Winter Games but is known today more for his televised skating commentary, told Sports Illustrated in 1988 that in her St. Moritz gold medal performance, Scott “did everything right, and there was nobody to challenge her who was better in one particular area, either compulsory figure or free skating.”

In reflecting on the exactness of her compulsories, Scott said: “I like everything to be neat and tidy and symmetrical. I tried to get as near perfect a circle as possible.”

Scott was named Canada’s athlete of the year for 1945 and again for 1947 and 1948. After her Olympic triumph, she embarked on a pro ice-show career, appearing at Christmastime in 1948 at the Roxy theater in Manhattan. She went on to tour with several companies.

With one, the Hollywood Ice Revue, she made her entrance at Madison Square Garden in 1955 in “an evening wrap made of 546 white foxtails, 85 dyed gray and 375 blue,” Life magazine reported, lauding her fresh-faced teenage aura. The wrap rendered her “exhausted and nearly immobilized,” Life said, before she shed it to begin her routine.

She continued to perform until her marriage in 1955 to Mr. King, the press agent for the Hollywood Ice Revue, in which she succeeded Henie as the featured attraction. They settled in Chicago, where King’s business interests were based, but she was hardly forgotten in Canada.

“Even though I was a male skater, she was the one person I looked up to,” Donald Jackson of Canada, the 1962 men’s world figure skating champion and 1960 Olympic bronze medalist, told The Ottawa Citizen in 1999. “Barbara Ann Scott was the one big idol that we skaters knew, that everyone knew.”

Barbara Ann Scott was born on May 9, 1928, in Ottawa, the daughter of Clyde Scott, an army colonel. She began skating at an Ottawa club when she was 6 and won the Canadian junior championship at 11. When she was 12, her father died, and friends and other Ottawa residents raised money to send her to competitions. She captured the first of her four Canadian national senior titles at 15.

After her pro career ended, Scott trained and rode show horses, owned a beauty salon and did charitable work. In their later years, she and Mr. King lived in Fernandina Beach on Amelia Island, in northeast Florida.

Scott carried the Olympic torch before the 1988 Calgary Games. She bore a torch again, this time into Canada’s House of Commons, preceding the 2010 Vancouver Games, where she was among the Canadian flag-bearers. She donated much of her memorabilia, including her Olympic gold medal, to the city of Ottawa in 2011.

On the 60th anniversary of her Olympic victory, she spoke of the moment she received that gold medal.

“It was a blinding snowstorm,” Steve Milton quoted her saying in “Figure Skating’s Greatest Stars” (2009). “I’ll never forget seeing the flag go up with the snow falling and hearing ‘O Canada’ so far away from home.”
64 2012-10-02 The action was directed at the two main bank subsidiaries of American Express, Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB, which are both based in Utah and issue credit cards. Also singled out was American Express Travel Related Services Company, which provides support and marketing for the banking units.

American Express customers should expect refunds by March 2013, regulators said. The company also agreed to pay $27.5 million in fines to the regulators.

American Express, long known for its aspirational cards and wealthier customer base, said it had outlined plans to address each of the violations and “cooperated fully” with regulators. The company is the country’s biggest credit card issuer by purchase volume. Last year, the lender had revenue of $30 billion, up 9 percent from a year earlier.

The move against the bank is part of a broader push by federal and state regulators to protect consumers from illegal credit card and debt collection practices as millions of Americans struggle to pay their bills in a floundering economy.

So far this year, the newly minted Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has leveled enforcement actions against Capital One and Discover Financial over sales tactics. Last week, Discover agreed to pay $200 million to more than 3.5 million cardholders who bought credit protection services over the phone, and $14 million in civil penalties to banking regulators. Through those actions alone, the bureau has forced credit card companies to give refunds to more than five million customers.

In each of the three cases, the regulators found that the companies failed to monitor so-called third-party vendors. In the action against Capital One, for example, the consumer bureau took aim at a company that used high-pressure marketing tactics to persuade consumers to buy expensive and largely unnecessary products presented as a way to protect them from and hardships like unemployment or disability.

In the latest move against American Express, federal regulators said that “all violations” aside from the credit discrimination “are attributed to deficient management oversight of the bank’s service providers.”

Problems at American Express surfaced in February 2011 during an examination of Centurion Bank, and soon the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was delving into similar issues at the other two American Express units.

Particularly vexing, consumer advocates said, were the bank’s debt collection practices. Appealing to consumers who wanted to clean up their , a crucial metric that is used beyond the lending arena to sometimes even determine employment eligibility, American Express told customers that those scores would improve if they paid off old debts.

Despite those promises, regulators found, American Express never reported those payments to the credit agencies. Many of the debts were so old that they no longer marred the credit reports at all.

Regulators accused American Express of “deficient” compliance systems. As a result, some bank employees who pitched credit cards were not given adequate training or information about all the applicable federal laws.

Adding to a deficit in oversight, regulators found, was turnover in Centurion bank’s chief compliance officer. Regulators said that position “turned over frequently,” undermining the compliance monitoring.

American Express has so far dodged censure for its payment protection plans, which were at the center of the consumer agency’s actions against Capital One and Discover. The company said it stopped marketing those services earlier this year and is cooperating with regulators.

Such products have drawn the ire of state attorneys general who have said that they prey on customers’ fears, particularly those who are anxious about a persistent recession. Typically, the products promise to forgive or trim the debts of card holders in the event they lose their jobs, become disabled or die.

In a statement, American Express said it was “continuing its own internal reviews and is also cooperating with regulators in their ongoing regulatory examination of add-on products in accordance with an industrywide review.”

Monday’s enforcement action was “intended as a message to all entities,” said Kent Markus, assistant director of enforcement for the consumer bureau. “There are consequences for violating the law.”

Under the deal with regulators, American Express must halt the deceptive practices and set up independent auditors to ensure that its practices comply with consumer protection laws.

The fines and customer refunds will be paid, for the most part, by reserves established in previous quarters, American Express said.
65 2012-10-02 BEIJING — Liu Xiaoyuan, a lawyer friend of Ai Weiwei, the artist and frequent critic of the Communist Party, has said in an online posting that Chinese officials have revoked the business license of Mr. Ai’s art production company, Beijing Fake Cultural Development.

The move came after a court last week rejected an appeal from Mr. Ai in which he argued that tax officials should not be allowed to collect $2.4 million that the officials said the company owed in back taxes and penalties. Mr. Ai had already given the tax authorities $1.3 million as a bond, and he said he now expects the officials to keep that.

If the company shuts down, then it might not be required to pay the remaining $1.1 million. The officials revoking the company’s business license did not cite the tax case, but said the company had failed to complete registration requirements this year, according to Mr. Liu, who posted his message on Sunday.

Mr. Ai was detained for 81 days last year. Mr. Ai and his supporters say his detention and the tax case were motivated by politics.
66 2012-10-03 Mitt Romney discusses his plan for the country, touching on topics such as energy independence, cracking down on China and a balanced budget.
67 2012-10-03 A month after the Justice Department had threatened to sue block the deal, 3M announced on Wednesday that it was terminating its agreement with Avery Dennison to buy its office and consumer products business for $550 million in cash....
68 2012-10-03 The Choice goes to Colorado for the annual gathering of the National Association for College Admission Counseling, which starts Thursday....
69 2012-10-03 Each year, teams of instructors and other workers from two adjoining clubs in the North Bronx compete for the Vanny Lu Cup....
70 2012-10-03 Gary Barber will remain as sole chairman and chief executive of the company....
71 2012-10-03 A look at the merger of MetroPCS and T-Mobile USA. | The slow market for luxury penthouse offices....
72 2012-10-03 Andy Palmer, executive vice president of Nissan, attended a roundtable in Lower Manhattan to discuss how the automaker was responding to criticisms of its Leaf....
73 2012-10-03 In an experiment that stirred some controversy, Facebook linked arms with Datalogix, a data-mining company, to glean what individual shoppers buy at offline stores. Datalogix says it gets this information from loyalty card data and other sources....
74 2012-10-03 The family that owns the carriage trade butcher on the Upper East Side is planning to open a satellite store called Lobel's Kitchen....
75 2012-10-03 The Institute of Cetacean Research, the government group that operates Japan’s widely criticized research whaling, suffered a nearly crippling financial blow last year when its annual hunt in the Antarctic Ocean was disrupted by an environmental group, a Japanese newspaper reported Tuesday. It said the institute suffered a loss of $20.5 million, requiring additional financing from the government. The newspaper said the group, Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, limited the whaling fleet’s catch to 172 whales, or one-third of its take the year before. The institute relies on the sale of whale meat to finance a large part of its operations, experts say.
76 2012-10-03 In response to player concerns about pay at Grand Slam tournaments, Australian Open organizers increased prize money to a record $31.1 million for 2013, a $4.15 million increase, making it the richest purse in tennis history.

¶ Rafael Nadal plans to play in an exhibition tournament in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, from Dec. 27 to 29. Nadal partially tore the patella tendon in his left knee and has not played since losing in the second round of Wimbledon in June.
77 2012-10-03 Credit: Julieta Cervantes for The New York Times
78 2012-10-03 In effect, the A’s have held a pennant race and not too many people came.

“I’m not into telling people how to spend their money,” Melvin said before Monday’s game. “It really doesn’t matter how many fans we get here — we always feel them.”

Third baseman Brandon Inge, out for the season after dislocating his shoulder on Sept. 1, put it a bit differently: “Smaller numbers, bigger hearts.”

Drummers in the left-field bleachers increase the overall volume at A’s games, and the unabated concrete does not hurt when it comes to shooting echoes around the place. The crowd’s roar Monday, and it was frequent, could easily have been mistaken as having emanated from twice as many throats. Still, compared with pennant races in places like Texas (the Rangers averaged better than 45,000 on their just-completed seven-game homestand), New York (the Yankees drew nearly 43,000 per game against the A’s in mid-September) and across the bay in San Francisco (the Giants have sold out every game since Oct. 1, 2010), Oakland’s intimate gatherings offer the general impression that local fans simply do not care as much.

Losing has something to do with this, as the A’s had not finished above .500 since 2006. There is the slate gray drabness of the cookie-cutter stadium, not to mention the negative association with the Raiders, whose fans have long held a reputation for abusive behavior. There is the team owner, Lew Wolff, who has alienated fans for years with a perpetual clamoring to move someplace else. (He already has a site in San Jose in preparation for the moment that Bud Selig rescinds the Giants’ territorial rights to the region.)

“I’d like to thank the fans for being here ... when they come,” Wolff told reporters in the victorious clubhouse, as Champagne sprayed around him.

In some ways, the modest attendance and the closed-off sections of the ballpark only add to the underdog image of the team itself. After General Manager Billy Beane traded his three best pitchers — Gio Gonzalez, Trevor Cahill and Andrew Bailey — in the off-season for unproven rookies and minor leaguers, it was widely assumed that he was giving up on 2012 while collecting chips that would mature in time for the team’s hopeful relocation to somewhere else.

His moves, however, gave the A’s an immediate influx of new talent: Josh Reddick (a 30-homer hitter and anchor of the batting order); starting pitchers Jarrod Parker (13-8, 3.47 earned run average) and Tommy Milone (13-10, 3.74); reliever Ryan Cook (14 saves and a spot on the All-Star team), and the starting catcher Derek Norris. All are 25 or younger. None have postseason experience. And to a man they are loving what is going on with their team right now.

“Our fans have all these signs, and you see them dancing every time something comes on the sound system,” Reddick said. “They get into it. They’re doing the Bernie” — a Southern dance craze that has been adopted by the team.

“And when Balfour comes in, they’re doing the headbanging, heavy-metal stuff,” Reddick added in reference to the team’s closer, Grant Balfour. “They’re into it for everybody.”

Forty-seven of the team’s 92 wins have come from rookie pitchers. The A’s have struck out a league-record 1,372 times, but lead the majors with 110 homers since the All-Star Game.

It all makes for a potent combination — the unlikely team whose winning ways have been appreciated by a select, but clearly enthusiastic, group of fans, although that number will surely grow when the postseason arrives. For now, it is odd and sort of endearing.

“I’ve been coming here since my mother was pregnant with me,” said Mat Moorhead, 29, of nearby Antioch, Calif., who is one of the drummers in the left-field bleachers. “My grandfather came here for games, my parents came here for games, and now I come here for games. I’d like to think that more people will show up ... but honestly, I’d rather have 15,000 people in the stands who want to be here than 30,000 who don’t care as much as we do.”
79 2012-10-03 WASHINGTON — A Border Patrol agent was killed and another was injured in a shooting early Tuesday morning in an Arizona town on the border with Mexico, according to federal authorities.

The victim was identified as Nicholas Ivie, 30, from Provo, Utah, who had been an agent since 2008. The authorities said the injured agent, whom they did not identify, was in stable condition.

The shooting occurred near a Border Patrol station in Naco, Ariz., that had recently been named in honor of Brian Terry, an agent whose 2010 murder received national attention because of its ties to Operation Fast and Furious, a botched gun-tracking case. Two guns found at the scene of Mr. Terry’s murder were among hundreds that officials of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives failed to seize as they hoped to build their case.

Although the authorities said nothing about the weapons used in the shooting on Tuesday, Republican members of Congress who have been critical of the Justice Department issued statements that tried to tie the shooting to Operation Fast and Furious.

“There’s no way to know at this point how the agent was killed, but because of Operation Fast and Furious, we’ll wonder for years if the guns used in any killing along the border were part of an ill-advised gun-walking strategy sanctioned by the federal government,” Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said in a statement. “It’s a sad commentary.”

A senior law enforcement official declined to say whether the authorities had uncovered connections between the shooting and Operation Fast and Furious. “We need to stay on message here,” said the official, James L. Turgal, the special agent in charge of the F.B.I. office in Phoenix who spoke at a news conference at the Border Patrol station in Naco.
80 2012-10-03 Reflecting a surge in nationalism, the Libyan government has opposed any unilateral American military action in Libya against the attackers. “We will not accept anyone entering inside Libya,” Mustafa Abu Shagur, Libya’s new prime minister, told the television network. “That would infringe on sovereignty and we will refuse.”

At the same time, the Libyan government still depends almost entirely on autonomous local militias to act as the police, complicating any effort to detain the most obvious suspects. Libyan and American officials acknowledge the possibility that some of the perpetrators may have fled the country, perhaps across the porous southern border.

“It is a kind of hypocrisy really,” said Fathi Baja, a liberal former member of the from Benghazi. Despite promises of swift retribution, he said, the government had not taken any steps to confront or interrogate those most widely believed to bear responsibility.

Both American counterterrorism officials and Benghazi residents are increasingly focused on the local militant group Ansar al-Shariah as the main force behind the attack. Counterterrorism officials in Washington say they now believe that Ansar al-Sharia had a rough attack plan for the American diplomatic mission “on the shelf” and ready for some time just in case, as one official put it. Then, the officials said, reports of the breach of the United States Embassy in Cairo, on the 11th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks provided the impetus.

In the hours after the Benghazi attack, the American official said, spy agencies intercepted electronic communications from Ansar al-Shariah fighters bragging to an operative with , an Algerian insurgency that has made itself a namesake of the global terrorist group founded by Bin Laden. Another intercept captured cellphone conversations by militants on the grounds of the smoldering American Mission in Benghazi that suggested links to, or sympathies for, the regional Qaeda group.

In Benghazi, Ansar al-Shariah’s role in the attack has been an open secret since it began. The group’s leaders had boasted of their ability to flatten the United States Mission compound. Witnesses saw trucks emblazoned with the logo of their brigade at the scene, fighters who assaulted the compound acknowledged their affiliation with the group and witnesses saw their faces. Some Libyan guards at the compound saw them close up, and injured attackers were then treated at local hospitals.

Although in the immediate aftermath of the attack Libyan officials issued conflicting and unverifiable reports about arrests, the Libyan government has never identified anyone detained, and in recent days officials have declined repeated requests to provide any details.

Members of the new national congress, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the continuing investigation, acknowledged with frustration on Tuesday that Ansar al-Shariah members had not been questioned and remain at large.

Mustafa el-Sagizli, a senior official in the transitional government and an officer in one of Benghazi’s main militias, the February 17 Brigade, said the government had detained a few looters. But he said he did not believe anyone had been detained in connection with the attack itself.

“It was a mess,” he said, “and it was hard to tell who did it.”

Leaders of the large militias that provide the only law enforcement in Benghazi all say they are awaiting further evidence or formal orders before any move to round up or bring in members of Ansar al-Shariah. Privately, militia leaders complain that detaining Ansar al-Sharia’s leaders and fighters could mean a bloody clash within their own close-knit community.

In an interview on Tuesday, Ibrahim el-Sharkasi, a top official of the Interior Ministry, said he had no knowledge of any detentions or interrogations. He insisted that a special judge had been appointed to lead the investigation. But he said he could not name the judge. And there have been no reports of such an appointment.

Investigators from the , meanwhile, remain in Tripoli, working in concert with other American government agencies from the well-guarded residential compound now serving as the United States Embassy. Security concerns have deterred travel to Benghazi.

Moving ahead with a roster of potential targets, the military planners in Washington started by culling pre-existing lists of suspects that are continuously updated by the Joint Special Operations Command and the C.I.A.

American officials say that since the Benghazi attack, Special Operations planners have sharply increased their efforts to track the location and gather information on several members of Ansar al-Shariah as well as other militants with ties to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.

It is unclear precisely how many of the target packages are being prepared — perhaps a dozen or more. But military and counterterrorism officials said that Libyan authorities had helped by at least identifying suspected assailants based on witness accounts, video and other photographs from the scene.

“They are putting together information on where these individuals live, who their family members and their associates are, and their entire pattern of life,” said one American official briefed on the planning.

Intelligence officials are focusing on militants in Benghazi and eastern Libya, but they must also survey elsewhere because of the possibility that some have fled. And to help prioritize which militants to watch, the Pentagon has stepped up its use of surveillance drones flying over eastern Libya, collecting electronic intercepts, imagery and other information that could help planners compile their target lists.

“You need to be constantly updating and refining the information on the top targets so that when you get approval, you’re absolutely ready to take action,” said Rick Nelson, a former Special Operations planner who directs the homeland security and counterterrorism program at the in Washington.
81 2012-10-03 The Supreme Court will hear arguments this month in a case with the potential to end the use of race as a factor in college admissions (Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin). Conservatives are eager for a sweeping ruling accomplishing just that. But their zeal betrays longstanding conservative values about states’ rights and the role of the courts. And the country is not exactly clamoring for the change they seek.

There are good reasons for the court to sidestep this opportunity to act boldly, reasons that conservatives would trumpet in other contexts. An affirmative-action challenge at the federal level tramples on conservative legal principles like respect for state sovereignty and local governance, as well as judicial restraint in tinkering with democratically enacted policies.

Indeed, rushing to the Supreme Court is not always the wisest method for effecting legal change. Seeking a ruling from the court with nationwide effect neglects the state-by-state evolution on affirmative action. Seven states have barred their public colleges from using it, and affirmative-action bans are regularly on the ballot in other states. States are making their own decisions at their own paces, and there are risks to leapfrogging them.

The Supreme Court’s experience with fraught social issues demonstrates the virtue of the court’s waiting to have the last word. Roe v. Wade, which invalidated 46 state abortion laws all at once, is an oft-cited example of the court’s moving too far too fast. That decision spawned a backlash that has riven national politics ever since. In contrast, the court did not recognize a right to interracial marriage until 1967, when just 16 states had laws against it and public opinion was mostly settled in support.

Same-sex marriage advocates have carefully weighed the lessons of those cases and others to decide how aggressively to push their litigation agenda. Opponents of affirmative action, especially those on the Supreme Court, ought to do the same.

The writer is a 2011 graduate of Yale Law School. He was a law clerk to Judge Patrick Higginbotham, who wrote the affirmative action decision being reviewed by the Supreme Court, but his clerkship began after the opinion was issued.
82 2012-10-03 THERE are sweet peppers; there are hot peppers; and then there are those peppers that fall somewhere in between. They are the Russian roulette of peppers, the kinds that you can never be quite sure about until you take a bite.

That list is long, and it includes pale green banana peppers, round and shiny cherry peppers, glossy dark green poblanos, yellow-hued Hungarian wax peppers. It can be risky cooking with them: your dinner could end up sweet and mellow or quick-pass-the-fire-extinguisher incendiary.

Usually what I do is use a wide mix of these types of peppers and hope that the dish comes out on the edible side of the Scoville scale.

Last year, I sautéed a heap of different peppers, then used them as a topping for meaty swordfish. Some bites were blissful and perfectly balanced. Some bites made me cough and gasp for air. The dish had potential.

So I decided to try it again this year as pepper season winds down.

I hedged my bets. Instead of taking a chance with the gorgeous but unknown peppers, I purposely mixed the reliably sweet (bell peppers, cubanelles, peperoncini) with the reliably fiery (Serranos, chile de arbol, Scotch bonnets).

Then I worked their extremes. I sautéed the sweet peppers slowly with onions to intensify their gentle honeyed character. And I left half of the hot chiles raw, sharp and biting to create as much contrast as possible. Eaten altogether, each bite was both hot and sweet, pungent from a touch of garlic, tart from a squeeze of lemon and faintly saline from the swordfish. But if you’d rather take your chances on questionable peppers, here’s a tip: Slice the peppers open and give them a lick to see how hot they are. If they are on the mild side, use them straight, adding some hot chile at the end. If they make you cry, cut their fierceness by adding a few bell peppers to the pan.
83 2012-10-04 In a college admissions twist, Southern Vermont College is relying on high school counselors to evaluate some applicants through interviews, essays, grades and test scores....
84 2012-10-04 Wide receiver Hakeem Nicks, who has been battling knee and ankle injuries, won't return by Sunday to play the Cleveland Browns....
85 2012-10-04 Prices rose only 1 percent in the all-important cereals sector in September....
86 2012-10-04 The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame named 15 nominees for possible induction, including the rock bands Rush and Deep Purple and the rap groups Public Enemy and N.W.A....
87 2012-10-04 Investment firms and their principals are not A.T.M.'s; they should be treated as advocates and resources. They are members of a start-up company's team and should be kept informed of developments....
88 2012-10-04 What an executive transition means for media giant Pearson. | European Central Bank leaves rates unchanged. | Western Union's chief executive on how emerging markets are transforming his business....
89 2012-10-04 Keep abreast of significant corporate, financial and political developments around the world. Stay informed and spot emerging risks and opportunities with independent global reporting, expert commentary and analysis you can trust.
90 2012-10-04 The Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul, the government's response to the 2008 financial crisis, was designed to be a slap in the face to Wall Street. But Mitt Romney, during the first debate of the presidential campaign, claims it was "the biggest kis...
91 2012-10-04 The series, adapted from the BBC TV drama, stars Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright as a ruthless Washington politician and his wife, and is the centerpiece in Netflix's growing slate of original programming....
92 2012-10-04 Older cellphones tend to contain more toxic material, researchers find....
93 2012-10-04 In a speech, Yahoo's former chief executive, Carol Bartz, spoke about her regrets about the board that fired her, gave advice for the company's new chief executive and celebrated being able to buy her own bling....
94 2012-10-04 Debate analysis, news and opinion from The New York Times staff.
95 2012-10-04 Henry Kissinger, the former national security adviser and secretary of state who helped Richard Nixon "open up" China, has assailed the anti-China comments by President Obama and Mitt Romney, calling their tough language on trade "extremely deplor...
96 2012-10-04 But this year, as the line between acceptable political debate and sophistry has often been crossed, the accuracy of campaign statements has emerged as a campaign issue. Here is an examination of some of the claims and counterclaims.

Mr. Romney said Mr. Obama had doubled the deficit. That is not true. When Mr. Obama took office in January 2009, the Congressional Budget Office had already projected that the deficit for fiscal year 2009, which ended Sept. 30 of that year, would be $1.2 trillion. (It ended up as $1.4 trillion.) For fiscal year 2012, which ended last week, the deficit is expected to be $1.1 trillion — just under the level in the year he was inaugurated. Measured as a share of the economy, as economists prefer, the deficit has declined more significantly — from 10.1 percent of the economy’s total output in 2009 to 7.3 percent for 2012. JACKIE CALMES

Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney repeatedly sparred over whether Mr. Romney has proposed a $5 trillion tax cut.

It is true that Mr. Romney has proposed “revenue neutral” tax reform, meaning that he would not expand the deficit. However, he has proposed cutting all marginal tax rates by 20 percent — which would in and of itself cut tax revenue by $5 trillion.

To make up that revenue, Mr. Romney has said he wants to clear out the underbrush of deductions and loopholes in the tax code. But he has not yet specified how he would do so.

This week, in a television interview, Mr. Romney did shed some light — floating the idea of capping each household’s deductions at $17,000.

“As an option, you could say everybody’s going to get up to a $17,000 deduction. And you could use your charitable deduction, your home mortgage deduction, or others, your health care deduction, and you can fill that bucket, if you will, that $17,000 bucket that way,” he said. “Higher-income people might have a lower number.”

The deduction cap has the virtue of avoiding the tough negotiations over which tax expenditures to unwind. Many tax expenditures are highly popular, like the deduction for charitable giving. Moreover, many are important to the stability of the economy. Suddenly ending the home mortgage interest deduction, for instance, would threaten to destabilize the housing market.

But a number of unanswered questions about Mr. Romney’s tax plan remain.

For instance, Mr. Romney did not address how his proposed cap on deductions would affect tax credits. (Generally, deductions lower a family’s level of taxable income and credits erase part of their overall tax bill.)

It is also unclear whether his proposal to cap deductions would raise enough revenue to pay for his income tax rate cuts — at least not without increasing the tax burden on families making less than $200,000 a year, which Mr. Romney has vowed that he will not do. ANNIE LOWREY

Mr. Romney said that Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul would allow the federal government to “take over health care,” an assertion rejected by the president.

The 2010 health care law clearly expands the role of the federal government. But it also builds on the foundation of private health insurance, providing subsidies for millions of low- and moderate-income people to buy private insurance.

Under the law, close to 30 million Americans are expected to gain health coverage, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Many of them would receive insurance through the expansion of Medicaid. The federal government will initially pay the entire cost of Medicaid coverage for newly eligible beneficiaries and would never pay less than 90 percent.

In addition, the federal government would subsidize the purchase of private insurance for millions of people with incomes up to four times the poverty level (up to $92,200 for a family of four). Private insurers would thus have many new customers.

Projections by the nonpartisan office of the actuary at the Department of Health and Human Services show that federal, state and local government health spending will account for nearly 50 percent of all health spending in the United States by 2021, up from 46 percent in 2011. The federal share of all health spending is expected to rise to more than 31 percent, from slightly less than 29 percent.

The changes reflect the expansion of Medicaid eligibility and the new subsidies for private insurance, as well as the increase in Medicare enrollment as baby boomers join the program.

When Mr. Romney and other Republicans complain of a federal takeover, they are referring to more than spending and enrollment in government health programs. They say the new health care law will require most Americans to purchase “government-approved insurance” or pay a new tax. The tax issue was at the heart of the Supreme Court’s much-debated 5-to-4 decision in June to uphold the president’s health care overhaul law, the Affordable Care Act. ROBERT PEAR

Mr. Romney said that half the companies backed by the president’s green energy stimulus program have gone out of business. That is a gross overstatement. Of nearly three dozen recipients of loans under the Department of Energy’s loan guarantee program, only three are currently in bankruptcy, although several others are facing financial difficulties. Mr. Romney also said that “many” of the companies that received such loans were supported by campaign contributors. George Kaiser, a major fund-raiser for Mr. Obama’s 2008 campaign, was an investor in Solyndra, the failed solar panel maker, but there are also examples of Republican and Democratic campaign contributors who also invested in firms supported by the loan guarantee program. JOHN M. BRODER

Mr. Obama first brought up Mr. Romney’s frequent criticism that the president cut $716 billion from Medicare, by saying the cost savings were from reduced payments to insurance companies and other health care providers. But Mr. Romney repeated the claim, suggesting that the $716 billion in Medicare reductions would indeed come from current beneficiaries.

While fact-checkers have repeatedly debunked this claim, it remains a standard attack line for Mr. Romney.

The charge that Mr. Obama took $716 billion from Medicare recipients to pay for “Obamacare” has several problems — not least the fact that Mr. Romney’s running mate, Representative Paul D. Ryan, included the identical savings in his budget plans that House Republicans voted for in the past two years.

Mr. Obama did not cut benefits by $716 billion over 10 years as part of his 2010 health care law; rather, he reduced Medicare reimbursements to health care providers, chiefly insurance companies and drug manufacturers. And the law gave Medicare recipients more generous benefits for prescription drugs and free preventive care like mammograms.

According to nonpartisan analysts, it is Mr. Romney who would both cut benefits and add costs for beneficiaries if he restored the $716 billion in reductions. Restoring higher payments to insurers and other companies would in turn increase Medicare premiums because beneficiaries share in Medicare’s total cost. Marilyn Moon, a vice president at the American Institutes for Research, has calculated that a Medicare recipient’s out-of-pocket expenses would increase $577 a year on average by 2022.

Also, the Obama reductions added eight years to the life of Medicare’s financially troubled trust fund, to 2024, according to Medicare trustees. If the cuts were restored, the insolvency date would revert to 2016.

But the cuts to providers could cause private Medicare plans to raise their premiums, which is expected to reduce enrollment in them. Those changes have not materialized yet.
97 2012-10-04 BEIJING — Four Tibetans, including two teenage Buddhist monks, have been given lengthy prison terms for supporting the resistance movement to Chinese rule that has involved the self-immolation of more than 50 people since 2009, according to Radio Free Asia, a news organization financed by the United States government.

The sentences, from 7 to 11 years, reflect Beijing’s hard-line approach to a protest campaign that has so far proved difficult to tame.

Two of the four Tibetan men were charged with leaking news of the protests to “outside contacts,” and the other two were accused of helping a fellow monk burn himself to death at Kirti Monastery, a hotbed of anti-Chinese resistance in Sichuan Province. All of the men were incommunicado for several months; the news that they had been tried and convicted was relayed to Radio Free Asia through two exiled Tibetan monks with contacts in the region.

“Two days before their trial, their family members were sent a notice by the court that the trial was about to begin, but they were not allowed to hire a lawyer for their defense,” Radio Free Asia quoted the two monks as saying. “Afterward, they were given only a few minutes to meet with their family.” The four men were tried in September, said the exiled monks, who live in Dharamsala, India.

The youngest of those jailed, Lobsang Jangchub, 17, was charged with helping a fellow monk named Gepe set himself on fire in March and handed an eight-year sentence. Another monk from the same monastery, Lobsang Tsultrim, 19, was given 11 years for his role in Gepe’s self-immolation, Radio Free Asia said.

The other two convicted men, tried by Barkham People’s Middle Court in Sichuan Province, were accused of “leaking news from inside Tibet to outside contacts,” Radio Free Asia said. A layman, Bu Thubdor, 25, was given a seven-and-a-half year term, and Lobsang Tashi, 26, a monk from Kirti Monastery, was sentenced to seven years.

The authorities have recently prosecuted scores of ethnic Tibetans on charges of fomenting opposition to Chinese rule in Tibet and three adjacent provinces with significant Tibetan populations. In August, a 17-year-old girl was given a three-year sentence for distributing leaflets calling for greater religious freedom and for the return of the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan leader. In June, a prominent monk was sentenced to seven years for sending out photographs and information about the self-immolation of a Buddhist nun, Reporters Without Borders said.
98 2012-10-04 Giving college applicants preference based on socioeconomic factors, rather than race, is comparable to affirmative action in achieving racial diversity, and superior in helping people who are disadvantaged, according to a study released on Wednesday. In states that have banned affirmative action, public universities have taken steps like accepting top students from each high school and recruiting in low-income areas. The study by the Century Foundation, a left-leaning policy group, says that approach sustains racial diversity and helps poor students. The study was released ahead of arguments, set for next week, before the Supreme Court in a case that could produce new restrictions on considering race in public college admissions.
99 2012-10-04 The Nasdaq canceled some trades in the Kraft Foods Group on Wednesday after its shares posted an unusual price spike when the market opened.

Shares of Kraft opened at $45.55 and surged 29 percent in the first minute to $58.54. The exchange says it is looking into “potentially erroneous transactions” and will cancel all trades that were made above $47.82 in the one minute after 9:30 a.m.

The issue comes only days after Kraft Foods and a former Kraft snack business, Mondelez International, began trading as two separate companies.

There have been several prominent trading errors recently with the increasingly complicated electronic systems that run stock trading. Those systems have shown signs of strain as more traders and investment firms use powerful computers to execute trades in fractions of a second.

Shares of Kraft, which is based in Northfield, Ill., fell 55 cents, or 1.21 percent, on Wednesday, to $44.87.
100 2012-10-04 Once you’ve downloaded your area’s maps data from the company’s servers, it works offline and offers the usual navigation routing and text-to-speech turn-by-turn instructions. It also advises on lane choice on the freeway and even shows you a representation of street signs. The app alerts you to speed limits and speed camera positions; there’s also an extensive list of “points of interest” like pharmacies, hotels, gas stations and so on. This means that you can navigate to a city you don’t know and find services that you’ll need while you’re staying there without needing mobile data.

The Navigon app has recently been improved for pedestrian navigation, so it can help you across parts of a city that cars can’t reach. It also uses this mode as part of its Last Mile system that helps you navigate back to where you parked your car. There is also a Public Transport mode, which helps you use alternative forms of transportation, though this and a couple of other extras are in-app purchases.

Basically this app does almost everything you need in a mapping app, and it’s all offline, apart from some of the features like the Public Transport mode and Google Street View images. That makes it great if you’re on a limited smartphone data package or you’re traveling overseas. Two minor complaints: It takes up a lot of memory space on the phone because all of its data is downloaded at the start, and sometimes its view of the road ahead can get cluttered with street names and other details. But the benefits outweigh these issues.

Another app I like is Waze (free on iOS and Android). It offers proper turn-by-turn navigation, its graphics are exceptionally clear and uncluttered, and you can even choose the color scheme it uses to represent roads. Its icon buttons are clear and large, making them easy to press when you’re reaching for a phone mounted on your windshield or dashboard. Apart from these benefits, it appeals to me because it’s a community-driven app. Its strength is that users can quickly and easily use its interface to report road incidents like police speed traps, traffic jams or accidents.

Waze’s community power may be ideal if you’re often on the road and need to plan ahead if there’s traffic. A few quick taps on the app’s icons warn you, for example, of any traffic problems in the area around you, or on the route you have planned. You can even chat with fellow users and add them as friends, turning navigation into a social game. If you use these social networking features, and trust the input from a particular group of Waze users that may share your commuter journey, then you can just check the road alerts those users are reporting.

There is also a points system, where you earn rewards by using Waze to navigate to destinations, report problems and so on. Waze’s weakness is that it needs plenty of users inputting data to deliver real-time alerts, and that might not be the case where you live. You also need a data connection to use some of its services, and that might be an obstacle if you’re on a limited-data contract.

Another map app that’s worth a try, if you’re looking for a solution on the iOS platform right now, is MotionX GPS Drive. It’s $1 to download, and there’s a yearly fee, currently $10. The app gets many stars on iTunes and its strengths include spoken turn-by-turn directions and traffic alerts.

Netflix has overhauled its iPad app, adding a “Just for Kids” feature that allows users access only to child-friendly content — a feature it has had on its Web site for some time ...Amtrak has released an Android app that lets you plan a train and bus journey, check on train status and use an eTicket to travel.
101 2012-10-04 During a tour of the Grolier’s atmospheric third-floor library Mr. Sloan gave a preview of the playful attitude and fast-twitch intellectual style that he brings to the older side of his story.

The Grolier doesn’t own a copy of the “Codex Vita” of the 15th-century Venetian printer Aldus Manutius, the fictional tome on which Mr. Sloan’s plot turns. But in preparation for his visit Meghan Constantinou, the club’s librarian, had pulled out some “Aldines,” as books from Aldus’s very real print shop are known.

There was a 1502 edition of Catullus, printed in reader-friendly italic type (an Aldus invention), and a 1504 edition of Homer that belonged to the early French collector Jean Grolier, the club’s namesake. Both, Ms. Constantinou explained, were examples of the small-format, relatively affordable books that Aldus pioneered — the rough predecessors of today’s Modern Library classics.

Mr. Sloan, however, reached for another analogy. “They’re so appealing and human scale,” he said. “They must have felt as remarkable as an iPhone does now, and literally that high tech.”

Growing up in Troy, Mich., the son of a salesman and a home economics teacher, Mr. Sloan loved both computers and books, especially the ones “with spaceships and dragons,” he recalled. At Michigan State University, where he majored in economics, he started a literary magazine but never considered a literary career.

“I always got the sense that it was frivolous, and that maybe writing made-up stories wasn’t the best use of my time,” he said.

At the Poynter Institute, a journalism center in St. Petersburg, Fla., where he landed a fellowship after graduation, Mr. Sloan found himself writing them anyway, and grabbing huge numbers of eyeballs while he was at it. “Epic 2014,” a 2004 eight-minute Flash video describing an apocalyptic near-future in which the traditional news media are vanquished by a rampaging conglomerate called Googlezon, was viewed more than a million times — impressive numbers in the pre-YouTube era — and put Mr. Sloan and his collaborator, Matt Thompson, on the map.

“It’s amazing to watch how many times people reference that film,” said Andrew Fitzgerald, the manager of editorial programming at Twitter, who met Mr. Sloan shortly afterward, when both were working at Current TV in San Francisco. “Robin is incredibly good at stepping out of the present and looking to the future in what for most people is a bit of a fantastical way.”

Mr. Sloan said he owed his job at Current to another bit of speculative fiction. After reading about the start-up in 2004, he e-mailed Joel Hyatt, who founded the company with Al Gore, to inform him that he would be sending him a new idea about digital strategy every day for the next month.

Not that he already had the ideas. “I was driving cross-country, composing things in my head, stopping at rest stops to type them out,” he recalled. “The final message, basically, was ‘Hire me.’ ”

Mr. Sloan became Current’s employee No. 7 and, eventually, its official “futurist.” Among many other projects he orchestrated what he called the first-ever television broadcast using live Twitter data, during the 2008 presidential campaign. In 2010 he became the manager of media partnerships at Twitter.

Around the same time he started thinking about a literary career, a process that, as he recounts it, comes across as a friendly hack on the traditional machinery of publishing. In the spring of 2009, inspired by a friend’s tweet — “just misread ‘24-hour bookdrop’ as ‘24-hour bookshop.’ the disappointment is beyond words” — he wrote a 6,000-word version of “Mr. Penumbra,” which he published in the Kindle Store.

The story, priced at 99 cents, drew a respectable 5,000 downloads, Mr. Sloan estimated. Next came another straight-to-Kindle story, followed by “Annabel Scheme,” a detective novella “set halfway between San Francisco and the Internet” and financed with $14,000 raised on Kickstarter, then brand new.

In 2010 he signed with an agent, Sarah Burnes of the Gernert Company, and began spending his off hours from Twitter turning the Penumbra “prototype,” as he called it, into a full-scale novel. He had no shortage of ideas, he said. The bigger challenge was getting over the habit of writing in short, punchy — in a word, bloggy — chunks.

“When you’re writing for the Internet, you have the analytics, and you know that people are bailing every second,” he explained. “But various people kept reminding me that once people have bought a book, they’re in. You don’t have to be selling them on every page.”

While his fantasy of printing “Mr. Penumbra” in a custom typeface named after a crucial character turned out to be wildly impractical, Mr. Sloan — who fills the novel with odes to the beauty of the dead-tree book — praises the glow-in-the-dark cover designed by Rodrigo Corral as “a work of mad genius.” And his publishers praise him for bringing an infectious spirit of optimism to an industry knocked sideways by digital technology.

“He’s making things up as he goes along, making decisions partly on what’s the most fun,” said Sean McDonald, his editor at Farrar Straus. “He has the right mix of cleverness and hardheaded business sense, and that’s apparent in the book.”

When it comes to the showdown between print and digital, Mr. Sloan, who has 275,000 Twitter followers, strikes a gentle “why can’t we all get along?” tone. Not that he is entirely unconcerned with the downside of living inside the Googlezon. One of his first digital projects since leaving Twitter last November was a much-blogged-about iPhone app called Fish, a “tap essay” questioning the erosion of attention in our distracted digital age. In the months since, he has downgraded his “walking-around phone” to a basic Nokia that can only handle texts and calls.

Cellphones of any kind are forbidden inside the Grolier Club. But during his visit Mr. Sloan made sure to test-drive a different piece of gee-whiz technology he wrote about in the novel but had never seen: a secret door concealed in one of the library’s bookshelves.

Swinging it back and forth, Mr. Sloan noted with a satisfied smile, “It’s exactly as heavy as you expect a secret door to be.”
102 2012-10-04 MONTCLAIR, N.J. — With the approaching centenary of Stravinsky’s ballet “The Rite of Spring,” whose 1913 premiere provoked an outraged riot, conversation about the purpose and efficacy of shock in art is in the air. I had been struggling to think of something to add to the discussion. But on Saturday evening, near the end of a new opera, “Dog Days,” I saw the most genuinely unsettling incident I have yet witnessed on any stage.

The action, relatively brief but endless in the moment, involves a girl performing a ritual of ablution. (I will say no more; dawning recognition forms part of the scene’s impact.) That the act is one of piety and tenderness makes it all the more wrenching.

Created by the composer David T. Little and the librettist Royce Vavrek, and presented in its premiere as part of the Peak Performances series at Montclair State University, “Dog Days” tells the story of a rural family struggling to survive and cohere in the wake of an apocalyptic catastrophe. You never learn the precise details but can easily imagine life in a flyover state after a nuclear war.

The original short story, by Judy Budnitz, recounted events from the perspective of Lisa, a 13-year-old who befriends a curious vagrant, who is coping with catastrophe by becoming a dog: not just dressing the part but living it. Mr. Little and Mr. Vavrek maintain that focus, and in Lauren Worsham, a preternaturally girlish soprano, they have a self-possessed heroine who maintains dignity and charisma in spite of harrowing conditions.

John Kelly, a performance artist, makes Prince, the dog, a soulful-eyed creature of relatable vulnerability. The vocal cast is uniformly fine, with particularly moving work from James Bobick as Howard, a father desperate to preserve his family, and Marnie Breckenridge as Lisa’s mother, whose emotional and physical reserves diminish along with the rations dropped from an unseen military helicopter.

Unseen but felt: the sound engineering, by Garth MacAleavey, is aggressive, and at times bombastic, in ways that complement the work. Amplified voices grow strident at peaks. The opera’s ending comes awash in electric distortion. Earplugs are advised for the sensitive. Almost everything involved in the director Robert Woodruff’s canny staging — Matt Frey’s sickly lighting, Victoria Tzykun’s threadbare costumes, a debris-strewn set, the sweaty sheen of bare skin — deliberately provokes discomfort.
103 2012-10-04 GAZA CITY — Human Rights Watch on Wednesday accused Hamas, the Palestinian militant group that governs the Gaza Strip, of running a criminal justice system rife with arbitrary arrests, torture and unfair trials. Hamas officials responded sharply, challenging the methodology of the group’s research.

In a 43-page report titled “Abusive System,” Human Rights Watch detailed seven cases and called for an immediate moratorium on capital punishment in the Gaza Strip, as well as an end to prosecutions of civilians in military courts.

Gaza’s “criminal justice system reeks of injustice, routinely violates detainees’ rights, and grants impunity to abusive security services,” Joe Stork, the deputy Middle East director of Human Rights Watch, said in a statement accompanying the report, which was presented at a news conference on Wednesday morning at a coastal hotel. “Hamas should stop the kinds of abuses that Egyptians, Syrians and others in the region have risked their lives to bring to an end.”

A number of Hamas officials disrupted the news conference, challenging Human Rights Watch’s work and barely allowing journalists time to ask questions.

“This is a politicized report that neglects the siege and the crimes of the Israeli occupation,” said Islam Shahwan, a spokesman for Hamas’s Interior Ministry.
104 2012-10-04 Wall Street ended modestly higher on Wednesday on stronger-than-expected data on the labor market and the service sector, but the Dow industrials were hobbled by a slide in Hewlett-Packard.

Shares of H.P. dropped sharply after the company warned on Wednesday of a darker outlook for 2013 earnings, reflecting slow progress on the turnaround plan developed by the chief executive, Meg Whitman, and a slowdown in technology spending. Its stock fell $4.22, or 13 percent, to $14.91 a share, a nine-year low.

The three major stock indexes, which were initially lifted from the positive data, came off their highs by late afternoon trade on lingering concerns about the global economy. A gloomier outlook in China and Europe weighed on commodity prices and hit energy and materials shares.

“The ADP numbers were good and the services index was good, but we are missing the big catalyst to keep the market up,” said Jack De Gan, principal and senior adviser at Harbor Advisory in Portsmouth, N.H.

Data showed growth in the services sector picked up in September, defying economists’ expectations for a slight decrease, while last month, the private sector added more jobs than forecast. The data comes ahead of the closely watched monthly nonfarm payrolls report on Friday.
105 2012-10-04 But at home, the sprawling corporate empires are also seen as predators — so much that protecting smaller businesses from them has become a prominent slogan for both the governing party and the opposition before the December presidential election, which is approaching amid growing discontent about a widening gap between rich and poor. The anti-chaebol rallying cry is a reference to the country’s 1948 Constitution, which requires the state to “prevent the domination of the market and the abuse of economic power and to democratize the economy through harmony among the economic agents.”

For several years, store owners in the traditional shopping street where Mr. In keeps his shop have suffered declining sales because of competition with three hypermarkets and a department store, all within about two kilometers, or 1.2 miles, and all owned by Lotte.

“We only ask chaebol to let us live together with them,” Mr. In, now the leader of a nationwide network of 5,000 independent shop owners, said in an interview at his shop in Bupyeong, a bustling town east of Seoul. “Currently they are behaving like giant serpents gobbling up everything.”

Other countries have found their mom-and-pop retailers squeezed out by hypermarkets, like Wal-Mart in the United States or Tesco in Britain, but to understand how the chaebol operate is to understand how the South Korean economy works.

A typical chaebol comprises dozens of subsidiaries that its chairman controls through a web of cross-shareholdings. Armies of subcontractors depend on the chaebol through patron-client relationships.

Big companies often dictate a profit margin for subcontractors, no matter how innovative their work, and unilaterally impose a cut in the suppliers’ prices, said Hong Jang-pyo, an economist at Pukyong National University.

In July, the country’s Fair Trade Commission said that the nation’s six main hypermarket and department store chains had forced their domestic suppliers to sign and submit “blank contracts” so that the chains could determine their own share of profit “as they pleased.” Meanwhile, the hypermarket and department store chain run by the Shinsegae chaebol has guaranteed unfairly high profit margins for a bakery and pizza supplier controlled by the chairman’s family, the commission said Wednesday, imposing a financial penalty on the conglomerate.

“In South Korea, they say no matter what you do, the winner is already decided and he takes it all,” Kim Byoung-kweon, an economist at the Corea Institute for New Society, said during a recent forum, referring to the chaebol.

To ordinary South Koreans, never was the hunt by the chaebol for new sources of profit felt more acutely than when they saw the chaebol opening shops in their neighborhoods. First, hypermarkets sprouted, and there are 448 of them now. Then they branched out into “super supermarkets,” smaller than hypermarkets but bigger than traditional supermarkets. There are 1,116 of those now. Most are owned by local chaebol like Shinsegae and Lotte, or by Tesco, which took over the Home Plus hypermarket chain it had started as a joint venture with Samsung.

Samsung and other chaebol opened chains of bakeries or coffee shops. CJ opened a restaurant chain that specializes in bibimbap, a popular rice and vegetable bowl. Some hypermarkets sell tteokbokki, a snack made of rice cake slathered with chili pepper. LG, an electronics conglomerate, sold a Korean blood sausage.

These are the foods some of the poorest South Koreans make a living selling. When one of the hypermarket chains, Lotte Mart, recently sold fried chicken at half the price of mom-and-pop sellers, it set off not only a stampede but also outrage at how such marketing would destroy smaller shops. Under public pressure, Lotte canceled the discount.

“The government repeatedly told us that if chaebol grow, so will employment, exports and our country’s credit ratings, and the benefit will trickle down to us,” said Hong Ji-gwang, 47, owner of a cosmetics shop who is leading a campaign to drive a Home Plus hypermarket out of the Hapjeong district in Seoul. “That’s a lie. Instead of innovation and going abroad for tough competition, they make easy money by taking rice bowls from smaller people.”

At Parliament, rival political parties have submitted a number of “economic democratization” bills, calling for various restrictions aimed at checking the unruly behavior of the chaebol.

Huh Chang-soo, chairman of the Federation of Korean Industries, which speaks for the chaebol, said in July that he could not “understand what they meant by ‘economic democratization.’ ” When the chaebol came under pressure to “share profit” with their subcontractors last year, Lee Kun-hee, the chairman of Samsung, said he had never heard of the concept and did not know “whether it’s used in a socialist, capitalist or Communist country.”

And while accusing politicians of populist “election-year chaebol bashing,” the conglomerates vowed to increase the number of new employees this year by 3.4 percent.

They also distributed gift coupons that their employees could use in traditional markets.

That is unlikely to placate small retailers like Mr. In. “We reject a life of living on little crumbs the chaebol throw to us,” he said.
106 2012-10-04 The central bank meeting on Thursday comes as Spain, which is battling to meet demands for fiscal consolidation during a devastating recession, is thought to be preparing to ask its European partners for a bailout. Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said Wednesday that no bailout request was imminent.

The president of Cyprus, another troubled euro zone economy, said Wednesday that he would not accept a bailout from the troika of international lenders that has already bailed out Greece, Portugal and Ireland, unless the terms of the aid package were improved.

President Demetris Christofias said he would never sign a bailout agreement that called for the sale of profitable state-owned companies or that required an end to inflation-linked pay increases, according to Reuters.

Both changes were part of a draft economic program Cyprus received in July from the troika — the European Commission, the central bank and the International Monetary Fund. Mr. Christofias said in an interview with the Greek state broadcaster NET that his government was preparing counterproposals.

After a period of intense activity to calm the euro zone crisis, the central bank is not expected to announce significant new policy actions Thursday after the meeting of its governing council in the Slovenian capital of Ljubljana.

Last month, Mario Draghi, the president of the central bank, set out the terms for the central bank to begin buying bonds of countries like Spain to hold down their borrowing costs. One of the conditions was that countries must request help from the euro zone bailout fund. Until Spain takes that step, the central bank is not likely to buy Spanish bonds.

The bank is not expected to cut its benchmark interest rate, already at a record low of 0.75 percent. Mr. Draghi has expressed concern that the official rate is no longer having much effect on borrowing costs for businesses and consumers in troubled countries.

The rationale for bond purchases is that by lowering the cost of government borrowing, interest rates in the private sector would also fall. Market interest rates in euro zone countries tend to track the rates that their governments pay.

In addition, a rate cut now would leave the central bank with few policy options if the situation in the euro zone deteriorated further.

“While a rate cut could easily be justified by the economic outlook,” analysts at ING wrote in a note Wednesday, “we think that the E.C.B. is not yet willing to fire this very last shot.”

The Bank of England was also scheduled to announce an interest rate decision Thursday, though most analysts did not expect the central bank to announce new stimulus measures in light of recent data showing that the British economy was strengthening.
107 2012-10-05 Every once in awhile, Apple.com turns into something unlike any other company home page on the Internet, as happened on Friday with a tribute to Steven P. Jobs, the company’s late co-founder....
108 2012-10-05 Steve Barnett, one of two chairmen of Columbia, which is owned by Sony, is said to be in advanced negotiations with Universal to take over as chairman of EMI's labels in the United States....
109 2012-10-05 Commission says, it was his job to get them talking, not to insert himself into their dialogue....
110 2012-10-05 Bucks readers offer advice to families who are doing financial planning with or for a relative with special needs....
111 2012-10-05 In the solar panel sector, “If one-third of them survive, that’s good, and two-thirds of them die, but we don’t know how that happens,” said Li Junfeng, a longtime director general for energy and climate policy at the National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planning agency.

Mr. Li said in an interview that he wanted banks to cut off loans to all but the strongest solar panel companies and let the rest go bankrupt. But banks — which were encouraged by Beijing to make the loans — are not eager to acknowledge that the loans are bad and take large write-offs, preferring to lend more money to allow the repayment of previous loans. Many local and provincial governments also are determined to keep their hometown favorites afloat to avoid job losses and to avoid making payments on loan guarantees, he said.

Mr. Li’s worries appear to be broadly shared in Beijing. “For the leading companies in the sector, if they’re not careful, the whole sector will disappear,” said Chen Huiqing, the deputy director for solar products at the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products.

The Chinese government also wants to see the country’s more than 20 wind turbine manufacturers, many of which are losing money, consolidate to five or six. “Wind does not need so many manufacturers,” said Mr. Li, who in addition to drafting renewable energy policies is the president of the Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association.

Chinese solar company executives blame their difficulties partly on the United States’s decisions last spring to impose antidumping and anti-subsidy tariffs on solar panel imports, and on the European Union’s recent decision to start its own antidumping investigation of imports from China.

“It is not a Chinese industry problem, it is a global solar industry problem,” said Rory Macpherson, a spokesman for Suntech Power, one of the largest Chinese solar panel manufacturers. “It is primarily the result of an imbalance between supply and demand, and the U.S. and E.U. trade investigations.”

Mr. Li said the solar industry’s problems were the result of overcapacity in China, and not the fault of trade restrictions.

Yet he insisted that if the Chinese government could turn back the clock and revisit past renewable energy decisions, it would not do anything differently.

The problem lies in the eagerness of Chinese businesses to rush into any new industry that looks attractive and swamp it with investments, he said. Chinese companies and their bankers are then far more reluctant than Western companies to admit defeat for investments that prove unprofitable.

Mr. Li added that banking regulators had not yet decided what to do about banks’ exposure to the solar sector. The central government tried without success to learn from local and provincial government agencies how much of the solar industry’s bank debt they have guaranteed, Mr. Li said.

Chinese solar power companies are making some cutbacks. Suntech, based in Wuxi, is temporarily closing a quarter of its solar cell capacity. It will transfer a majority of the 1,500 affected workers to other operations and provide severance payments to the rest.

Jiangsu province, where Suntech has its headquarters and most of its factories, issued an unusual appeal to state-owned banks several weeks ago to continue lending money to the company, a step that Mr. Li criticized as inappropriate. Mr. Macpherson of Suntech wrote in an e-mail that the Jiangsu government had not guaranteed any of the company’s debt, which totaled $2.26 billion at the end of the first quarter, including some convertible bonds in addition to bank loans. Trina Solar, one of its biggest rivals, also has said it will “streamline its operations” and shrink its work force, but did not provide details.

Trina shares have dropped 85 percent in the last three years and Suntech shares have fallen more than 98 percent in the last five years. Both trade on the New York Stock Exchange.

The modest cutbacks in production barely put a dent in China’s overcapacity problem. GTM Research, a renewable energy consulting firm in Boston, estimates that Chinese companies have the ability to manufacture 50 gigawatts of solar panels this year, while the Chinese domestic market is on track to absorb only 4 to 5 gigawatts. Exports will take another 18 or 19 gigawatts.

The enormously expensive equipment in solar panel factories needs to be run around the clock, seven days a week, to cover costs.

“You want to be up at 80 percent, so they’re half of what they need,” said Shayle Kann, the head of GTM Research, which is a unit of Greentech Media.

Chinese companies have struggled even though a dozen solar companies in the United States and another dozen in Europe have gone bankrupt or closed factories since the start of last year. The bankruptcies and closures have done little to ease the global glut and price war because China by itself represents more than two-thirds of the world’s capacity.

To reduce capacity, foreign rivals have clamored for China to subsidize the purchase of more solar panels at home, instead of having Chinese companies rely so heavily on exports. But the government here is worried about the cost of doing so, because the price of solar power remains far higher than for coal-generated power.

The average cost of electricity from solar panels in China works out to 19 cents per kilowatt-hour, said Mr. Li. That is three times the cost of coal-fired power. But it is a marked improvement from 63 cents per kilowatt-hour for solar power four years ago.

China’s official goal is to install 10 gigawatts of solar panels a year by 2015, using 20-year contracts to guarantee payment for electricity purchased from them. If costs stay where they are now, the subsidies would be $50 billion over 20 years for every 10 gigawatts of solar power installed, based on figures supplied by Mr. Li.

Even if solar power costs fall by a third, as the government hopes, he said, “it’s big money.”
112 2012-10-05 Tip O’Neill and Ronald Reagan fought tooth and nail — until the American people needed compromise....
113 2012-10-05 Mitt Romney recently referred to electric-car maker Tesla Motors as a loser. Sales of its sedan are strong, but a look at the company’s cash flows suggests it isn’t out of the woods just yet....
114 2012-10-05 At a national conference for college admissions counselors, we've found some tips for military veterans who want to go to college....
115 2012-10-05 The Congress Party's youth leader spoke about economic opportunity....
116 2012-10-05 The economist Michelle Girard on why the jobless rate fell to 7.8 percent. | Start-ups get leaner and meaner -- and create fewer jobs....
117 2012-10-05 Prices to see the Yankees play in the first round are 42 percent higher than the average price for first-round tickets last season....
118 2012-10-05 In the presidential debate on Wednesday, neither candidate thought to mention one critical ingredient to economic growth: capital. Here are a few suggestions....
119 2012-10-05 Mind that output gap....
120 2012-10-05 The former chief executive of General Electric went to Twitter to suggest that the Obama administration had manipulated the jobs numbers....
121 2012-10-05 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Maya Moore scored 20 points, Rebekkah Brunson had 14 points and 10 rebounds, and the Minnesota Lynx beat the Los Angeles Sparks 94-77 Thursday night in the opener of the Western Conference finals.

Candace Parker scored 25 points and Alana Beard had 16 for Los Angeles. Kristi Toliver, who came in averaging 26 points in the playoffs, was held to 12.

Game 2 of the best-of-three series is Sunday in Los Angeles, where the Lynx are 4-21 all-time.

The high-scoring affair should not have been a surprise after Minnesota averaged a W.N.B.A.-best 86 points during the regular season — just two more than Los Angeles.

Minnesota outscored the Sparks 46-34 in the paint and held a 20-2 advantage in second-chance points to improve to 19-1 at home this season.

The Lynx took control in the second quarter, outscoring the Sparks 32-16 for a 48-31 halftime lead.

As part of a 14-2 run, the Lynx scored six points on the break and added another down low before a 3-pointer by Moore finished the surge. After DeLisha Milton-Jones missed a long jumper for the Sparks, Amber Harris scored her first postseason points with back-to-back layups for a 38-23 lead.
122 2012-10-05 Mr. Hotton, 46, of West Islip, on Long Island, has not been charged with a crime, and the reasons for his foray into Broadway financing remain unclear. In recent years, Mr. Hotton has been accused of fraud in several civil suits; filed for bankruptcy, declaring $15 million in debts; and is the subject of an unrelated federal fraud investigation by prosecutors in Brooklyn.

Mr. Hotton, a stockbroker for nearly two decades who is also a consultant with an interest in an electrical contracting company and other businesses, introduced Mr. Sprecher to one of the investors via e-mail. The reports of the death of that man, Paul Abrams, from malaria in London in August led to the show’s collapse.

Mr. Abrams, described as a wealthy South African businessman with offices in London and Johannesburg, was going to put up $2 million and had purportedly brought in the three other men who together were going to invest an additional $2.5 million.

Mr. Hotton was to receive commissions of 6 percent on money he raised for “Rebecca,” according to the person with knowledge of the matter. It is unclear why anyone who had agreed to raise money in exchange for commissions might want to fabricate investors and the false promise of $4.5 million in investments when the commissions would not be paid until the funds were turned over.

Commissions and finders’ fees were once fairly common business practices on Broadway, with some producers letting middlemen keep 5 percent or more of the investor cash they brought in.

But in the last few decades, such commissions have been replaced by more sophisticated financial deals in which, in many cases, producers agree to give a small percentage of weekly box office profits to middlemen.

The commission deals of a bygone era provided immediate financial payoffs to the middlemen, yet usually did not give them continuing financial stakes in shows that became hits; commissions were less appealing to lead producers, who needed to raise money to mount shows and did not like giving up any percentage of investor cash that might otherwise go toward preproduction costs.

In the case of “Rebecca,” the lead producer, Mr. Sprecher, had been under pressure to raise money for the musical in order to open as planned this fall, and associates of his said that he had become desperate for Mr. Hotton’s apparent investors — so desperate that Mr. Hotton was able to all but dictate terms of the commission deals.
123 2012-10-05 “If the Japanese come to take this place by force,” said Mr. Kim, 73, “I say ‘Give me a rifle.’ ”

South Korea’s leaders have generally tried to keep quiet about the islets, assuming that any discussion would play into Japan’s hands. But in recent years, the government has been more aggressive in staking its claim.

In August, President Lee Myung-bak became the first South Korean president to visit. That trip — and his subsequent suggestion that the Japanese emperor did not need to travel to South Korea unless he apologized unequivocally for Japan’s colonial rule of the Korean Peninsula — set off an unusually strong reaction in Japan, where a weak government has been pushed by a small but vocal group of nationalists to take a stronger stand on territorial disputes.

Last month, the South Korean government opened a small Dokdo museum in Seoul that displays documents and ancient maps that the government says uphold its claims to the islets.

The South Korean government continued its public relations campaign on Thursday, agreeing to fly reporters for Western publications to the islets and allowing rare access to the armed police officers who guard against intrusions by Japan.

The government PowerPoint presentation included a well-known song in South Korea that says in part, “Hi, Dokdo, did you sleep well last night?”

The nationalistic sniping between two of Washington’s crucial allies over these specks of land serves as a reminder of the trouble that the United States faces as it tries to “pivot” back to Asia. The standoff contributed to South Korea’s decision to back out of an agreement, supported by the United States, to share military intelligence with Japan.

Some historians and security analysts say Washington is partly responsible for the troubles.

Japan says it reconfirmed its sovereignty over the islets in 1905 when it incorporated them into one of its prefectures. But South Korea sees that move as part of Japan’s forced annexation of the Korean Peninsula, which was completed in 1910.

While leading the negotiations to redefine Japan’s territory after World War II, Washington did not clarify who owned the islets. After the so-called San Francisco Treaty, which set the terms of Japan’s surrender, went into force in 1952, South Korea declared the islets as its own, and since 1954 it has kept a police contingent there.

The redistribution of the Japanese Empire after its defeat was “part and parcel of today’s problem,” said Alexis Dudden, a history professor at the University of Connecticut.

The cold war tamped down the disputes. But now, Ms. Dudden said, the region’s territorial fights have become “perfect for competing narratives about the war, which is precisely why increasingly younger generations with no wartime or colonial experience themselves are able to use them for the purposes of stories they wish to tell.”

Over the years, South Korea has responded to Japan’s recurring claim by adding a wharf, a helipad, a generator, solar-energy panels and a tank that transforms the sea into drinking water. The government also gave street names to the steep stairways zigzagging the cliffs, and so far over 2,100 South Koreans have registered as Dokdo residents though they do not live here.

On Thursday, the Taepyeongyang No. 7, a 4,000-ton police patrol boat, prowled the waters around the islets, keeping watch for a Japanese Coast Guard ship that circles once every four days or so, sailing in international waters.

“It’s not supposed to come within 12 miles of Dokdo,” said the Taepyeongyang’s captain, Superintendent Chung Myong-ho. “If it does, we will warn it and then ram it, or worse. But so far nothing like that has happened.”

Despite the many hardships of living here, it has become a sacred duty among many young South Koreans to defend the islets from what Senior Inspector Lee Kwang-sup, commander of the police contingent, calls a “mean, vulgar and unrepentant nation” across the sea. Twenty to thirty times more police recruits than the government-set quota volunteer to serve here.

Kwon Se-hyon, 19, is one of those who secured the posting. Mr. Kwon is a college student who grew up loving Japanese comic strips and animated cartoons and believing that Koreans have a lot to learn from Japan. Still, in April, he joined 150 police recruits competing for seven open slots on Dokdo, where 45 officers are stationed.

“I didn’t want to miss this very special opportunity for a Korean man,” he said.
124 2012-10-05 Walmart, the nation’s largest retailer, sought to play down the job action, with a company spokesman saying it was a mere rally and not a real strike.

“You can count on less than one hand the number of associates that we are aware of who left their post to participate in the rally,” said Dan Fogleman, the Walmart spokesman. “That’s very few when you consider the more than 12,000 people that we employ in L.A. County.”

The rally outside the Pico Rivera store was boisterous, with workers carrying signs that read, “Stand up, live better,” and “On strike for the freedom to speak out.” The workers, who are not unionized, maintained that they were striking against unfair labor practices, specifically illegal retaliation, a claim that could protect them from being punished for walking out.

The walkout and rally were organized by Organization United for Respect at Walmart, or OUR Walmart, a group of several thousand Walmart workers that is closely affiliated with the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.

Dawn Le, a union spokeswoman, said 71 Walmart workers who were scheduled to work Thursday signed in to show participation in the strike and rally.

The rally attracted several prominent supporters, including Charles Calderon, majority leader of the California State Assembly; the Rev. Eric P. Lee, president of the Los Angeles chapter of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference; and María Elena Durazo, executive secretary-treasurer of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor.

“Nobody is going to stop us from speaking out,” Ms. Durazo said. “Walmart may sell jeans and video games and all that, but the biggest product they sell in this country and this world is poverty.”

Mr. Fogleman said the rally was just the union’s “ latest publicity stunt.”

“Our stores in the community are staffed up and open for business,” he said. “This event is not a factor.”

Mr. Fogleman also denied that this was the first strike against Walmart in the United States, pointing to a 2006 protest by 100 workers at a store in Hialeah Gardens, Fla.

Thursday’s walkout occurred three weeks after several dozen employees at warehouses that serve Walmart walked off the job in California and Illinois to protest what they said were onerous conditions, including toiling in warehouses that they said sometimes heat up to 120 degrees. The California job action included a 50-mile, six-day march by warehouse workers from Ontario, Calif., to Los Angeles City Hall.

Mr. Fogleman said Walmart does not manage those warehouses but takes accusations of workplace problems very seriously. He said Walmart has sent people to those warehouses, and any legitimate problems have been addressed.
125 2012-10-05 The narrowing of the media marketplace may please some conservatives in Mr. Netanyahu’s government. Yuval Steinitz, the finance minister, was recently recorded at a closed meeting of his Likud Party activists saying that while “media is important in a democracy,” the Israeli media for the most part favor the left over Likud.

“Beyond that,” he continued, “the media has lost its respect for one small, simple word: ‘truth.’ There is no more respect for the word truth.”

Tzipi Livni, the former leader of the opposition, came to the media’s defense in a recent column for Maariv. “I am sure that some politicians feel more secure with a shrinking number of media outlets and the fact that there are journalists now in need of the government’s help.”

She continued, “I prefer a number of watchdogs, some of which make mistakes sometimes, or neglect their duty or bark too loudly, over one loyal dog who speaks in one voice — his master’s voice.”

The management of Maariv is now in the hands of court-appointed trustees after its owner could no longer afford to cover its losses. A sale is pending to Shlomo Ben-Zvi, an Israeli who publishes a right-leaning newspaper called Makor Rishon.

But even if the sale to Mr. Ben-Zvi goes through, he has said he will retain only about 300 of Maariv’s 2,000 employees, to keep Maariv’s Web site going and perhaps publish the newspaper in a limited format. That means that 1,700 journalists, administrative staff members and print workers will probably be out of a job.

“It is like a sausage merchant who buys a horse and tells him about all the wonderful trips that await him,” said Zvi Reich, a former editor at Yediot Aharonot and now in the communications department of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev. “It will be brutal.”

Aware that the company does not have the money to pay all their compensation and pensions, Maariv employees have staged protests in the streets of Tel Aviv and Jerusalem.

This week, Amos Schocken, the publisher of Haaretz, raised the specter of closing the newspaper if his employees could not adapt to the new, starker business reality.

Analysts said Maariv had been suffering from financial decline and bad management for up to 15 years and had lost its identity the more it tried to mimic Yediot Aharonot, which caters to the middlebrow reader.

Haaretz, however, fills a distinctive niche. Though its circulation is small, its impact is broad.

“Israel without Haaretz would be like Israel without the Supreme Court,” said Uzi Benziman, a former Haaretz columnist and now editor of The Seventh Eye, an online journal dealing with Israeli media issues.

“It is not surprising that Maariv is the first to go,” he said. “I’m not sure it will be the last.”

Still, for many here, the demise of Maariv would leave a hole in the country’s history. The newspaper was founded in 1948, the year Israel became a state, by disgruntled journalists at Yediot Aharonot (Latest News), the leading Hebrew newspaper at the time, who walked out in a dispute over work conditions and journalistic principles. The new paper, originally called Yediot Maariv (Evening News), soon became known simply as Maariv.

In its first two decades, Maariv was regarded as the most widely read newspaper in Israel and the most connected with the political, economic and social elite. The decline began in the 1970s, according to Rafi Mann, who worked at the newspaper for nearly 30 years and now teaches journalism at the Ariel University Center in the West Bank and at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

Then, Mr. Mann said, the editors of Yediot Aharonot “understood the social revolution taking place in Israel,” along with the rise of Menachem Begin’s Likud Party, which spoke for a public that saw itself as the underdog.

But Maariv, he added, “did not read the social map of Israel well.”

Though Maariv has continued to break some important stories, its prominent editors and columnists, like the satirist Ephraim Kishon, belong mainly in the past.

“In the last few years,” Mr. Mann said, “both advertisers and the public have been asking, ‘What is the branding of Maariv?’ ”
126 2012-10-05 Obama administration officials say the deal is intended to generate headlines, but would not guarantee that Iran cannot produce a weapon. “The way they have structured it, you can move the fuel around, and it stays inside the country,” a senior Obama administration official said. “They could restart the program in a nanosecond. They don’t have to answer any questions from the inspectors” about evidence that they conducted research on nuclear weapons technology, but nonetheless would insist on a statement from the agency that all issues have been resolved.

“Yet we’re supposed to lift sanctions that would take years to reimpose, if we could get countries to agree,” the administration official said.

The United States has not put a formal offer on the table. But the outline of a way to a solution they described to Iranian officials before the summer is almost the mirror image of the Iranian nine-step proposal.

Under the American vision, Iran would halt all production of its 20 percent enriched uranium immediately, ship the existing stockpile out of the country and close the Fordow plant. That would defuse the threat of an Iranian “breakout” to produce a weapon, leaving the Iranians with a stockpile of low-enriched uranium that would require far more lengthy processing to weaponize.

Then the United States and its allies would offer some cooperation on civilian nuclear projects, and would agree not to add new sanctions at the United Nations Security Council. But the sanctions squeezing the Iranian economy would remain in place until a final deal is reached.

To the Iranians, this is a prescription for government change, and they insist it will fail. “I ask you sincerely, can anyone go to war with Iran,” even an economic war, and “come out a victor?” President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said last week during a meeting with a half-dozen authors who have written books about Iran. “Why does the U.S. believe she can prevail?”

Yet Mr. Ahmadinejad declined to talk about the current negotiations. Instead, to the astonishment of Iranian officials, he argued at the session that the Iranian people were better off economically than they had been when he came to office. Since Mr. Ahmadinejad’s return to Tehran, Iranian officials have begun looking for any signs that their proposal, although rejected by Washington, could represent the basis of a conversation.

So far, it is difficult to find much overlap between the American and Iranian proposals. Both countries want to retain leverage, so the Iranians believe it is essential to keep the capability to produce uranium, and they reject any proposals to dismantle the nuclear infrastructure they have built, which they say is for civilian use. Similarly, the Americans, Europeans and Israelis believe they must maintain the constant pressure of sanctions.

On Wednesday, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made it clear that the United States had no intention of relaxing the sanctions — particularly now, just as they show the first sign of forcing Iran’s leaders to rethink the costs of their nuclear program.

“We have always said that we had a dual-track approach to this, and one track was trying to put pressure on the Iranian government to come to the negotiating table,” Mrs. Clinton told reporters. But she said it was Iran’s own mismanagement of its economy, more than the sanctions, that deserved “responsibility for what is going on inside Iran.”

“And that is who should be held accountable,” Mrs. Clinton said. “And I think that they have made their own government decisions, having nothing to do with the sanctions that have had an impact on the economic conditions inside the country.”
127 2012-10-05 ON Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in Fisher v. University of Texas, the latest in a long line of conservative assaults on affirmative action that dates to the late 1970s. Nearly a decade has passed since the court, in Grutter v. Bollinger, approved the continued use of race as one factor in an individualized, “holistic” review of an applicant’s qualifications for higher education. Now even such limited consideration of race is being challenged.

Abigail Fisher, who is white, graduated from a Texas public high school in 2008 and barely missed out on automatic admission to the University of Texas at Austin under the Texas Top 10 Percent Law. When she was later denied admission after an evaluation that considered a candidate’s race, she sued, alleging racial discrimination.

Supporters of race-conscious affirmative action in higher education are not optimistic that it will survive. But they shouldn’t despair. A Supreme Court ruling against the university might put ethnic and racial diversity on college campuses on a firmer footing for the long term. It would spur Americans who care about racial inequality to seek alternatives to affirmative action by addressing the deeply entrenched disadvantages that lower-income and minority children face from the beginning of life.

Race-based affirmative action has been a woefully inadequate weapon in the arsenal against inequality. It treats the symptoms but not the root causes of an underlying social problem. It is limited to the more selective private and public colleges (those that accept fewer than half of all applicants), which together account for about 20 percent of all freshmen. By my estimate, between 10,000 and 15,000 black and Hispanic students enroll in selective colleges every year through race-conscious policies. This is about 1 percent of the entering freshman class nationwide and just 1 percent of all black and Hispanic 18-year-olds.

Graduation rates are higher for all students, not just underrepresented minority students, at more selective colleges. The trade-off is that students who are admitted through affirmative action (and who often have weaker academic credentials than their peers) are more likely to graduate toward the bottom of their class. Analyzing data from eight elite colleges (five private, three public) from 1999 and 2003, my colleague Alexandria Walton Radford and I found that one-half of black students and one-third of Hispanic students graduated in the bottom 20 percent of their class.
128 2012-10-05 “But if you are here to fight terrorism, then you should go to where their safe havens are and where terrorism is financed and manufactured,” he said.

He also expressed frustration about the lack of sophisticated weapons from NATO countries, saying, “Are we going to wait and do nothing, or should we buy them from Russia, China, India or other countries?”

The relationship between Afghanistan and the United States has been on a downward slide since midsummer, shortly after a conference in Tokyo at which Western countries pledged $16 billion to support Afghanistan through 2015.

Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker, with whom Mr. Karzai had built a strong relationship, left for health reasons. His replacement, James Cunningham, lacks the same history with the Afghan leader. Gen. John R. Allen, the NATO commander as well as the American commander for Afghanistan, also does not have an especially close relationship with Mr. Karzai, although the two talk regularly.

In August, a tense and unpleasant dispute began between the countries over the terms for handing over Afghan prisoners at the American-run detention facility in Parwan. With most prisoners handed over, the Americans halted the remaining transfers in September after indications that the Afghans might release some of the most dangerous ones. The Afghans were furious and charged the Americans with breaking the terms of a memorandum of understanding on the handover. It took a lengthy phone call by President Obama to Mr. Karzai to get discussions back on track.

Then, eight Afghan women were killed in American-led airstrikes as they collected firewood in a remote area of eastern Afghanistan. At the same time, the frequency of insider killings of Western troops by Afghan security forces was undermining the relationship between the American and Afghan soldiers on the ground.

These developments, along with a lack of clarity about American policy after the November presidential election, appear to have enraged Mr. Karzai.

His remarks Thursday suggest that he is not sure whether he can count on the Americans, analysts said, and he is trying to leverage some commitment from the United States regarding Afghanistan’s future.

“He is tremendously confused about our interests and priorities,” Stephen Biddle, a professor of defense studies at George Washington University, said in a telephone interview. “Sometimes it sounds like Karzai thinks we want Afghanistan as a kind of aircraft carrier in Central Asia to use to attack our enemies in the region.

“He doesn’t have a very clear picture of what we are after, so he flops around between various fairly extreme ideas of American interest, because what he has seen from us is so inconsistent.”

Afghan analysts emphasized that Mr. Karzai was speaking to Afghans and trying to reassure them that he was not a tool of the Americans and Europeans, even though they still hold the country’s purse strings.

“By lashing out at the West and the U.S., the president is trying to send a message to the people of Afghanistan that he is not a puppet of the West,” said Khalil Roman, an analyst based in Kabul.
129 2012-10-05 WASHINGTON — Escorted by several dozen Special Operations forces, F.B.I. agents on Thursday entered the ruins of the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, as part of their investigation into the killings there of ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans.

Security fears had kept the F.B.I. agents from traveling the 400 miles from the American Embassy in Tripoli, the Libyan capital, to collect evidence at a crime scene that was trampled, looted and badly burned by militants more than three weeks ago. Administration officials said Thursday the delay was caused in part by the Libyan government, which they described as slow in granting approval for the mission.

The officials said the agents flew from Tripoli in a C-130 military transport plane and were then driven to the compound in armored cars. The officials did not say how many F.B.I. agents were involved or precisely how long they were on the ground. The Pentagon press secretary, George Little, would only say at a briefing that the agents and their military escorts were in Benghazi “for a number of hours” before returning to Tripoli.

The agents were specialists in evidence collection, according to law enforcement officials, and were there to sift through the wreckage and to determine in better detail how the attack unfolded. It is unclear how much can still be gleaned from the site, which a senior American law enforcement official has described as so badly “degraded” that linking evidence to the attackers will be difficult at best.

Already looters, curiosity seekers and reporters have been through the site, which is only protected by two private security guards hired by the compound’s Libyan owner, The Washington Post reported Thursday. On Wednesday, a Post reporter at the site discovered loosely secured sensitive documents about American operations in Libya; the newspaper sent copies of some of them to the State Department. Last month CNN discovered Mr. Stevens’s diary in the wreckage.
130 2012-10-05 In the solar panel sector, “If one-third of them survive, that’s good, and two-thirds of them die, but we don’t know how that happens,” said Li Junfeng, a longtime director general for energy and climate policy at the National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planning agency.

Mr. Li said in an interview that he wanted banks to cut off loans to all but the strongest solar panel companies and let the rest go bankrupt. But banks — which were encouraged by Beijing to make the loans — are not eager to acknowledge that the loans are bad and take large write-offs, preferring to lend more money to allow the repayment of previous loans. Many local and provincial governments also are determined to keep their hometown favorites afloat to avoid job losses and to avoid making payments on loan guarantees, he said.

Mr. Li’s worries appear to be broadly shared in Beijing. “For the leading companies in the sector, if they’re not careful, the whole sector will disappear,” said Chen Huiqing, the deputy director for solar products at the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products.

The Chinese government also wants to see the country’s more than 20 wind turbine manufacturers, many of which are losing money, consolidate to five or six. “Wind does not need so many manufacturers,” said Mr. Li, who in addition to drafting renewable energy policies is the president of the Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association.

Chinese solar company executives blame their difficulties partly on the United States’s decisions last spring to impose antidumping and anti-subsidy tariffs on solar panel imports, and on the European Union’s recent decision to start its own antidumping investigation of imports from China.

“It is not a Chinese industry problem, it is a global solar industry problem,” said Rory Macpherson, a spokesman for Suntech Power, one of the largest Chinese solar panel manufacturers. “It is primarily the result of an imbalance between supply and demand, and the U.S. and E.U. trade investigations.”

Mr. Li said the solar industry’s problems were the result of overcapacity in China, and not the fault of trade restrictions.

Yet he insisted that if the Chinese government could turn back the clock and revisit past renewable energy decisions, it would not do anything differently.

The problem lies in the eagerness of Chinese businesses to rush into any new industry that looks attractive and swamp it with investments, he said. Chinese companies and their bankers are then far more reluctant than Western companies to admit defeat for investments that prove unprofitable.

Mr. Li added that banking regulators had not yet decided what to do about banks’ exposure to the solar sector. The central government tried without success to learn from local and provincial government agencies how much of the solar industry’s bank debt they have guaranteed, Mr. Li said.

Chinese solar power companies are making some cutbacks. Suntech, based in Wuxi, is temporarily closing a quarter of its solar cell capacity. It will transfer a majority of the 1,500 affected workers to other operations and provide severance payments to the rest.

Jiangsu province, where Suntech has its headquarters and most of its factories, issued an unusual appeal to state-owned banks several weeks ago to continue lending money to the company, a step that Mr. Li criticized as inappropriate. Mr. Macpherson of Suntech wrote in an e-mail that the Jiangsu government had not guaranteed any of the company’s debt, which totaled $2.26 billion at the end of the first quarter, including some convertible bonds in addition to bank loans. Trina Solar, one of its biggest rivals, also has said it will “streamline its operations” and shrink its work force, but did not provide details.

Trina shares have dropped 85 percent in the last three years and Suntech shares have fallen more than 98 percent in the last five years. Both trade on the New York Stock Exchange.

The modest cutbacks in production barely put a dent in China’s overcapacity problem. GTM Research, a renewable energy consulting firm in Boston, estimates that Chinese companies have the ability to manufacture 50 gigawatts of solar panels this year, while the Chinese domestic market is on track to absorb only 4 to 5 gigawatts. Exports will take another 18 or 19 gigawatts.

The enormously expensive equipment in solar panel factories needs to be run around the clock, seven days a week, to cover costs.

“You want to be up at 80 percent, so they’re half of what they need,” said Shayle Kann, the head of GTM Research, which is a unit of Greentech Media.

Chinese companies have struggled even though a dozen solar companies in the United States and another dozen in Europe have gone bankrupt or closed factories since the start of last year. The bankruptcies and closures have done little to ease the global glut and price war because China by itself represents more than two-thirds of the world’s capacity.

To reduce capacity, foreign rivals have clamored for China to subsidize the purchase of more solar panels at home, instead of having Chinese companies rely so heavily on exports. But the government here is worried about the cost of doing so, because the price of solar power remains far higher than for coal-generated power.

The average cost of electricity from solar panels in China works out to 19 cents per kilowatt-hour, said Mr. Li. That is three times the cost of coal-fired power. But it is a marked improvement from 63 cents per kilowatt-hour for solar power four years ago.

China’s official goal is to install 10 gigawatts of solar panels a year by 2015, using 20-year contracts to guarantee payment for electricity purchased from them. If costs stay where they are now, the subsidies would be $50 billion over 20 years for every 10 gigawatts of solar power installed, based on figures supplied by Mr. Li.

Even if solar power costs fall by a third, as the government hopes, he said, “it’s big money.”
131 2012-10-05 King Abdullah on Thursday dissolved Parliament, a constitutional move to pave the way for elections expected early next year. The announcement was made on the eve of a rally organized by the main Islamist opposition, the Muslim Brotherhood, which is hoping to stage a large demonstration on Friday. The Brotherhood and a coalition of tribal and other Islamist groups have been pressing the king to speed up what they consider to be the slow pace of political change. The royal decree dissolving Parliament, which was carried by state news media, did not mention a date for the elections that will decide the makeup of the 120-member lower house of Parliament.
132 2012-10-05 WASHINGTON — Global prices for meats, dairy products and cereals resumed rising last month, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization reported Thursday, adding to concerns that developing countries may face food shortages.

The agency said that on average, prices rose 1.4 percent in September, after remaining steady in July and August. Scorching heat and drought in the United States, Russia and Europe constricted agricultural production and pushed up prices of corn and soybeans to record highs, the report said.

The largest increases were for dairy products, which rose 7 percent in September, their sharpest climb since January 2011. Higher feed costs were a major factor in the increase, and also helped to drive meat prices up 2.1 percent, especially in the “grain intensive” pork and poultry industries, the report said.

Cereal prices rose 1 percent, and the food agency forecast a decline in global cereal production this year.

Despite the recent price increases, the agency’s overall food price index, which measures monthly price changes for a basket of goods including cereals, oilseeds, dairy products, meat and sugar, remains below the levels it reached in 2011, when high food prices led to unrest in the Middle East and northern Africa. But, adjusted for inflation, the index is now only 13 percent below its levels of 2008, when food costs set off riots in several countries.

After the release of the food agency’s report, Oxfam, a nonprofit international aid group, called on governments to tackle the root causes of food price volatility.
133 2012-10-05 MOSCOW — A researcher in Human Rights Watch’s office in Moscow received repeated threats this week of an attack focused on her pregnancy, the rights group said, calling it the latest example of escalating pressure against rights and civic groups in Russia.

The anonymous threats were sent to the cellphone of the researcher, Tanya Lokshina, who is also the deputy director of the Moscow bureau. The group said they included details that could have been obtained only by eavesdropping on her telephone conversations.

“These threats demonstrate that the sender clearly was following Tanya’s every move,” said Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch. “They knew where she lived, what she was doing. They made explicit reference to the fact of her pregnancy. They threatened harm to herself and to her unborn baby.”

One message said, “We are waiting for the birth of your child.” Another said that the sender was nearby and that Ms. Lokshina would not have “an easy birth.”

Mr. Roth condemned the threats as a bid to force the group to leave Russia. He spoke from New York in a videotaped statement played at a Moscow news conference, noting that Russia’s complex visa rules prevented him from flying in.
134 2012-10-05 Most merchants in Tehran’s grand bazaar reopened for business on Thursday as an unusually large number of police officers were deployed around the city’s black-market money trading district, witnesses reported, a day after a crackdown on suspected speculators led to civil disturbances and a large protest march by Iranians demanding relief from the plummeting value of the currency, the rial.

Iran’s Fars News Agency reported that 16 people, described as “elements of disorder in the currency market,” had been arrested during the Wednesday protests, the first outbreak of public anger over the devalued rial and other acute economic problems that have been building in Iran for the past few years. Economists have attributed the problems to government mismanagement and the onerous Western sanctions imposed on Iran in response to its contentious nuclear program, most notably a severe restriction on the country’s ability to sell oil and its expulsion from the global banking network.

Witnesses in Tehran said there was no resumption of protests over the rial, which has fallen by about 40 percent since last week and had contributed to panic selling on the black market by Iranians worried as they watch the value of their rials evaporate.

There were also no black-market transactions in Tehran on Thursday, as traders and their prospective customers stayed away, after having been scattered by riot police officers on Wednesday.

Despite the relative calm in Tehran, however, there was evidence that protests over the devalued rial had spread elsewhere. The Financial Times reported that bazaar merchants in Isfahan, Iran’s third-largest city, had closed on Thursday because of “price fluctuations” that risked causing them heavy losses.
135 2012-10-05 Instead, the focus shifted to Europe’s elected leaders and particularly whether Spain would meet conditions under the terms of an agreement for aid. The central bank has stipulated that the conditions are necessary for it to start buying Spain’s bonds as a way of restarting bank lending in the country.

Finance ministers of the 17 euro zone countries were to meet next week, creating an opportunity for Spain to apply for assistance, though many analysts expressed reservations that Madrid would move that quickly, as it was balking at the conditions it would have to agree to in exchange for drawing from one of the euro zone’s rescue funds.

Spain’s European partners are also conflicted over whether Madrid should apply for assistance. The Germans have been the most reluctant, with Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble insisting that Spain was taking the right steps and did not need a bailout.

Elga Bartsch, the chief European economist with Morgan Stanley, said the central bank seemed to be making clear that it had gone as far as it was prepared to go in restoring market confidence and that it was now up to the governments of Europe to push through the restructuring efforts that are seen as necessary to restore the euro’s stability in the long term. “The ball is now clearly in the courts of the governments,” Ms. Bartsch said.

Mr. Draghi asserted that the introduction last month of the central bank’s program to buy bonds had “helped to alleviate tensions” in the markets. Yields on short-term bonds have dropped considerably since the bank began taking a more activist stance. He added that the bond purchases, once they begin, “will enable us to provide, under appropriate conditions, a fully effective backstop to avoid destructive scenarios with potentially severe challenges for price stability in the euro area.”

Yet some experts think that the central bank’s assessment is overly optimistic and that it is too early to speak of a breakthrough; until a country activates the bond-buying program, there is no proof it will work as intended.

“We need to see whether governments can deliver on the program’s conditions and whether the populations accept the change,” Karen Ward, an economist with HSBC, wrote in a research note.

In his comments, Mr. Draghi repeated the need for governments to uphold their commitment to overhaul their economies and the structure of the euro zone for any lasting improvement.

He further warned that the central bank would stop purchasing a country’s bonds to help lower its borrowing costs if the country failed to meet the agreed-upon conditions.

Last month, Mr. Draghi set out the terms for the central bank to begin buying euro zone government bonds. One of the conditions was that countries must first request help from the euro zone bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, which has now been ratified and is to begin operations in the near future, or its predecessor, the European Financial Stability Facility.

That promise to intervene in bond markets, as well as Mr. Draghi’s vow to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro, has calmed tension considerably. But interest rates for Spanish bonds have been creeping higher in recent weeks as Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy delays asking for relief, a move that would require him to accept restrictions on how he manages the economy.

On Thursday, the Spanish Treasury successfully auctioned 4 billion euros, or $5.2 billion, of debt, the maximum amount it had aimed to sell, paying lower interest rates than when it last sold such bonds. But analysts said it was too early to read too much into the positive result.

Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a research firm, wrote Thursday in a note that investors were “taking an overly optimistic view” of the potential effectiveness of the central bank’s bond-buying program.

“Spain’s debt market is currently in a state of limbo,” he wrote. “It is being propped up by an E.C.B.-backed bond-buying scheme that has yet to be put into practice.”

In his remarks Thursday, Mr. Draghi presented a somewhat rosier picture of the situation in the euro zone, saying that significant progress had been made in countries like Spain and Portugal. He also noted that weaker banks in the euro zone had bolstered their capital cushions.

“When I said there has been significant progress, I included the repairing of the banking system,” Mr. Draghi said. “The capitalization gap that was pretty wide a couple of years ago has been significantly reduced.”

Mr. Draghi ticked off a number of signs that the crisis had eased, including an increase in deposits to Italian banks and a rise in bond sales by banks and companies, which should help investment and lending. He also said that Spanish banks had become less dependent on lending from the central bank, a possible sign they were able to raise money in the market.

Mr. Draghi also reiterated his view, which some euro countries have questioned, that the central bank’s actions to bolster the euro fell squarely within its purview.

“Let me repeat again what I have said in past months,” he said. “We are strictly within our mandate to provide price stability over the medium term, we act independently in determining monetary policy, and the euro is irreversible.”

The central bank’s rate decision came after the Bank of England kept its main interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent and opted not to take any immediate measures to stimulate growth.

The Bank of England said it would take another month to complete the £375 billion, or $604 billion, program of asset purchases known as quantitative easing, and the scale of the program would be kept “under review.”
136 2012-10-06 Washington, making its first postseason appearance since the franchise was revived in 2005, faces defending champion St. Louis, which survived a play-in game to advance to the N.L.D.S....
137 2012-10-06 On National Coming Out Day, some parents wait for their children to reveal a "secret" they already know. But being out for a teen can come with a price....
138 2012-10-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
139 2012-10-06 Five terror suspects were due to appear in U.S. courts on Saturday after their overnight extradition from Britain. The British government is pleased that they are finally gone, but concerns persist about why, in the case of two of the defendants, ...
140 2012-10-06 Tina Charles scored 14 of her 18 points in the second half to lead the Connecticut Sun to a 76-64 home win over the Indiana Fever in the opener of the W.N.B.A. Eastern Conference finals. Katie Douglas had 27 points to lead the Fever.
141 2012-10-06 Auto sales show renewed strength, workers protested a Walmart in California and the September unemployment report topped expectations....
142 2012-10-06 WASHINGTON — Federal authorities said Friday that there were “strong preliminary indications” that a Border Patrol agent who was killed in a shooting on Tuesday in Arizona near the border with Mexico was accidentally shot by another agent.

The authorities also said that another agent who was injured was also probably wounded by an agent.

“While it is important to emphasize that the F.B.I.’s investigation is actively continuing, there are strong preliminary indications that” the agents were shot by another agent, said James L. Turgal Jr., a senior official for the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Arizona.

He added, “At the appropriate time further information will be provided, but while the investigation continues it would be inappropriate to comment any further at this time.”

The agent who died, Nicholas Ivie, 30, of Provo, Utah, was shot as he and two other agents responded to a ground sensor that went off near the border Tuesday around 1:50 a.m.

At first, officials said they believed that the sensors had been set off by criminals at the border.

“They were both responding to the same location, one group from the north and another from the south,” said George E. McCubbin III, the head of the National Border Patrol Council, a union representing agents.
143 2012-10-06 Just as New York State seemed ready to allow drilling upstate to extract a rich supply of natural gas, Gov. Andrew Cuomo announced a delay. Officials will now take another look at the potential health risks of hydraulic fracturing — a technique for extracting natural gas from deep shale formations, like the Marcellus Shale that lies beneath the states’s southern tier. Such caution makes sense, especially when approval of full-scale drilling could mean tens of thousands of gas rigs dotting the landscape over the next 30 years.

Industry representatives and some landowners see this latest review as, at best, a delay and, at worst, a capitulation by a politically astute governor to environmentalists and a growing roster of celebrity opponents. Mr. Cuomo insisted Tuesday that “there is no step back” from his promise to allow drilling in selected areas of the state — areas outside the New York City and Syracuse watersheds — if it can be done safely. He said another examination of potential health risks could help the state “withstand a legal challenge” if drilling permits are finally issued.

Given the ferocity of the debate about hydraulic fracturing, any decision will almost certainly land in the courts. Reviewing the growing literature on the health effects of hydraulic fracturing is a sound idea. But this new study has to be more than a legal tactic, more than a rubber-stamping of what’s already there. As the environmental commissioner, Joseph Martens, said when he announced the study last month, the public must have “trust in the integrity” of the review.

To inspire such trust, the Cuomo administration has asked New York’s health commissioner, Nirav Shah, a respected internist and researcher, to see whether the state’s earlier environmental review does the job — whether, that is, sufficient analysis has been done to assess hydraulic fracturing’s impact on air, water and public health.

Can gas be extracted without risk to local water supplies? Can the millions of gallons of chemically laced wastewater discharged by every well be recycled or safely stored on the surface? Can methane, a potent greenhouse gas, be kept from the air? Are the most fragile people — children, the elderly, the ill — unacceptably at risk from the industrial pollution caused by trucks and other heavy machinery?

Hydraulic fracturing has added substantially to the country’s energy supply, and a lot of drilling appears to have occurred without incident. But there have been enough alarming reports of water and air pollution to justify further study. Dr. Shah is expected to ask “the most qualified outside experts” to advise him but not to make the final decision. This issue will stop at the governor’s desk, and the best course for Mr. Cuomo and the rest of New York is to take the time to do it right.
144 2012-10-06 A solar panel installer, SolarCity, filed with regulators to raise up to $201 million in an initial public offering that could help rekindle investor appetite for clean tech stocks. Shares of solar panel manufacturers have performed poorly in the last two years as falling panel prices erased profits. But those lower prices have spurred demand for solar systems in the United States, helping companies like SolarCity. SolarCity was founded in 2006 by brothers Lyndon and Peter Rive along with their cousin, Elon Musk, a co-founder of PayPal and chief executive of Tesla Motors. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, SolarCity said it had more than 31,600 solar system customers as of June 30, compared with 5,775 on Dec. 31, 2009. The company’s total revenue was $46.6 million in the three months ended June 30, compared with $13 million a year earlier.
145 2012-10-06 The immediate cause of the California price rise was a power failure at Exxon Mobil’s Torrance, Calif., refinery on Monday that shut down some production units at the 150,000-barrel-a-day facility. The company on Friday said the refinery had resumed normal operations. Supplies on the West Coast had already been tight because of an Aug. 6 fire at Chevron’s 245,000-barrel-a-day Richmond, Calif., refinery, which has still not been restored to full production.

California typically has substantially higher gasoline prices than most of the country because of its tough environmental regulations and high taxes. Gasoline supplies are traditionally tight this time of year as refiners do maintenance work to switch from summer to fall gasoline blends mandated by the California pollution-reduction regulations. But this year, energy experts say, the local gasoline market is particularly chaotic because of the refinery shutdowns.

Refining experts said the rationing and exceedingly high prices would probably last a couple of weeks at the most. Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, said California customers might get some relief in the next few days because traders were suddenly lowering the prices of their bulk sales almost as fast as they were raising them over the last few days. He said the wholesale price for gasoline on the West Coast dropped 50 cents on Friday from a high of $4.25 a gallon.

“The prices are incredibly erratic,” Mr. Kloza said. “It’s gone from incredibly excessive pricing to just plain excessive.”

In Southern California, Costco Wholesale outlets and other unbranded stations were particularly hard hit by the shortages because refineries normally supply their branded customers first because they pay a higher premium for locking in guaranteed supplies. Valero Energy, along with other refiners, temporarily halted spot sales of gasoline to some of its California customers.

“California requires a specific blend of gasoline that only the refineries on the West Coast make,” said Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero. “So when there is a shortage of that blend, you can’t just send supplies from somewhere else.”

Gasoline prices largely depend on the price of crude oil. Global oil prices have eased somewhat since the beginning of the year, despite turmoil in the Middle East and sanctions on Iran. The easing is attributed to slowing economic activity around the world and increased supplies coming from several countries including Iraq, Libya, Saudi Arabia and the United States.

Across the country, gas prices remain high. The $3.79 average price for a gallon of regular is 39 cents higher than it was a year ago, although the price has come down 3 cents over the last month.

Nationally, Mr. Kloza said, the price of a regular gallon of gasoline should ease to about $3.50 between now and December, which would put prices fairly similar to a year ago.

High gasoline prices have frequently been a political issue, but President Obama may get a break this year because several swing states like Florida, Ohio, Virginia, North Carolina, Nevada and New Hampshire have gasoline prices that are relatively low compared with the national average.

On Friday, in central Los Angeles, motorists expressed a combination of frustration, resignation and anger.

“I’m not happy about it,” said Michael Eisenhower, 52, a television costume designer, as he stared at the digits rising to nearly $40 to fill up his sport utility vehicle. He stopped short of topping off as he complained that his wages were not rising as fast as the price of gas.

“I’ve been putting in a reasonable amount of gas, enough for two days or so,” he said. “It’s my way of budgeting what I have to work with each week.”
146 2012-10-06 KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Administrators at the University of Missouri completed a reversal of their decision to close the university’s publishing house when they announced on Friday that the longtime editor in chief, Clair Willcox, would be rehired.

Mr. Willcox’s return stoked glee among the hundreds of University of Missouri Press supporters, including dozens of authors who had condemned the university system’s new president, Timothy M. Wolfe, when he announced in May that he would be closing the publishing house. Founded in 1958, it has spawned titles including “‘The Collected Works of Langston Hughes,” “‘The Complete Sermons of Ralph Waldo Emerson” and “‘Mark Twain and His Circle.”

The move also could save the core of the operation — 41 authors who had works published by the university press asked for the rights to their works back unless Mr. Willcox was rehired.

“Victory Is Ours!” declared a post on a Facebook page, Save the University of Missouri Press, created by Ned Stuckey-French, a professor at Florida State University and an author with the press, and Bruce Joshua Miller, a sales representative for university publishers.

“I’m floating,” Mr. Stuckey-French said in an interview.

Mr. Wolfe said in an interview that the university was not changing course. His intention never was to close the press, he said, but rather to reinvent it in a more cost-effective technological model.
147 2012-10-06 “We are now at a very critical juncture,” wrote Melih Asik in the Turkish newspaper Milliyet. “We are not only facing Syria, but Iran, Iraq, Russia and China behind it as well. Behind us, we have nothing but the provocative stance and empty promises of the U.S.”

Across northern Syria, in areas that rebels have wrested from government control, such sentiments have become an angry and routine element of the public discourse. Wearied by violence, heading into another winter of fighting, and enraged by what they see as the inaction and hypocrisy of powerful nations, frontline leaders of the rebellion say that the West risks losing a potential ally in the Middle East if the Assad government should fall.

The corollary is frequently sounded, too: The West may be gaining enemies where it might have found friends. As anger grows, armed groups opposed to the United States may grow in numbers and stature, too.

“The United Nations and international community are making a big mistake,” said Ghassan Abdul Wahib, 43, a truck driver and now a leader in Kafr Takharim, a village in the north. “By letting this be a long war, they are dragging Syria toward radicalism, and they will suffer from this for a long time.”

The origins of these sentiments are typically the same: a widely held view that Washington and European capitals are more interested in maintaining the flow of oil from Libya and Iraq, or in protecting Israel, than in Syria and its people’s suffering. The view is supported, Syrians opposed to Mr. Assad say, by the West’s stubborn refusal to provide weapons to the rebels, or to protect civilians and aid the rebels with a no-fly zone.

The contrast with the West’s military assistance and vocal political support to the uprising last year in Libya is frequently drawn.

The donations of nonlethal aid to the Syrian opposition by Washington are often called small-scale, to the extent that none of the half-dozen fighting groups visited by journalists for The New York Times, or the many commanders interviewed in Turkey, claimed to have seen, much less received, American aid.

“We haven’t received anything from the outside,” said Thayar, a member of the ad hoc governing body in Kafr Takharim known as the revolutionary council. (He asked that his last name be withheld to protect him and his family from retaliation.) “We read in the media that we are receiving things. But we haven’t seen it. We only received speeches from the West.”

Other men echoed this sentiment, and accused the United States and Europe of playing a double game, in effect of conspiring with the Kremlin to ensure that no nation has to act against the Assad government or on the rebels’ or civilians’ behalf.

In this view, the Kremlin’s insistence that it will not support further action against Syria is regarded as convenient for the White House, which, many commanders and fighters said, issues statements supporting the uprising and condemning the Assad government knowing it will not have to back up words with deeds. Russia has provided weapons and diplomatic support to the Assad government and blocked action by the United Nations Security Council.

Mr. Wahib, the leader in Kafr Takharim, dismissed the discussions in the United Nations as a choreographed show. “The whole world is now trying to destroy Syria,” he said. “The international community knows that Assad is dead, but they want war so it destroys Syria and puts us back 100 years. In this way, Israel will be safe.”

Like many activists and fighters, he had a derisive view of what had once been hailed in Western capitals as an achievement by NATO — the military intervention in Libya last year, which Western leaders have said protected civilians and which enabled disorganized rebels to defeat their country’s conventional military.

That campaign was not perfect. NATO killed and wounded many civilians whom it has refused to acknowledge or help. As the war dragged on, many armed groups formed, casting the country’s long-term security in doubt and, after the attack last month on the American diplomatic mission in Benghazi, jeopardizing Western engagement, too.

But Syrians opposed to Mr. Assad still crave Western military assistance, even if it would only be a no-fly zone to ground the Syrian Air Force, whose aircraft have been attacking cities and towns since this summer. The United States, however, has so far ruled out military involvement in Syria.

Many Syrian men also bristled under what they called common descriptions that their uprising is driven by foreign fighters, or hosts groups linked to Al Qaeda.

“We are not terrorists like the regime says,” said Abu Muhammad, a teacher in Deir Sonbul. “We are fighting for dignity, which has been raped for 40 years.”

In this environment of acrimony and charge and countercharge, the anger of Majed al-Muhammad, the retired sergeant major, was of a type fueled by frustration and loss.

A few days before he received journalists in his office here, from where he commands 200 fighters in the northern highlands of Jebel al-Zawiya, he learned that his sister had been killed in Damascus. A photograph of her bloodied remains, crumpled on the ground, was on his cellphone; he displayed the image with rage.

Then he moved to a collection of ordnance remnants on a table beside his desk. He held up an expended tank shell. “Is it possible for the government to use this against the people?” he asked.

He lifted the remains of an S-5 rocket, an air-to-ground weapon in common use by the Syrian Air Force’s helicopters and jets. He asked if citizens of the United States would tolerate what Syria’s opposition has endured, and not ask for weapons and help, too.

“Is it possible for your helicopters to fire this into the crowds?” He was fuming. His voice rose again. “Do we have the right to live, or not?”
148 2012-10-06 Tripp Phillips, a production stage manager, had always considered himself fortunate to work steadily on Broadway. Then “Rebecca” entered his life.

By the time that $12 million musical imploded on Sunday, its financing having fallen through, Mr. Phillips had endured two postponements of the show and had turned down work on the musicals “Chaplin” (open now) and “A Christmas Story” (opening next month). Like more than 100 others in the cast and on the “Rebecca” creative team, he is now scrambling for work while watching the convoluted story of what went wrong unfold in public.

“It’s not just the loss of income, it’s not just the uncertainty, it’s the emotional blow — we were all ready to work,” he said in a telephone interview this week. “In the future I will look back at 2012 as the year ‘Rebecca’ let me down.”

While investigators struggle to figure out the financial mysteries that scuttled the musical — which include a phantom investor, a disappearing $4.5 million and a middleman with a lengthy record of fraud — Mr. Phillips and his colleagues are engaged in more mundane business: trying to get out of apartment rentals, canceling appointments with dialect coaches, adjusting nanny schedules and putting out feelers for jobs when the fall season’s Broadway shows have largely been staffed.

“It’s not just actors affected,” said Kevin Stites, who was the musical director and music supervisor for “Rebecca.” “It’s dressers, stage hands, the box office people. It has a large ripple effect. I left a national tour of ‘Les Miserables’ I was conducting to do this and I’ve been replaced.”

A hit in Europe but untested in the United States, “Rebecca” — a gothic mystery based on the Daphne du Maurier novel of the same name — was set to be one of the bigger musicals of the season. Mr. Phillips said his production roster had 130 names.
149 2012-10-06 To the degree that tying arrangements extend the control of a dominant producer, they may violate antitrust laws. Probably the best-known example was Microsoft’s attempt to bundle its Internet Explorer browser on Windows software, to the disadvantage of Netscape, a rival browser, despite complaints that Explorer was initially an inferior product. This was the linchpin of the government’s 1998 antitrust case against Microsoft. E-mails were introduced as evidence in which Microsoft executives indiscreetly stated their intentions to “smother,” “extinguish” and “cut off Netscape’s air supply” by bundling Explorer with Windows.

Among other findings, the judge ruled that Microsoft had engaged in an illegal tying arrangement. The outcome of the case kept the door open to competition in the browser market. Today, the once-dominant Internet Explorer faces stiff competition from rivals like Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. Microsoft’s settlement came too late for Netscape’s browser, which was no longer being developed or supported after 2007. But Firefox traces its lineage to Netscape’s source code.

Early users searched for locations and got nonsensical results. Mad magazine ran a parody of the famous Saul Steinberg New Yorker cover of the world seen from Ninth Avenue “now using Apple Maps,” in which the Hudson was the Sea of Galilee and other landmarks were ludicrously misidentified.

Mr. Cook swiftly tried to contain the damage. “Everything we do at Apple is aimed at making our products the best in the world. We know that you expect that from us, and we will keep working nonstop until Maps lives up to the same incredibly high standard,” he said a week ago.

Would Mr. Jobs have been so quick to apologize? Perhaps not. He was famously resistant to the idea after complaints about the iPhone 4’s antenna, and the Apple “genius” manual instructs employees never to apologize for the quality of Apple technology.

Bundling its maps with the iPhone 5 may yet prove to be a strategic blunder for Apple, but it may nonetheless skirt the boundaries of the antitrust laws that tripped up Microsoft. “There’s no antitrust theory under which vertically integrating into an inferior component is considered anticompetitive,” Herbert Hovenkamp, an antitrust professor at the University of Iowa College of Law, told me. That’s because the problem is considered self-correcting by market forces. “There have been lots of complaints about tying arrangements involving inferior products. But ordinarily, incorporating an inferior product doesn’t increase your market share, because consumers leave for a better product. It’s not a promising strategy,” Professor Hovenkamp said. The danger for Apple is that customers will choose an Android phone with a superior Google Maps application rather than an iPhone.

An exception is when a monopolist does it, which is what happened with Microsoft. If a consumer used Microsoft Windows, the dominant software, Explorer was installed by default. “This arose with Microsoft because back then Explorer was considered inferior and quirky,” Professor Hovenkamp said. “But that wasn’t why it was a violation. It’s because consumers had no choice.” By contrast, Apple’s iOS isn’t the dominant smartphone operating system. Apple’s software has captured 17 percent of the global smartphone market, compared with 68 percent for Google’s Android. Apple users who want Google maps can readily switch to an Android phone. “Most tying arrangement cases have involved firms with close to 100 percent market shares,” Professor Hovenkamp noted.

The real test will be whether Apple makes rival mapping apps readily available for downloading on its iPhones. In his apology, Mr. Cook suggested that iPhone users try alternatives, and even suggested using Google maps by going to Google’s Web site. Google said it was working on a map application for the iPhone.

From an antitrust perspective, the e-books controversy is more serious. United States antitrust authorities have accused Apple of conspiring with major book publishers to raise e-book prices, and Apple offered to settle a European investigation into the same practices. The Justice Department cited a passage in Mr. Isaacson’s book in which Mr. Jobs called the strategy an “aikido move,” referring to the Japanese martial art, and said, “We’ll go to the agency model, where you set the price, and we get our 30 percent, and yes, the customer pays a little more, but that’s what you want anyway.”

The charges describe a classic price-fixing arrangement, “which is presumptively illegal,” Professor Hovenkamp said. “Everybody wants market dominance, not just Apple. But it’s how you go about it. You can’t go out and fix prices.” Apple has denied the charges, and a trial has been set for next year.

Mr. Cook’s challenge has always been to guide Apple out of the shadow of its visionary and charismatic founder. Can he encourage Mr. Jobs’s competitive zeal and drive for perfection while distancing Apple from Mr. Jobs’s potentially damaging — even unlawful — need to dominate and control? “Historically, Apple hasn’t been very sensitive to antitrust issues,” Professor Hovenkamp said.

There’s no quarreling with Apple’s extraordinary success, and Mr. Jobs’s obsession with controlling all aspects of Apple’s products clearly paid off for its customers and shareholders. It proved to be the right strategy for the time. But competition in smartphones and Apple’s other efforts has intensified in the year since Mr. Jobs died, and Apple may not be able to continue blindly down that path. With his swift apology for the imperfections of Apple’s maps, Mr. Cook seems to have taken a step in the right direction. If he also settles the e-books case and makes Google’s and other map applications readily available to iPhone users, he’d be signaling a clear break from the past and encouraging Apple to embrace, rather than stifle, competition.
150 2012-10-06 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index broke a four-day string of gains, ending slightly lower on Friday as an unexpected drop in the nation’s unemployment rate was overshadowed by concerns about the coming earnings reporting period, which begins with Alcoa next week.

All three major stock indexes came off session highs in the afternoon. The S.& P. 500 turned negative for the first time this week as investors braced for weak corporate results.

Third-quarter earnings for companies in the S.& P. 500 are forecast to have fallen 2.4 percent from the year-ago period, which would be the first decline in three years, according to Thomson Reuters data.

“It’s a bit ‘sell on the news’ type of a situation. We had the big jobs numbers this morning, but traders and investors don’t want to keep their positions going into the weekend and next week,” said Christian C. Bertelsen, the chief investment officer of Global Financial Private Capital, a wealth management company.

Despite the lackluster performance for the day, the S.& P. 500 was up 16.17 percent so far this year. The benchmark is on track for its best yearly run since 2009.
151 2012-10-06 “We’ve been amazingly resilient thus far in the face of all these headwinds,” said Ellen Zentner, the senior economist for Nomura Securities International, referring to global obstacles like the slowdown in and domestic ones like the looming expiration of breaks. “But it’s awfully hard to see getting significantly above that growth range given that these headwinds are still in place.”

Still, an energized Mr. Obama seized on the statistics as he campaigned in and , seeking to regain his footing after a listless performance in the first debate this week. Mr. Romney, whose muscular showing in had emboldened his campaign, scrambled to play down the report, saying it merely confirmed that millions of Americans had given up looking for work.

In back-to-back rallies in Virginia, the president declared, “This country has come too far to turn back.” His Republican challenger then insisted, “We don’t have to stay on the path we’ve been on. We can do better.”

Some Romney backers, led by the former chief executive of , , suggested that the White House had massaged the Labor Department data to make it more favorable. The Obama administration, economic experts and some Republicans dismissed that notion as a groundless conspiracy theory.

The jobs report was preceded by other signs of growing economic strength, including a jump in consumer confidence, the strongest auto sales in four years, rallying stock prices and, at long last, a stabilization of housing prices.

According to the monthly survey of employers, the bulk of the gains came from service jobs, particularly in education and health care. Though government downsizing has been a drag on the recovery, government over all added 10,000 jobs in September, the third consecutive month of gains.

The nation’s employers have added an average of 146,000 jobs a month in 2012, just ahead of the numbers that are considered necessary to absorb new workers into the labor force. “This is not what a real recovery looks like,” Mr. Romney said in a statement.

Areas of weakness included manufacturing, one of the bright spots that Mr. Obama has showcased throughout the re-election campaign. It lost 16,000 jobs after a revised 22,000 drop in August in the face of a global slowdown. The number of temporary jobs, usually considered a harbinger of future growth, fell 2,000. Speaking to a rain-soaked crowd of 9,000 at Cleveland State University, Mr. Obama said, “Today’s news should give us some encouragement. It shouldn’t be an excuse for the other side to talk down the economy just to try to score some political points.”

“We’ve made too much progress to return to the policies that led to this crisis in the first place,” the president said to cheers.

The nation now has nearly the same number of jobs as when Mr. Obama took office in January 2009. Since the economy stopped hemorrhaging jobs in February 2010, there has been an increase of more than 4.3 million. A mere 61,000-job increase would allow Mr. Obama to claim a net gain in jobs over his tenure.

The White House has already made that claim based on one measurement. In an annual recalibration last month, the said 400,000 more jobs were added in the 12 months that ended in March than previously thought. Such revisions are common, but the adjustment process is slow — that new benchmark will not be incorporated into the monthly jobs figures until early next year.

Mr. Romney, on other hand, said the lower rate spoke to a nation short of hope. The rate, he asserted, would be about 11 percent if the same percentage of people were looking for work now as on the day Mr. Obama was elected.

“If you just dropped out of the labor force, if you just give up and say, ‘Look, I can’t go back to work, I’m just going to stay home,’ if you just drop out altogether, why, you’re no longer part of the employment statistics, so it looks like unemployment is getting better,” Mr. Romney said at a farm equipment dealership in Abingdon, Va.

That was true in August, when the rate dropped to 8.1 percent, from 8.3 percent. But this time, the statistics showed that more people were working, not that discouraged job seekers had stopped looking for work.

The jobs report is based on two surveys, one of businesses and one of households, that can present different pictures.

While the survey of businesses showed mediocre growth, the household survey had a whopping increase of 873,000 people working in September. The household survey is much more volatile and prone to sampling error, but it captures aspects of the labor market that the business survey does not, like self-employment and household workers. Economists said that this month’s household survey probably overstated the improvement, but that its credibility was bolstered by an unexpectedly robust rise in consumer confidence.

The polling firm Gallup pinpointed the improvement in consumer confidence last month to the first day of the and attributed it almost entirely to increased optimism among Democrats, while confidence among Republicans remained at low levels. But Gallup could not say whether politics or economic conditions had driven the change.

The employment gains were not spread equally. While for older workers, the unemployment rate was the lowest in years, the unemployment rate for black men improved only 0.1 percentage point and the portion of all black men with jobs actually fell, to 57.5 percent.

There was no movement between August and September in a broader measure of underemployment, which includes the jobless who have stopped looking for work and those who work part time but would like to work full time. That stayed at 14.7 percent, though it is down from 16.4 percent a year earlier.

And 4.8 million people are in the group that has had the toughest time finding work — those who have been unemployed for longer than six months.

Sarah Thurman, a civil engineer in , , has been looking since May 2010. “The smaller firms are starting to post job openings, and that hasn’t been like that for over two years, but there’s so many of us without jobs that there’s so much competition,” she said. “I’m hearing from the headhunters that it’s going to be opening up, it’s going to be opening up — but when?”

Like Republicans and Democrats, consumers and businesses have divergent views of the economic situation. Consumers have brightened along with the better outlook for employment, calmer stock markets and whispers of rising home values.

Business leaders have been hanging back, more focused on a global slowdown and domestic concerns. They say they are uncertain what the election will mean for the business climate and are waiting in part for a resolution of the host of tax increases and budget cuts that will be set off at the end of the year if Congress fails to act.

The discrepancy between consumers’ mood and companies’ outlook can be easily explained, economists said. “Businesses are much more forward-looking,” said Ms. Zentner at Nomura.

In a survey of 400 chief financial officers conducted this summer, Grant Thornton, a management consulting firm, found that only 37 percent foresaw the possibility of adding workers while 18 percent said they expected to shrink over the next six months.

Harry Kazazian, the chief executive of Exxel Outdoors, a maker of camping equipment based in , said the election, the fiscal cliff and rapidly shifting regulations had put him in a cautious mood.

With sales on the rise, Exxel has slowly resumed a capital investment plan that it suspended three years ago. “We’re moving forward, but we’re doing it in steps rather than being much more aggressive and putting ourselves out there,” Mr. Kazazian said. “I wouldn’t be surprised if things start turning the other way, meaning down.”

But at a in , shoppers were loosening the reins a bit, buying what they described as small indulgences like scented candle oil and seasonal beer.

Michael Peacock, 43, said that although his house was in foreclosure, he could sense enough activity in his chosen field, online marketing, that he could afford to turn down some work outside his specialty. “I’m not superconfident in the economy. But in my line of work, things have been getting better. There seems to be some improvement.”
152 2012-10-07 My whole family used to live in modest homes on a street in the Regla neighborhood of Havana. Today we are spread throughout the world. Most of the new generation have little contact with one another. The few who are left in Cuba are divided into two groups: the young who are desperate to flee and the old who look out the window and wonder what has happened. La Revolucion ruined my family and my country. This was a beautifully written piece that addressed the complicated nature of the country, its people and the experiences of the emigrants who return to it as a sort of mythical land. ERNESTO LLANO, Dallas, posted on nytimes.com



I was born in Cuba, and lived there until I was 9. Thanks to my parents’ courage, I was spared the tragedy of growing up there. There are still people who look to Cuba as a prelapsarian paradise. For them, talk about Cuba is never about Cuba; it’s about the United States — capitalism versus socialism; the role of government; Batista and pre-Castro Cuba. All these are legitimate subjects. But at some point you have to look at Cuba for what it is: it’s not capitalist; it’s not socialist; it’s not left- or right-wing. Coups come and go (as they did in Cuba before 1959). But Cuba? Nothing changes. Cuba’s problem is a human problem, not a political one. Freedom is what Cuba needs. ALEJANDRO JOSE VALELLA, Weston, Conn., posted on nytimes.com

As I sit here in tears, having just finished John Jeremiah Sullivan’s superb report, I just would like to tell you that I feel sure that my late husband, the photojournalist Andrew St. George, would have loved the piece. Thank you for a wonderful picture of Cuba. JEAN ST. GEORGE, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

Editor’s note: In 1958, Andrew St. George, a writer and photojournalist originally from Hungary, traveled to Cuba and spent five weeks with Fidel Castro and his rebels in the Sierra Maestra Mountains, resulting in a front-page article for The Times, “Castro Seeking U.S. Talks on Cuban Political Issues.” In that article, St. George revealed the existence of a confidential message from the rebel leader, whom The Times referred to as “Señor Castro,” to the U.S. ambassador, making overtures in the event that the revolution was successful.

I’m actually jealous that the pleasure of reading this still awaits you.” @benjohnanderson, via Twitter



On a beautiful summer evening, we went to Red Rocks Amphitheater to enjoy a Neil Young show. We were looking forward to re-experiencing all those insightful, exquisitely crafted and artfully performed songs. Instead, we were brutally assaulted with redundant, loud, unmelodic, electric noise. What happened to the real Neil Young? He’s nothing more than another bad singer and incompetent guitar player trying to pass off garbage as music. Come back, Neil. We miss you. CHUCK SILVERMAN, Golden, Colo., posted on nytimes.com
153 2012-10-07 The Financial Times is published in a distinctive shade it calls salmon pink. Color experts have more precise names for the tint....
154 2012-10-07 Zach Schonbrun, with help from other Times reporters and editors, offered up updates and analysis from Camden Yards during the Yankees' victory in Game 1 of the A.L. division series....
155 2012-10-07 Cueto, 19-9 with a 2.78 earned run average in the regular season, said he felt fine until the end of warm-ups in the bullpen.

“It was only on the last two throws I felt something,” Cueto said through an interpreter. “I felt something — sharp pain on my right side.”

Trainers quickly massaged it with heat, hoping it was a mere cramp. The pitching coach Bryan Price told Baker what happened, and they watched as Cueto struck out San Francisco’s first batter, Angel Pagan, and threw two hard strikes to Marco Scutaro. That is when Cueto circled off the mound with a wince and a look of resignation. After a meeting of coaches and trainers, Cueto walked slowly to the dugout.

It seemed like a huge break for the Giants. By game’s end, it felt like a squandered opportunity. Adding insult to the injury for the Giants, Cueto said his back felt much better after the game, and he said he thought he would be able to start another game this series, if needed.

The projected Game 3 starter Mat Latos warmed up as the Giants loaded the bases with two outs in the second inning against Sam LeCure, the first of five Reds relievers and the eventual game winner. Cain, positioned to give himself a cushion, drilled a hard fly to right field that Jay Bruce caught on the move.

With the Reds in scramble mode, and the sellout crowd at AT&T Park bubbling like a bottle ready to be uncorked, Phillips upturned everything with a two-run home run in the top of the third inning. He had badly missed a first-pitch curveball, and waited for Cain to offer another. Cain did. The ball ended up in the left-field bleachers.

The Reds padded the lead when Bruce smashed a home run to right field to start the fourth inning.

Cain was 16-5 with a 2.79 earned run average in the regular season. But two of those losses were to the Reds, and Cain’s 75-pitch, five-inning stint Saturday night felt like a mere extension.

“He wasn’t as sharp as he normally is,” Giants Manager Bruce Bochy said of Cain. “He left a couple of pitches up that they took advantage of, and the ball left the park.”

Latos, once warmed up, brought confidence built on experience. Traded from San Diego during the off-season, he has routinely pitched well in San Francisco — a 1.67 career earned run average in 43 innings, including a two-hit complete-game victory at AT&T Park in June.

He pitched four mostly uneventful innings. The exception came when Giants catcher Buster Posey reignited a dormant audience by tucking a 342-foot home run behind the left-field fence to start the bottom of the sixth.

Posey sparked another burst of excitement with an eighth-inning single. Reds reliever Jonathan Broxton walked Brandon Belt with two outs to bring fans to their feet as they waved orange towels. But the light-hitting left fielder Gregor Blanco, who had two earlier hits, struck out watching a 3-2 pitch, extinguishing the threat.

After San Francisco reliever Santiago Casilla gave up two more runs in the ninth, the second on a passed ball that followed a wild pitch, tension returned again in the bottom of the ninth. Reds closer Aroldis Chapman struggled to control his fastball. The Giants, with a single and two walks, loaded the bases with one out. Pablo Sandoval popped out. Posey, to chants of “M.V.P.,” watched as Joaquin Arias scored on a wild pitch. Then he struck out swinging on a 100-miles-per-hour fastball from Chapman.

It was Cincinnati’s first playoff victory in 17 years, and provided a far more promising start than the last time the Reds reached the postseason. In 2010, the year the Giants surged to the World Series title, the Reds were dispatched in quick order by the Philadelphia Phillies in a division series. They lost Game 1 on Roy Halladay’s no-hitter, melted down with four errors in Game 2, and were shut out at home in Game 3 by Cole Hamels.

Cueto was the losing pitcher in the clinching game. His role may be no less important in this series, even if it lasts just eight pitches.
156 2012-10-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
157 2012-10-07 Emily Aloise Cashman and Dr. Christopher Jackson Mills were married Saturday at the First Congregational Church of Old Lyme in Old Lyme, Conn. The Rev. Carleen R. Gerber, a senior minister at the church and a Congregationalist minister, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 35, will continue to use her name professionally. She is a clinical child psychologist with private practices in Westport, Conn., and Keene, N.H. She graduated from Fairfield University and received her doctorate in psychology from Yeshiva University.

She is the daughter of Kathleen McGuffin Allen of Westport and Peter L. Cashman of Fairfield, Conn. From 1973 to 1975, her father was the lieutenant governor of Connecticut. He now works in Fairfield as the managing director of Building Energy Performance Assessment News, a newsletter on energy consumption. Her mother is a managing director at Von Kohorn Research and Advisory, an investment advisory firm in Westport.

The groom, 48, is an obstetrician and gynecologist at Baystate Franklin Medical Center in Greenfield, Mass. He graduated magna cum laude from the State University at Albany and received a medical degree from the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.

He is the son of Joan Leffingwell Blank of Hanover, N.H., and the late Alfred G. Mills. His mother, now retired, worked as the international editor of Reader’s Digest in Chappaqua, N.Y. His father was a securities analyst for Stillman, Maynard and Company, an investment bank in New York.
158 2012-10-07 Yet votes cast by mail are less likely to be counted, more likely to be compromised and more likely to be contested than those cast in a voting booth, statistics show. Election officials reject almost 2 percent of ballots cast by mail, double the rate for in-person voting.

“The more people you force to vote by mail,” Mr. Sancho said, “the more invalid ballots you will generate.”

Election experts say the challenges created by mailed ballots could well affect outcomes this fall and beyond. If the contests next month are close enough to be within what election lawyers call the margin of litigation, the grounds on which they will be fought will not be hanging chads but ballots cast away from the voting booth.

In 2008, 18 percent of the votes in the nine states likely to decide this year’s presidential election were cast by mail. That number will almost certainly rise this year, and voters in two-thirds of the states have already begun casting absentee ballots. In four Western states, voting by mail is the exclusive or dominant way to cast a ballot.

The trend will probably result in more uncounted votes, and it increases the potential for fraud. While fraud in voting by mail is far less common than innocent errors, it is vastly more prevalent than the in-person voting fraud that has attracted far more attention, election administrators say.

In Florida, absentee-ballot scandals seem to arrive like clockwork around election time. Before this year’s primary, for example, a woman in Hialeah was charged with forging an elderly voter’s signature, a felony, and possessing 31 completed absentee ballots, 29 more than allowed under a local law.

The flaws of absentee voting raise questions about the most elementary promises of democracy. “The right to have one’s vote counted is as important as the act of voting itself,” Justice Paul H. Anderson of the Minnesota Supreme Court wrote while considering disputed absentee ballots in the close 2008 Senate election between Al Franken and Norm Coleman.

Voting by mail is now common enough and problematic enough that election experts say there have been multiple elections in which no one can say with confidence which candidate was the deserved winner. The list includes the 2000 presidential election, in which problems with absentee ballots in Florida were a little-noticed footnote to other issues.

In the last presidential election, 35.5 million voters requested absentee ballots, but only 27.9 million absentee votes were counted, according to a study by Charles Stewart III, a political scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He calculated that 3.9 million ballots requested by voters never reached them; that another 2.9 million ballots received by voters did not make it back to election officials; and that election officials rejected 800,000 ballots. That suggests an overall failure rate of as much as 21 percent.

Some voters presumably decided not to vote after receiving ballots, but Mr. Stewart said many others most likely tried to vote and were thwarted. “If 20 percent, or even 10 percent, of voters who stood in line on Election Day were turned away,” he wrote in the study, published in The Journal of Legislation and Public Policy, “there would be national outrage.”

The list of very close elections includes the 2008 Senate race in Minnesota, in which Mr. Franken’s victory over Mr. Coleman, the Republican incumbent, helped give Democrats the 60 votes in the Senate needed to pass President Obama’s health care bill. Mr. Franken won by 312 votes, while state officials rejected 12,000 absentee ballots. Recent primary elections in New York involving Republican state senators who had voted to allow same-sex marriage also hinged on absentee ballots.

There are, of course, significant advantages to voting by mail. It makes life easier for the harried, the disabled and the elderly. It is cheaper to administer, makes for shorter lines on election days and allows voters more time to think about ballots that list many races. By mailing ballots, those away from home can vote. Its availability may also increase turnout in local elections, though it does not seem to have had much impact on turnout in federal ones.

Still, voting in person is more reliable, particularly since election administrators made improvements to voting equipment after the 2000 presidential election.

There have been other and more controversial changes since then, also in the name of reliability and efficiency. Lawmakers have cut back on early voting in person, cracked down on voter registration drives, imposed identification requirements, made it harder for students to cast ballots and proposed purging voter rolls in a way that critics have said would eliminate people who are eligible to vote.

But almost nothing has been done about the distinctive challenges posed by absentee ballots. To the contrary, Ohio’s Republican secretary of state recently sent absentee ballot applications to every registered voter in the state. And Republican lawmakers in Florida recently revised state law to allow ballots to be mailed wherever voters want, rather than typically to only their registered addresses.

“This is the only area in Florida where we’ve made it easier to cast a ballot,” Daniel A. Smith, a political scientist at the University of Florida, said of absentee voting.

He posited a reason that Republican officials in particular have pushed to expand absentee voting. “The conventional wisdom is that Republicans use absentee ballots and Democrats vote early,” he said.

Republicans are in fact more likely than Democrats to vote absentee. In the 2008 general election in Florida, 47 percent of absentee voters were Republicans and 36 percent were Democrats.

There is a bipartisan consensus that voting by mail, whatever its impact, is more easily abused than other forms. In a 2005 report signed by President Jimmy Carter and James A. Baker III, who served as secretary of state under the first President George Bush, the Commission on Federal Election Reform concluded, “Absentee ballots remain the largest source of potential voter fraud.”

On the most basic level, absentee voting replaces the oversight that exists at polling places with something akin to an honor system.

“Absentee voting is to voting in person,” Judge Richard A. Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit has written, “as a take-home exam is to a proctored one.”

Election administrators have a shorthand name for a central weakness of voting by mail. They call it granny farming.

“The problem,” said Murray A. Greenberg, a former county attorney in Miami, “is really with the collection of absentee ballots at the senior citizen centers.” In Florida, people affiliated with political campaigns “help people vote absentee,” he said. “And help is in quotation marks.”

Voters in nursing homes can be subjected to subtle pressure, outright intimidation or fraud. The secrecy of their voting is easily compromised. And their ballots can be intercepted both coming and going.

The problem is not limited to the elderly, of course. Absentee ballots also make it much easier to buy and sell votes. In recent years, courts have invalidated mayoral elections in Illinois and Indiana because of fraudulent absentee ballots.

Voting by mail also played a crucial role in the 2000 presidential election in Florida, when the margin between George W. Bush and Al Gore was razor thin and hundreds of absentee ballots were counted in apparent violation of state law. The flawed ballots, from Americans living abroad, included some without postmarks, some postmarked after the election, some without witness signatures, some mailed from within the United States and some sent by people who voted twice. All would have been disqualified had the state’s election laws been strictly enforced.

In the recent primary here, almost 40 percent of ballots were not cast in the voting booth on the day of the election. They were split between early votes cast at polling places, which Mr. Sancho, the Leon County elections supervisor, favors, and absentee ballots, which make him nervous.

“There has been not one case of fraud in early voting,” Mr. Sancho said. “The only cases of election fraud have been in absentee ballots.”

Efforts to prevent fraud at polling places have an ironic consequence, Justin Levitt, a professor at Loyola Law School, told the Senate Judiciary Committee September last year. They will, he said, “drive more voters into the absentee system, where fraud and coercion have been documented to be real and legitimate concerns.”

“That is,” he said, “a law ostensibly designed to reduce the incidence of fraud is likely to increase the rate at which voters utilize a system known to succumb to fraud more frequently.”

In 2008, Minnesota officials rejected 12,000 absentee ballots, about 4 percent of all such votes, for the myriad reasons that make voting by mail far less reliable than voting in person.

The absentee ballot itself could be blamed for some of the problems. It had to be enclosed in envelopes containing various information and signatures, including one from a witness who had to attest to handling the logistics of seeing that “the voter marked the ballots in that individual’s presence without showing how they were marked.” Such witnesses must themselves be registered voters, with a few exceptions.

Absentee ballots have been rejected in Minnesota and elsewhere for countless reasons. Signatures from older people, sloppy writers or stroke victims may not match those on file. The envelopes and forms may not have been configured in the right sequence. People may have moved, and addresses may not match. Witnesses may not be registered to vote. The mail may be late.

But it is certainly possible to improve the process and reduce the error rate.

Here in Leon County, the rejection rate for absentee ballots is less than 1 percent. The instructions it provides to voters are clear, and the outer envelope is a model of graphic design, with a large signature box at its center.

The envelope requires only standard postage, and Mr. Sancho has made arrangements with the post office to pay for ballots that arrive without stamps.

Still, he would prefer that voters visit a polling place on Election Day or beforehand so that errors and misunderstandings can be corrected and the potential for fraud minimized.

“If you vote by mail, where is that coming from?” he asked. “Is there intimidation going on?”

Last November, Gov. Rick Scott, a Republican, suspended a school board member in Madison County, not far from here, after she was arrested on charges including absentee ballot fraud.

The board member, Abra Hill Johnson, won the school board race “by what appeared to be a disproportionate amount of absentee votes,” the arrest affidavit said. The vote was 675 to 647, but Ms. Johnson had 217 absentee votes to her opponent’s 86. Officials said that 80 absentee ballots had been requested at just nine addresses. Law enforcement agents interviewed 64 of the voters whose ballots were sent; only two recognized the address.

Election law experts say that pulling off in-person voter fraud on a scale large enough to swing an election, with scores if not hundreds of people committing a felony in public by pretending to be someone else, is hard to imagine, to say nothing of exceptionally risky.

There are much simpler and more effective alternatives to commit fraud on such a scale, said Heather Gerken, a law professor at Yale.

“You could steal some absentee ballots or stuff a ballot box or bribe an election administrator or fiddle with an electronic voting machine,” she said. That explains, she said, “why all the evidence of stolen elections involves absentee ballots and the like.”
159 2012-10-07 “He was typical Justin Verlander — power game, upper-90s heater,” Oakland catcher Derek Norris said. “He threw a lot more off-speed tonight than typical, but I think he knew, with our power lineup, he had to make some pitches. And he did.”

Verlander, the A.L.’s reigning most valuable player, came into the playoffs on top of his game, with a 5-1 record in September that made him the league’s pitcher of the month. He might win another Cy Young Award, too, after finishing 17-8 with a 2.64 earned run average.

Verlander typically builds velocity as the game goes on, saving his best fastballs for the later innings. But he ended the second on Saturday by striking out Cliff Pennington with a 95-mile-per-hour fastball and ended the third by whiffing Brandon Moss on a 99-m.p.h. pitch. He stayed there the rest of the night, striking out Norris in the seventh on a fastball at the top of the zone at 98 m.p.h. — nothing off-speed about that.

“He had a great fastball tonight, really explosive,” Tigers catcher Alex Avila said. “His command wasn’t as good as it usually is, but his stuff is so explosive.”

The plate umpire, Jim Reynolds, gave Verlander some room off the outside corner to left-handers, and he took advantage while the A’s complained. Verlander struck out at least one hitter in every inning, and he fanned five in a row in the sixth and seventh.

Pennington broke the streak with a two-out walk, bringing up Crisp as the tying run.

Verlander had reached 120 pitches but needed just one more, a changeup that Crisp rolled to first to end the inning. Oakland’s best chance against the bullpen, a deep drive by Moss with a runner on in the eighth, expired at the warning track.

Verlander’s counterpart, the rookie Jarrod Parker, allowed just three runs (two earned) in six and a third innings. He held down the dangerous Miguel Cabrera and Prince Fielder, but the other Tigers hitters produced just enough.

Austin Jackson led off the first with a double, hustling for second when the shortstop deflected his hard hit into shallow left. Quintin Berry followed with a single, and while Cabrera bounced into a double play, Jackson scored to tie it, 1-1.

After Omar Infante’s one-out double in the third, Berry chopped a ball between the mound and first, and Parker broke from the mound and lunged for it. It kicked off his glove and into foul territory, bringing Infante home on the error.

“I think he did the right thing,” Oakland Manager Bob Melvin said. “He just bobbled it, juggled it a little bit on the way to the base. If he fields it cleanly and keeps going, he gets the out. But he pitched well. That’s one run.”

Verlander, at that point, needed no more. The unearned run gave the Tigers a 2-1 lead, and Avila extended it with a home run on Parker’s first pitch in the fifth. Verlander was not spotless, retiring the side in order only once, but the Athletics’ inability to make consistent contact kept them from staging any rallies.

Parker left with two on and one out in the seventh for the sidearming right-hander Pat Neshek. It had been a wrenching week for Neshek, whose wife delivered a boy, Gehrig John, on Tuesday in Florida. The baby died 23 hours later, and doctors gave the Nesheks no explanation. But Neshek returned to the team Friday and retired the only two hitters he faced in Game 1. The Athletics wore a small black patch on their jersey sleeve, bearing the initials of Neshek’s son.

“When I get on the baseball field, I don’t think too much about anything else,” Neshek said. “Tonight I was thinking about it. It sounds so cliché, but I felt I had somebody looking down on me and helping me.”
160 2012-10-07 MOGADISHU, Somalia — The new Somalian president, Hassan Sheik Mohamud, on Saturday evening named as prime minister a political novice who is expected to lead the council of ministers for the next four years, officials said.

The nominee, Abdi Farah Shirdon Saaid, promised that his government would not tolerate corruption or nepotism.

It was the first major appointment for the fledgling government of Mr. Mohamud, who was elected by Parliament last month after more than two decades of civil warfare and political instability. If Mr. Saaid’s nomination is confirmed by Parliament, as expected, he plans to nominate a council of ministers soon, he said.

“I promise that I will do my duty in line with the Constitution and the national laws,” Mr. Saaid said in a statement.

Mr. Mohamud, whose election marked the end of an internationally backed transitional government, is trying to set up the first effective central government in Somalia since 1991, when clan militias toppled the dictatorship of Maj. Gen. Mohammed Siad Barre. Among Mr. Mohamud’s challenges is an Islamist insurgency by the Shabab, an group linked to Al Qaeda that tried to assassinate him two days after his election.

The government and African Union forces have driven the Shabab out of Mogadishu, but it has been waging relentless attacks against them elsewhere.

A spokesman for the Shabab denounced Mr. Saaid as a stooge of foreign powers. “The new prime minister is not different from those before him — they were all brought by Westerners,” Ali Mohamud Rage, the spokesman, told Reuters. “He will not change Somalia. We shall fight and keep on foiling the infidel government.”
161 2012-10-07 Clearly, though, fee-conscious investors have been putting pressure on fund companies, and many of those costs have been coming down.

The turning point came in 2002, during the bear market after the collapse of the Internet bubble. Until then, many new investors had piled into mutual funds without much experience of bear markets.

“What happened in the early 2000s is that sensitivity to fees increased,” said Brian Reid, the institute’s chief economist. “We particularly saw it among 401(k) plan sponsors and financial advisers, which has contributed to the significant downward trend in fees since then.”

Index funds tend to cost less than actively managed funds, which may require more — and more costly — labor. But there are also other reasons for the cost differences. Index funds tend to be far larger and thus better able to take advantage of economies of scale. Last year, the average equity index fund had assets of $1.6 billion under management, compared with $374 million for actively managed equity funds, according to the institute’s data.

Regardless of the differences, the costs of index funds and actively managed funds have fallen over time by roughly the same proportion. From 1997 to 2011, the average expense ratio of equity index funds fell 0.13 percentage points, or 13 basis points, while the average for actively managed equity funds dropped 11 basis points. At the same time, the average for bond index funds fell 8 basis points, compared with 16 basis points for actively managed bond funds.

Index funds are major beneficiaries of the increased focus on fees. Last year, $55 billion in net new cash flowed into index funds, bringing total net assets under management up to $1.1 trillion. In addition to traditional index funds, exchange-traded funds, which are typically also based on indexes and tend to have low costs, grew to $1 trillion total net assets.

That’s not to say that actively managed funds are going away. “It’s not that people want to abandon active management, but they’re looking for low-cost ways of doing that,” Mr. Reid said.

He said one trend he had seen was active management moving from the funds themselves to financial advisers. “Previously, financial advisers would invest a client’s portfolio in a group of actively managed funds with only an occasional adjustment,” he said. “Now we are seeing some advisers invest clients’ portfolio in a broad range of index funds, but the strategic investment decisions are now made by the financial adviser, who regularly adjusts allocations among the funds to actively manage these portfolios.”

Low-cost investing sounds attractive, but what exactly does “low cost” mean?

It’s a relative term. You might look at the fees of the cheapest 10 percent of funds across asset classes. According to the institute, they are 0.78 percent and below for equity funds, 0.5 percent and below for bond funds and 0.13 percent and below for money market funds.

But even within that frugal 10 percent, fees vary widely. Consider large-cap growth funds. The cheapest group of funds in that category may have fees lower than 0.1 percent or higher than 0.8 percent. The average large-cap growth fund charges 1.22 percent.

Virtually every asset class now has low-cost options. Categories like domestic large cap, intermediate bond and moderate allocation funds have a great number of low-cost alternatives.

Low-cost funds have also entered areas that have typically charged higher fees. For instance, the average emerging-market fund charges 1.61 percent, and the average alternative fund charges 2 percent. But investors can now find funds in these asset classes charging significantly less.

AND that’s exactly what many customers have been doing. For example, in 2011, the institute found that the simple average expense ratio of equity funds was 143 basis points, while the average expense ratio that equity fund shareholders actually paid was 79 basis points. In other words, the holdings of investors are more concentrated in low-cost funds.

While the companies that profit from fees don’t want clients to focus exclusively on them, taking advantage of low-cost options can be great for investors. Understanding the costs and the various options may be an essential part of saving for retirement, especially if we truly are entering an era of low returns.
162 2012-10-07 Put differently, people potentially deny themselves the benefits of greater diversification by buying a fund with such a narrow mandate, said Ashish Swarup, portfolio manager of the Fidelity Emerging Markets Discovery fund. And diversification matters more when investing in emerging markets, because their returns can whip up and down more than those of developed markets. “You want to buy the broadest portfolio of emerging markets that you can,” Mr. Swarup said. “That lowers your volatility.” His fund had investments in 17 countries at the end of August, with its largest stake in Taiwan.

The BRIC fund mash-up — volatile returns paired with a narrow niche — can also tempt nonprofessional investors into making self-defeating choices, said Fran M. Kinniry Jr., a principal in the Vanguard Investment Strategy Group. Behavioral research shows that investors tend to chase returns, buying high and selling low. That tendency is aggravated in riskier, racier corners of the market: people will see big returns one year and jump in, only to see an equally big loss the next year and bail out, he said.

Investors can also undercut themselves by confusing the economic advances of the BRIC countries with an investing rationale, said G. Rusty Johnson, a manager of the Harding Loevner Emerging Markets Advisor fund.

“G.D.P. doesn’t equate to stock market performance,” Mr. Johnson noted. Consider the trajectory of China, where the government still controls many publicly traded companies. “Their primary goal is not shareholder remuneration,” he said. “The companies have social agendas, and that keeps you from optimizing returns.”

Goldman Sachs, for its part, argues that both the economic and investing arguments in favor of the BRIC countries remain valid. “Each one of the BRICs has met or exceeded our expectations,” said Katie A. Koch, senior strategist at Goldman. “Some of them have been more successful than others, but the concept remains intact, and we continue to think these are four of the most important economies in the world.”

Mr. O’Neill devised his acronym in 2001, and his timing was as canny as his coinage was clever. The four countries boomed during the early part of the last decade — particularly China, which became the second-largest economy in the world. By 2011, all four were among the world’s top 10 economies, ranked by gross domestic product.

But lately, even Mr. O’Neill and Goldman have moved beyond his Big Four. His latest emerging-market terms are “MIST” and “N-11.” MIST stands for Mexico, Indonesia, South Korea and Turkey, and N-11 for the next 11 economies surging behind Brazil, Russia, India and China. (The MIST countries are a subset of the N-11.) Goldman judges the MIST countries as the most promising and developed of the N-11, all of which have young, swelling populations and other good conditions for economic growth, Ms. Koch said.

Thus, starting last year, Goldman began to offer an N-11 Equity fund to complement its BRIC fund. Ms. Koch said both funds could have roles in retail investors’ portfolios, either as someone’s full emerging-markets allocation or as an add-on, particularly for a person invested only in an emerging-markets index fund. That’s because the leading emerging-markets index, by MSCI, excludes Nigeria, Vietnam and Bangladesh — three countries that Goldman counts as promising.

“We’re saying that the default is suboptimal,” she said. “You have to ask which countries are really going to drive growth.”

BUT William S. Rocco, an analyst for Morningstar, advised caution when considering a BRIC fund or any narrowly targeted emerging-market offering. Investors who haven’t invested in emerging markets before should consider a broader offering, he said. “Generally, at Morningstar, we don’t like the idea of artificially limiting a manager’s choices,” he said.

And if they already own foreign or emerging-markets funds, they probably have exposure to the BRICs and several other emerging and frontier countries, he said. “Why would you want so much Brazil and China?” he asked. “You’re really doubling down.”
163 2012-10-07 His concerns are widely shared, and are heightened by the fact that the latest promises of monetary stimulus, including the third round of quantitative easing announced by the Federal Reserve in September, are impossible to quantify. The Fed indicated that it would buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month for as long as it took to get the economy to tick along on its own.

The bounce in share prices suggests that many investors would answer “yes” to Mr. Herrmann’s question. But some, like Joshua Silva, senior portfolio strategist at Attalus Capital, are also keeping a close eye on inflation indicators to alert them when it’s time to jump back out.

“Equities are going to have a great finish to the year,” Mr. Silva predicted. “I think people should be long equities and long risk.” But he added a cautionary note: “The world has gone and created a giant printing press. That’s going to come back to bite us in the next 6 to 24 months.”

JUST before the Fed announced its fresh round of quantitative easing, often described as QE3, the European Central Bank made an open-ended pledge to buy government bonds of any euro zone country that requested a rescue. But there was a catch: the bank committed to sterilizing the bond purchases, meaning that for every 100 euros of Italian or Spanish or whatever debt it bought, it would sell the same amount of bonds on its books from more creditworthy nations like Germany, Finland or the Netherlands.

As with QE3, the European Central Bank’s plan is good news for the markets today and potentially awful news down the road, said Dennis Stattman, co-manager of the BlackRock Global Allocation fund.

“There’s no compelling evidence that what the E.C.B. has done has fixed the fundamentals in Europe,” Mr. Stattman said. “Reducing financial costs temporarily doesn’t make the problem go away. It simply reduces the level of fear in the markets.” In his view, the region suffers from “widely dispersed competitiveness, fiscal policies and political situations under the umbrella of one currency.”

Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at the TCW Group, is not impressed, either.

“The fact that they have announced an unlimited amount of bond buying has caused Mediterranean countries’ yields to go down,” Mr. Sri-Kumar said. But if the central bankers follow through with sterilized purchases, he added, “they could run out of German paper. If yields refuse to come down sufficiently, then what is the E.C.B. going to sell?”

Investment advisers say other potential problems have also been pushed down Wall Street’s list of pressing concerns. They include the slowdown in the Chinese economy and the approaching “fiscal cliff,” in which scheduled spending cuts and tax rate increases in the United States — unless Congress takes action — could cut growth by up to four percentage points. But for now, so far, so good, for stock markets around the world and the funds that invest in them.

The average domestic general stock fund in Morningstar’s database rose 5.6 percent in the three months through September. Funds that specialize in European stocks were up 8.4 percent, and the gains for Asian and emerging-market funds were 5.1 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively.

After reaching a record low of 1.43 percent in July, the yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose steadily through the rest of the quarter, depressing prices on high-grade bonds. That left long-term government bond funds with the barest gain, 0.1 percent, for the quarter, but strength in high-yield and foreign bonds helped produce a 2.9 percent return for the average bond fund over all.

Apart from faith in central bankers’ ability to rescue the global economy, the healthy performance for stocks and stock funds could be attributable to continued strength in corporate fundamentals. Business may not be easy in this economy, but it is good by many yardsticks.

“We’ve got microscopic interest rates, reasonable valuations and generous dividend yields, corporations are financially healthy and profits are near an all-time high,” said John Buckingham, chief investment officer at Al Frank Asset Management.

“A lot of investors have been hiding out” in sectors like utilities and telecommunications that have reputations for paying big dividends, and that has created valuations close to multiyear highs, Mr. Buckingham said.

He prefers big technology stocks like Cisco Systems and Microsoft, each of which yields about 3 percent, and Intel, with a yield of about 4 percent, as well as resources companies including Newmont Mining and Diamond Offshore Drilling. He also finds companies as diverse as Norfolk Southern, Hasbro and Royal Caribbean to be extremely attractive, in part for the dividends they pay.

Funds that specialize in communication stocks were up 9.3 percent in the quarter, the Morningstar results show, while utility funds experienced a more modest rise of 3.7 percent. Other sectors with strong gains included natural resources, up 9.8 percent; energy, 8.5 percent, and financials, 7.2 percent.

Mr. Silva also considers it too late to chase the usual suspects to which investors turn for high yields.

“Equities with high dividends were a fantastic trade earlier in the year, but they’re becoming a scary trade,” he remarked. “Everyone’s going to run for the door at the same time.”

His favorite sectors in the market are technology and basic materials, and he would keep “nothing in Treasury bonds, absolutely not.”

Mr. Sri-Kumar absolutely would keep money in Treasury bonds. Once the relief over the central banks’ latest moves wears off, yields could fall to 1.25 percent, he predicted.

He also recommends speculating on a fresh decline in the euro, something that investors can do through exchange-traded funds. And he has a much higher opinion than Mr. Silva does of stocks with high dividend yields.

“If there’s a crisis, they’re going to become even more favored by investors,” Mr. Sri-Kumar said.

Mr. Stattman sees few compelling buys in the markets.

“Fixed income is just not attractively priced,” he said. “Long-term investors should be somewhere between underweight and very underweight. I’m confident that stocks are attractively priced relative to fixed income, but I’m less confident that they’re attractively priced in absolute terms. It’s probably a good idea to assume that profit margins will contract at some point.”

He finds the best opportunities, or perhaps the least bad ones, in shorter-term, high-quality debt, and in stocks in Japan and emerging markets.

THERE is widespread concern that another crisis may be brewing, with the main question being whether investors should flinch now or later. But Mr. Buckingham argues that a crisis could be what the stock market needs to continue to rally.

“People are sitting on their hands, waiting for whatever shoes are going to drop to drop,” he said, highlighting surveys that show a broad disdain for stocks among small investors. “What we need is some certainty,” he added, “even if it’s bad.”
164 2012-10-07 And yet, for all these reasonable excuses as to why the Mets have not played better since he took over, even Collins has recognized that he must answer for a two-year body of work. In particular, for the second straight summer, he presided over a cringe-inducing collapse, one that involved a particularly embarrassing run of offensive futility at Citi Field. During an interview last month, Collins said he found the team’s won-lost record unacceptable and held himself accountable for it, too.

“I don’t play, but I write the lineup, and I’m supposed to make sure everyone’s ready,” Collins said. “When guys have a bad game or someone’s at the wrong place for a cutoff or something else goes wrong that you’ve worked on a hundred times, that is where I think, ‘I can’t let that happen again,’ and that’s why sometimes I take it personally.”

Emotional investment has become Collins’s defining trait, and its outward expression has hurt him at times, most noticeably when he has insinuated that his players have stopped trying. During a news conference late in the 2011 season, Collins said it appeared his team had “folded it up.” This season, he lashed out at them in a similar manner for appearing to have “packed it in.” And most recently, when Collins was asked after a 16-1 loss at home to the Philadelphia Phillies whether his players had quit, he said, “You have to ask them.”

Members of the team said the most recent comment was not received particularly well inside the clubhouse, as players were left to answer for Collins’s implication. But the manager quickly made amends, speaking with individual players the next morning, emphasizing that he should have handled things differently.

“As far as his reaction, we’re all human beings,” Dickey said. “It’s frustrating for everyone, and he deserves some grace. He’s been great, considering how we descended from where we were.”

Other players compared Collins’s sporadic shows of exasperation to those that arise in a tight-knit family living in close quarters. In those circumstances, friction can seem inevitable, and emotions can be difficult to check.

As Dickey added, “He said he was sorry, and that was more than enough for me.”

Collins came to New York with a reputation for hot-bloodedness. But if passion has remained his defining trait, an increased effort at communication may be his saving grace. Collins has earned good will from the city’s fans and news media for being honest, accommodating and engaging; the same characteristics have drawn praise inside the clubhouse and front office.

“He has an open-door policy,” Wright said. “He’s already got his finger well on the pulse, but if I ever need anything, I feel very comfortable talking to him about it.”

Throughout sports, managers and head coaches who are disciplinarians are met with the same enthusiasm as those who are more relaxed types — as long as the wins are there. In the case of the current Mets, there may come a time soon enough when the loose and often playful vibe of the clubhouse becomes linked to the team’s chronic inconsistency and sloppiness. There may come a time, too, when commentators, and fans, begin to ask if Collins is really the one to get the most out of the team’s roster, however limited it may be.

But that has not happened yet. Last September, the Mets picked up their option on Collins’s contract for the 2013 season. Last week, the Mets announced that the entire coaching staff would return next year. Alderson said the second-half slump this season had “more to do with the players than it does with the manager or the coaching staff.” But whether Collins will be extended beyond next year, Alderson would not say. “We haven’t had those discussions and we may not for a while,” he said.

For now, pointing the Mets in the right direction, or at least trying to, has been enough. “I think we changed the dynamics of the team a little bit,” Collins said. “We’ve tried to create an atmosphere that’s positive, where the guys enjoy coming to the ballpark and play hard.”

But coaches, players and officials on the Mets know that baseball is a results-oriented business. They have all said as much, And it is clear some kind of reckoning is slowly approaching.

“I’d like to be here a while, and I’m sure he’d like to be here a while,” Wright said. “And the only way we could probably accomplish that is if we start winning some baseball games.”
165 2012-10-07 The writer is a 2011 graduate of Yale Law School. He was a law clerk to Judge Patrick Higginbotham, who wrote the affirmative action decision being reviewed by the Supreme Court, but his clerkship began after the opinion was issued.

The assumptions underlying Mr. Chandler’s arguments are troubling to advocates for social equality and social justice. While a state-by-state approach to social reform has sometimes proven to be an effective strategy, what Mr. Chandler refers to as “respect for state sovereignty and local governance” has more often produced glaring inequities in our nation — not only in the distribution of political and social rights to racial, ethnic, religious and sexual minorities and women, but also in the distribution of social benefits, such as public assistance, education and health care.

If we are truly to become a democratic society, with liberty and justice for all, we cannot have 50 different definitions of what either democracy or justice means. The proper forum for the deliberation of controversial measures such as affirmative action, therefore, must be at the national level. While states may be better situated to determine how policies should be implemented, solutions to problems that are national in scope cannot be resolved on a state-by-state basis.

The writer is a professor of social justice at the University of Maryland School of Social Work.

The Supreme Court should, in Fisher v. the University of Texas, reaffirm the constitutionality of the university’s use of race and ethnicity as just one of many “plus factors” in admissions. As the leaders of colleges and universities, we know firsthand that the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body are crucial for our graduates.

Life-changing moments happen when students interact with classmates who do not have the same experiences or perspectives. Education in a vibrant and diverse environment will better prepare our graduates for our increasingly globalized economy. Businesses grow stronger by building diverse work forces, and our colleges and universities need the same freedom to nurture the kind of innovative thinkers who will be our future leaders.

In an amicus brief we filed earlier this year in support of the University of Texas, we concluded: “This court should affirm the Court of Appeals, reaffirm Grutter, and protect colleges’ and universities’ freedom to pursue their respective missions.” I would only add that it would be detrimental to our economy and our society at large if the court does not.

First, we should dispense with the euphemistic term “affirmative action” and replace it with an accurate description, such as “race preference.”

Second, the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment was enacted to prevent states from exercising their sovereignty in a racially discriminatory manner. I rather doubt that any left-wing advocates of deferring to the states on this subject hold the same view vis-à-vis the Voting Rights Act.

The Constitution removes certain subjects from the scope of legitimate public policy, officially sanctioned race discrimination being among them. Governmental favoritism to members of any race is simply beyond the pale.

“Affirmative action” represents a governmental thumb on the scale of justice, preferring members of one race over members of another. Every such decision creates a living victim of racial discrimination, denied a benefit based solely upon skin color. Such is simply intolerable. To quote Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., “The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to stop discriminating on the basis of race.”

The Constitution demands nothing less.

The writer is a Republican assemblyman representing the 25th Legislative District in New Jersey.

My Harvard Law School graduating class of 1965 had 500 students, but only one black student. During law school I worked part time in the admissions office and was privy to several experiments in affirmative action. At the time, I considered those efforts to be unfair to those who were not admitted because of affirmative action.

But in 1966 I was named director of admissions at Harvard Law School and enthusiastically pursued affirmative action. By 1970, minority students constituted about 10 percent of our entering classes. They graduated and contributed in many ways to the improvement of our legal system.

What changed my mind about the fairness issue? First of all, many minority students couldn’t get into any accredited law school. Because Harvard admitted a reasonable number, many other law schools decided to, and the number of minority students in American law schools increased dramatically.

For me, the best argument for affirmative action was the footrace analogy. If one group of runners is forced to carry 20-pound weights that the other runners don’t have to carry, telling them they can take off their weights in the middle of the race does not make the race fair.

Everyone has different ideas about atoning for past discriminatory practices. The Supreme Court ought to let the issue of affirmative action play out over time in a natural way that takes into account all the feelings people have. We all hope that, at some point in the future, affirmative action will become unnecessary.

We should not lose sight of the historical dimension of the diversity policy that is now before the Supreme Court in Fisher v. University of Texas. In 1950, the Supreme Court directed the University of Texas School of Law to admit Heman Sweatt, an African-American who had been excluded from the campus by state law. After long resisting racial inclusion, the University of Texas has now adopted an admissions policy that opens up its campus to African-Americans and Latinos and, in so doing, expands educational opportunity.

Diversity matters because it enriches the educational environment on university campuses and helps to prepare our country’s institutional leaders; it creates a unique space for cross-racial interaction in a society that is still very much divided by race. These interactions help us to transcend our racial differences and to defeat stereotypes.

Although the pressing need for diversity is shaped by our past, it is the surest path for the nation’s future.

ELISE C. BODDIE

 Director of Litigation

 NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund

 New York, Oct. 4, 2012

Mr. Chandler seems to assume that only conservatives are hoping for an end to affirmative action programs. It seems to me, however, that anyone wanting real racial equality should stand against these policies as well. Affirmative action is at best a superficial, Band-Aid solution; we need to realize that centuries of racial discrimination cannot be undone by letting a few extra black students into college.

The only serious cure for our nation’s festering racial inequalities is a broad assault on poverty, an end to predatory military recruitment practices, a revitalization of our inner-city schools, a cease-fire in the drug war — you get the picture.

But these solutions are, of course, politically inconvenient. They require serious investment and considerable change. So, instead, we turn to affirmative action programs and other quick, ineffective fixes. It becomes easy to forget that they benefit only a small minority: the uneasy consciences of a few white folks.

At a time when students of color remain tragically underrepresented in our colleges and universities and when the disparity of wealth among Americans has reached unconscionable levels, educators must be afforded every opportunity to create learning environments that reflect the extraordinary and invaluable diversity of our great nation. No society can effectively address endemic, institutionalized and often unconscious racism without the use of race-conscious remedies. I hope that the court will not enter a “sweeping ruling” that undoes whatever progress has been made.

Mr. Chandler’s reference to the abortion and same-sex marriage battles, as part of his plea for patience and deference to the majority’s will, seems misplaced. In matters involving those fundamental rights, the courts should be acting “ahead of the curve,” that is, putting constitutional principles ahead of the prevailing, popular sentiments at a particular time in history.

Abigail Fisher’s claim to victimhood on the basis of her whiteness is hardly a civil rights issue that merits the court’s intervention.

The writer is emeritus professor of law and past president of the Society of American Law Teachers.

I’m a 19-year-old sophomore studying chemistry at the University of Texas. The Supreme Court is about to decide whether the admissions policy here is constitutional.

I grew up in Tyler, Tex. The University of Texas guarantees admission to students in the top 10 percent of their high school class. As the sixth-best student in a class of 45, I just missed out. So my application was reviewed through the individualized process that the university uses to fill the remaining spots.

Admissions officials consider your total accomplishments — and what you overcame to achieve them. They consider leadership, extracurricular activities, community service, race, socioeconomic status and language barriers. In my case I was a member of the debate team and student government, played five sports, won medals in statewide track competitions and received academic honors. I’m also African-American.

Some people think it would be O.K. for the university to consider everything else about a person except her race. I don’t understand that. We’re each the sum total of everything that has shaped us. Our diversity makes us strong.

No one hopes that affirmative action will last forever. Opponents wish it had never started and want it to end swiftly. Supporters also want it to end, but only eventually, through the natural obsolescence that Mr. Simpson describes.

This agreement on ends led me to raise a question about means: Who should take the lead in deciding when affirmative action’s time is up? As the Supreme Court readies for action, that question comes with high stakes.

Mr. Carroll would welcome a constitutional ruling from the court that eliminates affirmative action programs nationwide. Mr. Simpson, however, hopes the Supreme Court will remain on the sidelines and allow the issue to keep developing. I focused on such development through a state-level lens, but Ms. Broad zooms in further, arguing that decisions about affirmative action should be left to individual universities.

Whatever we think, the Supreme Court gets to decide for itself whether to be a bit player or a lead actor in the affirmative-action drama.

Even if a majority of the justices conclude that the University of Texas’s affirmative action program is unconstitutional, as many court watchers expect, there are still decisions to be made. The majority could limit its rationale to Texas’s unique circumstances, or it could write broadly enough to encompass virtually all American colleges, public and private.

The justices control the gas pedal. We must hope that they only gun it when they know what’s ahead.
166 2012-10-07 OBAMA I had an off night.

BARTLET What makes you say that? The fact that the Cheesecake Factory is preparing an ad campaign boasting that it served Romney his pre-debate meal? Law school graduates all over America are preparing to take the bar exam by going to the freakin’ Cheesecake Factory!

OBAMA (following Bartlet inside) I can understand why you’re upset, Jed.

BARTLET Did your staff let you know the debate was gonna be on television?

OBAMA (looking in the other room) Is that ?

BARTLET That’s Will McAvoy, he just looks like Jeff Daniels.

OBAMA Why’s he got in a hammerlock?

BARTLET That’s called an Apache Persuasion Hold. McAvoy thinks it’s the responsibility of the moderator to expose — what are they called? — lies.

WILL (shouting) Did Obama remove the work requirement from Welfare-to-Work?!

WILL And you didn’t want to ask Romney about that because? It would’ve been impolite?!

BARTLET Let’s go in another room, Mr. President. You want a cigarette?

BARTLET Start again. (Leading the way into his study) I’m a father of daughters, you’re a father of daughters. It looked to me like right before you went on stage, Sasha told you she likes a boy in her class who has a tattoo.

BARTLET Here’s what you do. You invite the boy over for dinner, you have a couple of fellas from your detail brush their suit coats back just enough so the lad can see the .44 Magnums — problem solved. You have what every father of a daughter dreams of — an army and a good dog.

OBAMA The girls are fine, that wasn’t the problem. In the debate prep we —

OBAMA (shouting) Enough! (taking a cigarette and lighting it) I appreciate that the view’s pretty good from the cheap seats. Gore chalked up my debate performance to the altitude. He debated at sea level — what was his excuse?

BARTLET They told you to make sure you didn’t seem condescending, right? They told you, “First, do no harm,” and in your case that means don’t appear condescending, and you bought it. ’Cause for the American right, condescension is the worst crime you can commit.

BARTLET Appear condescending. Now it comes naturally to me —

BARTLET It’s a gift, but I’m likable and you’re likable enough. Thirty straight months of job growth — blown off. G.M. showing record profits — unmentioned. “Governor, would you still let go bankrupt as you urged us to do four years ago?” — unasked. (shouting) I’m talkin’ to you, too, Lehrer!

WILL (in the other room) I got him, sir!

BARTLET All right! (back to OBAMA) And that was quite a display of hard-nosed, fiscal conservatism when he slashed one one-hundredth of 1 percent from the by canceling “Sesame Street” and “Downton Abbey.” I think we’re halfway home. Mr. President, your prep for the next debate need not consist of anything more than learning to pronounce three words: “Governor, you’re lying.” Let’s replay some of Wednesday night’s more jaw-dropping visits to the Land Where Facts Go to Die. “I don’t have a $5 trillion cut. I don’t have a tax cut of a scale you’re talking about.”

OBAMA The Tax Policy Center analysis of your proposal for a 20 percent across-the-board tax cut in all federal income tax rates, eliminating the , the and other reductions, says it would be a $5 trillion tax cut.

BARTLET “I saw a study that came out today that said you’re going to raise taxes by $3,000 to $4,000 on middle-income families.”

OBAMA The found my budget actually would reduce the share of taxes that each taxpayer pays to service the debt by $1,289.89 for taxpayers earning in the $100,000 to $200,000 range.

BARTLET Which is another way of saying ...

BARTLET “I want to take that $716 billion you’ve cut and put it back into .”

OBAMA The $716 billion I’ve cut is from the providers, not the beneficiaries. I think that’s a better idea than cutting the exact same $716 billion and replacing it with a gift certificate, which is what’s contained in the plan that’s named for your running mate.

BARTLET “Pre-existing conditions are covered under my plan.”

OBAMA Not unless you’ve come up with a new plan since this afternoon.

OBAMA When I took office in 2009, the deficit was 1.4 trillion. According to the C.B.O., the deficit for 2012 will be 1.1 trillion. Either you have the mathematics aptitude of a Shetland pony or, much more likely, you’re lying.

BARTLET “All of the increase in natural gas has happened on private land, not on government land. On government land, your administration has cut the number of permits and licenses in half.”

OBAMA Maybe your difficulty is with the words “half” and “double.” Oil production on federal land is higher, not lower. And the and gas industry are currently sitting on 7,000 approved permits to drill on government land that they’ve not yet begun developing.

BARTLET “I think about half the green firms you’ve invested in have gone out of business.”

OBAMA Yeah, your problem’s definitely with the word “half.” As of this moment there have been 26 recipients of guarantees — 23 of which are very much in business. What was Bain’s bankruptcy record again?

OBAMA Governor, if your ideas are the right ideas for our country, if you have a plan and it’s the best plan for our future, if your vision is the best vision for all of us and not 53 percent of us, why aren’t you able to make that case in the same ZIP code as the truth?

OBAMA Tell anytime he wants to teach me how to be more American he knows my address for the next four years. He used to have an office there before he was fired.

BARTLET You picked a bad night to have a bad night, that’s all. You’ve got two more chances to change the scoreboard, and Joe unplugged should be pretty good television too. Make Romney your cabana boy in New York.

BARTLET (taking the cigarette out of OBAMA’s hand and stubbing it out) These things’ll kill you. Pull McAvoy off Lehrer on your way out.
167 2012-10-07 The success of right-wing forces two years ago in ousting three Iowa Supreme Court justices for participating in a unanimous ruling that allowed same-sex marriage has inspired similar efforts there and elsewhere in the country this fall.

In Iowa, the Republican Party is working hard to defeat another capable justice, David Wiggins, who participated in the same ruling and is facing a yes-or-no retention vote on November’s ballot. Last week, the socially conservative National Organization for Marriage, which played a large role in the outcome in 2010, began running television ads against the judge.

Unfortunately, Iowa is not alone. Another attempted hijacking of what are supposed to be nonpolitical retention elections — essentially referendums focused on a judge’s competence and honesty — is gathering steam in Florida. The state has not removed a sitting Supreme Court justice in 40 years, but this year three worthy justices standing for retention — Barbara Pariente, Peggy Quince and R. Fred Lewis — may not survive an onslaught from the political right.

The three judges, the only Democratic appointees on Florida’s seven-member top court, are being targeted for various rulings that have angered conservatives, among them a 2010 decision that quite rightly struck from the ballot a misleadingly worded constitutional amendment designed to allow the state to opt out of federal health care reform.

The barrage began in June when the state’s Republican governor, Rick Scott — who would name the judges’ replacements if they lost — ordered up a phony and politically motivated investigation into the judges’ innocuous use of court personnel to notarize required financial disclosure filings. Meanwhile, an advocacy group financed by the Koch brothers, Americans for Prosperity, has begun running television advertisements in several Florida cities criticizing the court’s ruling on the constitutional amendment. The group says it is planning new ads focusing on other cases, all with the goal of framing three judicial moderates as out-of-control “judicial activists.”

Piling on, the Florida Republican Party’s executive committee officially announced its opposition to the judges two weeks ago.
168 2012-10-07 SEOUL, South Korea — A North Korean Army sergeant defected to South Korea on Saturday after killing his platoon and squadron leaders, a South Korean military spokesman said.

South Korean border guards, after hearing gunfire to the north, saw a North Korean soldier crossing the heavily armed land frontier, said a spokesman for the South Korean military’s Office of Joint Chiefs of Staff, speaking on the condition of anonymity because an official announcement had not been made.

The soldier threw down his rifle, after which the guards used a loudspeaker to confirm his intention to defect, according to South Korean military officials. The soldier, identified only as a sergeant, crossed the border shortly after noon. He later told investigators that he had defected after killing two officers, according to the South Korean military, which withheld more details pending further investigation.

Thousands of North Koreans defect to South Korea every year, leaving behind hunger and oppression in their homeland, but almost all of them travel through China. It is unusual for a North Korean soldier to defect through the tightly sealed land border, which is defended on both sides with minefields, barbed-wire fences and armed soldiers.

The last such defection was in March 2010.
169 2012-10-07 THE 1963 Buick Riviera made its debut on Oct. 4, 1962, with a price of $4,333. Adjusting for inflation, that would be about $33,000 in 2012 dollars, near the high end of what a collector might pay for one today.

Most Rivieras, which Buick built in eight generations through 1999, sell for much less, according to data from the Black Book CPI Value Guide, which monitors prices in the collector market.

Eric Lawrence, editor of the Value Guide, called the first Riviera a “bridge car,” blending luxury touches from upscale American coupes of the late 1950s with performance characteristics of 1960s muscle cars. Buick made 112,000 of the first-generation 1963-65 Riviera before changing the design for 1966.

Donnie Gould, president of RM Auctions America, said the first-generation cars were “unique, with an almost ‘semicustom’ design from the factory.”

Auction prices quoted by Mr. Gould fall in line with value estimates from the Value Guide. “A properly restored 1963-65 Riviera can bring $30,000 to $40,000,” Mr. Gould said. “At the same time, the average enthusiast can still afford a good driver for $10,000 to $15,000 and have the same car, the same design, as the more expensive collector versions.”

Prized among enthusiasts are cars equipped with the performance-oriented Gran Sport option package, introduced for 1965 and offered with varying specifications through the 1975 model year. Gran Sports command a premium.
170 2012-10-07 What do you think pop music has gotten from Glass? 

BECK: So much. Especially when I was working on my own remix for this. Hearing little bits of bands of the past 40 years. I think there are these patterns in the music, and I think that that really has become part of the consciousness of different musicians, whether they’re aware of it or not.

GLASS: I felt completely comfortable working with people in pop music. I didn’t think of it as a higher or lower art form. Young groups like Eighth Blackbird now, they can take art music and turn it into colloquial music and go back and forth between the two. We fought to break down those barriers, and those barriers are gone, there’s no battle. When I hear young composers, it’s not even clear to me whether they were conservatory-trained or they were trained in bars or restaurants or pop-music venues of the big cities. It’s irrelevant.

Both of you have had fascinating careers, and I want to ask you about the question of change versus consistency, making an album that is recognizably yours while also making big changes from one album to the next. How do you negotiate that? 

BECK: That’s the hardest thing for me. ’Cause you go somewhere where your instinct takes you, and then the work begins when I have to get out of the woods and back to somewhere where people remotely recognize you.

GLASS: When I talk to young composers, I tell them, I know that you’re all worried about finding your voice. Actually you’re going to find your voice. By the time you’re 30, you’ll find it. But that’s not the problem. The problem is getting rid of it. You have to find an engine for change. And that’s what collaborative work does. Whatever we do together will make us different.

BECK: I love that story you told me, it was the first time we met, we were talking about the remix project. And someone had done a cello piece of yours, and then when you went to go see it, you didn’t recognize it.

GLASS: It was Arthur Russell. And he was a very good cellist. I was doing a theater piece for the Mabou Mines, it was some Beckett piece, and I wrote him a cello piece, and he liked the work and was playing it. And I came back about three months later, and I heard it and I said, “Arthur, that’s beautiful, but what happened to the piece?” And he said, “No, no, that is what you wrote,” and I said, “Arthur, it’s no longer what I wrote, it’s your piece now.” And he thought I was being upset, he apologized and I said, “No, no, no, I think we should put you down as the composer.” He had reached the point of transformation. The incremental changes had turned it into this other thing. I love the fact that he did that. And I love the fact that he didn’t know that he did it.

What do you both think about timelessness and your work, and how things in your work feel dated or not dated? 

GLASS: It all sounds dated. Because I can’t write that music again. I can’t write “Einstein on the Beach” again. I played from it in a concert the other day, and it’s like I never wrote it. My brain’s been rewired. I don’t think I’ve ever said this publicly, but I think that the music we write, it accurately reflects the way our brains work, and our brains are constantly evolving. Our brains are very plastic; they continue to grow.

How do you see the work that you did versus the work that you do?

GLASS: I don’t mean to give you a Zen koan, but the work I did is the work I know, and the work I do is the work I don’t know. That’s why I can’t tell you, I don’t know what I’m doing. And it’s the not knowing that makes it interesting.
171 2012-10-07 BORROWERS who allow their homeowners’ insurance to lapse will often get stuck with a bill for much more expensive coverage, courtesy of their lenders.

Called force-placed or lender-placed insurance, these policies protect banks’ interests when borrowers fail to follow through on the standard loan requirement that they maintain continuous coverage on their home.

The use of these policies soared during the recession, as homeowners who fell behind on their mortgages effectively stopped paying their insurance as well, since premiums are typically included in the monthly payment. From 2006 to 2011, direct earned premiums for lender-placed insurance more than tripled, to $3.1 billion from $954 million, according to the Insurance Information Institute. “It’s a privately run, high-risk market of last resort,” said Robert P. Hartwig, the institute’s president.

But state and federal regulators have begun to question whether mortgage servicers have been too quick to slap these high-priced policies into place, possibly because of financial incentives. At hearings held this spring by the New York State Department of Financial Services, a representative for American Home Mortgage Servicing acknowledged that a company affiliate receives 15 percent commissions from QBE First, a major provider of lender-placed insurance, for policies placed on its loans.

Because the premiums for lender-placed policies are 2 to 10 times as expensive as standard homeowner policies, these policies impose a considerable burden on already distressed homeowners, said Alexis Iwanisziw, a research and policy analyst for New York’s Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project. In some cases, the cost more or less ensures foreclosure for a household on the brink; it can also hurt a borrower’s chances for a loan modification.
172 2012-10-07 Together they rendered Grant’s visit as a nightmarish loss of self-control and civilization, marked by drunkenness, withering heat and sexual misadventure. Yet his newfound mates differ from, say, the backwoods weirdos of “Deliverance” in that these louts enable their guest’s freak-out with what Grant calls “aggressive hospitality” rather than outright hostility. But like that film “Wake in Fright” crams in local habits and details, with exteriors shot in a New South Wales mining town.

“It was so embarrassingly accurate,” Jack Thompson, the blokish actor who played one of Grant’s unsought-after companions, said by phone from Australia. “This kind of rough-as-guts energy was real.”

The Toronto-born Mr. Kotcheff, who began his career in television documentary and drama in England, proved an eager observer of his new surroundings, a quality that proved useful when it came to portraying another testosterone-fueled milieu: the bruising world of pro football in “North Dallas Forty.”

The actor Nick Nolte, who had brought the project to Paramount, chose Mr. Kotcheff among the directors presented by the studio.

“There were other directors that maybe might have known more about American football, but they didn’t have Ted’s sense of comedy or sense of drama,” Mr. Nolte said. “He could run both.” He recalled Mr. Kotcheff’s closely observing the pro football players appearing in the film and even wanting to lift material from an on-set confrontation between the producer Frank Yablans and Pete Gent, the football veteran who wrote the original novel.

That kind of eye for detail, and tonal balance, keeps “Wake in Fright” from the sense that it is exploiting the setting and its inhabitants (or going for the gleeful shock displayed in what have been called “Ozploitation” genre films in the 1970s). Striving to capture life in the outback, Mr. Kotcheff prepared for some scenes by releasing extra houseflies and spraying red dust. The unsettling “roo hunting” sequence mixes in footage from Mr. Kotcheff’s ride-alongs on actual bloody outings. And for the town’s friendly but slightly sinister sheriff, Mr. Kotcheff cast, in what would be his final performance, Chips Rafferty, a familiar figure to Australians from westernlike frontier films.

The production also benefited from Australian craftsmen who hadn’t always worked on films.

“Most of the people came from television commercial making, which was 35-millimeter and under very high production standards,” Tony Buckley, the editor of “Wake in Fright,” said. Mr. Weir, a future Academy Award winner, worked two weeks on the film, on location and in the editing room, where Mr. Buckley recalls working in black-and-white because of lack of money for a color cutting copy.

The visceral, lived-in feel helped earn “Wake in Fright” a nomination for the Palme d’Or at Cannes, but despite critical appreciation for its broad portrayals, the film did not attract large audiences in its limited theatrical runs at home and, or, under the title “Outback,” in the United States. By the time that Mr. Buckley went looking for a print in the mid-’90s, after the film came up during lunch with one of the original producers, he couldn’t find it.

The entire original negative surfaced years later in a Pittsburgh storage warehouse, where the materials were marked for imminent destruction. A digital restoration was undertaken at AtLab Deluxe in Sydney, with support from the National Film and Sound Archive of Australia. Four decades after the movie’s New York premiere the Film Forum run kicks off a full release by Drafthouse Films, which recently secured North American rights.

The book’s title refers to an old English curse: to dream of the devil and wake in a fright. Mr. Kotcheff, who opens the film with a 360-degree pan that takes in the full measure of barren, sun-baked earth, invoked an appropriately visionary author.

“I always remember William Blake: Art does not consist of abstract generalizations but of minute particulars,” Mr. Kotcheff said. “I love getting all the details right.”
173 2012-10-07 STEPHEN TOTILO This has been a year of underachievement for many of gaming’s top achievers. How very 2012 it was for a game like Draw Something to capture the world’s attention in February; attract about 14 million players a day in April; seduce the FarmVille company Zynga to buy the game’s maker, Omgpop, for $180 million; and by the end of the month have its daily player base fall to 10 million daily. How very 2012 it was for the vaunted hit-maker Blizzard to release a game, Diablo III, that was 11 years in the making and then have to repeatedly apologize for its shortcomings. The Kinect might be selling Xboxes, but it isn’t helping sell that many games, because there are hardly any Kinect games that anyone talks about and very few that sell. It’s just a watered-down repeat of the Wii phenomenon.

This has been the year of sinking game company stocks, stagnating console sales, creative miscues from some of the medium’s best creators and a lack of many blockbuster games — from big companies. Note those last three words. It has been a very bad year for corporate video games. You know, gaming’s elite.

CHRIS SUELLENTROP Yes, it’s been a bad year for games that require the purchase of a physical disc with cover art and liner notes — I mean, an instruction booklet — an oddly retro aspect of the medium. And to take the baton you’re offering, yes, 2012 has been a remarkable year for downloadable titles, many of them created by independent developers working outside the traditional studio system. I wouldn’t call three of the year’s best games — the downloadable Journey, Fez and Papo & Yo — representative of gaming’s peasant class. Still, I don’t envision the next title from thatgamecompany, the developer behind the artful, downloadable PlayStation games Flower and Journey, making up for the industry’s 30 percent revenue decline.

Besides, do you really think that the quality of individual titles is the cause of this collapse? The nation is facing nothing less than a fiction crisis. Four of the five best-selling books last year on Amazon were works of nonfiction, and the fiction title, “Mill River Recluse,” was a Kindle download. The theatrical box office recently saw its worst weekend in 10 years. Narrative television — the quality of shows like “Breaking Bad” and “Mad Men” notwithstanding — is in decline. The most-watched shows are sports and reality spectacles. Anyone who has engaged in the make-believe required for most video games to work their magic knows that games are fiction too. Why would games be immune?

TOTILO Because video games aren’t all narrative fiction. Apologies to fans of the interactive storytelling pioneers of BioWare, the studio behind Mass Effect, and to those still searching for Bowser’s motivation for repeatedly kidnapping Princess Peach, but few people play video games for the story. Or for the acting. Or for many of the other cinematic aspects that can’t mask a bad game.

On the subway I ride daily the only video-game-related decline is the tilting down of heads so people can see the narrative-free games on their cellphones. These people could, of course, be reading books or watching movies. Many of them are not. They have an appetite for the interactivity of a game. They want to poke at a system and have it, or an opposing gamer, respond. They want to play.

SUELLENTROP More important, the nation is facing a more tangible crisis, one that has been particularly punishing to young men. Ours is an absurdly expensive pastime. You need an HD TV, a console (often with some peripherals) and an Internet connection before you spend a single dollar on software or subscription fees for services from Xbox and PlayStation. Forget the jokes about twentysomething slackers playing Call of Duty in their parents’ basements. The real elites are the people who can afford a dozen new games every year.

TOTILO Yes, gaming is an expensive hobby. It’s more opera than it is, say, radio. But you have your finger on the scales if you’re counting the cost of an HD TV as a tax on enjoying video games. We might as well count the electric bill and the years of schooling that enabled us to read said bill.

SUELLENTROP Well, you can see a movie in a theater for $12 (though, yes, the cost for a family of five approaches that of a video game) without any upfront costs. You can enjoy a new book for less than $30 without any additional equipment.

TOTILO Gaming is actually becoming a less costly hobby. This was the year that the monthly $15 subscription for major online games became nearly obsolete. In its place we’re seeing more so-called free-to-play games. These cost nothing to start playing, but you can pay a buck or two here or there for perks or to advance more quickly.

This is the model that allows Zynga to retain several million daily players for its games, far more than most modern $60 games attract, even while it is supposedly slumping. This is the model behind games that rocket up the iTunes charts. This is the model that turned Star Wars: The Old Republic, a mightily expensive endeavor published by the industry giant Electronic Arts, from a subscription game to a free-to-play game in just 10 or so months.

Still, when every experience in a game is something a creator can nickel and dime you for, you’re in for something very different. We’re not talking about the equivalent of paying for the next chapter of a book; it’s more like paying a few bucks extra for the adjectives, unless you want to wait a long time for them to “unlock.” Surely no self-respecting reader would stand for this. Why should gamers?

SUELLENTROP New business models will certainly affect how games are made. But are the failings of the industry’s current one relevant to the medium’s artistic merits? Nearly everyone who talks about video games — reporters, critics, creators, players — places too much emphasis on money as the foremost measurement of success. As the independent game designer Chris Hecker put it in a lecture three years ago, “You get the impression that the game industry wouldn’t care if some prince in Dubai bought a single copy of a game that costs $24 billion — Call of Madden Duty Halo — as long as we’re the ones he’s buying it from.”

Cultural impact is about more than sales. The industry has had plenty of blockbusters, but it’s still looking for what Art Spiegelman did with “Maus” — bring broad respect to the medium that winning the Pulitzer Prize did for the graphic novel.

And while it’s true that the $60 plastic-disc model is on its deathbed, new ways to pay for game development seem to arise every week. The downloadable episodic series The Walking Dead from Telltale Games — much better than the TV show, by the way — is demonstrating that you can unveil something in parts and get people to pay $5 for two- or three-hour increments of a game that once might have been released in one fell swoop. Or you can crowd-source your venture capital on Kickstarter. The Internet is doing to video games what it does to every industry: disrupting the old models, creating new ones and lowering the barriers to entry.

TOTILO When gaming collapsed in the early ’80s, Nintendo was the savior by reviving the concept of the home game console and unleashing the creative genius behind classics like Super Mario Bros. It came through again with the intuitive, inviting Wii. The company’s next console, the Wii U, will be the first new console on the market in six years. The wait for a new machine has been absurdly long, and that has surely cost corporate gaming some buzz.

While the Wii U is promising — the basic concept is that of a powerful TV game console that displays additional graphics on a six-inch screen embedded in your controller — we won’t even see the next Xbox or PlayStation until a year from now, at the earliest. Upstarts like the hackable, crowd-financed console Ouya or the head-mounted display called the Oculus Rift are interesting. But the game lover in me is almost as uncomfortable with the hype for hardware as I am with the obsession with finances. We can only weep for corporations so much. Big companies no longer dominate the creation of video games. Freethinking, independent creators are on the rise, and they’re making some fascinating games.

The play’s the thing. All else is second.
174 2012-10-07 James Lee, who eventually became one of the biggest dealmakers on Wall Street, started out at Chemical Bank in New York sitting next to Ina Drew. He remembers talking to a client on the phone one day, trying to answer some questions about a deal the bank was proposing. “So I told the client what I thought, and I’m answering and answering, and I say, ‘So what do you think?’ ” Lee says. But there was no response. Lee looked at the phone and then looked around. Drew, a foot away, was in the middle of a different phone conversation, but her eyes were on him, and she was shaking her head back and forth — no, that’s not right — and waving her hand to show she had something in it: the phone jack. “She heard part of what I was saying, which was obviously incorrect,” Lee says. “She literally pulled the plug on me.”

It was 1983, and Drew, just 26, had been in the business for only three years, but she proved herself quickly and was already running a small group of traders. A graduate of Johns Hopkins with a master’s degree in international relations from , Drew had hoped for a job in corporate lending, the clubby, relationship-based business that was the track to the prestigious commercial-banking group. But corporate lending did not open its doors to a young woman from with no M.B.A. After 23 interviews, Drew landed a decidedly less glamorous job, on the trading floor of the Bank of Trust. Thrown in with no training, she cried every day, she used to tell junior people at JPMorgan Chase. But then one day, it clicked: Not only did she get it, she was good at it.

In 1981, she moved to Chemical Bank, then considered a step up — barely. “They used to call it comical bank,” Tom Block, who was in charge of government relations there, recalls. Nothing about the bank at the time would have suggested that over the next 30 years it would merge and acquire its way to become the megabank known as JPMorgan Chase.

By the mid-1980s, Drew was working directly under an economist named Petros K. Sabatacakis, the head of Chemical Bank’s global treasury department. Among the department’s tasks was managing interest-rate risk, ensuring that the bank did not find itself locked into paying out more in interest on the money it borrowed — bonds and deposits — than it was receiving in interest-rate payments from its . In the mid-1980s, to hedge against falling interest rates, the group poured money into $3 billion worth of government-backed securities that grew more valuable when their call on interest rates proved right. Still, the group was considered a sleepy backwater until Sabatacakis turned their attention a few years later to banking’s other major risk: default. The bank was most vulnerable to its borrowers defaulting in a recession; in a recession, the Federal Reserve generally lowers interest rates to increase borrowing and spending. Sabatacakis determined they should continue to buy those securities whose value would rise in a recessionary environment.“It was a trader’s mentality,” says Glenn Havlicek, a trader who worked under Drew for 22 years. “It may seem elemental, but at the time, the idea of mixing a trading solution and a credit-crisis solution — it was in its awkward infancy.”

“What was crazy about it,” Sabatacakis says, “was that by the time we were finished, we were making more than 50 percent of the bank’s profits.” This kind of risk-balancing would continue to define Drew’s career — only the dollar amounts kept growing, and the instruments used to manage risk became more and more complex.

Drew was something of an unusual figure on Wall Street and not easily categorized. She was known for her small, girlish voice but could let loose with profanity when angered. She was the daughter of a Newark lawyer and had a reputation as a tough adversary but practically blushed whenever she spoke about her husband, a periodontist who was her high-school sweetheart and played on the Johns Hopkins basketball team. Tall, with expensive blond hair, she dressed impeccably for the office, favoring classic Chanel suits and shoes, as well as a blinding emerald-cut diamond ring; but she and her husband never left the affluent but unremarkable suburban neighborhood in Short Hills, N.J., where they settled more than 20 years ago.

One of the rare women to rise steadily into the management ranks on Wall Street, Drew stood out, sometimes awkwardly so, in a mostly male work environment. Havlicek recalls hearing her address a roomful of 200 male traders not long after Chemical merged with Manufacturers Hanover in 1991. “I didn’t plan any of this for my career,” she told the traders. “For God’s sake, I was captain of the twirling team in high school.” Her words were met with silence. “There were dozens of guys that were just cringing for her,” Havlicek says. “She didn’t fit their picture of what a senior trader should look like.” For Drew, there were a lot of moments like that: guys rolling their eyes, muttering under their breath about something she just said. “She never seemed to care,” Havlicek says. “She just kept doing what she was doing.”

In the early 1980s, Chemical was making a push to hire women as traders, but that did not mean the workplace was particularly enlightened. Dina Dublon, who was one of Drew’s closest colleagues, joined the bank the same month that Drew did. “To say the environment was not welcoming to women is an understatement,” says Dublon, who rose through the ranks alongside Drew and retired in 2004. Dublon sat next to Drew in the early days, and the women went through packs of every day, a cloud of smoke hovering around their desks like a barrier to the barrage of tasteless jokes.

Many women quit; others responded to advances with polite refusals. Drew tended to deflect with brusque, direct humor. She was once summoned to the office on a Saturday for what she thought was a business meeting, Havlicek said, only to find the colleague who called her in had something more intimate in mind. “I don’t know exactly what she said, but knowing Ina, it would have been something like, ‘You’re out of your mind, I’m going home,’ ” Havlicek said. “In the future, she laughed about it.”

The traditional narrative of the woman who made it on Wall Street in the 1980s and 1990s usually entails great feats of the superwoman variety — the female executive who is phoning in directives to the office while she is in labor, the working mother who whips up, as ’s Zoe Cruz once did, a batch of at 4 a.m. for the bake sale, and then arrives at work by 5:30. But once in the office, family matters would often be hidden. Stephanie Newby, who was chief operating officer of Global Equities at JPMorgan in 1997, says she made sure never to have pictures of her young children at the office or even to mention them. “You never wanted there to be an excuse for why you couldn’t get ahead,” Newby says.

Drew, who has a son and a daughter, wasn’t making excuses for her career or her family. She called her children regularly when they got home from school, even if that sometimes meant interrupting a meeting. She taped their drawings to her office wall and took them to work during school vacations, her son glued to his Game Boy as she engaged in global finance. Traders have early work hours, but Drew was particularly insistent about making it home for dinner with her family; for most of the 1990s, she showed up for work at 7 a.m. but left at 4:30 p.m. “Ina was tough about it,” Dublon says. “If one of her bosses tried to schedule a meeting after 4:30, Ina would say, ‘You can have your meeting, but I will not be there.’ It was not easy to do. It played into stereotypes some of us women climbing the ladder were not willing to confront.”

Wall Street is not exactly known as a warm place to work, but Drew had an unusually personal approach that engendered loyalty from her employees; even some employees who lost their jobs during various rounds of layoffs spoke of her glowingly. A trader who once worked under her at JPMorgan Chase asked me for a guarantee of anonymity before making this uncontroversial claim: “I love her. I love her to death.” She was unfailingly prompt for the 7:30 a.m. meeting she ran; she was considered so knowledgeable that traders from other groups would show up for that meeting to gauge her insights into the market. She personally picked baby gifts for low-ranking traders. “She was like a figure to those of us in her group,” said one former female trader, referring to ’s chief operating officer. “She had that mystique.” I called two other women who worked for Drew and they said the same three words — “She was phenomenal” — before hanging up. Eight other former bosses, including two former chief executives and one chairman, all described her as plain-spoken and trustworthy, an outstanding risk manager and analytical thinker.

William Harrison, who was chairman of JPMorgan Chase until 2006, recalls her fondly as someone who was “balanced and respected” but who didn’t make a big deal of being a senior woman in the workplace. In fact, in the mid-1990s, Drew started serving on diversity committees, challenging the bank to increase the number of women in management; she spent more than a decade on the board of the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, a group that was involved in prominent sexual-discrimination and sexual-harassment lawsuits. “She and Dina Dublon — those were women I looked up to,” says Amy Butte, a former chief financial officer of the , who started out as an analyst at . “They set a standard for how women on Wall Street should treat each other.” And stand up for themselves.

When the bank was trying to retain female talent after one merger, she refused to accept a position with less responsibility. “I remember being in her office, and there was Ina, pounding her desk, saying, ‘The last time I checked, I had breasts, too!’ ” Dublon says.

Drew was ambitious but never sought to acquire the kind of experience that would have groomed her for the role of chief executive. Her focus was part of the reason her bosses trusted her; she clearly was not angling for their job. While Dina Dublon took on new roles in different parts of the bank, eventually becoming chief financial officer, Drew stayed, for the most part, in the same role in which she knew she had unparalleled expertise. “She didn’t veer into areas where she was not an expert,” Dublon says. “Her confidence is totally built on knowledge.”

If Drew was good at what she did, says Lesley Daniels Webster, who managed market risk for the bank until 2005, that was partly because she toiled in the ranks for so long. “Women in business often grow from the bottom up, learning all the complicated ins and outs rather than coming in at a higher level,” Daniels Webster says. “Nobody plucked her out and said, ‘Oh, she looks and sounds just like me at this age, so I’m going to have her move from division to division every three years so she can build up her resume.’ No, women succeed by building a steady string of successes.”

In the 1970s, trading bonds was a fairly straightforward business, and anyone with enough hustle could get on a trading floor; but by the 1980s, because of technology and globalization, bonds became more complex, and as the money got bigger, the competition got fiercer. Banks competed to develop investment products that would give them an edge and traders started relying on complex algorithms to beat the market. By the early 2000s, “tech-savvy investors had come to dominate Wall Street, helped by theoretical breakthroughs in the applications of mathematics to financial markets,” Scott Patterson wrote in “The Quants,” a book about the bankers who wield those tools. These days, banks compete for the top physics and applied math Ph.D.’s from around the world.

Drew did not have a business degree, much less the skills of a quant, and yet, as banking evolved and her bank kept merging with other banks, Drew survived. “When you merge, you get to see the other side’s business, and hers always looked better,” said Don Layton, the chief executive of , who oversaw Drew when Chemical merged with Manufacturers Hanover in 1991.

Drew made it through yet another merger, in 2000, when Chase merged with JPMorgan. Every merger is painful, entailing massive layoffs, factionalism and blatant power grabs. But the mutual disregard in this merger was especially high. JPMorgan had a sterling pedigree, and its bankers perceived themselves as innovators of gourmet financial products like structured . They experienced the merger as a comedown, as if they were Dean & Deluca and they had just been bought by Stop and Shop. They made little effort to conceal their disdain.

Drew’s deals essentially turned on one key question she seemed to answer correctly more often than most (or at least when it mattered most): Would interest rates go up or down? That insight seemed valuable but hardly cutting edge to her new colleagues. “She was like the idiot savant of ‘I’m long’ or ‘I’m short,’ ” says one former JPMorgan employee, summing up how some of his colleagues perceived her success.

Soon after the banks merged, Drew and her team sat in a conference room with their counterparts from JPMorgan, a group that included a banker named Patrik Edsparr, and talked about their respective backgrounds. Drew’s team had all graduated from well-regarded schools, but unlike Edsparr’s group, they did not have Ph.D.’s in applied math; they weren’t graduates or physicists from Caltech. They weren’t quants. “You could just feel in the room that there was this sense emanating from Patrick and his team that we were going to be lunch,” Havlicek says. Edsparr essentially told Drew that her way of investing — based on bottom-up economic analysis of markets, as opposed to abstract mathematical models — was on its way out. Both stayed after the merger. Drew continued to run the treasury department, managing its safer trades, while Edsparr was put in charge of the proprietary-trading desk, where the bank traded its own funds for profit. Until Edsparr left in 2008, the tension between them was obvious. When Edsparr disagreed with one of Drew’s opinions in a meeting with several other high-level executives, Drew shot back, “I don’t care what you think.” (Edsparr declined to comment.)

No one achieves Drew’s level of power on Wall Street without fighting for turf, and Drew knew how to protect her territory. “Ina had this ability to tell senior people, in a very nice way, without actually saying it, that the question they had asked her about her business was a very foolish question,” says a former JPMorgan Chase executive who went head to head with Drew more than a few times. “I admired it in a perverse way.”

In 2004, Drew survived yet another change at the bank, a result of a merger with Bank One that the following year made Jamie Dimon the chief executive. Dimon not only kept Drew on; he also put her on his operating committee, which was made up of the people who answered directly to him. “It’s a complicated business, and she knew her stuff,” says Dimon, who was aware of her success, and trusted her increasingly over time. “If I had a bad idea, she’d tell me it was a bad idea. She had her opinion. She was strong and a team player and very ethical.”

As the head of the chief investment office and the manager of the bank’s investment portfolio, Drew had direct control over more money than most players on Wall Street — on the level of the top asset managers in the country, including and Pimco. In that role, Drew had access to information that might have been useful to investment bankers at JPMorgan Chase and their clients; some information she wasn’t at liberty to share, but some fell in a gray area, and about that, too, she could be tight-lipped. What she might have seen as discretion, colleagues in other parts of the bank perceived as insularity. “She did not welcome anyone questioning any part of her business or her team,” recalls a former senior banker at JPMorgan Chase. He said a general lack of transparency about risk management, among other things, “drove her partners at the retail bank and the investment bank crazy.” Drew’s defenders say that she shared information with the people she felt needed to know, but that those inquires may well have been power grabs.

Drew’s bosses heard the complaints about her over the years, but they generally dismissed them as mere jealous griping. “She oversaw a lot of money,” one former boss said. “There are always rivalries at that level. And anyone who disagrees with you? They must be stupid.”

It is surprising how much time you can spend talking to bankers without ever hearing the word “money.” Bankers talk about yield and credit spreads and compensation and P.& L., and what they talk about, maybe more than any of those things, is risk, without which there can be no gain. Risk is the oxygen of investment, and the ability to take a lot of risk is a signifier of prestige. Drew had some of the most generous risk limits at the bank. “They say that managing risk is as much as anything about managing your emotions,” Havlicek says. “Ina was unafraid. She was a natural.”

Some of that confidence may have come from her faith in her longstanding team, many of whom had been with her from the Chemical days. They managed risk by buying and selling mostly safe assets like bonds and high-quality mortgages; their value would generally rise with falling interest rates and vice versa. But in 2006, she and Dimon together decided that her group should branch into more complex products to hedge the expanding, ever-more-complex holdings of the bank. To help build international range for her group and to diversify her positions in the market, Drew hired a team that would trade foreign bonds and corporate bonds — and would have the quantitative skills to trade more complex and riskier credit derivatives.

To lead the effort, Drew hired Achilles Macris, who had worked at the bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. Originally from , he was a charming but volatile figure with a reputation for brilliance. He in turn hired Javier Martin-Artajo, an opinionated trader from , and Bruno Iksil, a quiet, bookish man from , both known to have strong quantitative backgrounds.

The year 2008 was a time most bankers would like to forget; for Drew, it was one of the highlights of her career. Starting in late 2007, her group piled money into secure, long-term government-backed bonds, close to $200 billion worth. Those soared in value as it became clear that interest rates would have to drop and every other product on the market looked like a bad bet. After the financial collapse, the group reviewed some collateralized loan obligations, financial products that were deemed toxic, and bought the safest aspects of those products. Those purchases were vastly riskier than Treasuries — some argued too risky for an operation intended to hedge risk — but the spending spree of the chief investment office ultimately reaped billions in profit for the bank. “Going into the crisis, the C.I.O. positioned us well for the turmoil ahead,” Dimon says. But it also served a larger purpose, stabilizing the market when few others had the ability to do so. “They took risk with those collateralized loan obligations,” Mark Williams, who teaches finance at , says. “They provided an important service.”

Despite its success, Drew’s group — the bond traders in New York and the credit group based mostly in — clashed. Temperament accounted for some of the battles. Althea Duersten, a trader who had worked with Drew for more than a decade, ran the group in New York. She “was so risk averse,” says one former trader, “that even in retrospect, knowing everything we know, she still may have been too risk averse.” As for Macris, said another former executive in the chief investment office, “He was a gunslinger — he was more on the ‘I love this trade, put it on huge’ side.” (Most of the people interviewed about Drew and the chief investment office asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to speak or feared professional repercussions.)

Drew had created within her own group the same dynamic that had vexed her since the merger with JPMorgan: one group of traders, who mostly handled straightforward assets, felt insulted and underestimated by another group, who prided themselves on the sophistication of their quantitative skills and conveyed their disdain openly in videoconference calls. “New York hated London,” says one former trader who worked in New York. “They got to take more risk, so they got to make more money.”

The worst of the fighting occurred when Drew, ill with for most of 2010, was out of the office. When she came back, Duersten had just turned 60 and retired in January 2011. Macris was shocked when Drew brought in Irene Tse, a hedge-fund recruit, to replace Duersten, rather than making him the sole deputy. “He was devastated, he was outraged,” says the bank employee who says he heard this from Macris himself. Macris started telling people in the European office of the investment bank that Drew did not understand the business, according to two people. He also told them that he technically answered to Drew, but that he really reported to Dimon. (Through a lawyer, Macris declined to comment; and JPMorgan says Macris reported to Drew.) He started openly challenging Drew’s opinion in front of others. She would take it stoically while the two of them were in public; later, via videoconference or in person, “she would let him have it,” says the bank employee, who observed one such confrontation. “And she could be tough. I mean, talking about severing key body parts.”

The trouble that eventually ended Drew’s career at the bank started out, the bank argues, as a precaution, the same kind of precaution, in fact, that set her on a successful career path at Chemical Bank: a major hedge against the possibility of a credit crisis.

Back in 2007, the bank asked the London office to execute a credit derivative hedge that would protect the bank in the event of a major crisis. (Some credit derivatives are, essentially, a bet on an outcome, like a corporation or government defaulting on their financial obligations.) The hedge not only protected the bank but also made money in 2008 when the markets collapsed.

Following the crisis, the team in London, including Iksil, continued to expand the position. (A credit trader’s position can be thought of as a collection of bets on outcomes.) Iksil’s position was eventually so large that he became known as the London Whale before his identity was confirmed. At some point in December of last year, a former executive from the group says, Drew checked in with Macris and Martin-Artajo about the position while the two men were in New York. They answered, but the executive, who understood the trade, remembers thinking that they did not give as full an answer as they could have. “I think they glossed over details to the point where Ina knew the product, the size they were trading, but she did not know what the true P.& L.” — profit and loss — “impact could possibly be in a stressful scenario,” he said. She was asking the right questions, he said, but did not seem to be picking up on what was not being said. Why didn’t he say anything? The usual reasons: less than total certainty, resistance to jumping rank, faith in Iksil’s judgment. Plus, he liked the guy.

In any case, there were several layers of people at the bank whose job it was to evaluate risk. Being the risk manager at a bank, of course, is like being the chaperon at the dance: your authority is more than matched by the desire of others to subvert it. “The trader in the world of Wall Street is a lot more important than the person with a whip and a chair attempting to keep the traders from blowing up,” says Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. To try to mitigate that very human dynamic, banks also rely on a variety of statistical models, including those known as “value at risk” models, which theoretically provide bankers with a certain degree of probability about how much they could stand to lose on any given day under adverse circumstances. Those V.A.R. models did little to help bankers when the unforeseeable happened in 2008, which is why they are generally viewed with some skepticism these days. Sometimes the models miss key information, sometimes the people who use them miss what the models are telling them and sometimes traders manage to work around them.

A former executive said he warned Dimon for years that the quality of risk control in the chief investment office was not transparent enough, compared with that in the investment bank; Drew brushed him off, and Dimon told him, he says, essentially, to “mind my own business.” “Honestly, I don’t care what second-guessers say in life,” Dimon told me when asked about the warnings. “If anyone in the company knew, they should have said something. No one came to us beforehand and said we have a problem we should be looking at.”

A review of the risk limits at the chief investment office was moving slowly along in 2011. By late November, Drew realized she needed a more experienced risk officer than the one in place, Weiland, who had been there for several years. A well-liked if mild-mannered person, Weiland was up against some very strong personalities, many of whom had superior quantitative skills. (Weiland did not respond to requests for comment.) But it was February before she hired Irvin Goldman, a former Credit Suisse First Boston executive, as the chief risk officer of the unit. It is possible that Drew, who had a reputation as an excellent risk manager, did not feel an urgency to fill the job of the risk officer. “She and her team had a great track record,” a senior executive said. “We all thought they had it under control.”

Later, when the trade collapsed, it was reported that Goldman was the brother-in-law of Barry Zubrow, an operating committee member at the bank. This was interpreted as further proof of the shoddy risk standards at the unit. Goldman, however, was a classic hire for Drew: he was a longtime professional friend, a trusted ally with whom she had talked shop for 20 years.

Goldman started pushing forward a review of the risk limits, which generally needed more specificity. One serious defect in the risk evaluation of Iksil’s position was that its limit was folded into the aggregate risk of the unit’s entire portfolio. In other words, Iksil could continue to increase the position without triggering alarms. Even more problematic, a new value-at-risk model was implemented in January, which, unknown to the team ultimately allowed for even more leeway, creating a false sense of security.

In December, Drew and other senior managers determined that the unit should reduce the overall exposure to risk, mostly because of soon-to-be-implemented regulations imposing more stringent capital requirements. London came up with a strategy that Drew approved although she left it to that office to determine the execution. As an interim measure, they would hedge the hedge, rather than flood the small market for that type of security and take a loss. The main position was essentially a bearish bet on a bond index; the hedge was essentially a bullish bet on a similar but different index. The end result, however, made the total position even bigger.

Iksil’s colleagues liked him, but he was not popular among some Wall Street dealers who brokered his trades. The London group had a reputation for using the weight of the bank to muscle the rest of the market and for being a little arrogant. “They thought they were geniuses,” said a hedge-fund manager on the other side of the trade that ultimately brought Iksil down. “They just had access to cheaper capital than everyone else, because they worked at JPMorgan,” that manager said. “It’s sort of like race cars — everyone else is in a Camry, and you’re in , and you think you’re the best driver.”

Disgruntled dealers might be more likely to gossip, and in March, Martin-Artajo, always a little nervous, got positively jittery, said the bank employee. The dealers on the street were talking, he told his bosses; they knew too much. Knowledge, for the hedge-fund managers who buy from the dealers, was power. Martin-Artajo had reason to feel nervous: the hedge-fund managers had figured out that JPMorgan’s position had grown so large that it was dominating the market, which meant there were few options if the bank wanted to unwind the position. This gave the few buyers Iksil could turn to tremendous negotiating power.

By the third week of March, after several days of losses, Drew was concerned enough to order her traders to stop trading the portfolio. At the same time, she started holding daily teleconferences with London to try to manage the position. Martin-Artajo’s worst fears were realized on April 6, when The ran an article with the headline: “ ‘London Whale’ Rattles Debt .” The whale was Iksil, whose position was so large, the article said, that traders on the street had given him that nickname.

Tension at the bank escalated, and Dimon, who was traveling, started checking in with Drew. She was concerned about the position but also seemed a little bit riled up: The hedge funds were trying to squeeze the bank, she told Dimon, but the bank was O.K. They didn’t seriously consider the possibility that they might have to unwind the position quickly, which would render them vulnerable to a market that would take advantage of their desperation. Most of the key players in the unit thought the same thing: this was a long-term position, and no one had the firepower, the capital, to force mighty JPMorgan Chase to fold.

Drew and her team had backed themselves into a corner. Then, on April 13, during the first-quarter-earnings call, Dimon slipped. An analyst asked about the “tempest in the teapot nature” of the stories in the press, and Dimon, as if enamored of the phrase, repeated it back: “It’s a complete tempest in a teapot,” he said. It was quotable, unlike the bland corporate-speak in which he continued. It gave the story legs. And if his assessment turned out not to be true, it would make Dimon look like either a dissembler or a manager with a weak grasp of the facts.

The trade started losing even more money. A war-room mentality took over, moving from the chief investment office to more and more players at the bank. A team flew to London, working around the clock and making so many demands that one of the men running databases, who had a in the past, quit, afraid the stress would literally kill him. Macris and Martin-Artajo were conducting frequent video conferences with New York. Martin-Artajo labored nervously through long-winded explanations, with Macris occasionally turning angrily on him. Drew struggled to maintain composure, although occasionally, a tone of voice revealed just how tense the situation was becoming. “That’s not what I asked for,” she snapped at Macris, and another time barked, “I need it now!”

When other crises hit the bank, Drew had seemed, by all accounts, her most alive and alert. But in this instance, she seemed unable to step back and look at the big picture. Faith in Drew’s ability to handle the crisis started to seep away. In May, John Hogan, the bank’s chief risk officer, took over management of the position. It was officially out of Drew’s hands. Drew still seemed to think the damage could be contained; the famously cleareyed risk manager started to sound like someone in denial. To everyone else, it became apparent that the bank was going to have to make a public disclosure about the loss. This would be a huge embarrassment, an admission of failure just as Dimon was trying to convince regulators and Congress that banks could manage themselves, if only they were careful enough and had the right, prudent people in place. It meant, in the near term, that the stock would plummet.

The mood around Drew got darker. Word spread around the building that some members of the operating committee were urging Dimon to fire her. “Ina had to have known,” the bank employee said. “Everyone knew, and she was very well connected. This was not a matter of your colleagues not having your back. This was them sticking the knife in it.”

Even Dimon was sickened by the wash of rage toward Drew. During a crisis, “some people will act like children and most will rise to the occasion,” he said. “To those who attacked Ina, I said: ‘This is Ina. This was always Ina. What are you talking about?’ ”

By the second week in May, the stress had taken a toll. A colleague saw Drew walking around the executive floor, her mascara smeared. A slight in her hand left over from her illness seemed worse, a physical symbol of her emotional state. Although she still came to work dressed impeccably, she had lost weight and looked somber, almost shut down. The week that the bank decided to make a public disclosure, 20 senior people gathered in a meeting room on the 47th floor. Everyone went around the room and spoke about what they had found out and what still needed to be learned. After about 45 minutes, with the meeting drawing to a close, Drew, uncharacteristically, still had not said a word. Finally, John Hogan, the chief risk officer for the bank, asked: “Does anyone need anything? Need some help?” Drew raised her hand. “I need help,” she said. It was a white flag.

On Mother’s Day, she drafted her resignation letter. By Monday afternoon, she was gone.

In July, the bank restated its earnings, announcing concerns that traders at the unit had not revealed “the full amount of the losses in the portfolio during the first quarter,” mismarking, in their favor, the numbers that would indicate their theoretical losses or gains at the end of the day. (The Wall Street Journal reported sources close to the investigation saying that Martin-Artajo had prodded Iksil, whom he supervised, to raise the valuation of his position’s holdings at the end of the day.) Greg Campbell, Martin-Artajo’s lawyer, says, speaking of his client, that there was “no direct or indirect attempt by him to conceal losses.” Iksil declined to comment. Whether or not the numbers were mismarked, it was baffling that the size of the position and its obvious vulnerability did not warrant a closer look, says Peter Tchir, a consultant to hedge funds and other institutions. No one has been charged with fraud, but investigations are continuing.

Maybe Drew still believes — as Macris does, according to people at the bank — that the position could have worked out given enough time. Maybe if she had asked the right questions sooner, her traders would have been forced to clarify or she would have sensed danger before it went out of control. Many systems failed and perhaps, too, her judgment.

Drew was someone known for her grasp of the big picture, for internalizing historical trends and economic cycles to the point where her gut instincts were almost always right. She was also someone known for having a personal touch. But in this instance, she seemed incapable of grasping the complicated, interlocking human dynamics that can’t be measured by reassuring models — the idea that a position could be leaked, that the press might bear down, that the regulatory environment could compound all those problems.

For a few years, one of Drew’s friends had been talking to her about retiring. For that friend, it was yet another matter of risk calculation: If she was going to retire soon enough anyway, her friend advised, do it while she was still on top, before time stopped being on her side. Wait long enough, and someone else might decide for her. Or something might go wrong, as things do.

Even Drew’s friends do not feel that she could have stayed in her job, especially in the current regulatory environment. She was, after all, in charge of the unit that lost $6 billion. “She had to go,” one friend said, “and she would have seen that.” One Wall Street headhunter said: “That’s what they pay you so much money for. To take the fall when things go wrong.”

Drew forfeited two years’ worth of compensation. But she was also very wealthy and was allowed to keep stock upon her resignation. There are critics who wonder why Dimon has not surrendered some of his own compensation.

Drew spent the first weeks after she left JP­Morgan doing what she always did: heading into , to the corner of Park Avenue and 47th Street. Instead of entering 270 Park, however, she went to 277 Park, directly across the street. Many large companies have offices known to some as elephant graveyards, where retired chief executives are given offices and a secretary. As she was being debriefed by company lawyers, Drew was given a temporary office in JPMorgan Chase’s elephant graveyard, which happened to be in the old Chemical building, where Drew spent so many years on the ascent. She was surprised and pained that Dimon didn’t call her right away. “I’m sure it’s for legal reasons,” she told a friend. She described herself as “devastated.”

After a few weeks, the lawyers’ questions slowed down. And Dimon went out of his way to publicly praise Drew and the work she did. “Let me just say a word about Ina Drew,” he said in the middle of the second-quarter-earnings call in July. “I have enormous respect for Ina as a professional and as a person; she has made some incredible contributions to this company.” She has not been accused of malfeasance, and as the investigations wear on, the bank still seems comfortable defending her integrity.

For Drew, Dimon’s comments marked a turning point: at least she knew — and the world knew — that Dimon did not consider her a bad actor. She started planning a trip to Eastern Europe. Her friends thought she sounded better, but seemed physically weaker.

Drew’s old friend Glenn Havlicek, who left the bank in 2005, now spends much of his time in Palo Alto at a company called GLMX, building a high-tech trading platform. When the news broke, he thought a lot about Drew and those days when they first starting hedging interest-rate risks, a move that seemed so innovative at the time but so simple now, compared with the modern multibillion-dollar deals that twist and turn on themselves. The two spoke several times, most recently right before Drew left for her trip. It pained him to hear Drew, whom he recalls as one of the toughest, funniest, warmest women he knows, sounding so defeated. “You know, Ina,” he said, “sometimes I think I’d give my right arm to go back to those days at Chemical, you know?”

“Yeah,” Drew said to him quietly. “I do.”
175 2012-10-08 Network officials said they wanted to focus their promotional efforts on the slate of successful programs they have earlier in the week....
176 2012-10-08 Zach Schonbrun, with help from Times reporters and editors, offered up analysis and live commentary from Camden Yards during Game 2 of the A.L. division series....
177 2012-10-08 With the polls swinging toward Mitt Romney, Republican conspiracy theorists are keeping quiet....
178 2012-10-08 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Monday's selection includes a report of child labor in Samsung's factories in China, a profile of Yahoo's chief, Marissa Mayer, and a federa...
179 2012-10-08 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
180 2012-10-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
181 2012-10-08 Craig Horvath joined Keiler, Farmington, Conn., in a new post, traffic manager. He had been a marketing analyst at Aetna, Hartford.

Deanna S. Kawasaki joined the Los Angeles office of KSL Media as executive vice president and director for consumer insight and analytics. She assumes duties from Richard Birt, senior vice president for customer insight and analytics, who left, the agency said, to pursue other interests. Ms. Kawasaki has been a consultant for the last decade and before that worked for companies like Buena Vista Home Video and Mattel.

Kristen Knape joined David & Goliath, El Segundo, Calif., in a new post, strategic planning director. She had been planning director at the Chicago office of McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu.

Dan Levi joined Captivate Network, Chelmsford, Mass., part of the Gannett Company, in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had been senior vice president for marketing and research at Zoom Media and Marketing.

Dasher Lowe joined the Chicago office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP, as managing director of OgilvyOne. He succeeds David Hernandez, who became digital executive creative director at Ogilvy & Mather Chicago. Mr. Lowe had most recently been executive vice president and managing director at Starcom MediaVest Performance Marketing, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe.

Peter Macey joined the Chicago office of PointRoll, part of the Gannett Company, in a new post, vice president for Midwest sales, also overseeing the Detroit and Southeast regions. He had most recently been national advertising director at Wired, part of the Condé Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications.

Marc Maleh rejoined R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, group director for data visualization capability. He had been director for interactive production at Wieden & Kennedy and before that spent more than five years at R/GA as an executive producer.

Trish McClean joined MGH, Baltimore, in a new post, senior vice president and account services director. She had most recently been account services director at Exit10, Baltimore.

Calvin A. Mitchell III joined Credit Suisse, New York, as managing director and global co-head of corporate communications for the Americas and Europe, the Middle East and Africa; he will also have worldwide responsibility for the Credit Suisse investment bank and asset management. Mr. Mitchell assumes duties from Gavin Sullivan, who headed communications for Europe, the Middle East and Africa and was acting global co-head of branding and communications; Ms. Sullivan is to leave the company later this year. Ms. Sullivan had been teamed with Andrés Luther, who is based in Zurich and will be assuming the duties of global co-head of corporate communications after serving in an interim basis for more than a year. Mr. Mitchell had been global head for corporate affairs at Thomson Reuters.

Mondelez International, Deerfield, Ill., which was formed last week after Kraft Foods spun off its North American grocery operations, said it would support a marketing initiative, called Mobile Futures, to be centered on working with start-ups and entrepreneurs in mobile marketing as the new company seeks to increase the amount of money it spends in mobile media to 10 percent of its total advertising budget.

Emily Parr, who has handled public relations at Equinox, New York, part of Equinox Holdings, is leaving to open a public relations agency, Poke PR, that will specialize in accounts in fields like beauty, fitness and wellness.

Prime Access, New York, which works on campaigns aimed at multicultural consumers, is being acquired by Global Advertising Strategies, New York, an agency that also creates campaigns for those consumers. Financial terms were not disclosed. The merged agency will specialize in health care marketing campaigns and operate under the Prime Access name. Howard Buford, president and chief executive at Prime Access, will join the board of the merged agency, which will produce ads for Americans who are black, Hispanics and of Asian heritage as well as those who are lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender.

John A. Reisenbach Foundation, New York, named the recipients of its Distinguished Citizen Awards for 2012. They are Bonnie Fuller, president and chief executive at HollywoodLife.com; Peter Knobloch, chief executive at RJ Palmer, part of MDC Partners; and Jo Ann Ross, president for network sales at the CBS Television Network, part of the CBS Corporation. The awards will be presented at a dinner in New York on Nov. 26.

Mollie Spilman joined Millennial Media, Baltimore, in a new post, executive vice president and chief marketing officer. She had most recently been chief marketing officer at Yahoo.

ST Media Group International, Cincinnati, formed the Hospitality Media Group, which will oversee holdings like industry trade fairs, conferences and events.

Mark Umbach joined the Macias Media Group, Los Angeles, as vice president for public relations and marketing, a new post at Macias, which was opened recently by Stephen Macias, who had been executive vice president and general manager at Here Media, Los Angeles; Here Media is Macias’s first major client. Mr. Umbach had most recently been director for publicity and corporate communications at Here Media.

USA Today, owned by the Gannett Company, and the SevenVentures unit of ProSiebenSat. 1, the German television station, are each sponsoring contests with prizes of advertising space in USA Today and commercial time on SevenVentures. In the 2012 USA Today Print Advertising Competition, advertising agencies, marketers and nonprofit organizations are being asked to submit ideas for creative print ads to win up to $1 million worth of full-page ad space in the newspaper. The prize to be offered at what is being called SevenVentures Pitch Day, to take place in London on Nov. 6 and 7, is television commercial time valued at 7 million euros, or about $9 million. The Pitch Day is open to entrepreneurs and companies up to three years old.

James Van Fleteren joined the EatingWell Media Group, part of the Meredith Corporation, in a new post, creative director. Mr. Van Fleteren, who will be based in New York, had been running his own design agency, the Van Fleteren Group, in Ann Arbor, Mich.

WorldLink, Los Angeles, was named to handle direct response advertising sales for Pac-12 Networks, the regional and national college sports channels recently introduced by the Pacific-12 Conference.
182 2012-10-08 Gotham Extra: Neighbors opposed to building a soccer stadium in the park seem to have the support of the United States Tennis Association, which also wants a piece of the park....
183 2012-10-08 Does it really have to be so hard to find an electrical outlet?...
184 2012-10-08 A myopic focus on the tax implications of an investment may keep people from seeing the bigger picture of their finances....
185 2012-10-08 Police dispute his account, say they even stopped for cigarettes on the way to jail....
186 2012-10-08 Gov. Jerry Brown directs regulators to relax pollution rules so production can increase at refineries....
187 2012-10-08 A garden-variety severe financial crisis....
188 2012-10-08 Obama and Romney focus on small business. Unemployment falls. And how to generate word of mouth. Did the debate alter your thinking?...
189 2012-10-08 In Tamil Nadu, for instance, 69 percent of university admissions are now set aside for what the state has determined to be “backward castes.” Many of those favored with these set-asides have controlled Tamil Nadu’s government and much of its resources for generations, but they claim special status by pointing to a caste survey done in 1931. (Ms. Gayathri, 17, is a Brahmin whose parents are civil servants with modest incomes.)

Five prominent university officials in Tamil Nadu said in interviews that those given set-asides at their institutions were generally the children of doctors, lawyers and high-level bureaucrats. The result is that rich students routinely get preference over more accomplished poor ones who do not happen to belong to the favored castes. None of the officials would allow their names to be used for fear of angering the government ministers who benefit politically and personally from the program.

India’s caste system was created nearly 1,500 years ago to organize occupations in a feudal agricultural society. Those at the bottom of the system, now known as Dalits, were forbidden in some places from even allowing their shadows to fall on those at the top, known as Brahmins. Most castes were deemed “backward,” which meant that they were consigned to menial jobs.

Over the last 30 years, however, India’s economy has been transformed, much of its populace has moved from villages to sprawling cities, and once distinct castes have been scrambled. That has led to the erosion of historic differences in education and increased income mobility within castes in India, recent studies have found.

“Caste is no longer an economic restriction,” said Viktoria Hnatkovska, an assistant professor of economics at the University of British Columbia, and a co-author of several studies on the changing role of caste in India.

Nonetheless, quotas have transformed the taint of “backwardness” into a coveted designation.

The Gujjars of Rajasthan, for instance, held violent riots two years ago to protest the government’s refusal to declare them as “most backward.” Politicians win elections in India by promising to bestow this one-time curse, which has led to a dramatic expansion in those considered backward decades after the designation had true economic meaning.

Indeed, caste awareness among the young is sustained in part because of set-asides, so a program intended to eliminate the caste system is now blamed by many for sustaining it.

“When I was filling out my college application forms, there was this box for caste,” said Sneha Sekhsaria, 25, of Calcutta. “I had to ask my dad what our caste was, and he had to think about it for 15 minutes before telling me that we were in the general category.”

The general category meant that she received no preference, a fact that Ms. Sekhsaria blames for her failure to qualify for medical school. She went to dental school instead.

“Being a doctor was always my dream, but I got a dental degree instead and that’s O.K.,” she said.

But she remains bitter that some of her friends who scored more poorly than she did on entrance exams were able to become doctors even though she and others in her circle were entirely unaware that they were “backward.”

Nonetheless, the benefits that flow from caste quotas have made them popular, and supporting them is one of the few issues on which the present government and its opposition agree. Within the next few months, the Indian Parliament is expected to overwhelming approve a constitutional amendment that would allow caste-based quotas not just in educational settings and in government hiring but also in government promotions.

The Supreme Court has repeatedly tried to curtail the scope of caste quotas, but the Parliament has passed amendments in response to protect and even expand them. The court has ruled that quotas should not exceed 50 percent of university admissions, but Tamil Nadu has ignored this restriction and a case challenging the state’s larger quota has been pending since 1994.

In the meantime, the court has ordered the state to provide extra slots to at least some students who contest the higher quotas, including Ms. Gayathri, who has been admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College. In an interview, Salman Khurshid, India’s law minister and minister for minority affairs, said that wealthy beneficiaries of caste quotas should acknowledge that they no longer need set-asides and voluntarily bow out of the system.

Some rules forbid the wealthy — or “creamy layer” — from taking advantage of quotas, but those rules have not been implemented in many states and are widely ignored in others.

D. Sundaram, a retired professor of sociology from Madras University and a longtime member of Tamil Nadu’s now-disbanded Backward Classes Commission, defended the state’s quotas by saying that even three generations of wealth and power cannot reverse centuries of backwardness.

“The system has not been in place long enough,” Dr. Sundaram said.

To be sure, many Dalits and people from tribal backgrounds are still overwhelmingly poor, and even many critics of India’s caste-based quotas acknowledge that set-asides for them may still be worthy.

Ravi Kumar, general secretary of a Dalit political party in Tamil Nadu, agreed that many of those who benefit from the state’s vast caste-based quotas are wealthy and powerful. But his party supports quotas, also known as reservations, for the wealthy “because if we opposed them they would stop all reservations,” Mr. Kumar said.

Pratap Bhanu Mehta, president of the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi, said that caste-based quotas will gradually become less important as the quotas themselves make public universities less attractive to the most talented students. “The talented people will simply migrate away,” he said.

But that is no comfort to Ms. Sekhsaria, whose family ended up spending tens of thousands of dollars to send her to a private dental school after she was turned down for a government medical school, where the fees are modest.

“Of the thousands of reasons to hate the government, reservations is definitely one of them,” she said.
190 2012-10-08 In Tamil Nadu, for instance, 69 percent of university admissions are now set aside for what the state has determined to be “backward castes.” Many of those favored with these set-asides have controlled Tamil Nadu’s government and much of its resources for generations, but they claim special status by pointing to a caste survey done in 1931. (Ms. Gayathri, 17, is a Brahmin whose parents are civil servants with modest incomes.)

Five prominent university officials in Tamil Nadu said in interviews that those given set-asides at their institutions were generally the children of doctors, lawyers and high-level bureaucrats. The result is that rich students routinely get preference over more accomplished poor ones who do not happen to belong to the favored castes. None of the officials would allow their names to be used for fear of angering the government ministers who benefit politically and personally from the program.

India’s caste system was created nearly 1,500 years ago to organize occupations in a feudal agricultural society. Those at the bottom of the system, now known as Dalits, were forbidden in some places from even allowing their shadows to fall on those at the top, known as Brahmins. Most castes were deemed “backward,” which meant that they were consigned to menial jobs.

Over the last 30 years, however, India’s economy has been transformed, much of its populace has moved from villages to sprawling cities, and once distinct castes have been scrambled. That has led to the erosion of historic differences in education and increased income mobility within castes in India, recent studies have found.

“Caste is no longer an economic restriction,” said Viktoria Hnatkovska, an assistant professor of economics at the University of British Columbia, and a co-author of several studies on the changing role of caste in India.

Nonetheless, quotas have transformed the taint of “backwardness” into a coveted designation.

The Gujjars of Rajasthan, for instance, held violent riots two years ago to protest the government’s refusal to declare them as “most backward.” Politicians win elections in India by promising to bestow this one-time curse, which has led to a dramatic expansion in those considered backward decades after the designation had true economic meaning.

Indeed, caste awareness among the young is sustained in part because of set-asides, so a program intended to eliminate the caste system is now blamed by many for sustaining it.

“When I was filling out my college application forms, there was this box for caste,” said Sneha Sekhsaria, 25, of Calcutta. “I had to ask my dad what our caste was, and he had to think about it for 15 minutes before telling me that we were in the general category.”

The general category meant that she received no preference, a fact that Ms. Sekhsaria blames for her failure to qualify for medical school. She went to dental school instead.

“Being a doctor was always my dream, but I got a dental degree instead and that’s O.K.,” she said.

But she remains bitter that some of her friends who scored more poorly than she did on entrance exams were able to become doctors even though she and others in her circle were entirely unaware that they were “backward.”

Nonetheless, the benefits that flow from caste quotas have made them popular, and supporting them is one of the few issues on which the present government and its opposition agree. Within the next few months, the Indian Parliament is expected to overwhelming approve a constitutional amendment that would allow caste-based quotas not just in educational settings and in government hiring but also in government promotions.

The Supreme Court has repeatedly tried to curtail the scope of caste quotas, but the Parliament has passed amendments in response to protect and even expand them. The court has ruled that quotas should not exceed 50 percent of university admissions, but Tamil Nadu has ignored this restriction and a case challenging the state’s larger quota has been pending since 1994.

In the meantime, the court has ordered the state to provide extra slots to at least some students who contest the higher quotas, including Ms. Gayathri, who has been admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College. In an interview, Salman Khurshid, India’s law minister and minister for minority affairs, said that wealthy beneficiaries of caste quotas should acknowledge that they no longer need set-asides and voluntarily bow out of the system.

Some rules forbid the wealthy — or “creamy layer” — from taking advantage of quotas, but those rules have not been implemented in many states and are widely ignored in others.

D. Sundaram, a retired professor of sociology from Madras University and a longtime member of Tamil Nadu’s now-disbanded Backward Classes Commission, defended the state’s quotas by saying that even three generations of wealth and power cannot reverse centuries of backwardness.

“The system has not been in place long enough,” Dr. Sundaram said.

To be sure, many Dalits and people from tribal backgrounds are still overwhelmingly poor, and even many critics of India’s caste-based quotas acknowledge that set-asides for them may still be worthy.

Ravi Kumar, general secretary of a Dalit political party in Tamil Nadu, agreed that many of those who benefit from the state’s vast caste-based quotas are wealthy and powerful. But his party supports quotas, also known as reservations, for the wealthy “because if we opposed them they would stop all reservations,” Mr. Kumar said.

Pratap Bhanu Mehta, president of the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi, said that caste-based quotas will gradually become less important as the quotas themselves make public universities less attractive to the most talented students. “The talented people will simply migrate away,” he said.

But that is no comfort to Ms. Sekhsaria, whose family ended up spending tens of thousands of dollars to send her to a private dental school after she was turned down for a government medical school, where the fees are modest.

“Of the thousands of reasons to hate the government, reservations is definitely one of them,” she said.
191 2012-10-08 Some motorists had begun to direct their frustration at Mr. Brown.

“Consumers in California are getting killed,” Judith Connolly, the owner of a media company, said as she filled up with premium gasoline on Friday. “We’re being penalized, and the rest of the country is paying far less. This is something that Jerry Brown really needs to deal with.”

Problems at several refineries in the state have been blamed for the rising prices. Two months ago, a fire knocked out a 245,000-barrel-a-day refinery in the Bay Area that has still not resumed full production. And last week, a power failure curtailed production at a refinery in Torrance. Full production resumed there on Friday.

Mr. Brown said he hoped that the switch to the winter-blend gasoline, which evaporates more quickly than gasoline sold during the summer smog season, would stop the climb in prices because it could increase fuel supplies in the state by up to 10 percent. Summer-blend gasoline is better for air quality.

Senator Dianne Feinstein also asked the Federal Trade Commission on Sunday to investigate the cause of the price increases.

“California’s consumers are all too familiar with energy price spikes which cannot be explained by market fundamentals and which turn out years later to have been the result of malicious and manipulative trading activity,” Ms. Feinstein, a Democrat, wrote in a letter to the commission’s chairman.

Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, said a combination of factors, including regulations and geography, make gasoline supplies in California volatile. He said the unusually high prices were likely to level off in “days or weeks” and would not spread to the rest of the country. “It is very specific to California,” he said.

Gasoline prices in California are typically higher than in most of the country because of strict environmental regulations. Yet prices around the country also remain high. The national average on Sunday was $3.81 per gallon of regular gasoline, about 42 cents more than a year ago, the AAA said.
192 2012-10-08 The New York City Police Department has come under criticism in recent years for arresting people for trespassing in public housing, often for little or no reason. The trespassing arrests are a variation on the city’s broader, and highly controversial, stop-and-frisk program. On Thursday, Judge Shira Scheindlin of Federal District Court in Manhattan added her voice to the chorus, ruling that a lawsuit challenging police arrests for trespassing in public housing could move closer to trial. The city had tried to have most of the plaintiffs’ claims dismissed.

The message here is clear: Instead of belittling the claims raised by the nine plaintiffs — eight of whom were arrested under questionable circumstances, some in buildings where they actually live — the city needs to settle these cases and ensure that its policies adhere to Fourth Amendment guarantees of freedom from unreasonable search and seizure.

The lawsuit, known as Davis v. The City of New York, is one of three related cases involving stop-and-frisk that are moving through the federal courts. The broader case charges police with stopping and frisking hundreds of thousands of people a year on the basis of race. The third case was brought on behalf of residents of private apartment buildings who say they were illegally stopped, ticketed or arrested in police sweeps similar to those conducted in public buildings.

The facts set forth in the Davis case were distressing, with plaintiffs accusing the police of arresting them as they were waiting to meet friends in the lobby or simply standing at the elevator. One Upper Manhattan resident, Roman Jackson, said he was talking with a friend in the stairwell when the police arrived and told the two men they were “not supposed” to be there.

Mr. Jackson politely explained that he lived in the building. The two were nonetheless ordered up against the wall, frisked and then arrested. The city tried to have the complaint dismissed on the grounds that Mr. Jackson was loitering. But Judge Scheindlin noted that the loitering rules were so dangerously vague as to be unconstitutional and denied the city’s motion.

In their excessive zeal, the police are undermining respect for the law in the very communities where residents’ cooperation is most needed and abridging the rights of people they are supposed to protect.
193 2012-10-08 KUWAIT (AP) — Kuwait’s ruler dissolved Parliament on Sunday, a step toward ending months of political gridlock and calling the second elections this year that could again swing in favor of Islamist-led opposition groups.

The move by Kuwait’s leader, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah, announced on state-run media, followed a failed attempt last month by the government to overturn a voting district law that appeared to favor the opposition. New elections must now be held within 60 days.

Kuwait is one of the United States’ most strategic military allies in the Persian Gulf. Its strategic importance to Washington rose sharply after the United States troop withdrawal from Iraq in December. It is now the hub for American ground forces in the region.

Kuwait has been locked in a political limbo for months as the government tried to challenge the voting system in the February elections, which gave Islamists and allies control of the 50-seat Parliament. A stopgap Parliament, composed of lawmakers elected in 2009, was installed in June, but it never held any sessions.

Opposition leaders had called on Sheik Sabah to end the impasse and call new elections.

Kuwait has not faced widespread unrest since the Arab Spring uprisings erupted last year across the Middle East, but it has been locked in deepening political battles and labor upheavals that have stalled many development plans.

The country was hit by a wave of strikes earlier this year, including walkouts that grounded the state carrier, Kuwait Airways, and temporarily closed customs posts and left hundreds trucks stranded at the border.
194 2012-10-08 In that environment, Mr. Romney must give a clear explanation of how American power since the end of World War II provided the foundation for the most prosperous and successful era in human history; how our domination of the world’s most trafficked waterways has permitted the flourishing of trade; and how exporting our principles of political and economic freedom has opened and nourished markets that buy American goods, employ American workers and allow Americans to enjoy an unmatched level of security.

More important, Americans must know that it is not for mercantile benefits alone that the United States has exerted its leadership. It is because there is no other power, and no other people, that can — or, if able, would — exert the benign influence that has characterized our role in the world. Whether you like the Iraq war or hate it; like the battle in Afghanistan or not; believe in the ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi or revile it — in no case has the United States intervened for malevolent purposes.

Unfortunately, Mr. Romney hasn’t made that claim. Instead, when asked for specifics, he has outlined an Iran policy that doesn’t differ markedly from Mr. Obama’s. When pressed on what he would do differently in Syria, he has trodden so carefully that he has found himself to the left of his party’s internationalist wing. And he has doubled down on the notion that Russia remains a geostrategic threat, without presenting any persuasive evidence that it is.

It’s not that Mr. Romney does not or cannot offer a more compelling vision of American leadership. Having heard him speak privately, and having met him on a few occasions, I believe he has one. Now is the moment to show it.

Mr. Romney must make clear that he has a strategic view of American power that is different from the Obama administration’s narrow and tactical approach. He must tell Americans that he won’t overlook terrorist threats, as the Obama administration did in Benghazi; that he won’t fight to oust a dictator in Libya and ignore the pleas of another revolution in Syria; that he won’t simply denounce Iran’s nuclear program while tacitly legitimizing the country’s theocratic regime and ignoring its opponents; and that he won’t hand out billions of dollars in aid and debt forgiveness to Egypt’s new leaders when the principles of religious and political freedom are being trampled in the streets of Cairo.

Clearly America cannot do everything. But we must always champion our founding beliefs and reject the moral, political and cultural relativism that has flourished under Mr. Obama.

Mr. Romney can make the case that when people fight for their freedom, they will find support — sometimes political, sometimes economic and sometimes military — from the American president. When Russians and Chinese demand accountability from their governments, we can stand with them and work with their governments to further common interests. When terrorists target us, we will not simply eliminate them with drones while ignoring the environment that breeds them. And when our allies look to us for support, we will help them fight for themselves.

Criticisms of Mr. Obama’s national security policies have degenerated into a set of clichés about apologies, Israel, Iran and military spending. To be sure, there is more than a germ of truth in many of these accusations. But these are complaints, not alternatives. Worse yet, they betray the same robotic antipathy that animated Bush-haters. “I will not apologize for America” is no more a clarion call than “let’s nation-build at home.”

Mr. Romney must put flesh on the bones of his calls for a renewed American greatness. With a vision for American power, strategically and judiciously applied, we can continue to do great things with fewer resources. The nation’s greatest strength is not its military power or fantastic productivity. It’s the American commitment to our founding principles of political and economic freedom. If Mr. Romney can outline to voters how he will use American power to advance those principles, he will go a long way in persuading them he deserves the job of commander in chief.
195 2012-10-08 ¶ Travelers Companies, New York, consolidated its account at agencies owned by the Publicis Groupe by shifting media duties like planning, buying and analytics to MediaVest USA, New York, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group, from MediaCom, part of the GroupM division of WPP. Billings were estimated at $100 million. The other Publicis Groupe agencies that work for Travelers are Digitas and Fallon Worldwide.

¶ Unilever, which spends more than $6 billion each year on advertising, completed reviews for its media planning and buying accounts and kept most relationships intact. Mindshare, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, retained local planning and buying in Africa, parts of Asia, Western Europe and North America. PHD, part of the Omnicom Group, kept local planning and buying in other parts of Asia and Eastern Europe. Initiative, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, retained local planning and buying in Latin America, except Brazil, and other parts of Europe. Worldwide communication planning for products in the food, personal care, home care and refreshment categories was assigned to PHD, as expected. Initiative will handle worldwide planning for household care products.

¶ Sun Life Financial, Toronto, said that its United States business group, based in Wellesley Hills, Mass., had selected Doremus, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, to handle its creative and media assignments, which had been handled by the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spending was estimated at $10 million.

¶ Nina Lawrence joined The Wall Street Journal, New York, part of the Dow Jones & Company unit of News Corporation, as vice president of global marketing for advertising sales. She assumes duties from Andy Sippel, who had been vice president for marketing and business development; he left to join the USA Today Sports Media Group, New York, part of the Gannett Company, as senior vice president. Ms. Lawrence had been vice president and publisher at W magazine, New York, part of the Condé Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications.

¶ Steve Mandala joined Univision Communications, New York, as executive vice president for advertising sales, assuming some duties that had been handled by Lisa McCarthy, who had been executive vice president for the client development group; Ms. McCarthy is leaving to form her own consulting company, Univision said. Mr. Mandala had most recently been executive vice president for cable television advertising sales at NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, and before that worked for Telemundo, the Spanish-language network that is the principal competitor of Univision. Mr. Mandala is joining his former NBCUniversal colleagues Randy Falco, now chief executive at Univision, and Keith Turner, now president for sales and marketing at Univision.

¶ A commercial for Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, “The Most Popular Song,” won the Best in Show Award and a $50,000 grand prize at the 2012 Radio Mercury Awards, which are administered by the Radio Creative Fund and produced by the Radio Advertising Bureau. The Marketer of the Year Award was presented to Martine Reardon, chief marketing officer at the Macy’s unit of Macy’s Inc.

¶ Lin TV Corporation, Providence, R.I., opened a headquarters in New York for its RMM digital sales operations. Jamie Elden, senior vice president for sales at RMM, will oversee national sales efforts from the New York office.
196 2012-10-08 CAIRO — The Libyan Parliament voted on Sunday to dismiss the prime minister it chose less than four weeks ago, deepening a leadership crisis at a moment when the country’s transitional authorities are under intense pressure to catch the killers of the American ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens, and to stop the prevailing lawlessness that led to his death.

With the dismissal of Prime Minister Mustafa Abu Shagour, Libya now also effectively lacks ministers of defense and interior, the officials most responsible for apprehending the attackers and reining in the local militias that now control the streets. Former interim ministers still hold those titles, but they were written off months ago as hopelessly weak, and their subordinates now describe them as all but absent; Mr. Abu Shagour’s efforts to win approval for a new cabinet failed.

The government has not managed to question or detain even the most obvious suspects in the attacks on the American diplomatic mission in Benghazi where the ambassador died nearly four weeks ago. Leaders of Ansar al-Shariah, the main militia that witnesses saw mounting the attack, are still at large.

And the evident incapacity of the Libyan authorities, in turn, puts pressure on the Obama administration, which must weigh unilateral military action to capture or kill the attackers against the chance that such steps on Libyan soil could produce a backlash from the only Arab populace that now views Washington positively.

The Benghazi attack is only one of the security issues facing the still-unformed Libyan government. Bani Walid, a major town in the country’s western mountains, remains outside the control of the central authorities, and besieged by militias from Misurata and other cities. They are angry at reports that residents of Bani Walid tortured to death the Misurati fighter who first captured Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. There have also been reports of sporadic clashes between clans in the southern desert region over control of valuable smuggling routes.
197 2012-10-08 Each euro zone government will contribute start-up money in amounts roughly proportionate to the size of the country’s economy. But once they are all in by 2014, those contributions will total only 80 billion euros. The first installments, totaling 32 billion euros, are due this Thursday.

The bazooka is to achieve its full firepower of 500 billion euros by selling European Stability Mechanism bonds in the open market, with the government contributions serving chiefly as collateral. The 500 billion euros are then supposed to backstop euro zone governments by a variety of means, including providing loans, buying those countries’ bonds or providing precautionary lines of credit.

Euro zone member states have not yet agreed on the circumstances under which the fund will be used directly to prop up a country’s commercial banks — as Spain would like — to avoid piling even more debt onto national balance sheets. And until the fund starts selling bonds, there is no way of telling whether investors will buy them.

“Whether the E.S.M. will soon be in a position to lend to troubled sovereigns depends primarily upon market appetite for the vehicle’s bonds,” said Mujtaba Rahman, an analyst at the Eurasia Group. “This is the biggest unknown.”

Inaugurating the fund is not the only thing the euro zone finance ministers, who constitute the fund’s board of governors, will have on their agenda Monday, when they are expected to name Jean-Claude Juncker, Luxembourg’s prime minister, as chairman. They will also be grappling with other pressing euro zone business.

But it is the success, or its lack, of the rescue fund that could have the most lasting impact on the euro zone.

Markets rallied last month after the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, Germany, cleared the way for German participation in the fund by ruling that such involvement would not conflict with national law. But the fact that the matter reached Germany’s highest court indicated the deep dissension in the country about the fund. Many Germans are already wary of paying to prop up countries like Greece and regard the rescue fund as a first step toward the common sharing of debt among euro zone members.

More recently, finance ministers from Germany, Finland and the Netherlands set off new alarms about the fund when they issued a statement proposing that any bank bailouts from it go only toward future problems — not to help clean up current messes. If that proposal gains traction, it could cast doubt on the terms of a bank bailout for Spain, which is expected soon to seek 40 billion euros in rescue loans for its most troubled banks.

“You can’t have these three countries bringing this confusion,” a European diplomat said Friday, speaking on condition of anonymity because talks on how the fund should operate were still going on. The rules “should be settled,” the diplomat said.

But getting any clarity this week seems unlikely.

Using the bazooka to shoot money directly into banks was part of a grand bargain struck in June, when euro area leaders agreed to subject their banks to more robust supervision led by the European Central Bank. Yet that part of the deal now threatens to come apart, too, because France and Germany are deeply divided over how many banks the central bank should oversee.

Even if direct assistance to banks becomes possible in the future and is made the bazooka’s primary function in attacking problems in countries like Spain, Ireland and Cyprus, analysts have cautioned that more money will be needed from the contributing governments.

That would be an unwelcome prospect in fiscally conservative northern countries like Finland, Germany and the Netherlands, where electorates have grown concerned about the cost of bailouts.

Another role for the fund is that of a buyer of government bonds, which would complement the program recently announced by the European Central Bank. The program is aimed at intervening in the bond markets to help hold down a government’s borrowing costs. In turn, that country would need to adhere to strictly monitored budgetary discipline.

At the meeting on Monday, the Spanish finance minister, Luis de Guindos, is expected to discuss additional budget-tightening measures recently announced by his government — which Spanish and some European officials hope can make the country deemed worthy of a bond-buying program. But Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain is unlikely to make any formal requests for assistance until after regional elections in Galicia, on Oct. 21, to avoid voter hostility associated with international lending programs.
198 2012-10-08 “The biggest objective for the revision is to prevent North Korea’s military provocations,” said Chun Yung-woo, the chief national security adviser for President Lee Myung-bak.

With an ability to deploy longer-range missiles or shorter-range missiles with heavier payloads, South Korea can significantly increase its deterrence capabilities, Shin Won-shik, a senior policy maker at the Defense Ministry, said during a news briefing.

North Korea has already deployed a number of missiles, including some capable of hitting the American territory of Guam, in addition to South Korea and Japan, the United States’ two main allies in Asia. In April, North Korea launched its Unha-3 rocket. Although the long-range rocket failed to put a satellite into orbit, the United States and its allies condemned the launching as a cover for developing intercontinental ballistic missiles.

Possible objections from China and Japan were a major concern during the negotiations, and South Korean diplomats have spoken with counterparts in those countries to clarify that the revised policy is not directed against them, officials here said.

Mr. Shin said the United States and South Korea settled for limiting the maximum missile range to 500 miles to avoid “unnecessary misunderstanding and friction with neighboring countries.” He also reconfirmed that South Korea had no plan to join Washington’s missile defense program, which some analysts believe is intended to contain China’s military expansion.

The missile agreement takes place against the backdrop of the United States’ plans to increase its military presence in the Asia-Pacific region, which is a matter of concern in China. There was no immediate comment on Sunday from leaders in China, which is North Korea’s closest ally. But Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, suggested that the extension of the missile range “runs counter to a global arms control agreement known as the Missile Technology Control Regime.”

The so-called missile guidelines, required by the United States in 1979 because of its concern over a regional arms race and revised only once, 11 years ago, had become a major grievance among South Koreans. Officials blamed the restriction for allowing their missile capacity to fall behind that of North Korea’s. Some key military installations in North Korea have been out of the range of South Korea’s ballistic missiles.

The United States has vowed to defend South Korea, but Seoul’s desire to improve its missile capabilities gained urgency as North Korea expanded its nuclear weapons program, tested long-range missiles and carried out provocative military maneuvers, including an artillery barrage on a South Korean island in 2010. President Lee appealed for an American concession when he met President Obama last year and again in March, South Korean officials said.

Many in South Korea, including security analysts and conservative newspapers, had called on the United States to allow the South to develop more powerful missiles so it could use the propulsion and fuel technology to bolster its nascent space program.

They called the missile restrictions a humiliating remnant of Washington’s old patron-protégé relationship with Seoul that they said no longer befit South Korea.

The guidelines announced on Sunday “reconfirmed the limit in South Korea’s diplomacy,” said Lee Byong-chul, senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation here. “South Korean negotiators didn’t secure enough of an opportunity for development in the face of their American counterparts’ Fabian strategy of wearing them out.”

South Korea first agreed to the missile guidelines in 1979 in return for American technological aid in developing its first ballistic missiles. After the South’s repeated requests for a revision, American officials agreed to extend the range to 300 kilometers from 180 kilometers in 2001, only after North Korea launched its Taepodong-1 missile over Japan in 1998.

American restrictions on ballistic missiles do not apply to South Korean cruise missiles.

In April, South Korea’s Agency for Defense Development confirmed that it had developed and deployed a new cruise missile, Hyunmoo-3, that is capable of striking targets anywhere in North Korea. Hyunmoo-3 is said to have a range of up to 1,500 kilometers, about 930 miles. But ballistic missiles fly faster and are thus harder to intercept, according to missile specialists.
199 2012-10-08 Some motorists had begun to direct their frustration at Mr. Brown.

“Consumers in California are getting killed,” Judith Connolly, the owner of a media company, said as she filled up with premium gasoline on Friday. “We’re being penalized, and the rest of the country is paying far less. This is something that Jerry Brown really needs to deal with.”

Problems at several refineries in the state have been blamed for the rising prices. Two months ago, a fire knocked out a 245,000-barrel-a-day refinery in the Bay Area that has still not resumed full production. And last week, a power failure curtailed production at a refinery in Torrance. Full production resumed there on Friday.

Mr. Brown said he hoped that the switch to the winter-blend gasoline, which evaporates more quickly than gasoline sold during the summer smog season, would stop the climb in prices because it could increase fuel supplies in the state by up to 10 percent. Summer-blend gasoline is better for air quality.

Senator Dianne Feinstein also asked the Federal Trade Commission on Sunday to investigate the cause of the price increases.

“California’s consumers are all too familiar with energy price spikes which cannot be explained by market fundamentals and which turn out years later to have been the result of malicious and manipulative trading activity,” Ms. Feinstein, a Democrat, wrote in a letter to the commission’s chairman.

Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, said a combination of factors, including regulations and geography, make gasoline supplies in California volatile. He said the unusually high prices were likely to level off in “days or weeks” and would not spread to the rest of the country. “It is very specific to California,” he said.

Gasoline prices in California are typically higher than in most of the country because of strict environmental regulations. Yet prices around the country also remain high. The national average on Sunday was $3.81 per gallon of regular gasoline, about 42 cents more than a year ago, the AAA said.
200 2012-10-09 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
201 2012-10-09 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Tuesday's selection includes an app that estimates how much money Google and Facebook make from you each year and a report that iPhone users...
202 2012-10-09 A slide in the sales of Microsoft’s Windows product helped trim the bonuses for Steve Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, and Steven Sinofsky, president of the company’s Windows division....
203 2012-10-09 The scarcity of the iPhone 5 is the main reason Apple’s shares, after bursting through the $700 mark in late September, have tumbled nearly 10 percent over the last several weeks, analysts say....
204 2012-10-09 The new district encompasses 330 tenements, row houses, houses of worship, theaters and other, institutional buildings....
205 2012-10-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
206 2012-10-09 October 9, 2012 - Walmart partners with American Express to offer a prepaid debit account and card called "Bluebird".
207 2012-10-09 For nearly a decade, the street artist has been exploring the intersection of classic calligraphy, hand-painted signage and graffiti....
208 2012-10-09 More than four years after the collapse of Lehman, regulators still do not have an adequate process to deal with the critical consequences of a cross-border failure, the authors contend....
209 2012-10-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
210 2012-10-09 Ireland plans a bold move to help struggling homeowners. | The I.M.F. cuts its global growth forecast. | How Wal-Mart found a banking partner in American Express....
211 2012-10-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
212 2012-10-09 Tech’s new battleground pits young companies built for cloud computing against the likes of Oracle and Hewlett-Packard....
213 2012-10-09 The page you are requesting has invalid parameters Click  << Back  to return to the page from which you came.
214 2012-10-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
215 2012-10-09 “Right now, I don’t plan on having any changes to our lineup,” Girardi answered, shaking his head side to side.

Of Rodriguez’s night, Girardi said: “He squared up two balls tonight. You look at the ball he hit in the first inning, he squared it up. And then he had the other hard single. I don’t have any plans to make any changes.”

Rodriguez did indeed hit the ball hard in the first inning with Derek Jeter at second base and Ichiro Suzuki at first and no outs. It was a curling line drive caught by Baltimore’s Robert Andino, which became a double play when Jeter strayed from the base.

In the third inning with Suzuki at first, Rodriguez singled to left but the Yankees did not score in the inning.

But far more pertinent to his job as the No. 3 hitter was Rodriquez’ performance in his next two at-bats.

With one out in the seventh inning Suzuki was again on first base, minutes after the Yankees had cut the Orioles lead to 3-2. There was tension to the moment, a buzz in the ballpark. The Yankees had chased Baltimore starter Wei-Yin Chen, who had been crafty and dauntless for a first-year player in an American postseason situation. It was evident to all at Camden Yards that this was a pivotal moment in the game, maybe even the best-of-five series. Orioles Manager Buck Showalter turned to reliever Darren O’Day.

Rodriguez, standing in the middle of this big moment, struck out with a few misguided, unimposing swings. Two innings later, it was perhaps fitting that Rodriguez ended the game, striking out against Orioles closer Jim Johnson. The Baltimore crowd roared.

It is true that Rodriguez is hardly alone in leaving teammates on base with futile swings. Curtis Granderson looked lost Monday as did Nick Swisher. As a right-handed hitter, Rodriguez gives balance between two left-handers near the top of the lineup: Suzuki and Cano.

But Rodriguez’s failures to advance runners in scoring position continue to be the focus of attention before and after games. That will happen when you have more than 600 career home runs, but a long history of postseason failure — with one mighty impressive exception in 2009.

It may or may not help when Girardi talks about Rodriguez squaring up two pitches as if they were productive results. Did they yield runs batted in or extra-base hits — the things No. 3 hitters are expected to produce?

“I could see it bounding into center field,” Rodriguez said of his first-inning liner, lamenting it as a near miss.

It was a sinking liner that was going to bounce near second base. That is his prominent memory of the game, which may be a way of using positive thinking to move forward. But Yankees fans will more likely recall his final two strikeouts late Monday night.

“I feel fine at the plate,” Rodriguez said as he stood at his locker with a smile. “I’ve got to just keep going. I’ve just got to finish at-bats. I’m getting good swings. If that first-inning ball goes through, it changes the game. I’ve just keep attacking.”

Attacking is not a word many would use to describe his latest at-bats. And a change of scenery — from a different perspective in the lineup — could not possibly hurt him. In other sports, they would call it a change of pace. Or a chance to regroup out of the most direct spotlight.

Earlier Monday, Girardi was asked what Rodriguez needed to do to recover his batting stroke.

“We just need to get him back,” Girardi said. “We need to get him back going. It’s just a matter of getting consistent contact and putting up good at-bats. The one thing he has done is he has taken some walks, and I know when you think about the No. 3 hitter you’re not necessarily saying take some walks. But the bottom line is to keep the line moving and get on base, and he is finding ways to do that.”

Rodriguez put it another way.

“I’ve got to keep finding ways to help Robbie,” he said of Cano.

The No. 3 hitter in one of baseball’s most feared lineups did not speak about finding ways to help himself, which may have been telling.
216 2012-10-09 This word has appeared in 136 New York Times articles in the past year....
217 2012-10-09 Soldiers angry about the killing of an officer on Monday razed buildings and killed more than 30 people believed to be civilians in Maiduguri, a northeastern city. The soldiers belong to a unit in Maiduguri, the spiritual home of Boko Haram, a radical Islamist sect. A soldier who did not identify himself claimed that the attack was a response to a bombing nearby that he said killed a lieutenant.
218 2012-10-09 University officials said that the school’s affirmative action program was needed to build a student body diverse enough to include minority students with a broad range of backgrounds and for the campus to have a “critical mass” of minority students in most classrooms. Interaction among students in class and around campus, said Kedra Ishop, the university’s director of admissions, helps students overcome biases and make contributions to a diverse society. “The role of U.T. ,” Dr. Ishop said, “is to provide leadership to the state.”

The majority opinion in the Grutter case, written by Justice , rejected the use of racial quotas in admissions decisions but said that race could be used as one factor among many, as part of a “holistic review.” Justice O’Connor retired in 2006, and her replacement by Justice may open the way for a ruling cutting back on such race-conscious admissions policies, or eliminating them.

Admissions officers at colleges and universities almost universally endorse the idea that students from diverse backgrounds learn from each other, overcome stereotypes, and in so doing prepare themselves for leadership positions in society. Many critics of affirmative action say that there is at best a weak correlation between race and having a range of views presented in the classroom.

Others say the Constitution does not permit the government to sort people by race, no matter how worthy its goal. “While racial diversity on college campuses is beneficial, it cannot be attained by racial discrimination,” said Edward Blum, an adviser to Ms. Fisher and a driving force behind the Fisher case.

The competing arguments are hard to test, but a recent visit to a freshman seminar at the University of Texas at Austin suggested that the intellectual life of undergraduates there is varied and vibrant.

The course was called Debates on Democracy in America, and the topic that day was Edward P. Jones’s novel about a black slave owner.

It was only the third week of class, but the 18 students, of all sorts of ethnicities and backgrounds, talked easily and earnestly about contemporary echoes of slavery. An Asian student mentioned cheap labor in . A Hispanic one talked about the ways employers in the take advantage of illegal immigrants.

Other comments ran counter to possible stereotypes.

D’wahn Kelley, a black student, said he hesitated to condemn the slave owner in the novel too harshly.

“You’re judged on what you know, not what you don’t know,” he said, referring to the limits of the character’s moral imagination. “If you wanted to be successful, you had a right to own slaves.”

In response, Ashley Vasquez, a Hispanic student, said the she rejected “the whole idea that you have to learn right and wrong.”

“It’s hard for me to think,” she said, “that you can go about your day thinking, ‘Oh, I’m going to own a human being.’ ”

Three-quarters of applicants from are admitted under a program that guarantees admission to the top students in every high school in the state. (Almost everyone calls this the Top Ten program, though the percentage cutoff can vary. Ms. Fisher barely missed the cutoff.) The remaining Texas students and those from elsewhere are considered under standards that take account of academic achievement and other factors, including race and ethnicity.

The Top Ten program has produced substantial racial and ethnic diversity.

In the fall of last year, freshmen who enrolled under the program were 26 percent Hispanic and 6 percent black. Texas is 38 percent Hispanic and 12 percent black.

The practical question in Austin is what eliminating the additional race-conscious admissions program would mean for seminars like the one on democracy, for lecture classes and for interactions in cafeterias and dormitories.

The university said the Top Ten program was a blunt instrument and that classes in many subjects have few or no minority students. It adds that the diversity generated by the Top Ten program is “mostly a product of the fact that Texas high schools remain highly segregated in regions of the state,” which “limits the diversity that can be achieved within racial groups.”

Among the kind of student excluded by the Top Ten program, the university said is “the African-American or Hispanic child of successful professionals in who has strong SAT scores and has demonstrated leadership ability in extracurricular activities but falls in the second decile of his or her high school class (or attends an elite private school that does not rank).”

Ms. Fisher’s lawyers called that “a newly minted interest in elitism dressed up as ‘intra-racial’ diversity.” They added that the university is making the unseemly pitch for “its preferred kind of minorities” at the expense of white students like Ms. Fisher with similar qualifications.

Talking in the hallway after the seminar, Joao Eloy, who was admitted outside the Top Ten program, said he had mixed feelings about the university’s approach. “My only concern is if diversity becomes a priority above merit,” he said, adding that he was wary of any system that “punishes Asians and poor whites, to name a few.”

But Mr. Eloy, who said his heritage was Brazilian (making him Latino but not Hispanic, he said), said classrooms were enriched by a mix of voices. “The different perspectives help a lot,” he said. “It makes it really interesting.”

Nosa Aimuyo, whose parents are Nigerian immigrants and who was also admitted outside the Top Ten program, said race-conscious admissions were needed to address “disparities in opportunity between high schools, which disproportionately affect minorities.”

In an interview in his office in Austin, William C. Powers Jr, the university’s president, said the attributes that the university seeks have many dimensions. “We want diversity in terms of economic background, first generation, geography, inner city, suburban middle class,” he said.

Asked what he would say to Ms. Fisher, whose own background is middle class, about her disappointment at being rejected, Mr. Powers paused for a moment.

“We look at everyone’s holistic characteristics,” he said.

Last month, Ms. Fisher spent a morning chatting with a reporter at a private club in Washington and then took an impromptu tour of the Supreme Court, where the grandeur of the surroundings seemed to bring home to her the gravity of the question she had presented to the justices.

She is working in Austin, where she had wanted to be in the first place, as a financial analyst. She said her college years at Louisiana State had been fine and that she had enjoyed the camaraderie of the bowling team.

But she added that she had lost a benefit that her state’s government had decided to distribute on a basis other than merit.

“The only thing I missed out on was my post-graduation years,” she said. “Just being in a network of U.T. graduates would have been a really nice thing to be in. And I probably would have gotten a better job offer had I gone to U.T.” She said she was trying to come to terms with her role in a case that could reshape American higher education. Asked if she found it interesting or exciting or scary, she said, “All of the above.”

But she did not hesitate to say how she would run an admission system. “I don’t think,” she said, “that we even need to have a race box on the application.”
219 2012-10-09 By 2005, city officials were regularly sending letters to “Messrs. Perez and Schlein” each December, sometimes signed by the department’s commissioner. We are “pleased to inform you that H.P.D. is prepared to enter into exclusive negotiations,” and so on and on.

This tale could soon end, as the city plans to break ground on a mixed-income residential and commercial development on this site. Douglaston Partners, a large developer, will handle the construction and marketing of what will be known as Crossroads Plaza.

And Mr. Schlein and his friends, who are listed as partners of Douglaston, stand to make a nice little bundle, all for placing dibs 17 years ago on a vacant city-owned lot. Neither Mr. Schlein nor his partners returned phone calls requesting interviews. Douglaston also declined to comment.

This is not how the construction of most mixed-income housing towers usually works in New York City. Through four mayoral administrations, New York City’s housing agencies have overseen the greatest urban rebuilding program in the nation’s history.

Typically, city officials solicit bids on public lands, and a host of well-regarded nonprofit and for-profit developers compete for the work. And typically, handsome, mixed-income towers take root — several can be seen on the blocks around this site.

But little about this corner in the South Bronx was typical. City officials say that Mr. Schlein and his partners worked hard to develop the site, spending money on architects and engineers. It would be unfair, a spokeswoman for the department said last week, to “pull the rug out from under” these gentlemen.

In fact, over the years several well-regarded developers of subsidized housing inquired about bidding on that site. Each time, they say, they were told that Mr. Schlein controlled the rights. Why not toss out the underperforming partners?

“It’s pain aversion,” a former city housing official said. “You’d have to go to war with Schlein, and so you think to yourself: ‘I’d rather poke myself in the eye with a hot stick.’ ”

Mr. Schlein has spent a career collecting political i.o.u.’s the way collectors scoop up prized stamps. He was a protégé to the former Bronx Democratic boss Stanley Friedman, who was convicted in the corruption scandals of the late 1980s. He lobbied for the Yankees when they wanted to build on a public park and for election-machine companies. He advised the Rev. Al Sharpton during his presidential campaign and handled an apartment purchase for the former mayoral candidate Fernando Ferrer.

He was also in the hotel suite with Mr. Bloomberg on election night 2001, calling in chits. Afterward, the new mayor appointed Mr. Schlein as the $63,000-per-year chairman of the city’s Civil Service Commission.

All of which brings us to the final complication, or, perhaps more to the point, the final embarrassment.

A few years back, the city Conflicts of Interest Board fined Mr. Schlein $15,000 for using his city office as a de facto law office, making more than 2,000 phone calls related to his private business. Mr. Schlein resigned in 2006.

Mr. Schlein also served as a court-appointed fiduciary, a lucrative billet open to loyal Democratic Party worthies. That too ended badly. In 2006, the Office of Court Administration barred him from taking new assignments, as he had apparently badly handled the finances of the infirm and the elderly.

Asked recently about Mr. Schlein’s missteps, Catie Marshall, the spokeswoman for the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said city housing officials learned of Mr. Schlein’s checkered background in August when they conducted a “sponsor review.” A few weeks ago, she said, they told him to withdraw from the project.

What remains unclear is why city officials were so solicitous of Mr. Schlein’s struggles with this lot, and remain so unaware of his later troubles.
220 2012-10-09 But as in many areas of life, overreliance can lead to abuse. Americans have a cultural fascination with technology. Patients often have greater confidence in the technology than in a doctor’s clinical skills and judgment where interpretation of the findings matters most. Inappropriate use of antibiotics has led to the spread of drug-resistant microbes that threaten to undo many of the gains the antibiotics have achieved.

Until recently, “see one, do one, teach one” was a mantra of medical education. In a vast improvement, students and doctors-in-training now can learn and develop basic skills on simulators that are programmed to mimic many problems. Doctors can practice repeatedly until they become comfortable with a technique; learning can take place at any time of day. But technology has yet to perfect medical education.

A horse-drawn ambulance displayed at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan reminds us what mobile units were like a little more than a century ago until motors replaced horses in ambulances.

More recently, ambulances were redesigned to hold the equipment to perform electrocardiograms, deliver electric shocks to reorder heart rhythms, and inject drugs to dissolve blood clots and stop heart attacks in progress. A large corps of emergency medical technicians grew up; E.M.T.’s can handle almost any kind of medical emergency. Helicopters transport bleeding accident victims and those with precarious vital signs and in impending physiologic shock to hospitals.

Mobile units require the health team to know when to give various drugs and use certain devices — and just as important, when not to. With the type of emergencies E.M.T.’s handle, speed is essential. Those decisions are aided by communications between the mobile units and a hospital base.

In London in the mid-1970s, my eyes popped when I saw the earliest computerized X-ray scans of the head. I wrote perhaps the first news article about a technique that eliminated need for one of the most painful diagnostic tests — injecting air to outline the contour of the brain’s inner structures in standard X-rays.

The computerized scans penetrate the skull to provide previously unobtainable detail. CT scans can help detect tumors and abscesses and distinguish strokes caused by bleeding and blood clots — a critical step in determining what treatment to deliver. Full-body CT scans came along, as did the radiation-free technology of magnetic resonance imaging. The combination of various scans has eliminated need for many exploratory operations on the abdomen and led to development of newer operations and procedures, often aided by lasers.

But there can be too much of a good thing. Doctors may order a test because it is available or out of habit. Doctors were long taught to examine patients and then to order tests based on the various ailments they suspected a patient might have. Now, many doctors order CT X-ray scans and other costly tests before they even meet a patient. But the practice can be wasteful, subjects patients to unnecessary radiation and often creates a need for additional tests when an incidental finding is made simply to chase down a possible finding of unlikely significance.

At the same time, the advances have caused friction within the medical profession as various specialties vie for who should do what procedures.

As technology has come to dominate medical practice, the autopsy rate has fallen largely in the belief that post-mortem examinations are no longer needed because of the accuracy of imaging and other techniques. However, studies have shown that autopsies detect many mistakes made in everyday medical practice, in part from the limits of technology.

Chronic renal dialysis, developed at the University of Washington in Seattle in 1960, extended the lives of people with kidney failure and led to creation of a community-based committee to determine who among the many patients needing it would get it. The committee, whose anonymous members had to decide who lived and who died, became known as the God Committee. Problems in delivering the costly, lifesaving technology spawned the field of bioethics, which has dealt with the many predicaments of dialysis and, subsequently, organ transplantation and myriad other therapies like in vitro fertilization. The added costs from the new technologies have expanded the need for cost-benefit and policy analyses.

Health workers have relied on techniques like freeze-drying to deliver vaccines to children in areas where such preventions had not been feasible or had been too costly. The smallpox vaccine was developed in 1796. But it took modern technologies like transportation; improved pharmaceutical techniques to produce reliable vaccine; and bifurcated needles to collect and deliver small drops of the vaccine, in addition to new epidemiological strategies to eradicate the viral disease.
221 2012-10-09 Cespedes was able to laugh off the incident, but some of his A’s teammates were not nearly as amused. The Tigers, of course, were not particularly offended.

“We were cracking up in the dugout,” pitcher Max Scherzer told reporters after the game. “We were like, ‘Did he really just kiss the ball?’ Alburquerque does some crazy things on the mound.”

A day later, as both teams gathered for workouts in before Game 3 on Tuesday night, players were still sorting out what Alburquerque did.

“I know he meant nothing by it,” said Oakland’s Brandon Inge, an infielder who was a teammate of Alburquerque’s a year ago. “He’s just funny. I’ve known him a long time. He makes me laugh because of stuff like that. At the same time, you can’t do that stuff.”

Looking ahead to Game 3, Inge added: “There’s no retaliation. Who are you going to retaliate against? It’s a pitcher. Our retaliation is to win three in a row.”

Oakland’s Jonny Gomes, a designated hitter and outfielder, said: “If you let that bother you 1 percent, that’s 1 percent too many. That’s why there’s baseball gods. Baseball gods take care of that kind of stuff.”

Alburquerque spoke briefly to reporters Monday and said his teammates knew that his kiss came “within the emotions of the game.”

“I was just excited to get the out,” he said.

Don Kelly, a Tigers outfielder, said: “He was just caught up in the moment. I’ve never seen anybody kiss a baseball. It was interesting. I don’t know if he’s ever going to do it again.”

The Tigers’ Gerald Laird, a designated hitter and catcher, said the team had addressed the matter. “We joked with him,” Laird said. “Some of the veterans talked to him.”

A 26-year-old reliever from the , Alburquerque has quite a legend to live up to when it comes to Fidrych, the 1976 American League rookie of the year.

Fidrych did not stop at talking to the ball. He manicured the mound to remove cleat marks, tossed back balls to umpires that he thought had hits in them, and strutted around the mound after outs.

Characters like Fidrych, who died in 2009 at 54, have been few and far between ever since. , a well-traveled reliever, is probably the closest comparison, and he was quickly encouraged to curtail his antics, which included leaping over the baselines, throwing down the rosin bag hard onto the field and drawing three crosses on the dirt of the mound. Off the field, he continued to be off the wall, offering to play his final season for free and asking that his contract be for $9,999,999.99 in honor of his chosen jersey number, 99.

Another free spirit, , actually outdid Alburquerque in one of the more improvised plays ever seen in baseball. On May 14, 2008, Ramirez, then with , made an over-the-shoulder grab of a long fly ball at Yards, climbed up onto the outfield wall to stop his momentum, high-fived a fan in the stands, and then turned back toward the field and doubled a runner off first.

Ramirez, being Manny, saw the gesture less as an insult to his opponents and more as a chance to secure a spot on the All-Star team.

“I think, you know, that’s how you get your All-Star vote,” Ramirez told reporters after the game. “I’m pretty sure that guy’s going to vote for me.“

This is actually the second postseason in a row in which Alburquerque has created a stir. Last year, after a strong rookie campaign, he was hammered in Game 1 of an American League division series against the . When one fan then called WFAN, a New York sports-talk station, to discuss Alburquerque, the host, Mike Francesa, initially insisted that no player named Alburquerque existed.

But clearly he does. Look for him again in this postseason, but maybe not kissing any more baseballs.
222 2012-10-09 , the Republican presidential candidate, has called repeatedly during his campaign for a more confrontational approach to China on business issues, although he has focused his warnings more on Chinese currency market interventions than on the activities of the nation’s telecommunications companies.

has also taken a tougher stance on China recently. Late last month, Mr. Obama, through the Committee on Foreign Investment, ordered a Chinese company to divest itself of interests in four wind farm projects near a Navy base in where training takes place. It was the first time a president had blocked such a deal in 22 years.

The Obama administration has also filed a case at the in accusing China of unfairly subsidizing its exports of autos and auto parts, the ninth trade action the administration has brought against China.

“We have a process that is not aimed at one specific company but using all the assets and parts of U.S. government aimed at protecting our telecommunications and critical infrastructure,” a senior White House official said.

The report was released on Monday morning at a news conference held by

Representative Mike Rogers, Republican of , the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, and Representative C. A. Ruppersberger of , the top Democrat on the committee.

They said that the United States government should be barred from doing business with Huawei and ZTE and that American companies should avoid buying their equipment.

The report said the committee had obtained internal documents from former employees of Huawei that showed it supplied services to a “ ” unit in the People’s Liberation Army.

The United States government, the report said, should go through the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, an interagency panel that reviews the national security implications of foreign investments, to carry out its recommendations. It also said that committee should block any mergers and acquisitions involving the Chinese companies and American businesses.

In the course of the investigation, the House committee said it had uncovered evidence of economic espionage — and officials said on Monday that they planned to hand over the evidence to the

Former and current employees for Huawei, the report said, told investigators for the committee that the company had committed “potential violations” in the United States related to , bribery, corruption and copyright infringement.

Huawei has been the focus of criticism and security warnings for years, including by the Defense Department. Its expansion plans in the United States have faced resistance from Congress over questions about its ties to the military in China.

Huawei denies being financed to undertake research and development for the Chinese military, and its executives have repeatedly insisted that they have nothing to hide. The company issued an open letter to the United States government in February 2011, asking for an inquiry to clear up what it characterized as misperceptions about its history and business operations.

At the news conference, Mr. Rogers and Mr. Ruppersberger said they told the Chinese companies that they had to be more transparent but were disappointed by incomplete and contradictory responses to their questions. Mr. Rogers said the committee was concerned that the companies were extensions of the Chinese government because they were so heavily financed by it.

In testimony before the House committee in September, officials from both Huawei and ZTE said that supposed “back doors” in its software that provided unauthorized access to American companies’ computers were flaws, not intentional vulnerabilities.

But Mr. Rogers said the companies had been told to tell the Chinese to “stop hacking” into American companies and infrastructure if they wanted to do business in the United States.

“The world is a changed place,” Mr. Rogers said. “We better have faith and confidence in our network.”

In a statement, Huawei condemned the committee’s investigation and report. “Unfortunately, the committee’s report not only ignored our proven track record of network security in the United States and globally, but also paid no attention to the large amount of facts that we have provided,” Huawei said in its statement, later adding that “the report released by the committee today employs many rumors and speculations to prove nonexistent accusations.”

Huawei has had considerable success in winning large telecommunications contracts in and in emerging markets. But it has had little success in the United States, where politicians have long worried, despite Huawei’s denials, that it might be used for Chinese eavesdropping or other cyberwarfare activities.

The company was founded in 1987 by Ren Zhengfei, a former officer of the People’s Liberation Army and a military technology researcher who has run it ever since. The company is owned by its employees and, unlike many Chinese corporations, has chosen not to sell shares in or the United States, which would equire financial disclosures.

ZTE said on Monday that it “had set an unprecedented standard for cooperation by any Chinese company” with a Congressional investigation.

“ZTE is China’s most transparent, independent, globally focused, publicly traded telecom company,” the company said in a statement.

At a regularly scheduled news conference in on Monday before the release of the report in Washington, Hong Lei, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said “I hope the United States will respect the facts, abandon prejudice and do more things conducive to China-U.S. economic and trade cooperation, rather than the opposite.”
223 2012-10-09 As the investigations gain momentum, the relationship between the Socialists and Mr. Samaras’s New Democracy party, “is that of the scorpion and the frog,” Mr. Boukalas said. “It’s in their nature for one to sting the other” until both sink.

“They might be forced allies now, but each other’s value is based on the devaluation of the other,” he added. “However, if the Socialists completely fall apart, there goes the government; New Democracy and Democratic Left alone cannot hold it together,” a reference to a smaller third party in the coalition.

The investigations have also revealed the close ties between Greece’s political establishment and its oligarchs and business elite. There is growing public outrage that no Greek government wanted to touch the infamous list of 1,991 Greeks with accounts at a Geneva branch of the global bank HSBC that the French government gave Greece in 2010 to crack down on tax evasion.

After Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told The Financial Times last month that the list appeared to have gone missing in the Finance Ministry, one of his predecessors, George Papaconstantinou, gave an interview on Greek television saying that he had received the list in late 2010 from Christine Lagarde, then the French finance minister and now the managing director of the International Monetary Fund. He said he had given a handful of names from the list to the chief of Greece’s financial crimes unit in early 2011 and the full list to that official’s successor, Ioannis Diotis, in June of that year.

Speaking to Parliament’s ethics committee last week, Mr. Diotis said he had received a memory stick with the names from Mr. Papaconstantinou in June 2011, the month the finance minister left office. Mr. Diotis said that he had passed the list to Mr. Papaconstantinou’s successor, Evangelos Venizelos, the current Socialist leader, but that Mr. Venizelos had not instructed him to investigate it. Mr. Diotis also suggested that the list appeared to have been obtained illegally and might not have been usable in an investigation.

On Monday, the committee said it would summon the current and three former finance ministers to testify about the list. In a television interview last week, a furious Mr. Venizelos said he had handed the memory stick to Mr. Samaras when he realized that no investigative agencies had a copy. On Monday, he said he never received the list from Mr. Papaconstantinou.

Beyond the memory stick’s contents, the claims and counterclaims reveal “a difficult period, the most difficult we’ve had since the war, and you find very few exemplary figures in public life,” said Thanos Veremis, a professor and a co-author of a history of modern Greece. “There’s also fear — fear that they will be accused of this, that or the other — so they behave accordingly.”

That much was clear last month when the Greek news media published a list of 36 politicians who were ostensibly under investigation on corruption charges. It included the speaker of Parliament, who temporarily stepped down on Sept. 24, and several former ministers and mayors. It was also believed to include Leonidas Tzanis, 57, a Socialist politician and former deputy minister. Mr. Tzanis’s wife found him dead in the basement of their house, where he had apparently hanged himself on Thursday, days before he was expected to testify to the authorities, the Greek news media reported.

Greece’s financial crimes unit has not confirmed the existence of the list but has not denied that it is investigating politicians for corruption. It did not respond to requests for comment.

In another investigation, the authorities are looking at a list of 54,000 people who transferred nearly $29 billion abroad since 2009 and, in 15,000 cases, declared income significantly smaller than that found in the foreign accounts.

After 40 years in which the Socialists and New Democracy alternated rule before their traditional support dropped by half, punished by austerity-weary voters in elections last spring, analysts said the investigations could turn into the kind of bribery scandal that brought down Italy’s political establishment in the early 1990s, leaving a vacuum eventually filled by Silvio Berlusconi.

But in Greece, it remains to be seen what new political forces might emerge. The political landscape has already been radically transformed by the debt crisis and three years of austerity, during which the gross domestic product has dropped 25 percent and unemployment has hit 50 percent for young people and 25 percent over all.

In last spring’s elections, the neo-Nazi party, Golden Dawn, a growing antipolitical force that preys on fears of illegal immigration and has accused the mainstream parties of corruption, earned seats in Parliament. Last week during a parliamentary session, members of Golden Dawn shouted at their Socialist colleagues, calling them thieves who had stolen from the country for 20 years.

The main opposition party, the leftist Syriza, is finding its footing. It placed second in the elections.

Mr. Boukalas, the political columnist, said Greek politicians accused of corruption used to stay out of the public eye before re-emerging, wagging their fingers at others to “regain their virginity.” With the old leadership in disarray, that strategy no longer worked, he said.

“There is this lake in Argos where Hera would take a swim after every copulation session with Zeus, so she would always be a virgin,” he said, adding, “This lake doesn’t exist anymore. It was dried up in a public works project.”
224 2012-10-09 The stock market slipped in light Columbus Day trading on Monday, pulling back from its highest levels in close to five years as investors braced for an earnings season that is expected to be weak.

Stocks also came under some pressure after the World Bank cut its growth forecasts for the East Asia and Pacific region and warned that the slowdown in China could worsen and last longer than many analysts expected.

Analysts expect third-quarter earnings to fall for the first time in three years even though the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 5.8 percent during the quarter. Such a grim forecast might call into question whether the market’s rally can be sustained.

“Certainly there have been a lot of downward revisions in earnings in general,” said Peter Jankovskis, co-chief investment officer of OakBrook Investments. “Some people are predicting that we may see an overall decline in earnings, so there may be some defensive posturing and profit-taking.”

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 26.50 points, or 0.19 percent, to close at 13,583.65. 

The S.& P. 500 lost 5.05 points, or 0.35 percent, to 1,455.88. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 23.84 points, or 0.76 percent, to end at 3,112.35.
225 2012-10-10 Douglas Braunstein, who has been chief financial officer since 2010, will give up his post, but is expected to remain at the bank, according to two senior bank officials....
226 2012-10-10 When Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. takes the debate stage on Thursday night, he will probably not be able to erase all of Mitt Romney’s gains after his debate performance in Denver last week....
227 2012-10-10 Since the recession ended, a steady increase in tourism in New York City has fueled steady job growth in hotels and restaurants, while Wall Street has been shedding jobs....
228 2012-10-10 Over the years, I've loved and lost enough great bars to make me all misty eyed. Here are the 10 that I miss most....
229 2012-10-10 Realogy Holdings priced its initial public offering on Wednesday at $27 a share, according to people briefed on the matter, hitting the top of its price range as the the real estate giant that runs Century 21 returns to the public markets....
230 2012-10-10 Significant discounts on the Nissan Leaf, Chevrolet Volt and other advanced-powertrain vehicles are making high gas prices easier to bear for some Californians....
231 2012-10-10 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
232 2012-10-10 A global market for online work lets good workers in bad places snatch business from better-performing environments, Quentin Hardy writes on Bits....
233 2012-10-10 Senator Claire McCaskill's campaign released new ads that feature women who said they were rape victims who criticized Representative Todd Akin for his opposition to allowing sexual assault victims to have access to emergency contraception....
234 2012-10-10 This week, at ISS World Americas, an annual surveillance trade show in Washington, law enforcement agents from around the world will gather to learn about the latest in computer spyware. What they will not hear is how, in several cases, that softw...
235 2012-10-10 Raul Ibanez, pinch-hitting for Alex Rodriguez, hit a home run in the ninth inning to tie the game and another in the 12th inning to give the Yankees a 2-1 series lead over the Orioles....
236 2012-10-10 Mr. Issenberg's book "The Victory Lab" tells the story of a revolution in targeting potential voters....
237 2012-10-10 Our new expert this week, Kalman A. Chany, will be answering college financial aid questions specifically geared to older parents. Mr. Chany is president of Campus Consultants, a Manhattan-based financial aid advisory company he founded in 1981, and is also the author of “Paying for College Without Going Broke” (Random House/Princeton Review Books), currently in its 20th edition.

Among the topics he expects to address for our readers:

How distributions from retirement accounts impact financial aid. Should one focus on saving for retirement or saving for a child’s college? The impact of Social Security benefits on financial aid. The impact of grandparents’ paying for college directly (estate planning versus aid planning). The impact of 529s owned by a grandparent-aunt-uncle on financial aid.

Please leave your questions in the comments section. Mr. Chany’s answers will appear on Booming next Wednesday. [Update: Mr. Chany’s answers are here. This feature is now closed to questions.]
238 2012-10-10 Angela Merkel's attempt at a "Nixon moment" in Greece. | Why analysts think the "fiscal cliff" could be a "fiscal slope." | A bigger paycheck on Wall Street....
239 2012-10-10 Dr. Robert J. Lefkowitz is the eighth alumnus of the storied public high school to win a Nobel....
240 2012-10-10 The growth of online staffing companies, which connect freelancers with remote clients for software and accounting jobs, could change qualifications for hiring....
241 2012-10-10 The action, over a fire hazard, affects 7.4 million vehicles worldwide, including 2.5 million in the United States....
242 2012-10-10 Software paints a portrait of greenhouse gas emissions from residential and factory buildings in specific urban areas....
243 2012-10-10 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
244 2012-10-10 It can take months to decipher everyone's feelings about what should be done with the family business....
245 2012-10-10 In a step toward resolving tensions between Washington and Beijing over accounting by Chinese companies, American regulators said Tuesday that they had reached an agreement to let them begin observing corporate audits in China.

The agreement, announced by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, an auditing watchdog based in Washington, fell short of the full access the board wanted to inspect and examine Chinese audits of American-listed corporations.

The board and Chinese authorities “have signed an agreement to proceed with observational visits. We expect them to take place within the next couple of months,” a spokeswoman for the board, Colleen Brennan, said.

American regulators want access in China to inspect audit companies that check the books of companies based in China that are listed on American exchanges, but China has resisted, citing sovereignty concerns.

The accounting oversight board’s chairman, James R. Doty, has repeatedly said that a plan for such inspections had to be in place by the end of this year.

Paul Gillis, a professor at Peking University’s Guanghua School of Management, called Tuesday’s agreement “a face-saving way to kick the can down the road,” arguing the accounting oversight board might decide to extend its year-end deadline for a full inspection deal.
246 2012-10-10 BUENOS AIRES — Venezuelan secret service agents detained the Argentine television journalist Jorge Lanata and his crew for two hours in the basement of the Caracas international airport on Monday, Mr. Lanata said.

Only after the agents had erased his video of the Venezuelan elections, he said, were the journalists permitted to leave the country.

“We are very shaken,” Mr. Lanata told reporters upon landing at Ezeiza Airport just outside Buenos Aires late Monday.

Mr. Lanata, host of the Sunday news show “Periodismo Para Todos,” or “Journalism for Everyone,” is a harsh critic of the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chávez, who was re-elected on Sunday.

The Argentine crew was returning to Buenos Aires from Venezuela on a regularly scheduled commercial flight after traveling to Caracas to cover the election.

Mr. Lanata said that he was interrogated by the secret service, which accused him of espionage for broadcasting written orders putting him under surveillance while in Caracas.
247 2012-10-10 The Italian cabinet on Tuesday dismissed the entire local government of the southern city of Reggio Calabria to prevent Mafia infiltration. Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri made the announcement immediately after the authorities found evidence that several City Council members had ties to the ’Ndrangheta, the powerful Calabrian organized crime group. A provincial capital with 180,000 inhabitants, Reggio Calabria is the largest city ever to have its city government dissolved, although many smaller cities in the region have met the same fate. The city, which is also facing a steep budget deficit, will be placed in receivership for 18 months until new elections are held. “We have the will to restore the country to legality,” Ms. Cancellieri said. “Without legality, there is no development.”
248 2012-10-10 When Republicans began questioning ’s birth certificate four years ago, it seemed at first like a petulant reaction to a lost election, a flush of nativist and racist anger that would diminish over time. But the preposterous charges never went away. As this election cycle shows, many in the continue to see the president as the center of a broad and malevolent liberal conspiracy to upend the truth.

To live and seethe in that world of conspiracy theories means rejecting any form of objective reality. When unemployment numbers make the administration look good, they are obviously “cooked.” When poll numbers put Mr. Obama ahead, they are skewed. Birth certificates are forgeries. Safety-net programs are giveaways to supporters. reform is socialism. And campaign donation disclosure is antibusiness.

It’s an upside-down version of life, and it is not innocuous. When desperation leads political critics of the president to discredit important nonpolitical institutions — including the , the , the Federal Reserve and the — the damage can be long-lasting. If voters come to mistrust the most basic functions of government, the resulting cynicism can destroy the basic compact of citizenship.

Last week, the Labor Department reported that the unemployment rate had fallen to 7.8 percent, depriving Mitt Romney of his standard talking point that the rate had never been below 8 percent during Mr. Obama’s term. No one expected Republicans to celebrate a positive trend for the country, but almost immediately the anchors on and the editors of right-wing Web sites saw something more sinister: a conspiracy, led by the Obama campaign, to manipulate the numbers to make the president look good a month before the election.

The charge was absurd. The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which along with the Census Bureau conducts the underlying household survey, is run by career civil servants and is impervious to political pressure and manipulation, as all but the hypnotized in Washington understand. But, this time, the conspiracy theorists went beyond the usual suspects. , the former chief executive of , said Mr. Obama’s Chicago staff obviously changed the numbers, though he had no evidence of chicanery beyond the outrageous charge that the numbers came from an “ideologue division of the federal government.”

To Mr. Welch and his fellow cynics, the facts were inconvenient, so they had to be wrong. And not just wrong, but deliberately so. That’s the same mentality that led ideologues last month to accuse independent pollsters of deliberately skewing polls to show Mr. Obama ahead, though no such charges are emerging now that Mr. Romney is improving in the polls. And this trend is reinforced when people who know better, like and Senator , trash the civil servants at the State Department and the Congressional Budget Office. (Mr. Romney, to his , did not question the latest jobless figures.)

Democrats aren’t happy about the latest polls, but they aren’t suggesting Mr. Romney is manipulating them, just as they didn’t undermine the Bureau of Labor Statistics when the jobless numbers were high. Many are far more worried about a conspiracy that is verifiable and serious: the concerted effort by Republicans over the last four years to deprive minorities, poor people and other likely Democratic supporters of their voting rights.
249 2012-10-10 Re “Race and College Admissions, Facing a New Test by Justices” (front page, Oct. 9), about the Supreme Court affirmative action case, to be heard on Wednesday, involving the University of Texas at Austin:

You quote a student as saying race-conscious admissions were needed to address “disparities in opportunity between high schools, which disproportionately affect minorities.”

Why, though, should minorities get an advantage and non-minorities the opposite? Those applicants on the wrong end of the disparities in opportunity should be considered more favorably, but that is completely independent of race. There may be a correlation, but there are plenty of whites facing hardship, economic or otherwise, and plenty of minorities who aren’t.

Institutions should give the benefit of extra consideration to those who have made the best of limited opportunities. To give that benefit to someone solely on the basis of race is the very definition of racism. Isn’t that exactly what we’re trying to avoid?

The writer is a student at the University of Wisconsin.

Re “Moving Beyond Affirmative Action” (Op-Ed, Oct. 5): Thomas J. Espenshade points out that only 1 percent of all Hispanic and black 18-year-olds benefit from affirmative action. Having been at a university that practiced affirmative action, I can say that that 1 percent makes a huge difference in terms of campus culture and the lives of their own families and future families.

Those 1 percent become leaders in their communities, and they will lead many more to higher education. Mr. Espenshade says more minority students report their experiences to be negative than do white students. As a minority student, I, too, had a more nuanced college experience, but that doesn’t mean that I have not benefited immensely from graduating from an elite private university.
250 2012-10-10 Chevron, the second-largest American oil company after Exxon Mobil, warned Tuesday that its third-quarter earnings would be “substantially lower” than in the second quarter.

The company said in its interim earnings update that its oil production fell in the first two months of the quarter and that it had received a lower price for the oil it sold.

In addition, Chevron said, its revenue from refining and marketing dropped as a fire damaged its refinery in Richmond, Calif., and Hurricane Isaac disrupted production at a refinery in Mississippi.

American production fell by 19,000 barrels a day in the first two months of the quarter, largely because of the hurricane, the company said. International production dropped as well. The average price Chevron realized for a barrel of oil in the United States dropped to $95.44 in July and August, compared with $103.91 in the quarter from April through June. For international oil, the price dropped to $96.86 from $99.21.

Charges for the quarter are expected to be higher as well, and foreign currency losses will hurt results.

In the second quarter, Chevron, based in San Ramon, Calif., earned $7.2 billion, or $3.66 a share. Analysts had forecast net income of $6.2 billion, or $3.08 a share, for the third quarter, according to FactSet.

Chevron is scheduled to report its third-quarter results on Nov. 2.

The company issued its warning after the stock market had closed. In after-hours trading, Chevron’s shares fell 1.3 percent to $115.84. Chevron’s shares reached a high, closing at $117.96, last Tuesday. The stock is up about 10 percent so far this year compared with a gain of nearly 9 percent for Exxon Mobil.
251 2012-10-10 Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi said Tuesday that he would not seek re-election next spring in order to regroup the center-right, regain disaffected voters and pose a viable challenge to the center-left, which is leading in opinion polls. Acknowledging that some centrist parties were reluctant to hitch their wagon to his, Mr. Berlusconi said he was “ready to stand aside, to allow all moderates to unite in a single force that can face the left.” He said he could continue in politics, grooming a crop of young lawmakers. “I only want the good of the country I love,” he told a morning show on Channel 5, which he owns. “I have never had any personal political ambition.”
252 2012-10-10 You leave few cabaret evenings feeling exhilarated after peering into the souls of more than a dozen musical theater characters, all embodied by the same singer. “The Other Woman: The Vixens of Broadway,” the title of Betty Buckley’s new show at Feinstein’s at Loews Regency, refers, she explained last week, not just to mistresses, bad girls and femmes fatales but also to characters played by second female leads.

The show, rich in musical theater lore and spicy autobiographical tidbits, is the sequel to last year’s revelatory “Ah Men! The Boys of Broadway” in which Ms. Buckley considered famous theater songs introduced by male characters from a lighthearted feminist perspective.

Both shows are master classes in how a singer arrives at the right balance of the self, the personality of a song and the character who sings it. The upbeat program opened with a two-fisted “When You’re Good to Mama,” the brazen, ominous self-advertisement of a corrupt prison matron from “Chicago,” followed by a flirtatious “I Cain’t Say No,” the boy-crazy Ado Annie’s signature number from “Oklahoma!”

Never once did Ms. Buckley judge her characters harshly or make fun of them. Although she has her regal side, this show, written by Eric Kornfeld, brings out her streak of mischievous playfulness. And the frisky, pop-jazz arrangements created by the pianist Christian Jacob and featuring Vic Juris’s guitar, gave her ample room to romp around without losing her footing.

When Ms. Buckley softens her imperious belting, her voice cracks open to reveal an empathetic vulnerability. It enabled her to find the tender essence of “Something Wonderful” (from “The King and I”), a vow of steadfast loyalty by the head wife of a polygamous monarch.

A buried gem was Little Red Riding Hood’s “I Know Things Now,” from “Into the Woods,” with its zinger about her loss of sexual innocence — “Isn’t it nice to know a lot!/And a little bit not” — which Ms. Buckley delivered with a wink.
253 2012-10-10 A qualified majority of all 27 European Union finance ministers would have to approve the measure for the tax to take effect among those nations that support it. Mr. Semeta said that step could be taken at the next meeting of the finance ministers, in November.

Such a tax has been under discussion for decades, and the idea is closely associated with James Tobin, an economist who proposed a version of it in the 1970s and received a Nobel in economic science in 1981.

In the United States, the tax has become a rallying point for labor unions, nongovernmental organizations and the Occupy Wall Street movement, which view it as a way to claw back money from the top wage earners. Last year, demonstrators urged the leaders of the Group of 20 nations to do more to help the poor, including passing a tax on financial transactions.

Mr. Semeta has already proposed legislation that would impose a tax of 0.1 percent on the value of all stock and bond trades, and of 0.01 percent on all derivatives trades. That could raise 57 billion euros ($74 billion) annually, or about 0.5 percent of European Union output, if it were applied across the bloc.

But with fewer than half of those countries expected to participate — and without the revenue from the tax that could be generated by Britain — the amount would probably be significantly less.

Britain opposes the measure, fearing that it could drive business from the City of London, a world financial center.

But Britain would probably have a partial exemption because only trades between British banks and those in countries that adopted the system would be taxed. Many specialists contend this would push even more financial business toward the City, as banks seek a base in a no-tax country.

“This is giving a present to London, the best present you can imagine,” said Karel Lannoo, the chief executive of the Center for European Policy Studies, a research organization.

The drive for investment bankers, hedge fund managers and high-frequency traders to pay for the economic difficulties had become a paramount concern, Mr. Lannoo said. Politicians “see there is pressure to do something about the financial sector,” he said.

European officials said Tuesday that George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, would not oppose the measure as long as Britain was allowed a partial exemption from the plan.

Sweden and the Netherlands also have shown no interest in applying a new European tax.

“We still think that the financial transaction tax is a very dangerous tax,” Anders Borg, the Swedish finance minister, said. “It will have a negative impact on growth.”

The Dutch finance minister, Jan Kees de Jager, said his country was “not in favor of a financial transaction tax” and was “even reluctant about introduction in other countries.”

Mr. Semeta acknowledged on Tuesday that the countries seeking to introduce the tax did not agree on how, exactly, the revenue would be spent.

“Of course the big question is how the money will be used, but first we need to agree on the tax itself,” he said.

Mr. Semeta said some countries still would like to use some of the money to supplement financing for overseas aid projects, while others want to use it to help offset their contributions to the annual European Union budget of about 140 billion euros.

The opposition from Britain and Sweden led the biggest supporters of the tax, Germany and France, to push hard for a procedure known in European Union jargon as enhanced cooperation. It allows a core group of European nations to proceed with policies that other nations oppose. A minimum of nine nations is required for the commission to write legislation.

In recent days, Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Portugal and Slovenia pledged their support for the levy. On Monday, they were joined by Greece. On Tuesday, Italy, Spain, Slovakia and Estonia pledged support.
254 2012-10-10 That Ms. Yousafzai’s voice could be deemed a threat to the Taliban — that they could see a schoolgirl’s death as desirable and justifiable — was seen as evidence of both the militants’ brutality and her courage.

“She symbolizes the brave girls of Swat,” said Samar Minallah, a documentary filmmaker who has worked among Pashtun women. “She knew her voice was important, so she spoke up for the rights of children. Even adults didn’t have a vision like hers.”

Ms. Yousafzai came to public attention in 2009 as the Pakistani Taliban swept through Swat, a picturesque valley once famed for its music and tolerance and as a honeymoon destination.

Her father ran one of the last schools to defy Taliban orders to end female education. As an 11-year-old, Malala — named after a mythic female figure in Pashtun culture — wrote an anonymous blog documenting her experiences for the BBC. Later, she was the focus of documentaries by The New York Times and other media outlets.

“I had a terrible dream yesterday with military helicopters and the Taliban,” she wrote in one post titled “I Am Afraid.”

The school was eventually forced to close, and Ms. Yousafzai was forced to flee to Abbottabad, the town where Osama bin Laden was killed last year. Months later, in summer 2009, the Pakistani Army launched a sweeping operation against the Taliban that uprooted an estimated 1.2 million Swat residents.

The Taliban were sent packing, or so it seemed, as fighters and their commanders fled into neighboring districts or Afghanistan. An uneasy peace, enforced by a large military presence, settled over the valley.

Ms. Yousafzai grew in prominence, becoming a powerful voice for the rights of children. In 2011, she was nominated for the International Children’s Peace Prize. Later, Yousaf Raza Gilani, the prime minister at the time, awarded her Pakistan’s first National Youth Peace Prize.

Mature beyond her years, she recently changed her career aspiration to politics, friends said. In recent months, she led a delegation of children’s rights activists, sponsored by Unicef, that made presentations to provincial politicians in Peshawar.

“We found her to be very bold, and it inspired every one of us,” said another student in the group, Fatima Aziz, 15.

Ms. Minallah, the documentary maker, said, “She had this vision, big dreams, that she was going to come into politics and bring about change.”

That such a figure of wide-eyed optimism and courage could be silenced by Taliban violence was a fresh blow for Pakistan’s beleaguered progressives, who seethed with frustration and anger on Tuesday. “Come on, brothers, be REAL MEN. Kill a school girl,” one media commentator, Nadeem F. Paracha, said in an acerbic Twitter post.

In Parliament, Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf urged his countrymen to battle the mind-set behind such attacks. “She is our daughter,” he said.

The attack was also a blow for the powerful military, which has long held out its Swat offensive as an example of its ability to conduct successful counterinsurgency operations. The army retains a tight grip over much of Swat. But that Tuesday’s shooting could take place in the center of Mingora, the valley’s largest town, offered evidence that the Taliban were creeping back.

“This is not a good sign,” Kamran Khan, the most senior government official in Swat, said by phone. “It’s very worrisome.”

The Swat Taliban are a subgroup of the wider Pakistani Taliban movement based in South Waziristan. Their leader, Maulvi Fazlullah, rose to prominence in 2007 through an FM radio station that espoused Islamist ideology.

After 2009, Maulvi Fazlullah and his senior commanders were pushed across the border into the Afghan provinces of Kunar and Nuristan, where Pakistani officials say they are still being sheltered — a source of growing tension between the Pakistani and Afghan governments.

But over the last year or so, small groups of Taliban guerrillas have slowly filtered back into Swat, where they have mounted hit-and-run attacks on community leaders deemed to have collaborated with the government.

On Aug. 3, a Taliban gunman shot and wounded Zahid Khan, the president of the local hoteliers association and a senior community leader, in Mingora. It was the third such attack in recent months, a senior official said.

The military has asserted control in Swat through a large military presence in the valleys and support for private tribal militias tasked with keeping the Taliban at bay. But soldiers have also been accused of human rights abuses, particularly after a leaked videotape in 2010 showed uniformed men apparently massacring Taliban prisoners.

In response to criticism, the army chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, announced an inquiry into the shootings. An army spokesman said it was not yet complete.

Shah Rasool, the police chief in Swat, said that all roads leading out of Mingora had been barricaded and that more than 30 militant suspects had been detained.
255 2012-10-10 Peppercorns, the prized fruit of piper nigrum, a tropical vine, are used when they are still fresh and green in a number of French recipes. But until now, the only greens ones available in the United States have been canned, in brine or dried. Denis Heraud, a French filmmaker and painter, has entered the peppercorn business, importing fresh green ones that are grown on a farm in Costa Rica, with no chemicals used on the plants. “The terroir is what makes these so wonderful,” he said. “They’re the grand cru, the Lafite of pepper.”

The peppercorns are picked in tightly clustered little branches and, if kept refrigerated in an airtight container, will maintain their color for a few days or more. Eventually they turn black, which does not affect their quality or their clean, spicy pungency. Add the fresh peppercorns to sauces (they take beautifully to butter and cream), or scatter them on fish or meat. Or, as Mr. Heraud is wont to do because he believes they are healthy, you can simply nibble a few from time to time with your tea.

Once they blacken, the peppercorns can be dried out and, after many months, they will be suitable for a pepper mill. When ground, the dried peppercorns provide a somewhat sharper flavor and aroma than the fresher ones.

Fresh green peppercorns are sold at All Good Things, 102 Franklin Street (Church Street) for $20 an ounce (six or seven branches) and at Dean & DeLuca, 560 Broadway (Prince Street), $3 a branch.
256 2012-10-10 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea claimed Tuesday to have missiles that can reach the American mainland, and it said that the recent agreement between the United States and South Korea to extend the range of the South’s ballistic missiles was increasing the risk of war on the Korean Peninsula.

North Korea has often threatened to strike the “heart” of the United States, and a popular propaganda poster there shows a North Korean missile hitting what looks unmistakably like Capitol Hill. But the warning issued Tuesday was more detailed.

The North Koreans “do not hide” that their armed forces, “including the strategic rocket forces, are keeping within the scope of strike not only the bases of the puppet forces and the U.S. imperialist aggression forces’ bases in the inviolable land of Korea but also Japan, Guam and the U.S. mainland,” a spokesman at the North’s National Defense Commission said in a statement. North Korea often refers to the South Korean military as “puppet forces,” a reference to the South’s alliance with the United States.

The North’s “strategic rocket forces” are believed to be in charge of the country’s missiles. The North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, visited the unit’s headquarters in Marchand mentioned it by name during his first public speech in April.

Estimating the missile capabilities of a country as secretive as North Korea is notoriously difficult. But military experts and South Korean government officials have said that the North has already deployed ballistic missiles capable of reaching targets as far away as Guam, the American territory in the Pacific.
257 2012-10-11 The big leaguers may be locked out, but the 9- and 10-year-old Squirts in Minnetonka are dialed in....
258 2012-10-11 The University of Michigan opened its season against Rochester Institute of Technology....
259 2012-10-11 Navy's hockey players juggle academics, sport and military duties....
260 2012-10-11 The Junior Blackhawks of Winnetka play on, though their namesakes are locked out....
261 2012-10-11 Fans in Ontario made do with the Cornwall Colts, the city's Junior A team....
262 2012-10-11 Reporters waited around for news from the N.H.L. negotiations, but little was forthcoming. Again....
263 2012-10-11 At 7:02 p.m., or just about the time the Philadelphia Flyers and Boston Bruins would have opened the N.H.L. season, a couple hundred fans gathered at a gleaming South Philadelphia sports bar....
264 2012-10-11 The Nets' promising young sixth man has tendinitis in his right foot, which could keep him out of action for at least a week....
265 2012-10-11 The Stanley Cup found itself Thursday in an upscale outdoor shopping complex in Los Angeles....
266 2012-10-11 The initial public offering of Workday, a provider of cloud-based applications for human resources, was priced at $28 a share on Thursday evening -- well above its expected range....
267 2012-10-11 The Orioles’ Manny Machado scored on a J.J. Hardy double in the 13th inning to give Baltimore a 2-1 win over the Yankees, tying the division series at two games apiece....
268 2012-10-11 In Minnesota, locals are lamenting the timing of the lockout, following the Wild's acquisitions of the prized free agents Zach Parise and Ryan Suter. But the lockout gives them more time to hit the ice....
269 2012-10-11 Special guests help editor-in-chief Hugo Lindgren and the story editor Jon Kelly craft a lineup for the magazine's Food & Drink issue.
270 2012-10-11 The players on DePaul’s Division II club hockey team, which went undefeated last year, each have to pay $2,500 per season for the privilege of playing, but no one seems to mind....
271 2012-10-11 On the day that the National Hockey League was to open its season, 18 amateur players gathered for a lunchtime pickup game less than a mile from the Rangers’ practice rink....
272 2012-10-11 Around lunch time Thursday, the Devils would have been finishing a late-morning practice at the Prudential Center and would have been headed for their season opener Friday in Washington. But with no N.H.L. games to play, the arena stood silent....
273 2012-10-11 Forward Amar'e Stoudemire bumped knees with a Knicks teammate at practice on Wednesday and could not finish....
274 2012-10-11 Peek is a start-up that is entering the booming online travel market, starting with California and Hawaii. The company says it fills a void by offering activities and ways to book them in an attractive form that feels like flipping through a magaz...
275 2012-10-11 Hockey fans in Vancouver miss the Canucks, but have several other teams to choose from in the area....
276 2012-10-11 Claude Giroux and Danny Briere are expected to suit up for Eisbaeren Berlin on Friday. But there is plenty of hockey still being played in North America....
277 2012-10-11 As the government expands its support of the housing market, analysts expect that mortgage profits at banks will rise in third-quarter earnings reports and will continue well into next year....
278 2012-10-11 The study, released ahead of National Teen Driver Safety Week, was produced by the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety....
279 2012-10-11 Prosecutors using tapes to build criminal case over JPMorgan loss. | Privatizing Greece's port of Piraeus. | E-mails hint at collusion between private equity giants....
280 2012-10-11 The Day: Changing the ban on posters and fliers on public property would help politicians lacking the money for expensive TV campaigns or to pay large fines on a low-cost form of advertising....
281 2012-10-11 Sam Waterston has made a video urging voters to push for campaign-finance reform that would blunt the influence of large donors....
282 2012-10-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
283 2012-10-11 Most rapists are alcoholics and drug addicts, North Indian women's leader said, and castration is not an extreme punishment for these men....
284 2012-10-11 The numbers Governor Romney used in the first presidential debate are startling. But are they accurate?...
285 2012-10-11 Gov. Phil Bryant has joined a lawsuit by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents against Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, seeking to stop an Obama administration program granting temporary reprieves from deportation to some young illegal immigrants. The suit says Mississippi will have to bear “fiscal costs of the illegal aliens” living there who were spared from deportation. The lawsuit, in federal court in Dallas, was filed in August.
286 2012-10-11 Jim Johnson, who set a Baltimore record with 51 saves this season, gave up a game-tying home run to Raul Ibanez, and Brian Matusz surrendered the winner....
287 2012-10-11 A.I.A. said the acquisition will catapult it to the No. 1 position in Malaysia's lucrative life insurance market. For the Dutch insurer ING, it is the first major deal in its plan to divest its Asian assets....
288 2012-10-11 Whether more disclosure might lead to safer, more effective drugs remains to be seen. GlaxoSmithKline, a British drug concern, will open its clinical trial data to other researchers once a drug has completed the approval process or been abandoned.

Glaxo is taking the step after experimenting with disclosure for treatments for tropical diseases like malaria and finding those efforts successful, according to company officials.

In addition, the company plans to release information about 200 of its experimental drug compounds that have shown signs of fighting tuberculosis.

“We’re increasingly realizing that the more you can make this an open enterprise, the more likely you are to be able to get an advance which allows you to make a medicine,” Dr. Patrick Vallance, president of pharmaceuticals research and development at GlaxoSmithKline, said in an interview. “I think we recognize that you learn as much about the medicine after it’s launched as you knew before.”

The company intends to name an independent panel of experts to review requests submitted by researchers. If the requests are deemed to have scientific merit, the company’s data will be made available to scientists on a secure Web site. The new policy applies to global clinical trials since 2007 (notably, that excludes Avandia and some other drugs now on the market) and all clinical trials starting in 2013.

“Making data available, particularly on the products that didn’t succeed, could avoid others having to learn the same lessons,” said Joshua M. Sharfstein, Maryland’s health secretary and the former principal deputy commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration.

Critics have long called on drug companies to release the full results of clinical trials, arguing that public health would benefit from a better exchange of information about a drug’s benefits and risks.

Although drug companies collect voluminous amounts of data during the trials, which involve thousands of patients in many countries and sometimes last for years, only a sliver of that information is typically made public, and often in formats — as in articles in medical journals — that can present the drugs in the best light.

Some researchers said they would need to hear more before giving the plan their support.

“There is a deficit of trust,” said Dr. Steven Woloshin, a professor of medicine at the Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, who frequently analyzes clinical trial results. “That’s why it’s totally essential that they publish not just results but also the protocol — the complete program.”

Dr. Vallance of GlaxoSmithKline said the data would include the complete trial protocol. A company spokeswoman, Sarah G. Alspach, said in an e-mail that some other supporting documents would be provided to allow researchers to “understand and navigate the data so they can conduct their research.”

Dr. Steven Nissen, a cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic, wondered about the objectivity of the disclosure process, asking, “Would someone who wants to take a critical look at an existing drug on the market be granted access?”

In 2007, Dr. Nissen raised concerns about the heart attack risks of the diabetes drug Avandia after analyzing data from clinical trials that GlaxoSmithKline was required to make public after a legal settlement. In 2010, the F.D.A. severely limited access to Avandia, and its use has been suspended in Europe.

In July, the company agreed to pay $3 billion in fines, in part to settle claims that it failed to report on Avandia’s safety risks. Federal prosecutors also accused GlaxoSmithKline of withholding data about the antidepressant Paxil that raised concerns about an increased risk of suicide in teenagers.

In the case of Avandia, the company acknowledged that it did not disclose details of clinical trials to the F.D.A. in some reports but said it did disclose it in others. It did not admit any wrongdoing related to reporting clinical trial data in Paxil.

Dr. Vallance said that the panel would be composed of experts respected internationally, and researchers’ proposals would be accepted even if the release would cast the drugs in a negative light.

“We’ve been caught by some things in the past — I think we want to be clear on this,” he said.
289 2012-10-11 As the Supreme Court heard arguments on Wednesday in a case challenging race-conscious admission to public colleges, university officials across the country watched for clues to where the court might go while contemplating what steps schools might take if the court changed the state of the law.

Administrators who paid close attention — following the arguments on blogs or reading the transcript — looked most carefully at the words of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, widely seen as the swing vote on the case. But in asking tough, skeptical questions of both sides, Justice Kennedy left them no clear indication which way he will go.

Schools are bracing for three broad categories of possible outcomes in the case, Fisher v. University of Texas: a complete and history-making ban on race-conscious admissions, a tightening of the current limitations on consideration of race or ethnicity, or a decision that more or less leaves things as they are. The result will turn largely on the court’s reading of its 2003 decision in Grutter v. Bollinger, when the justices, by 5 to 4, ruled that schools may take race into account as one factor among many, as long as they do not use numerical quotas. A decision will be issued next year.

“An outcome a lot of us in higher education are contemplating is that they could affirm Grutter, at least in name, but impose a stricter definition of what it allows,” said John C. Boger, dean of the law school at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and an author of a brief that school submitted to the court in support of the University of Texas.

“Then the question becomes, do they make the test for race-conscious action so tough that no one could ever pass it?”
290 2012-10-11 “We recovered last time because we have the world’s greatest fans,” Bettman said in August.

Although Major League Baseball saw attendance drop by 26 percent after the 1994 strike, the N.H.L. had modest attendance gains in the immediate aftermath of its previous lockouts. Average attendance rose from 15,512 in the 1993-94 season to 15,867 in the lockout-shortened 1995 season, and from 16,549 the year before the season-long 2004-5 lockout to 16,954 the year after. The majority of the N.H.L. ticket base comes from season-ticket holders rather than single-game sales, helping to ensure that attendance will not drop drastically.

The N.B.A.’s experience after its lockout last season also provided persuasive evidence for N.H.L. owners. Despite shortening its regular season by 16 games, the N.B.A. set records for television viewership and traffic on its online properties.

The N.H.L. owners’ choice was easy in the 2004-5 lockout. Bettman had long built the case that the league was losing money and needed to sharply reduce players’ wages. The N.H.L. was struggling from a variety of ills, ranging from stagnant play to frequent franchise relocation, and its status in the United States was headed to that of a niche sport. Sacrificing an entire season was a simple call, and it paid off when the owners won concessions from the players that included a salary cap and a 24 percent pay cut.

But in 1994-95, the choice was more difficult. The N.H.L. had momentum, coming off Stanley Cup finals that featured Wayne Gretzky’s Los Angeles Kings in 1993 and the victory of Mark Messier’s Rangers in 1994. On top of that, the Disney Corporation joined the league with the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim in 1993.

The headline on the cover of Sports Illustrated in June 1994 read “Why the N.H.L.’s Hot and the N.B.A.’s Not.” Yet Bettman and the owners, intent on trying to reduce players’ wages, opted to delay the start of the next season with a lockout.

“Everyone was feeling pretty good about the N.H.L., and there was a lot of momentum coming off the Rangers’ win that the league could take advantage of,” said Bob Gutkowski, Madison Square Garden’s president at the time. “The owners understood that and the other negatives surrounding a lockout, but the ultimate decision was that we had to change the business model.”

Neil Smith, the general manager of the Rangers in 1994, said the lockout caused serious damage to the N.H.L.’s momentum.

“The league never got as close again to the N.B.A. as it was at the time of that lockout,” said Smith, now a hockey commentator for Canadian television. “When we came back from the lockout, we were further behind the N.B.A. than we were prior, and the N.B.A. picked it up from there and we couldn’t make up the ground. There was a real opportunity for us, but we couldn’t get it back.”

The N.H.L. started to get it back only after the 2004-5 lockout, and last season the league generated about 83 percent of the revenue of the N.B.A.

But once again Bettman and the owners are risking the momentum they have built. The last five Stanley Cup winners came from Los Angeles, Boston, Chicago, Pittsburgh and Detroit, all big American markets. The N.H.L. finally has a lucrative TV contract in the United States, a 10-year, $2 billion deal it signed with NBC last year.

“They’ve really grown the last few years,” Smith said. “But with this lockout, they’re going to lose momentum, no matter what.”

Ultimately what the N.H.L. is sacrificing in this latest lockout cannot be measured solely in attendance or revenue figures. Sooner or later, the league will find out what opportunity may have been lost.
291 2012-10-11 Affirmative action provokes conflicting views about what equal protection means under the law. Does the Constitution permit race-conscious programs that provide minorities with opportunities, even though it prohibits programs that exclude minorities because of their race?

For more than three decades, the has said yes — that the Constitution allows academic programs to consider race as one factor in admissions, provided the program meets certain hurdles: it must serve a compelling state interest and be as limited as possible.

Affirmative action is largely a voluntary commitment by leading institutions that are convinced it is in their self-interest to enlarge opportunities for historically disfavored groups, because it helps fulfill their missions. It would be a travesty for the court’s conservatives to reverse or weaken longstanding legal precedent on this issue. The harm they would inflict in doing so would be felt in education, business, national defense and many areas of American life.

The justices — for no compelling reason — chose to reconsider affirmative action principles in Fisher v. the University of Texas at Austin, argued before the court on Wednesday. They focused on two central questions: how the university uses race in admissions and whether the university’s goal of achieving a “critical mass” of minority students is sufficiently limited and defined to pass constitutional muster.

The university admits about 80 percent of its students by automatically taking the top 10 percent of students from every high school in the state. The rest are admitted by individual assessments, taking account of grades, activities and many other factors, including race. maintains that its aim is to have a sufficient amount of racial diversity on campus to enrich the education for all students. And, to reach that goal, it was necessary to consider race as one factor to help increase minority enrollees by a modest number.
292 2012-10-11 The I.R.S. commissioner Douglas Shulman announced Wednesday that he will leave his post next month, ending a four-and-a-half year term during which he modernized some of the agency’s infrastructure while cracking down on tax dodging by corporations and offshore tax evasion by individuals.

A former private equity investor and financial regulator, Mr. Shulman, 45, took office with a mandate to improve an agency that had been criticized as inefficient and unfair. He jump-started the process of updating many of the I.R.S.’s outdated computer systems — some of which rely on the same types of data tapes that were in use half a century ago — and pushed through more rigorous training and standards for paid tax preparers.

But his signature achievement was to crack down on tax avoidance. Mr. Shulman rattled many accountants and major corporations by instituting new regulations requiring that companies reveal more details to the I.R.S. about the aggressive strategies they use to lower their federal income tax bills.

He also directed the I.R.S. as it worked closely with the Justice Department to pierce the secrecy that enabled tens of thousands of wealthy Americans to evade taxes by hiding their assets in offshore tax havens.

After the Justice Department’s prosecution of the UBS case in Switzerland, Mr. Shulman instituted amnesty programs that persuaded more than 15,000 taxpayers to turn themselves in rather than run the risk of criminal prosecution. So far, the offshore initiatives allowed the government to recover more than $5 billion in unpaid taxes, interest and penalties.

“Thanks to his aggressive leadership, Swiss banks are no longer a place where people can park their money and cheat Uncle Sam,” said Mark W. Everson, a former I.R.S. commissioner.
293 2012-10-11 VATICAN II, which has been rightly described as the most important religious event of the 20th century, began 50 years ago today in St. Peter’s Basilica. Over three years, from 1962 to 1965, some 2,800 bishops from 116 countries produced 16 documents that set the Roman Catholic Church’s course for the future. Its proceedings were closely followed in the media, bringing the church into the homes of hundreds of millions of ordinary Catholics on nearly a daily basis.

An increasingly popular view, at least among critics, is that the Second Vatican Council failed to put the church’s house in order. Its most radical inward move was not to democratize the church (though it has often been described that way) but to reinstate an older, more collegial style in church governance. Under the council’s version of this teaching, known as collegiality, the papacy had the final word, but others in the church, from the bishops to the priests and the laity, had a voice, too.

The bishops at Vatican II felt that more than a century of centralization needed to be tempered. But in their euphoria, they failed to reckon sufficiently with the resistance of entrenched bureaucracies — jealous of their authority and fearful of disorder — to change. A more participatory mode of church life took hold for 15 years or so after the council, but from on high it began to be more and more restricted, to the point that central control is now tighter than ever.

This has led to widespread disillusionment and anger. Priests and parishioners feel that their voices are not heard. Some critics argue, not unreasonably, that a more collegial style of governance, or at least of consultation, would have addressed the clerical sex-abuse problem earlier and more effectively. The fact that collegiality now seems little more than an ideal resting quietly in the council’s documents — with little relevance for the real life of the church — stands as a major failure to carry out what the council intended.

What has been less appreciated about Vatican II, though it is as significant as the halting steps on governance, is that it took account of the world outside the church. The church validated for the first time the principle of religious freedom and rejected all forms of civil discrimination based on religious grounds. Thus ended an era of cozy church-state relations that began in the fourth century with Emperor Constantine.

Before the council, Catholics were not only forbidden to pray with those of other faiths but also indoctrinated into a disdain or even contempt for them. (This was, of course, a two-way street.) Now, for the first time, Catholics were encouraged to foster friendly relations with Orthodox and Protestant Christians, as well as Jews and Muslims, and even to pray with them. The council condemned all forms of anti-Semitism and insisted on respect for Judaism and Islam as Abrahamic faiths, like Christianity.
294 2012-10-11 The violence done to Mr. Li by one protester who beat his head was vividly captured by a bystander in a video that has become an Internet phenomenon. The police in Xi’an, the capital of Shaanxi Province, began a manhunt for the attacker and asked people around the country for help. Last week, the police announced that a man had been arrested. Xinhua, the state news agency, said the suspect could face the death penalty if convicted.

With the territorial conflict between Japan and China over the Diaoyu Islands — called the Senkaku by Japan — still simmering, another diplomatic flare-up could prompt more protests and riots. During the rallies last month, Ai Weiwei, the dissident artist, shot a video of protesters outside the American Embassy in Beijing attacking a sedan carrying Ambassador Gary Locke. Many Chinese have attributed the Japanese government’s recent purchase of the islands to an American conspiracy.

In a sign of continuing hostility, Japanese automakers announced Tuesday that sales of Japanese-brand vehicles in China had plummeted in the last month.

In Xi’an, a slogan on a billboard by the airport expressway says, “The Diaoyu Islands belong to China.”

Today, there are barely any signs of the protests in central Xi’an. Witnesses said it took a few days for city workers to clean up a pool of Mr. Li’s blood, but the street is back to normal. People looking closely at cars, though, can see that there are now small Chinese flags affixed to many of them, in particular those of Japanese make.

Many liberal Chinese and foreigners have been asking whether the central government stoked the protests, or at least allowed them to go on unabated for too long. At the protests in Xi’an, which were among the most violent, the police were out in force, but some officers did not try to stop rioters from overturning police cars of Japanese make, several witnesses said. The attack on Mr. Li took place within 500 feet of a police station.

Mr. Li was driving home with his wife on Sept. 15 in a white Toyota Corolla after they had spent the morning looking at construction materials for their son’s new apartment, Ms. Wang said. Not far from the western gate of the ancient city wall, they encountered a crowd of protesters waving Chinese flags, chanting slogans and smashing cars.

Protesters quickly encircled the Corolla and used batons, bricks and bicycle locks to smash the car with the couple inside.

The two stepped out of the car to plead with the protesters to stop. Details of what happened next are murky, but the Internet video shows a heavyset man leaping at Mr. Li and delivering four blows to the back of his head with a bicycle lock. In the video, the sharp sound of metal whacking against skull can be heard above the din of the crowd. Ms. Wang screamed for help as she sat on the ground trying to stop the blood flowing out of her husband’s wound.

As protesters continued to smash the car, one bystander yelled: “Can we first save this guy? We are all Chinese. Have you started to take him for a Japanese?”

With the help of a few bystanders, Ms. Wang dragged her husband across the street and flagged down a taxi. At a hospital, Mr. Li underwent brain surgery.

“It was complete chaos; my heart was thumping,” Ms. Wang said. “How could they be so heartless?”

She added: “We heard that at the time the police did not dare to intervene. If they intervened, the situation would have become even more chaotic.”

Last week, Mr. Li was able to walk a few steps for the first time since he was hospitalized. He is scheduled to have another surgery in six months. Doctors say he may never fully recover. Ms. Wang said Mr. Li had been the main provider for the family.

“This is the kind of thing we see on television,” she said. “We never thought it could happen to us.”
295 2012-10-11 Apple has just updated the iPhone into its fifth incarnation. Skinnier, lighter and more powerful than its predecessors, and with a bigger screen, the iPhone 5 has tempted millions of buyers — including me. As a gadget fan, I had yearned for one and, with a perfect sense of timing, my 2-year-old son helpfully dunked my iPhone 4S into a cup of tea last week.

The arrival of the newest iPhone has prompted a flurry of new apps, many optimized to make the most of its bigger screen. So it’s an ideal moment to highlight the more interesting ones that Apple is promoting.

Games are always a great way to showcase a new device. Perhaps the most impressive of these apps for the iPhone 5 is Lili, a $5 game whose 3-D graphics could almost be for a games console. It’s a role-playing game where you assume control of Lili, a young woman exploring a magical island. There’s the usual mix of puzzles and tasks to be solved, but Lili uses an unusually simple control system where you tap and drag at the screen. This makes the game a joy to interact with, and it means even your younger children can play. Lili has amazing imagery and its own innocent Harry Potter-esque charm.

In a similar vein, Superbrothers: Sword and Sworcery EP is another charming $5 game. Despite its deliberately blocky graphics, which hark back to the early era of computer gaming, it’s actually more complex than Lili. As you stroll through the role-playing adventure game, you use a sword and magic to progress. You can also collaborate with friends over Twitter. Its graphics don’t stretch the iPhone’s capabilities, but they do make the most of its new wide screen. Superbrothers is surprisingly engrossing, and funny too. And you’ll want to play it with headphones because there’s a lot of audio feedback, including an album’s worth of original music.

I’m an astronomy fan, and I’ve tried many star guide apps, but the $3 Star Walk may be the best. Like its peer apps, Star Walk uses an augmented reality system to display a picture of the stars in the sky. This moves as you rotate your phone, mapping the sky. But unlike some of its rivals, Star Walk allows you to use the phone’s camera so it shows the real view of the sky on the screen behind the app’s graphics. This helps you work out what stars and constellations you’re seeing. The app also has real-time data on satellites, so if you’re curious whether that fast-moving streak in the sky is actually the International Space Station, the app can tell you. The iPhone 5’s bigger screen is an asset because you see more sky at once.

Despite one of the iPhone 5’s strengths being its camera, a couple of apps are designed to deliberately spoil the image quality of your photos. Halftone app turns them into spotty halftone images like those in a color comic magazine. You can annotate your images with classic comic speech bubbles, captions and so on. It’s fun and pretty easy to use. While some effects are included in the $1 price, there’s an in-app purchase for the more extreme effects. Halftone might be perfect for generating a quirky birthday card image; I plan on using it like this.

E Color Splash is also a neat $1 app that’ll let you turn parts of a photo to black and white while leaving selected bits in color, generating a Spielberg-like effect in a static photo. It’s clever, and though it has slightly mystifying controls, they are well explained in the built-in help video. It’s another app that is great for making card images, probably best for the holiday season if you highlight spots of green and red.
296 2012-10-11 At the same time, Mr. Brightbill said, he was concerned that the Commerce Department did not expand the scope of the ruling, which applies to panels made up of Chinese-produced solar cells. That has allowed companies to sidestep the duties by assembling panels composed of cells produced elsewhere, even if their components come from China. “We are looking to the administration for an explanation on how they will close or address this loophole in the scope.”

The Chinese government had no immediate response to the decision, which was issued in the early hours of the morning Beijing time.

Some opponents of the tariffs said the ruling might not benefit the struggling United States manufacturers as much as SolarWorld and its supporters had hoped, given that Chinese firms could still make panels with cells produced in other countries.

“The fact that the Department of Commerce didn’t expand the scope means that those companies aren’t going to be banned from doing business in the U.S.,” said Jigar Shah, an entrepreneur representing a group of companies that opposed the tariffs. “We really think the Department of Commerce came down on the side of free trade.”

Shayle Kann, the head of GTM Research, a unit of Greentech Media, agreed. “There’s an impact there, but it’s not huge in terms of what it does to the market,” he said.

Wholesale prices have declined by nearly three-quarters since 2008 as Chinese companies expanded capacity and production much faster than the growth in worldwide demand. When China began the rapid expansion of its solar industry several years ago, many in the global industry expected that further technological breakthroughs would result in additional cost reductions.

But Chinese companies have driven costs down mainly through greater economies of scale from building ever-larger factories to produce conventional solar panels.

About a dozen panel makers in the United States, as well as a similar number in Europe, have gone bankrupt or closed factories since the start of last year. The European Union began the world’s largest antidumping case, covering solar panel imports from China that totaled $26.5 billion last year. The trade case has divided the American solar industry, with some manufacturers and installers siding with SolarWorld and others strongly opposing the tariffs.

The opponents argue that the duties would make it more expensive for American families and companies to install solar systems.

American manufacturers of factory equipment and raw materials have also expressed concern that the trade measures could imperil their sales to China, whose government began its own investigation into whether American and South Korean manufacturers of polysilicon, the main ingredient in the solar panels, were selling the material below cost.

Steve Ostrenga, chief executive of the panel maker Helios Solar Works USA of Milwaukee, who supported the trade case, said in a statement after Wednesday’s ruling that he was confident “that American manufacturers can compete with China on an equal footing.”

“Assuming an adequate response from the Obama administration on enforcement, we have some hope that there will continue to be a viable solar manufacturing base in the United States,” Mr. Ostrenga said.

Although the Commerce Department’s decision is final, the tariffs cannot go into effect unless the International Trade Commission finds that the Chinese pricing practices have actually harmed or threatened to harm the American industry, a determination that is not expected until November. But the commission issued a preliminary ruling that such injury had occurred, and reversals are uncommon, particularly if the domestic industry is in trouble.

The Commerce Department calculated separate penalties for unfair subsidies and dumping, reducing the antidumping penalties from the preliminary ruling for most of the manufacturers while sharply increasing the antisubsidy duties after finding that companies had benefited from additional subsidies.

But to avoid double-counting duties, the department reduced the rates importers will have to pay.
297 2012-10-11 The Senate investigation represents the second Congressional inquiry into the industry’s practices this year. In July, Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, co-chairmen of the Bipartisan Congressional Privacy Caucus, began a House inquiry into data compilers, which is ongoing. And the Federal Trade Commission has been looking into the practices of about a dozen major data brokers.

Data brokers collect a wide variety of information from public sources and third parties, including details like consumers’ financial status, race or ethnicity, buying history, hobbies, health concerns, travel preferences, Internet providers and social networks.

The companies often use the information for a practice called “database marketing” — that is, using data mining to help clients like retailers, banks and airlines tailor marketing pitches to their best customers or identify potential new ones.

Collecting, analyzing and selling such information for marketing purposes is perfectly legal. Indeed, it’s a huge business. Some data brokers have said they maintain several thousand details on the majority of adults in the United States.

But some legislators and regulators say they are concerned that neither they nor consumers know the extent of the material that data brokers collect; whom they disclose or sell it to; and exactly what they are doing with it.

Unlike consumer reporting agencies, which are required by federal law to show people their own credit reports and allow them to correct errors, data brokers are not required to show consumers information collected about them for marketing purposes.

Earlier this year in a report on protecting consumer privacy, the F.T.C. urged the industry to create a centralized Web portal where consumers could learn about companies’ practices and their options for controlling information collected about them. The agency also recommended that Congress pass legislation giving people access to information that data brokers hold about them. Underlying regulators’ efforts is their concern that some information brokers could create financial dossiers about individuals that are akin to credit reports and use them to unfairly exclude individual consumers from certain offers or charge some people higher prices than others.

“There are data brokers whose marketing lists may not cross the line into credit reports but come very close,” said Julie Brill, a member of the F.T.C. “The question is whether the lists are being used for marketing purposes or for something very close to credit purposes.”

Industry representatives say that data-based marketers use consumer marketing data for legitimate commercial practices, not for regulated purposes like making offers of credit or insurance.

They add that collecting marketing data benefits consumers because it allows companies to send people offers for products and services they are interested in. It also increases efficiency because companies know ahead of time not to send pitches for, say, lawn mowers to people who live in apartments.

“Consumers love getting what they want — information, products, benefits, upgrades — when they want it,” said Ms. Woolley of the Direct Marketing Association. “There is no evidence that data-driven marketing harms consumers in any way.”

On Wednesday, Mr. Rockefeller sent letters of inquiry to established database marketers like Acxiom, headquartered in Little Rock, Ark.; credit reporting agencies like Experian and Equifax, which have separate marketing arms; and newer companies, like Rapleaf and Datalogix, that specialize in helping companies pursue online and mobile consumers.

Mr. Rockefeller asked each company to provide extensive business details about its data collection operations since Jan. 1, 2009.

Scott Howe, the chief executive of Acxiom, said the company looked “forward to continuing to work with the Congress to help the members gain a deeper understanding of Acxiom’s business and how people and the economy benefit from the appropriate use of data.”

In an e-mail, Demitra L. Wilson, a spokeswoman for Equifax, said the company is not a data broker and that the only a small portion of its business involves unregulated, aggregated data about consumers.

And Gerry Tschopp, a spokesman for Experian, said the company welcomed the opportunity to discuss “the benefits of the appropriate use of consumer data” with legislators.

Representatives of Datalogix and Rapleaf did not immediately respond to e-mail and phone requests for comment.

Mr. Rockefeller asked the companies to respond by Nov. 2.
298 2012-10-11 WASHINGTON (AP) — Improvement in the housing markets helped bolster economic growth at the end of the summer in most regions of the country, according to a Federal Reserve survey released Wednesday.

The Fed said growth improved in 10 of its 12 regional banking districts from mid-August through September, while leveling off in one region and slowing in another. Rising home sales helped lift home prices in most districts.

The report, known informally as the beige book, also cited an increase in auto sales in most parts of the country. Still, consumer spending was flat or up only slightly in most districts. Manufacturing activity was mixed, with half of the districts reporting slight improvement since the previous Fed report. And hiring was unchanged in most districts.

The beige book provides anecdotal information on business conditions around the country. The information collected by the 12 regional banks will be used as the basis for the central bank’s policy discussion at its meeting on Oct. 23-24.

Economists expect no major moves at the meeting because the Fed adopted aggressive new policies to spur the economy in September.
299 2012-10-11 Disappointing results and forecasts from Alcoa and Chevron at the start of the corporate earnings season on Tuesday pulled stock indexes lower for a third consecutive day Wednesday.

The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 128 points, its steepest loss since late June.

Alcoa, the aluminum producer, beat Wall Street’s earnings estimates on Tuesday night, but said it expected a slowdown in China to weaken demand for aluminum. Its shares fell 42 cents, or 4.60 percent, to $8.71.

The company is often used as a weather vane for the global economy. “And judging by Alcoa’s massive inventory of aluminum, it seems pretty anemic,” said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank.

Chevron, one of the country’s largest oil companies, warned late Tuesday that slumping oil prices and production would cause earnings to be “substantially lower.” It blamed Hurricane Isaac for disrupting production at a Mississippi refinery.

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court also refused to block a $19 billion judgment levied against Chevron by an Ecuadorean court over polluting the Amazon. Shares of Chevron sank $4.91, or 4.18 percent, to $112.45.
300 2012-10-11 Japanese officials had said that they expected the Chinese finance minister, Xie Xuren, and the governor of the People’s Bank of China, Zhou Xiaochuan, to attend the meetings in Tokyo, which have drawn top finance leaders from 180 nations. They said that the Chinese suddenly informed them earlier this week that the Chinese delegation would instead be headed by two lower-level officials, a deputy central bank governor and a vice finance minister.

Executives from four of China’s largest state-owned banks, including the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and the Bank of China, also skipped the meetings in Tokyo, the officials said.

They said they did not know why the Chinese officials had canceled, refusing to say whether the decision was linked to the islands row. Still, Japanese Foreign Minister Koichiro Gemba called the decision “very disappointing.”

“I don’t think it will be a plus for China when you think about how the international community may interpret such action,” Mr. Gemba told reporters.

Political analysts in Japan said the cancellation was an effort by China to use its growing financial clout to pressure Japan’s prime minister, Yoshihiko Noda, to back down. They said China has shown itself increasingly willing to use economic pressure since two years ago, when it forced Japan to release a Chinese trawler captain arrested near the islands by cutting off exports of rare earths, a key raw material used by Japan’s electronics industry.

“China is linking the territorial issue to financial issues in an effort to manipulate Japan,” said Koji Murata, a professor of international relations at Doshisha University in Kyoto. “China’s message is that it is prepared to use its presence in the international financial arena to pressure Japan.”

China has also kept up another form of pressure by sending unarmed surveillance ships into waters near the disputed islands on almost a daily basis since last month. Japan has responded by sending dozens of coast guard ships to patrol the islands, which lie between Okinawa and China.

While the islands are little more than rocky outcroppings, the seabed around them is believed to hold potentially rich deposits of oil and natural gas. Recovering the islands has become a popular patriotic cause in China, which says Japan wrongfully seized them as it embarked on brutal empire-building that led to the 1930s invasion of China itself.

Japan purchased the islands last month in an effort to reduce tensions by keeping the islands out of the hands of Tokyo’s nationalist governor, who also sought to buy them. However, the action was interpreted in China as an effort to enforce Japanese control.

In what might be a sign that Tokyo could soon move to reduce tensions, Japan’s Kyodo News Agency reported on Wednesday that the Japanese government may ease back from its official refusal to recognize that a territorial dispute even exists, a stance that has long angered Chinese officials. The report said that while Japan will continue to deny the existence of a dispute, it will make a subtle concession by acknowledging that China also makes a claim to the islands, something that it has previously refused to do.

Japanese officials refused to comment on the report, which did not give sources or details. Such anonymous leaks are sometimes used in Japan as trial balloons to test public reaction to policy shifts.

When asked about the Japanese media reports during a regularly scheduled briefing on Wednesday in Beijing, Hong Lei, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, signaled some willingness by China to negotiate.

“Japan should face reality, acknowledge the dispute, correct its mistakes and come back to a solution to the issue through negotiation,” he said.
301 2012-10-11 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Wednesday that it felt freer to test a long-range missile now that Washington has agreed to let South Korea nearly triple the reach of its ballistic missiles, putting all of the North within its range.

The warning, in a statement from a spokesman for the North’s Foreign Ministry, came a day after the North Korean government claimed to have missiles capable of striking targets on the American mainland.

The American-South Korean missile agreement, which was announced on Sunday, “poured cold water on all efforts to stabilize the situation on the Korean Peninsula and in the region, including our restraint from launching long-range missiles,” the statement said. “Now, the United States will have nothing to say even if we launch a long-range missile for military purposes.”

Since 1998, North Korea has launched several rockets, saying that it was trying to put scientific satellites into orbit. But Washington and its allies said the North’s true purpose was to test intercontinental ballistic missile technology. The most recent such launching, of a rocket called the Unha-3 in April, led to the unraveling of a February agreement with the United States in which North Korea had promised a moratorium on nuclear and missile tests in return for food aid.

All the North Korean rockets have exploded in midair or failed to put satellites into orbit, according to American and South Korean officials, casting doubt on the North’s ability to deliver a warhead on a long-range missile.

On Wednesday, North Korea said that the South’s new agreement with the United States, which allows the South to increase the range of its ballistic missiles to 800 kilometers, or 500 miles, had hardened the North’s conviction that the United States plans to invade the North, and said it was “only natural for us to do everything we can to strengthen our capabilities of striking the base of aggression with missiles.”
302 2012-10-11 Dr. Lefkowitz and Dr. Kobilka filled in a major gap in the understanding how cells work and respond to outside signals.

“It’s a great tribute to human ingenuity and helping us learn intricate details of what goes on in our bodies,” said Bassam Shakhashiri, president of the American Chemical Society.

Scientists already knew, for example, that stress hormones like adrenaline trigger the body’s fight-or-flight reflex — focusing vision, quickening breathing, diverting blood away from less urgent body systems like the digestive tract — but adrenaline never enters the cells.

“A receptor was correctly assumed to be involved,” said Sven Lidin, a member of the Nobel Prize committee for chemistry during a news conference on Wednesday, “but the nature of this receptor and how it reacted remained a mystery for a long time.”

Dr. Lefkowitz said that although the notion of cell receptors went back more than a century, “when I kind of started my work in the area in the early ’70s, there was still a lot of skepticism as to whether there really was such a thing.” By attaching radioactive iodine to a hormone, Dr. Lefkowitz was able to track the movement of the hormone and explore the behavior of these receptors. Over the years, he was able to pull out the receptor proteins and show they were specific molecules.

In the 1980s, his group, which included Dr. Kobilka as a postdoctoral researcher, searched for and found the gene that produced one of these protein receptors. The genetic blueprint indicated that the shape of the protein included long spirals that wove through the cell membrane seven times. Meanwhile, other researchers had discovered a class of proteins, called G proteins, inside the cell that, when activated, set off a Rube Goldberg cascade of molecular machinery.

The receptor was the last missing piece. “If you have something like adrenaline, it sticks in there, turns the key, changes the shape of the receptor, and now the receptor, having changed shape, is able to tickle the G protein,” Dr. Lefkowitz said.

There was a “eureka moment,” Dr. Lefkowitz said, when he realized that his receptor was the same as another receptor that had been found in another part of the body — the light receptor rhodopsin in the retina. “We said, ‘Well, wait a moment, maybe anything which couples to a G protein looks like this,’ ” he said.

Within a year, they were able to decode the genetic blueprints for several other similar receptors, and they were right.

About 1,000 of these receptors, known as G protein-coupled receptors, are now known, residing on the surface of cells and reacting to a host of hormones and neurotransmitters.

Dr. Lidin of the Royal Swedish Academy said that it turned out that half of all drugs target such receptors.

Dr. Kobilka, who moved to Stanford, then set out to determine the three-dimensional structure of the receptor, which requires building a crystal out of the proteins and then deducing the structure by bouncing X-rays off it. Membrane proteins are notoriously difficult to pack into crystals. Last year, he and his research group were able to get an image of a receptor at the moment it was transferring a signal from the outside of the cell to a protein on the inside.

Knowledge about the shapes of different receptors could refine drug design. Many drug molecules attach to cells not only at the intended target but also to other receptors, causing side effects.

“We hope by knowing the three-dimensional structure we might be able to develop more selective drugs and more effective drugs,” Dr. Kobilka said.

Dr. Kobilka received his good-news phone call at 2:30 in the morning California time. “When you have a number of people with credible Swedish accents congratulating you, you feel it’s probably not a joke someone is playing on you,” he said.
303 2012-10-12 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
304 2012-10-12 Advertising ought to be more of a risky business, according to some of the speakers at the 2012 annual conference of the Association of National Advertisers....
305 2012-10-12 Price spent his career working with clay in ways unlike anyone else, breathing new life into the medium as he pushed it from the functional to the abstract....
306 2012-10-12 People are still having trouble buying Apple’s new iPhone, which is selling out in stores rapidly, but the company is already planning to introduce a smaller, lighter version of the iPad....
307 2012-10-12 Amar'e Stoudemire of the Knicks, who has a bruised left knee, may not play in Saturday's preseason game against the Celtics....
308 2012-10-12 C. C. Sabathia, who allowed just one run to the Orioles, pitched a complete game as the Yankees advanced to the American League Championship Series, where they will play the Tigers....
309 2012-10-12 Bucks readers tell their stories of what happened when their financial advisers moved to a new firm or went out on their own....
310 2012-10-12 At New York Comic Con, geek culture is stronger than ever. | Defense officials lay the groundwork for a cybersecurity bill. | Columnist James B. Stewart on how college endowment funds were led astray....
311 2012-10-12 This year’s Food & Drink issue is about obsessions, great and small, from eating reindeer steaks in Greenland to one former tech mogul’s pursuit of the perfect buffalo mozzarella.
312 2012-10-12 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
313 2012-10-12 Created by David S. Goyer, who has contributed to superhero movies like "Batman Begins," "The Dark Knight Rises" and "Man of Steel," "Da Vinci's Demons" focuses on a young, swashbuckling version of Leonardo....
314 2012-10-12 The Amazon Cloud Player supports several types of music files, but not those with built-in copy protection....
315 2012-10-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
316 2012-10-12 Sometimes, taking on an investor can have unexpected consequences....
317 2012-10-12 The private equity firm co-founded by the U.S. presidential candidate Mitt Romney has agreed to buy the call center unit of the European telecoms giant Telefónica for $1.3 billion....
318 2012-10-12 The Orioles showed their resilience as Game 4 stretched deep into extra innings, ending with a J.J. Hardy double that gave Baltimore the go-ahead run for a victory and a 2-2 series tie....
319 2012-10-12 And the vice president made full use of his old Senate colleague’s 1988 debate playbook, shaking his head and scoffing pityingly at Representative Paul D. Ryan, trying to paint his opponent as a latter-day Dan Quayle.

Mr. Ryan was no Dan Quayle, but he did make the mistake of mentioning John F. Kennedy in an argument over whether tax cuts recharge the economy. Mr. Biden flashed a Cheshire Cat grin and said to Ryan, after waiting a beat to let the moment sink in, “So, now you’re Jack Kennedy?”

The vice presidential debate on Tuesday was supposed to be a reboot for the Obama campaign after the president’s dismal performance at his debate with the Republican nominee for president, Mitt Romney, last week. Mr. Biden, clearly delighted to come to President Obama’s rescue, relished his role, addressing his opponent as “my friend” but dismissing his arguments as “malarkey.” He laughed at Mr. Ryan’s remarks so often and so heartily that at times he seemed like a guest at a comedy club roast, not a vice president debating the fate of the nation with his opponent.

It was a sharp and spirited debate, with both candidates delivering some lacerating blows, but Mr. Ryan at times seemed disconcerted by the sheer blowhard intensity Mr. Biden brought to the night. Mr. Ryan tried to be respectful, listening to the vice president with a tilted head, choirboy smile and puppy-dog eyes, but he showed his irritation when Mr. Biden kept interrupting to attack his policy on Medicare. “I know you’re under duress,” he told the vice president, prompting another belly laugh.

For Mr. Biden especially, the night was his chance to relive past debates and unleash his inner barroom brawler. He had to be contained and courteous when he debated Sarah Palin four years ago, lest he look like a bully. This time he let loose. And unlike the courtly Mr. Bentsen in 1988, Mr. Biden turned his temperature up, singeing the young man across the table with patronizing grins, but mostly withering retorts. His interruptive barrage was as relentless as his silent mugging for the camera.

Mr. Ryan held his own, but did look abashed when Mr. Biden mocked him for opposing the Obama stimulus, yet asking for government funds for his own district. “On two occasions, we — we — we advocated for constituents who were applying for grants,” Mr. Ryan said stiffly.
320 2012-10-12 Those first 12 minutes showed Knicks fans the blueprint Woodson envisioned for this team — a group that moves without the ball, runs through sets with precision and plays unselfishly.

Tyson Chandler knows that most N.B.A. teams start the preseason showing a little bit of rust. He was surprised with how quickly the Knicks implemented their game plan on offense.

“I thought we had great ball movement,” Chandler said. “We’ve been going well really in practice. Raymond controlled the tempo in the first quarter.”Felton, the point guard the Knicks chose over Jeremy Lin in the off-season, was at the center of the Knicks’ offense. His performance in the opening quarter is what the organization hopes to see during the regular season.

He pushed the Knicks up the court in transition a number of times. In the halfcourt, he got Anthony and Chandler easy looks at the basket. Felton, whom the Knicks acquired in July in a sign-and-trade deal with the Portland Trail Blazers, was involved in the Knicks’ first four baskets (3 assists and 1 layup), and finished with 8 points and 8 assists. After acknowledging he was overweight last year, Felton, who worked on his conditioning in the summer, dribbled past his defender multiple times, which cause the Wizards’ defense to collapse on him.

“I thought he played great,” Woodson said. “I think he had six or seven assists early. That’s what he’s going to have to do.”Yes, the Knicks opened their preseason playing the Wizards, who were 20-46 last year. And, yes, the Wizards’ two best players, John Wall and Nene, were out with injuries. But all the Knicks said they built a good foundation in their first game under Woodson’s new offense, finishing with 26 assists.

“It wasn’t just one pass and a shot,” said Jason Kidd, who will serve as Felton’s backup. “Even if a guy had a wide open look he sacrificed and got another guy to touch the ball and that led to an open look. The good teams do that in this league.”One of the players who benefited from the flow of the offense was Steve Novak (21 points). Off the bench, Novak made seven 3-pointers, a sign the Knicks’ ball movement forced the Wizards to leave Novak open.

J. R. Smith (20 points) also provided offense. In a departure from last season, Smith did not take difficult shots in traffic and did not shoot wild 3-pointers in transition. He was effective in his shot selection, going 8 of 11.

“I really tried to play within myself and within the team,” he said. “More importantly, I think finding my teammates was big for us.”

Mike Woodson elected to use Mychel Thompson as the starting shooting guard as the team waits for Ronnie Brewer and Iman Shumpert to recover from knee operations. Thompson is hoping to use the opportunity to impress Woodson enough to make the 15-man roster. “It’s a blessing,” he said. “I feel thankful for it. I just have to make the most of it, and I feel ready for it.” Thompson struggled against the Wizards. He finished with just 2 points and 4 rebounds in 15 minutes. ...James White, traveled with the team, did not play because of a sore right hamstring.
321 2012-10-12 Daniel Kass, a deputy health commissioner, said in a statement: “The administration, the City Council and animal advocates last year arrived at a model for service delivery that will significantly enhance receiving, field and clinical services. This large increase in services, paid for with savings from not having to construct and operate unnecessary shelters, will come with a more than 75 percent increase over prior funding.”

The Bronx and Queens have not had their own animal shelters since at least 1985, in part because city officials have insisted that it is unnecessary and costly to have one in each borough. Instead, there is a “pet receiving center” in each of these boroughs that accepts drop-offs several times a week for transport to shelters in Manhattan and Brooklyn and on Staten Island, which offer a range of veterinary and adoption services.

The result is that residents take matters into their own hands. Patrick Caruso, a constituent liaison for Community Board 10 in the northeast Bronx, said, “I think every block in the Bronx has at least one person doing some sort of animal rescue.”

Ms. Ferrara, for instance, traps two to four stray cats a week, and pays $20 for each one to be spayed or neutered and inoculated against rabies, she said; she returns them to the street because she cannot find homes for them (she lives with 12 rescued cats already).

The lack of shelters in the Bronx and Queens has long been a sore spot for residents there, prompting a 2000 city law mandating a shelter in each borough. Even then, the Bronx and Queens shelters were never built. City health officials said it was a challenge to find specific sites that met zoning, space and cost requirements.

In 2011, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council adopted a law that eliminated the shelter mandate in return for increasing financing for Animal Care and Control of NYC, a nonprofit group that contracts with the city to operate the shelters and receiving centers and provide other services. Its budget rose to nearly $11 million this fiscal year, up from $7.1 million last year, according to city health officials.

Animal Care and Control did not reply to repeated requests for data and information about its operations.

City health officials said that the Bronx and Queens receiving centers had extended their hours in the past year — and would be open five days a week by next year — and that field operations were also being expanded in these boroughs. Sam Miller, a spokesman for the health department, also noted that the city’s existing shelters had not only taken in animals from the Bronx and Queens, but their overall intake had also declined, even as those boroughs have increased services and collected more animals.

But Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr. of Queens said the situation continued to shortchange taxpayers who were deprived of a basic municipal service in their own communities. “There’s no reason why the people of Queens and the Bronx should not have a location near them to care for their lost pets and strays,” he said. “Why should someone looking for a lost dog in Queens have to travel to Staten Island?”

Jane Hoffman, president of the Mayor’s Alliance for NYC’s Animals, a coalition of animal shelters and rescue groups, said that while the Bronx and Queens should have their own shelters, the 2011 law was a necessary compromise to bring immediate dollars for underfinanced services citywide. “Even with the increase,” she said, “they’re struggling to operate the shelters they do have.”

In the Bronx, the pet receiving center on Fordham Road is open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. “That’s really inconvenient for people,” said Mendi Maxwell, 28, a paralegal, as she walked by the closed storefront on a recent morning.

Ms. Ferrara said some people had dumped unwanted or injured animals outside because they could not wait for the receiving center to open, and did not want to spend the time or money to take them to a shelter in another borough. She does not turn in the stray cats that she traps, either, she said, because she fears they will be euthanized before they can be adopted.

Ms. Ferrara finally trapped Blackie and took both cats to a mobile service for low-cost spaying and neutering, sponsored by the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Afterward, she pampered the pair at her home for a few days before letting them go where she had trapped them.

“You don’t know how it kills me to put them back,” she said. “That’s why we need a shelter with an active adoption program.”
322 2012-10-12 Rye Playland, the 1920s-era amusement park owned by Westchester County, would get a complete makeover under a proposed development that emphasizes year-round activities and more green space, county officials announced Thursday.

The county executive, Robert P. Astorino, had sought to breathe new life into Playland, an Art Deco amusement park that has lost visitors and been a drain on county taxpayers in recent years, losing $3 million to $5 million annually. Two years ago, Mr. Astorino solicited plans to reimagine the 100-acre park on Long Island Sound, which includes 50 rides, an ice rink, a swimming pool, a boardwalk, a lake and a beach.

From among a dozen proposals, the county chose one put forward by a group of Rye residents who formed a nonprofit group called Sustainable Playland. Daniel Biederman, the park guru who pioneered the private management of public spaces with the restoration of Bryant Park in Manhattan, is a consultant. The group, led by the Rye residents Dhruv Narain and his wife, Sandhya Subbarao, sketched out a park with amusements, as opposed to an amusement park.

Specifically, the plan calls for a great lawn overlooking Long Island Sound, new ball fields and a field house, a mini-water park, an outdoor winter ice rink and renovation of the indoor rink, new restaurants and a year-round event space for weddings and conferences. The historic amusement rides would stay, but some newer rides would be retired.

“This is going to take Playland from where it’s been to something that will be more akin to a blend of Bryant Park and Tivoli in Copenhagen, with a mix of commercial amusements like rides and food and public space improvements that take advantage of Long Island Sound,” Mr. Biederman said after the announcement. “The site is absolutely exquisite and needs to be treated with respect. It really will be a grand civic gathering space.”

Under the proposed 10-year management agreement with the county, Sustainable Playland would make an initial investment of $34 million in capital improvements to the existing park. The county would also receive an initial payment of $4 million, as well as at least $1.2 million a year, based on the park’s revenue. The money would help retire Westchester’s $32 million debt on Playland and should save the county millions of dollars in interest and principal payments. Sustainable Playland would be repaid by fees from the concessionaires.
323 2012-10-12 DUBLIN — A British nonprofit organization said Thursday that it would open an abortion clinic next week in Belfast, the first ever on the island of Ireland, raising a furious reaction from anti-abortion campaigners who promised to pressure local politicians to refuse to grant an operating license.

“I am absolutely outraged,” Bernadette Smyth, founder of the anti-abortion group Precious Life, said in a statement. “An organization which is making profits from the death of unborn children is not welcome in Northern Ireland. There will be an outcry from the people, from government and from the churches.”

Marie Stopes International, the nonprofit group behind the proposed clinic, already provides advice for women from Ireland and Northern Ireland who want to use its services.

“As abortion is restricted in Ireland, if you decide to have an abortion you must travel to the U.K. and pay for the service,” the Marie Stopes Web site states. “We can provide you with all the information you need to make this appointment.”

This includes travel arrangements, clinical appointments to suit travel schedules, prices and accommodation options.
324 2012-10-12 If constitutional doctrine will not determine the outcome of a Supreme Court case on gay marriage, what will? Politics.

Today’s justices divide five to four on virtually every important contemporary constitutional issue, including abortion, affirmative action, campaign finance, capital punishment and gun control. The court consists of two relatively stable four-person blocs of liberals and conservatives, with Anthony M. Kennedy hovering between them, usually casting the deciding vote. He has sided with the liberals in some cases involving abortion, the death penalty, and other civil liberties issues, but with the conservatives in most other cases. Gay marriage is likely to turn on Justice Kennedy’s vote. What might it be?

Justice Kennedy could, of course, follow a compromise path and rule that the Constitution mandates at least civil unions for same-sex couples. With two-thirds of Americans supporting civil unions, such a ruling would generate little political controversy.

But were Justice Kennedy to rule on gay marriage itself, his decision would most likely depend on how he balanced two competing tendencies. As in decisions invalidating state sodomy laws and barring the death penalty for minors and the mentally disabled, Justice Kennedy’s rulings often bolster dominant national norms and suppress dissident state practices. This approach would counsel restraint at a time when only six states and the District of Columbia permit gay marriage. (On Election Day, same-sex marriage will be on the ballot in Maine, Maryland and Washington, and a constitutional amendment to ban it will be on the ballot in Minnesota.)

However, Justice Kennedy also explicitly embraces the idea of the Constitution as a living document whose meaning reflects evolving social mores. Partly on this basis, he wrote both of the court’s pro-gay-rights decisions: the 1996 opinion in Romer v. Evans, which invalidated a provision in the Colorado Constitution barring state or local governments from enacting laws forbidding discrimination based on sexual orientation, and the 2003 opinion in Lawrence v. Texas, which ruled that sodomy laws violated the due process clause of the 14th Amendment. It’s also notable that Justice Kennedy treats international norms as relevant to American constitutional interpretation. Gay marriage has recently been legalized in South Africa, Canada and many European nations, and is being actively debated in others.

Justice Kennedy’s opinions often suggest that he wants to be on the right side of history, which matters greatly here because the future of gay marriage in America is so clear. Support has increased from less than 25 percent in 1990 to roughly 35 percent in 2004 to over 50 percent today. At the current rate, a substantial majority of Americans will support gay marriage within the next dozen years.

A Supreme Court ruling in favor of gay marriage would divide the nation roughly down the middle, much as the Court’s ruling against racial segregation, in Brown v. Board of Education, did in 1954. Yet, within two decades, the Brown decision was almost universally revered. A decision protecting same-sex marriage would probably also soon become historic. Indeed, some lower courts have already recognized the significance of pro-gay-marriage rulings. The author of Massachusetts’s pioneering gay marriage ruling compared it to that court’s prohibition of slavery in the 1780s. In 2008, the California Supreme Court struck down a ban on same-sex marriage, proudly invoking its 1948 decision that invalidated a ban on interracial marriage. (The California ruling was subsequently superseded by Proposition 8, a voter initiative that amended the State Constitution to ban same-sex marriage.)

Of course, predicting how Supreme Court justices will vote in particular cases is risky business. Who could possibly have forecast the convoluted path that Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. took to uphold the Affordable Care Act, President Obama’s signature health care legislation, last term? But on the whole, it seems likely that when the case arises, Justice Kennedy will be tempted to write an opinion that would quickly become the Brown v. Board of the gay rights movement.
325 2012-10-12 Among the environmental artworks spilling out of Chelsea galleries this month, Sarah Oppenheimer’s “D-33” is definitely the most restrained and arguably the best. All Ms. Oppenheimer has done is rearrange the walls at P.P.O.W. to form a symmetrical configuration of six spaces and connect them with a pair of slanting, four-way openings, which sometimes function as doorways and sometimes more like windows. That these apertures are edged in bands of dark, matte aluminum gives them a terrific graphic punch and adds to the work’s spatial confusion while also introducing hints of Elizabethan half-timber and Caligari-esque Expressionism. Upon first entering the gallery, for example, visitors sense the walls appearing to tilt inward, an effect that makes the space look like a modernist version of an old-fashioned artist’s garret.

The openings also appear to be identical, which is not the case. The thickness of the walls varies and so does the width and structure of the metal framing. One opening is blocked by a sheet of mirrored glass — perhaps to balance the fact that, across the way, one of the six spaces is inaccessible, visible only through a floor-level triangular opening and very much in use by gallery staff members. All these discrepancies greatly complicate perception as, probably, does a less noticeable variation: according to the gallery, each room is painted a different shade of white.

Sorting all this out is immensely pleasurable, and happily there is no resolution. From certain vantage points — like the opening view — a semblance of agreement can be established, but it quickly falls apart. Difference prevails; a new variation on the empty-gallery-as-art is achieved; and space is torqued in ways both apparent and mysterious. ROBERTA SMITH

The idea that photographs no longer take up much physical space seems to have inspired a wave of installations, among them the simple but enticing walk-in camera obscura in Zoe Leonard’s current show.

Ms. Leonard’s version of this ancient technology is minimal and straightforward. As light passes through a small window into a darkened gallery, the streetscape outside is projected onto the walls and ceiling. The images are inverted, so that taxis appear to cross overhead and the tops of the high-rises across West 17th Street point toward the floor.

Ms. Leonard is certainly not the first contemporary artist to employ the camera obscura — see, for instance, photographs by Abelardo Morell — but she emphasizes the technology and the space instead of the final product. Floor cushions encourage you to stay and meditate on the camera obscura’s strange reversals, watching the projection fade or intensify as the light changes. You may also contemplate real estate, as views of recent construction encroach on the gallery’s older building; the work’s title, “453 West 17th Street,” encourages such thoughts.

Ms. Leonard also offers up a sort of ghost twin to the camera obscura: a brightly lighted, blindingly white room of prints made by aiming the camera at the sun. The extreme contrast between the two rooms forces your pupils to adjust as you walk from one into the other, giving you an interval to think about what’s actually going on in your eye. (The retina, as it happens, has much in common with the camera obscura; it receives a reversed image and depends on the brain to flip it.)

The suggestion is that images may now live in the cloud, but cameras will always live within us. KAREN ROSENBERG

Rey Akdogan continues to elaborate the dispersed kind of Situationist Post Minimalism that was apparent in her evocative two-room show recently at MoMA PS1. Her interest in the specificities of light has resulted in the gallery shifting its hours; it is open from dusk until midnight, which means, for example, that streetlights and the red neon sign of a shop across the street have roles in the show. It also means that a specially installed ceiling fan creates an almost cinematic dance of shadows on the walls, while a curtain of wide plastic strips (once usual in garage doorways and delis) turns translucent, suggesting giant pieces of film.

Nearly every aspect of the gallery’s design is brought into play, especially the white tile floor, which adds its delicate grid to the installation; and a stepped ceiling, which initially hides the fan. Meanwhile, a carousel of projected slides, handmade from papers and gels, introduces an abstraction of commonplace materials in miniature, underscoring the precision of the larger arrangement. A small step light, like those found in theaters, and the gallery’s air-conditioning system also get into the act, as do the glass covers for its overhead lights, now stacked on the floor. Ms. Akdogan is a visual poet of the everyday, pursuing an attenuated found-object art whose primary materials are light, shadow and space. ROBERTA SMITH

Robert Rauschenberg was one of the most democratically minded artists of modern times. So it is appropriate that this new exhibition space operated by the foundation he created should be inaugurated by an exhibition extolling American democracy and running during the final weeks of the presidential election. “We the People” is, alas, an enervating spectacle.

Organized by the curator Alison Gingeras and the conceptual artist Jonathan Horowitz, this crowded, stylistically various show of works by 55 artists includes patriotic posters by Norman Rockwell and LeRoy Neiman, but the overall drift is — no surprise — leftward.

The prevailing aesthetic and social pluralism embrace a drawing of two cowboys by the master of the gay porn cartoon, Tom of Finland; a full-length portrait of the feminist politician Bella Abzug by Alice Neel; and a collage titled “Black History” by Romare Bearden. The white middle class takes hits from a super-realist sculpture of a scruffy youth called “High School Student” by Duane Hanson and a weirdly funny, scatological painting of a nuclear family at home by Nicole Eisenman. A slick, billboard-size painting of Mitt Romney resembling a campaign ad made, presumably with ironic intent by Richard Phillips, pictures the opposition, but a rousing spirit of unity does not emerge from the clamor of different identity groups. A better snapshot of liberalism’s ennui would be hard to imagine.

In the gallery’s back half, “We the People TV” presents a schedule of old television programs including news shows, cartoons and commercials selected by Anna McCarthy, a professor of cinema studies at New York University. KEN JOHNSON
326 2012-10-12 “Not only were these people killed, but there was no ethical reason to give this treatment,” said Dr. William Landau, a professor of neurology at in , referring to those who died of meningitis.

Many pain specialists dispute that conclusion. Doctors are allowed to, and often do, prescribe drugs for unapproved uses, they say, and steroids have been used to treat back pain for decades. They contend the injections can be less risky than narcotics or surgery.

Even Dr. Rathmell, who has been calling attention to the complications, said they occur in only about one in 10,000 cases. “In the right individuals, they are a tremendous help,” he said of the injections.

Kenny Alhadeff, the producer of the Broadway musical says he is one of them. Several years ago, he said, he had such severe back pain that “I could barely get into a car.” His first injection brought immediate relief. Now, after a few years of periodic injections, he is pain-free.

But some defenders of the practice concede that injections are overused. They are most useful for people with herniated disks and pain radiating into the legs or arms. But a study published in the journal Spine in 2007 found that fewer than half of the injections given were for these conditions.

“We are doing too many of these, and many of those don’t meet the proper criteria,” said Dr. Laxmaiah Manchikanti, who runs a pain clinic in Paducah, Ky., and is chairman of the American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians. He also said that about 20 percent of doctors who perform the procedures were not adequately trained.

Dr. Manchikanti said his own review of records found an increase of nearly 160 percent in the number of injections from 2000 to 2010.

The increased use is driven by the aging of the population, the desperation of patients and the desire of physicians to help — and there are financial incentives. Medicare and private insurers pay $100 to several hundred dollars for an injection, and there are pain clinics that do almost nothing but injections.

Dr. Richard Deyo, a professor of family medicine at Health and Science University, said that despite the increase in injections and other aggressive treatments, surveys and disability records suggest that “people with back pain are reporting more functional limitations and work limitation, rather than less.”

Evidence on the effectiveness varies by the condition being treated, the drug used and the injection technique.

A review last year by , which was considering whether to pay for such procedures, found that for one set of circumstances, there were seven clinical trials that showed the injections were helpful, another seven that found them no better or even worse than a placebo, and three with unclear results.

The state agency decided that the evidence was strong enough to justify paying for injections under certain circumstances.

The serious complications, while extremely rare, are more noticeable because of the explosive growth in the number of injections. In one anonymous survey, 287 pain physicians reported 78 serious complications, including 13 deaths, among their patients.

The injections are made into the epidural space just outside the spinal column. This is the same site used in numbing the pain of childbirth, though women in labor receive an infusion of a local anesthetic, not an injection of a steroid.

But the needle can sometimes go astray, putting the drug into the spinal fluid or arteries, causing nerve damage, hemorrhages and death to nerves by depriving them of oxygen. Many doctors use imaging and fluorescent dye to position the needle, but even that technique is not foolproof.

Another complication is arachnoiditis, an inflammation of a membrane surrounding the nerves of the spinal cord that is marked by pain, nerve damage and bowel and bladder dysfunction. Mr. Clark who said he has this condition, uses a catheter to urinate.

The F.D.A. review is focusing on developing best practices for injection techniques with the aim of reducing the risk of injury.

Some doctors are turning to steroids that are free of preservatives, which may damage nerves, and particles, which may clog tiny blood vessels feeding the spinal cord.

But such products in general are not made by drug manufacturers, causing doctors to turn to compounding pharmacies, which are lightly regulated. One of them, the , supplied a contaminated drug — called methylprednisolone acetate — that is suspected of causing the fungal meningitis outbreak.

Moreover, the particle-free steroids may not provide lasting relief, said Dr. Christopher Gharibo, an associate professor of anesthesiology and orthopedics at .

Last year, the label for the steroid Kenalog, made by , was changed to say that epidural injection was not recommended. But the label for ’s Depo-Medrol, the brand name version of methylprednisolone acetate, does not have such a warning.

A Pfizer spokesman said the company did not condone the epidural use of Depo-Medrol.

Dennis J. Capolongo, who runs an advocacy group called the End Depo Now Campaign, says the lack of warning is inexplicable.

A former photojournalist in Washington, Mr. Capolongo said an epidural injection of Depo-Medrol to treat in 2001 inflamed his nerves, leaving him hospitalized for weeks and bedridden for two years. The pain, while no longer so intense, is not completely gone.

“There are nights I cry myself to bed,” he said.
327 2012-10-12 The precise consequences of that failed exercise for the companies and for the affected countries are still unclear and may not become apparent for months. Investor confidence has been shaken, at least temporarily, in Mr. Enders, and in Ian G. King, his counterpart at BAE. Some wonder whether the two companies, having found less fertile ground in Europe than hoped, might begin to set their future sights for growth abroad.

“I think it could create some question marks as to where investment is placed in the future,” said Howard Wheeldon, director of policy at the British arms industry trade body ADS.

In refusing to grant the merger its full blessing, without attaching strings the companies would not accept, Germany judged that the country had more to lose — in prestige and in future jobs — than to gain. And for that, some blamed not only the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, but the rough-edged Mr. Enders as well.

“Tom is an industrialist, not a statesman,” said one person close to the negotiations, who spoke only on condition of anonymity because the discussions were supposed to have remained confidential. If Mr. Enders erred, this person said, it was in “trying to serve the interests of his company and ignoring those of his government.”

Others gave Mr. Enders significant points for trying. “This will go down on his résumé as a failure,” said Alexandra Ashbourne-Walmsley, a military and aerospace consultant in London. “But it was quite a bold move and showed he was not prepared to be a stooge.”

Since EADS’s creation in 2000 from a combination of French, German and Spanish aerospace assets, its management — under Mr. Enders and his predecessors — has chafed at the frequent attempts by government stakeholders to influence decisions at the company. So it is no small irony that the merger plan — which would have expressly limited the states’ power to a veto of hostile takeovers — was brought down by exactly the kind of political interference he had hoped to end.

“This is proof of concept that European integration and cooperation doesn’t work,” huffed one frustrated EADS executive, who insisted on not being named for fear of political repercussions. “Parochialism is not the way forward.”

To be sure, the talks were also bedeviled by a couple of bad breaks.

The first came just weeks after the two companies had quietly informed the British, French and Germans in July of their interest in pursuing a merger and had received the governments’ O.K. to try hammering out a deal, people involved in the negotiations said. Mr. Enders had been expected to accompany Mrs. Merkel on a trade mission to China in late August. But after he fractured both of his arms in a hang-gliding accident, he was forced to bow out of the trip, losing a prime chance to quietly lobby for her support of the merger.

Barely two weeks later, news of the talks was leaked to the press. Because BAE is a London-listed company, the leak triggered strict British rules that oblige the parties in a potential merger or takeover to make public a detailed offer to within 28 days — or walk away for at least six months.

Leaks about merger negotiations are so rampant in European investment banking circles that companies systematically draft a “leak announcement” — containing the broad outlines of the deal — whenever discussions begin in earnest. Both BAE and EADS had ones at the ready, which they issued within hours of the first headlines hitting the newswires. But from that point, the companies were forced to woo the three governments in the full spotlight of the news media intent on every twist and turn in a potential $45 billion deal.

Some analysts said the public pressure might have heightened concerns in Berlin that supporting the merger could have risked high-technology jobs in Germany — a gamble Mrs. Merkel and her party might have been unwilling to take before federal elections next year.

“Because the industry and the commercial actors don’t have the same shackles as the institutional actors, they are always a step ahead, trying to lead the way forward while politicians are lagging behind,” said Mr. de France, of the foreign relations council.

Now the two companies will be under pressure to convince investors that their businesses still have a healthy future as stand-alone entities. But analysts expect them to continue trying to expand in emerging markets like China, India, Brazil and the Middle East in search of customers — especially in the military arenas — given the steady pressure on defense budgets in Europe and the United States.

In entering into talks with BAE, EADS — the parent company of Airbus, the commercial aircraft maker — “effectively admitted weakness, explicitly acknowledging Airbus’s cyclicality,” said Nick Cunningham, an aerospace analyst at Agency Partners in London. “A failure to get it done now leaves EADS exposed to the wrong side of a cycle on both sides of its business,” he said, “given the outlook for European defense budgets and the civil aerospace cycle.”

For BAE, “the failed merger will leave the firm much more exposed to uncertain factors beyond its control, such as major declines in the U.S. defense budget and potential losses in an increasingly competitive international defense market,” said David Reeths, director of consulting at IHS Jane’s, a consulting and analysis firm.

Others were reluctant to rule out the possibility that EADS and BAE could eventually try again.

“I think there is probably going to be another opportunity, perhaps in six months to a year, for them to have another go at this,” said Mr. Wheeldon of ADS. “I don’t thing the curtain is fully down,” he said. ”This is a chance for all the actors to draw a very big breath and perhaps think again.”
328 2012-10-12 Stocks were flat Thursday, unimpressed by encouraging jobs news but unrattled by worrisome developments in the global economy.

In the morning, a government report of fewer jobless claims carried the market higher. The Dow Jones industrial average rose as much as 83 points, shrugging off a widening trade deficit in the United States, higher unemployment in Greece and a ratings cut for Spain.

By late afternoon, the rally sputtered. The Dow closed down 18.58 points, or 0.14 percent, to 13,326.39.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index inched up 0.28 point, or 0.02 percent, to 1,432.84.

The Nasdaq composite index declined 2.37 points, or 0.08 percent, to 3,049.41.

Traders, it seemed, were so used to bad news that Thursday’s developments did not really push them one way or the other.
329 2012-10-12 Shen Danyang, a spokesman for China’s commerce ministry, said in a statement on Thursday that the United States had disregarded “the reasonable defense of the Chinese government and Chinese enterprises,” and he expressed “strong dissatisfaction” with the Commerce Department’s decision.

He also said that the American decision to put import tariffs on a category of renewable energy imports was harmful to global efforts to address climate change. And he warned that the American action was likely to result in reduced Chinese imports of raw materials and factory equipment for the solar panel industry.

He Weiwen, a co-director of the China-U.S.-E.U. Study Center at the China Association of International Trade, which is part of the Commerce Ministry, said his opinion was that China was likely to call for consultations with the United States to reach a settlement on the tariffs.

Such settlements have been reached in trade disputes in the past, leading to outcomes like price floors for tomatoes imported from Mexico and the so-called voluntary restraints that Japan imposed on its car exports in the 1980s, which were anything but voluntary.

But Mr. He said it was unlikely that negotiations could start quickly, given the coming presidential election in the United States, and he worried that settling a trade dispute with China might not be at the top of the agenda of whoever is sworn in as president.

“The new administration will be faced with more pressing domestic issues,” he said.

The tariffs imposed Wednesday cover about $3 billion a year in imported solar panels and were imposed after a quasi-judicial process at the Commerce Department. United States law does not allow the White House to intervene in the process of calculating duties. But the duties can be replaced with a negotiated settlement that also satisfies the domestic industry.

To the dismay of Chinese regulators, hundreds of solar panel manufacturers in their country have followed a pattern of using lavish loans from state-owned banks to buy and install as much foreign-made factory equipment as possible while setting aside little for research and development.

“They made quite a lot of money but did not invest,” Li Junfeng, a director general for energy and climate policy at the National Development and Reform Commission, said in an interview last month in Beijing. The commission is China’s top economic planning agency.

Mr. Li, who is also the president of the Chinese Renewable Energy Industries Association, also said that the solar industry’s problems were the direct result of overcapacity in China and not the fault of overseas trade restrictions.

Yet he insisted that if the Chinese government could revisit past renewable energy decisions, it would not do anything differently because the business community in China is prone to overinvestment in many industries.

Asked what he was telling Chinese banks to do about their continued loans to solar panel manufacturers, he replied, “I say, ‘Just stop.’ ”

But Frank Haugwitz, a solar industry consultant in Beijing, said this week that there were signs that Chinese banks would sharply increase lending, at least to the country’s largest solar panel manufacturers, a step that could allow them to delay taking losses on previous loans to those companies.

Aaron Chew, a renewable energy analyst at the Maxim Group, a New York investment bank and asset management company, estimated that the 10 largest Chinese solar manufacturers had already borrowed $18 billion almost entirely from state-controlled banks.

Dirk Thomas, an executive in the computer hard drive industry who is now a solar industry consultant in Hong Kong, predicted that China could emerge triumphant from the current troubles in the solar panel industry.

Those Chinese solar panel companies chosen by the government to receive more bank loans could end up buying enough of their domestic and foreign competitors to gain market dominance, reduce overcapacity and set prices high enough to be profitable, he said.

That would follow a pattern already seen in the computer hard drive industry since the 1980s — although in that industry, the consolidation has been led by a Japanese company, Toshiba, and two American companies, Seagate and Western Digital.

When China began the rapid expansion of its solar industry several years ago, many in the global industry expected that technological breakthroughs would result in more cost reductions. But Chinese companies have driven costs down sharply, mainly through greater economies of scale from the construction of larger factories to produce conventional solar panels, and few industry executives foresee further cost reductions by building even larger factories.

At the same time, few new technologies have been developed. Some experts attribute that to China’s rapid expansion of capacity for conventional polycrystalline solar panels, which has driven prices down so quickly that investment in newer thin-film solar technologies has faltered, particularly in Europe.

“The artificially low prices resulting from Chinese overproduction have nearly destroyed a second generation of photovoltaic technologies based on thin film,” said Ken Zweibel, the director of the George Washington University Solar Institute in Washington. “This has been a huge setback for the U.S. competitive position.”

But Sebastian Meyer, a partner at Azure International, a renewable energy consulting firm in Beijing, said he thought the United States decision on tariffs was a mistake.

The United States is still strong in making factory equipment for manufacturing solar panels, Mr. Meyer said, and should let China actually make the panels as long as Chinese banks and local and provincial governments refuse to admit defeat and continue covering most of the costs.

“If you buy a solar panel from China, China is paying for part of it,” he said. “If I were the U.S., I would let Americans milk it.”
330 2012-10-12 The assertion that the impounded Syrian jetliner carried Russian military cargo was made by Turkey’s prime minister, , who declined to say how the Turks had come to suspect that the plane was carrying matériel or what precisely had been found. But he said the cargo violated international rules that prohibit passenger aircraft from carrying munitions.

“From Russia, an institution equivalent to our Machinery and Chemical Industry has sent military tools, equipment and ammunition to the Syrian Defense Ministry,” Mr. Erdogan was quoted as saying by the semiofficial Anatolian News Agency. He was drawing a comparison to Turkey’s Machinery and Chemical Industry Institution, a leading provider of defense equipment to the Turkish military.

“Upon the intelligence received, research there was conducted, and it was unfortunately seen that there was such equipment inside,” Mr. Erdogan said, referring to the search of the plane.

Mr. Erdogan also said a planned visit to Turkey by Russia’s president, , had been postponed, but that the delay had no connection with the forced grounding of the plane.

The prime minister spoke after Moscow expressed dismay at Turkey’s actions. A statement from Aleksandr K. Lukashevich, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said that the forced landing had “threatened the life and safety” of Russian citizens aboard and that Russia “continues to insist on an explanation of the reasons for these actions by the Turkish authorities.”

Vyacheslav Davidenko, a spokesman for Rosoboronexport, the Russian company that has a monopoly on legal exports of finished weapons, denied any connection with what the Turks claimed to have found. “We don’t know what cargo was on that plane, but the cargo, whatever it was, does not belong to Rosoboronexport,” Mr. Davidenko said in a telephone interview.

The official Syrian Arab News Agency quoted a Foreign Ministry statement that described a harrowing ordeal for the passengers and crew of the A320 jetliner.

The ministry’s statement contended that the Turks had forced the plane to sit unattended on the tarmac at the airport in , the capital, for hours, leaving the occupants to wonder why. Later, after passengers had been escorted into a waiting lounge, “Turkish security authorities subjected the plane to search and assaulted the plane crew,” the ministry said. The plane and passengers were allowed to leave early Thursday.

“The plane was carrying no weapons or prohibited goods in accordance with the unblemished international reputation of the Syrian Arab Airlines,” the statement said. It called upon Turkey “to return the rest of the plane’s contents intact.”

Correction: October 11, 2012 

 Due to an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian leader. He is president, not prime minister. Correction: October 11, 2012 

 An earlier version of this article misattributed a quotation regarding allegations that a Syrian Air flight forced to land by Turkey was carrying Russian military equipment bound for Syria.  It was Fyodor Lukyanov, a Russian foreign policy analyst – not Aleksandr K. Lukashevich, a spokesman for Russia’s Foreign Ministry — who said in an interview with Kommersant FM, a radio station: “Who could know that? According to Turkey, there was. The Russian side isn’t saying anything exact, but I cannot rule out that something could have been there.” It was also Mr. Lukyanov, not Mr. Lukshevich, who said “I think that tension will now develop in the relationship between Russia and Turkey.”
331 2012-10-13 In a precautionary move, the Knicks have decided to sit Amar'e Stoudemire for a preseason game against the Celtics....
332 2012-10-13 The Yankees lost the first game of the A.L.C.S. to the Tigers, but they also lost their captain, Derek Jeter, for the remainder of the postseason with a fractured ankle....
333 2012-10-13 Are admissions officers illegally taking race into account — or legally going to extra lengths to reward students for having overcome disadvantage, which happens to benefit black and Latino students?...
334 2012-10-13 Analysis and insights on all of the big games....
335 2012-10-13 But amid calls for more protection for diplomats overseas, some current and former State Department officials cautioned about the risks of going too far. “The answer cannot be to operate from a bunker,” Eric A. Nordstrom, who until earlier this year served as the chief security officer at the United States Embassy in Tripoli, Libya, told the committee.

Barbara K. Bodine, who served as ambassador to Yemen when the destroyer Cole was bombed in 2000, said: “What we need is a policy of risk management, but what we have now is a policy of risk avoidance. Nobody wants to take responsibility in case something happens, so nobody is willing to have a debate over what is reasonable security and what is excessive.”

For the State Department, the security situation in Libya came down in part to the question of whether it was a war zone or just another African outpost.

Even though the country was still volatile in the wake of the bloody rebellion that ousted Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the State Department did not include Libya on a list of dangerous postings that are high priority for extra security resources.

Only the American Embassies in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan are exempted from awarding security contracts to the lowest bidder. Dangerous posts are allowed to consider “best value” contracting instead, according to a State Department inspector general’s report in February.

The large private security firms that have protected American diplomats in Iraq and Afghanistan sought State Department contracts in Libya, and at least one made a personal pitch to the ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens, who was killed in the militants’ attack in Benghazi on Sept. 11, according to a senior official at one firm.

But given the Libyan edict banning the contractors, the Obama administration was eager to reduce the American footprint there. After initially soliciting bids from major security companies for work in Libya, State Department officials never followed through.

“We went in to make a pitch, and nothing happened,” said the security firm official. He said the State Department could have found a way around the Libyans’ objections if it had wanted to.

Instead, the department relied on a small British company to provide several unarmed Libyan guards for security at the mission in Benghazi. For the personal protection of the diplomats, the department largely depended on its Diplomatic Security Service.

The wrangling over protection is part of a larger debate that has been under way for years within the State Department over how to balance security with the need of American diplomats to move freely.

Many diplomats rankle at the constraints imposed on them by security officials, who demand that they travel around foreign capitals in heavily armored convoys that local civilians find insulting and that make it nearly impossible for the envoys to meet discreetly with foreign officials. Many American diplomats have also grown deeply frustrated by the constraints imposed on them by working in the new, highly secure embassies that have been constructed around the world over the past decade.

After the 1998 bombings of two American embassies in East Africa by Al Qaeda, the State Department began a multibillion-dollar program to replace many embassies with hardened and highly secure facilities. American construction companies with experience in building prisons and military barracks won many of the contracts to build cookie-cutter buildings that look more like fortresses than diplomatic outposts. Between 2001 and 2010, 52 embassies were built, and many others are now under construction or being designed.

Often located in remote suburban areas far from crowded streets, the buildings are designed to withstand truck bombs, but they also require local security forces and heavily armed guards to resist the type of attack that the militants staged in Benghazi.

But many diplomats say the fortified embassies make it difficult for them to do their jobs, forcing them to find ways around them. Ronald E. Neumann, who served as the ambassador in Afghanistan from 2005 to 2007, and who worked in Baghdad before that, said that many foreign officials refuse to come into American Embassies because they are insulted by the intrusive security measures, and they do not want American officials coming to their homes with huge convoys.

“So you meet people in hotels,” said Mr. Neumann, now the president of the American Academy of Diplomacy in Washington. The security “has forced you to get more creative.”

That can mean taking more risks. “A lot of people are simply violating the security regulations to do their jobs,” said Anthony H. Cordesman, a national security analyst at the Center for International and Strategic Studies in Washington. “They have to find ways to get out, and sometimes they end-run the security officer, or sometimes the security officer will turn a blind eye.”

In fact, just as the Benghazi attack occurred, the State Department’s building department was beginning to address some of the frustrations by proposing more open and accessible designs for embassies. Under the new policy, embassies will still have to meet the same security standards, but the State Department will require that a higher priority be given to the visual appearance of buildings and will try to situate them in more central locations so that they are not so isolated. It is unclear whether the Benghazi crisis will force the State Department to abandon the new design policy.

“The problem is that embassies no longer function as public buildings,” said Jane Loeffler, the author of “The Architecture of Diplomacy,” a history of the design and construction of American embassies. “They used to be public, but no longer.”

For the State Department, finding the right balance between security and diplomacy has become increasingly difficult in a political environment. Perhaps no one understands that as well as Patrick F. Kennedy.

Five years ago, Mr. Kennedy, then the under secretary of state for management in the Bush administration, was caught up in a high-profile Congressional investigation of the episode in Nisour Square. Democratic lawmakers on the House Oversight Committee criticized the department for lax management of overly aggressive security contractors.

This week, Mr. Kennedy, who has the same job in the Obama administration, faced Republicans on the same House committee, who criticized the State Department for lax management and failing to provide more aggressive security in Benghazi.
336 2012-10-13 The campaign of Todd Akin, the Republican congressman running against her, called using both pronunciations “cheesy” even though he has waffled himself, saying “Missouruh has a choice” when he announced his candidacy.

And the differences extend to the top of the ticket. Mitt Romney, who is favored to win Missouri, asked the crowd at a campaign event in the state during the primary race, “How many say Missouree like I do?” President Obama has favored Missouruh in his appearances.

The debate serves as a low-stakes case study for the age-old art of political pandering — that alternately endearing and condescending process of cultivating the “just like you” appeal that remains a central part of running for office. Other linguistic examples include presidential candidates dropping g’s before Southern audiences or changing the cadence of their speech before black audiences.

There are states where locals cringe at mangling by outsiders or where regional accents signal deep local roots (New Yawk and Loo-si-ana) but Missouri is the only state where there is fundamental, if mostly good natured, disagreement about saying the state’s name.

Scholars believe the name Missouri — however it is pronounced — comes from a word the Illinois Indians used to describe a neighboring tribe: “one who has a canoe.” But historical reasons for the split have been a matter of considerable debate among linguists and historians.

Some believe it started as an east-west split, with St. Louis favoring “ee” and Kansas City “uh.” Popular belief holds that the southern half of the state is “Missourah,” with Highway 70 serving as a sort of Mason-Dixon line, and still others contend that “Missouree” is city, “Missouruh” is country.

Increasingly, however, the divide is not geographical but generational.

“The Missouruh pronunciation carries a degree of stigma as incorrect or at least old-fashioned,” said Matthew Gordon, an associate professor of English who studies linguistics at the University of Missouri. “So many young people may avoid it even if they come from families in which the older generations used that pronunciation.”

Yet there is one demographic group that cannot seem to scrub the Missouruh name from their speech.

“A high percentage of our politicians say Missouruh,” mused Lyle Anderson, the mayor of Lebanon, who prefers the other construction.

Such politicians include, historically, President Harry S. Truman, a Democrat, and more recently, former Senators John Ashcroft and Christopher S. Bond, both Republicans. Today, most of the state’s top officials stick mostly to “Missouree,” but they sprinkle the other ending into the occasional speech, especially when they’re introducing themselves or speaking to rural audiences. Strategists say that’s just good Missouri manners.

“It’s almost like a courtesy, when you’re in somebody else’s home, to relate to them,” said Steve Glorioso, a Democratic consultant in Kansas City who has advised those on the stump to adjust the pronunciations to match the audiences.

Jeff Roe, a longtime Republican operative in the state, said he has never discussed pronunciation with a Missourian candidate, but advises those from out of state: “Stay safe and say Missouruh.” (Indeed, in the Senate race, most of the television ads using the soft vowel, known to linguists as a schwa, come from national political action committees.)

Mr. Nixon, a moderate Democrat, whose policy positions sometimes reflect the same try-to-please-everyone approach as his use of the state name, is favored to win a second term. And in one of the country’s most competitive Senate races, Ms. McCaskill has struggled to pull away from Mr. Akin, despite his comments about “legitimate rape.” There have been occasional, fruitless, efforts to end the debate over the state name. In 1907, a resolution introduced in the state House to establish the “only true pronunciation as that received by the native Indians” — a third way, Mih-SOO-rih — failed by voice vote. In 1970, Gov. Warren E. Hearnes announced to some fanfare that both pronunciations are correct. In 2002, as secretary of state, Matt Blunt polled visitors at the Missouri State Fair about how to say the state name, with Missouree winning in a landslide.

It remains unclear what, if any, weight voters put on hearing their preferred pronunciation of the state’s name. Many Missourians insist they couldn’t care less. But politicians rarely turn down an opportunity for an edge.

Ms. McCaskill, who was mocked years ago for recording separate campaign advertisements for different parts of the state that featured the different pronunciations, still switches back and forth. But her campaign was eager to pass off the changes as accidental, releasing a statement saying she “always” used both. “Over-thinking it just gets you into trouble, so we don’t,” the statement said. “It all comes naturally.” Governor Nixon, meanwhile, endured some gentle chiding after his inauguration, when he pledged to defend “the Constitution of the state of Missouree” and the “office of governor of the state of Missouruh.” He jokingly acknowledges that he can’t keep it straight.“When you spend as much time as Governor Nixon does in every corner of the state,” said Sam Murphey, a spokesman, “you really don’t pay much attention to this sort of thing.”

His Republican challenger, Mr. Spence, disagreed: “People can see through insincerity from about 150 yards.” He added that he would never change his “Missouree” pronunciation for political gain.

But he confessed that he only realized that his wife of 22 years said “Missouruh” after his campaign began.

“I’d never even noticed that she did that,” Mr. Spence said.
337 2012-10-13 A body found in a suburban Denver park was identified on Friday as that of a missing 10-year-old girl, the authorities said. The body of the girl, Jessica Ridgeway, was found on Wednesday about seven miles southwest of her Westminster home. The authorities said the body was not intact but did not explain further. “We recognize there is a predator at large in our community,” said Chief Lee Birk of the Westminster Police Department. Jessica began the short walk from her home to her elementary school on the morning of Oct. 5 but never arrived. A search by hundreds of law enforcement officers did not start until hours later because her mother works at night and slept through a call from school officials saying Jessica was not there. Police officials have said they do not suspect Jessica’s mother or her father, who lives in Missouri.
338 2012-10-13 A Secret Service officer was arrested early Friday after being found passed out and apparently drunk on a Miami street corner several hours after President Obama left the state following a trip to the city, police officials said. A Miami police officer found the agent, Aaron Francis Engler, around 7 a.m., lying near an intersection not far from a popular night spot in downtown. He was arrested on two misdemeanor counts after becoming combative with the arresting officer, the police said. Mr. Engler was in Miami in a support role for Mr. Obama’s trip, but his exact duties were unclear.
339 2012-10-13 Twitter soon buzzed with Orioles fans claiming that repeated replays showed the ball deflected off the pole. If it did, the path of the ball barely changed, which would make it difficult for the umpires to overturn the call.

Culbreth did not believe there was any ambiguity to the call.

“I saw it go to the right of the pole,” Culbreth said in a statement. “There is netting there and it didn’t touch the netting. It did not change direction.”

“Things like that happen,” McLouth said. “I can’t totally speak on it because I have not seen the replay. When I was watching it, I honestly thought it was foul. I couldn’t tell if it hit the pole or not. But they watched the replay and they didn’t think so.”

Orioles fans can be forgiven if they are unwilling to accept the result. The team still has bad memories of the 12-year-old Yankee fan Jeffrey Maier interfering with Orioles right fielder Tony Tarasco and giving Derek Jeter a disputed home run in the 1996 A.L.C.S.

When play resumed, Sabathia struck out McLouth on the next pitch, ending the inning.

McLouth got another chance to be the hero in the eighth, batting with the bases loaded, one out and the score 3-1. He struck out.

“That last at-bat was the key at-bat of the game,” McLouth said. “I missed my pitch 0-1. He gave me a fastball and I fouled it back. He made a really good pitch 1-2 and I couldn’t come through.”

Showalter agreed that the not-a-home-run call was less important than the other opportunities the team wasted. “We have a good system in place to keep those things from affecting the game,” he said of the review of the play. “Someone said it nicked the pole, but that didn’t beat us.”
340 2012-10-13 A three-judge federal panel told South Carolina this week that the state could not enforce its new voter photo ID law until after the November elections. There is not enough time to educate voters about the law’s complexities, the court said, noting further that rushing the rules into effect could have “racially discriminatory” outcomes because South Carolina voters who lack the required photo ID are disproportionately African-American.

The court was absolutely right to be cautious, even as it ruled that the law passed constitutional muster and that South Carolina could put it into effect next year. This permission was conditioned on promises by state officials to broadly interpret the law so as to allow citizens who lack the required photo ID to vote if they can give good reason for not having one. South Carolina approved its new photo ID law in May of last year. In December, the Justice Department blocked the law, using its authority under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act to review changes to voting laws in any state that, like South Carolina, has had a history of racial discrimination in voting. The state then filed a lawsuit to reverse that judgment, in the course of which it effectively agreed to amend the law by promising to enforce it more leniently and fairly than it is written.

One concurring opinion noted that the law “certainly would have been more restrictive” without the review process. But if the state fails to fulfill its pledge by “any narrowing” of the law, it will find itself back in court because many people kept from voting are likely to be racial minorities.

The Supreme Court is expected to take a major voting-rights case from Alabama this term, at which time it will reconsider the importance and validity of Section 5. The South Carolina case is an emphatic reaffirmation of its value: without the section, a discriminatory law might have gone forward to disenfranchise vulnerable voters.
341 2012-10-13 And so, she said, she once traveled from France to Spain and back to pick up illegal pills for Mr. Armstrong and delivered them to him in a McDonald’s parking lot outside Nice. Another time, she said, she took a package of testosterone and got it in the hands of another rider.

Ms. O’Reilly said she provided ice to the riders who had containers full of doping materials they needed to keep from spoiling. She spoke of using her talents with makeup to disguise bruising on the arms of the riders from needles.

Some of it made her ashamed, she said, and all of it made her anxious. But the truly hard part was to come: talking about it publicly.

“The traumatizing part,” she said in the telephone interview from Manchester, England, “was dealing with telling the truth.”

Ms. O’Reilly first went public in 2003, when she was paid to cooperate on a book, “L.A. Confidentiel: Les Secrets de Lance Armstrong,” that sought to expose Mr. Armstrong as a drug cheat. Mr. Armstrong sued her for libel.

Ms. O’Reilly said Mr. Armstrong demonized her as a prostitute with a drinking problem, and had her hauled into court in England. Ultimately, a legal settlement was reached, and Ms. O’Reilly tried to pick up her life, sometimes talking about Mr. Armstrong and drugs, but to little notice.

Until now. This year Ms. O’Reilly, 42, gave a sworn account of her years with the Postal Service team to American doping investigators. Her testimony, along with that of more than two dozen others, including many of the cyclists Ms. O’Reilly worked with on the team, is at the heart of the United States Anti-Doping Agency’s formal case against Mr. Armstrong, one that seeks to bar him from the sport forever.

“Talking about it made me feel like I was being disloyal in a sense, like I was breaking the code,” Ms. O’Reilly said of her early efforts to blow the whistle on Mr. Armstrong. “Lance tried to make my life a living hell.”

Mr. Armstrong, over many years now, has steadfastly denied doping. Citing what he called a witch hunt by American doping authorities, he declined to defend himself against the formal charges that were made public this week. He has refused to comment on Usada’s case against him — a brief that includes hundreds of pages of accusations, sworn affidavits, medical records, test results and e-mail correspondence.

“I have to admit,” Ms. O’Reilly said, “I didn’t think it would come out with so much detail like this.”

It was Ms. O’Reilly’s brother who introduced her to cycling. In her spare time she began taking massage courses.

“It was just a hobby, really,” Ms. O’Reilly said. “Then it just escalated and escalated.”

Ms. O’Reilly worked with the Irish national team and later with an American-based cycling team. Then, the Postal Service team came knocking. She was initially hired on a contract basis, as one of the junior soigneurs.

From the start, Ms. O’Reilly told investigators, it was apparent that the team was involved with doping. She said riders even complained that the team was not aggressive enough in its use of banned substances.

She said she saw one rider fill a syringe from a vial of clear liquid. Another learned she was traveling to Belgium, she said, and asked her to pick up a package for him. She was told to bring the package directly to the rider, George Hincapie, and to avoid bringing it to the United States.

“It is testosterone, and you do not want to transport it yourself,” she said she was told.

Ms. O’Reilly said the use of the drugs was rarely, if ever, openly discussed by the riders themselves. And she said she tried to feign ignorance or indifference.

And so, she said, she did not ask questions when pictures were removed from hotel room walls, taking it to mean that riders were using the hooks on the wall to hang their bags full of helpful blood. When riders worried about their telltale bruises, she said, she worked a little magic with makeup.

And she tried to keep a sense of humor.

Ms. O’Reilly testified that when the team was competing in the Tour de France one summer, and doping authorities were on the prowl, she learned that $25,000 worth of doping products had been flushed down the toilet of the Postal Service team’s bus and discharged into a field not far from a French village where a time trial was taking place.

“I remember saying to one of the other staff members that $25,000 worth of doping products probably does not make very good fertilizer,” she said in her affidavit, “and that the team should come back to the field in a few years to check out the grass.”

Ms. O’Reilly said she was once in a room giving Mr. Armstrong a massage when he and officials on the team fabricated a story to conceal a positive drug test result. Ms. O’Reilly said Mr. Armstrong told her, “You know enough to bring me down.”

After resigning from the team in 2000, Ms. O’Reilly was contacted by journalists to talk about her experiences, requests she said she turned down for years because she was concerned about being perceived as disloyal and about the reactions of Mr. Armstrong and the team.

But as the headlines about cycling and the deaths of riders increased, Ms. O’Reilly said she changed her mind. Contacted by David Walsh, a journalist, she spoke out. Her comments were published in “L.A. Confidentiel,” written by Mr. Walsh and Pierre Ballester.

“By not saying anything, you’re part of the problem,” she said at the time.

Ms. O’Reilly said she was slightly nervous before the publication of the interviews, but had no idea that the retaliation from Mr. Armstrong and others would be so strong.

Mr. Armstrong sued Ms. O’Reilly and The Sunday Times of London, which had excerpted the book. The legal battle lasted three years.

“He was suing me for more than I was worth,” Ms. O’Reilly said. “I was worried he would bankrupt me.”

In the end, as part of a settlement, The Sunday Times wrote an apology. Ms. O’Reilly paid no money, she said.

“Emma suffered from the lawsuit the most,” Mr. Walsh said in an interview this week. “This woman was an opponent of Lance Armstrong and was completely vilified. Now, everyone wants to know. But where were they in 2004?”

Today, Ms. O’Reilly works as a massage therapist at a clinic in Manchester, England.

“Cycling isn’t part of my life at all,” she said.

Or it wasn’t until the investigators took her statement this year. The formal affidavit runs more than 20 pages.

“Talking about it now opened the wound a bit,” she said. “But I think in the long run it will be good, because something needed to be done.”

She added: “I wanted to clean up cycling. There was intimidation, bullying and stress. You try and get on with your life. I was only speaking the truth.”
342 2012-10-13 While it is unclear what impact a handful of highly trained additional guards might have had in Benghazi were they able to deploy there, some State Department officials said it would probably not have made any difference in blunting the Sept. 11 assault from several dozen heavily armed militants.

“An attack of that kind of lethality, we’re never going to have enough guns,” Patrick F. Kennedy, under secretary of state for management, said at Wednesday’s hearing. “We are not an armed camp ready to fight it out.”

A senior administration official said that the military team, which was authorized by a directive from Defense Secretary , was never intended to have an open-ended or Libya-wide mission.

“This was not a SWAT team with a DC-3 on alert to jet them off to other cities in Libya to respond to security issues,” said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter.

Security in Benghazi had been a growing concern for American diplomats this year. In April, the convoy of the special envoy for Libya was attacked there. In early June, a two-vehicle convoy carrying the British ambassador came under attack by rocket-propelled grenades. Militants struck the American mission with a homemade bomb, but no one was hurt. In late June, the was attacked and the organization pulled out.

“We were the last thing on their target list to remove from Benghazi,” Lt. Col. Andrew Wood of the National Guard, who was deployed in Tripoli as the leader of the American military security unit, told the House committee.

But friends and colleagues of Ambassador Stevens said he was adamant about maintaining an American presence in Benghazi, the heart of the opposition to the Qaddafi government.

“Our people can’t live in bunkers and do their jobs,” Mrs. Clinton said Friday. “But it is our solemn responsibility to constantly improve, to reduce the risks our people face and make sure they have the resources they need to do their jobs.”

At American diplomatic facilities overseas, the host nation is primarily responsible for providing security outside the compound’s walls. Inside the compound, the State Department is in charge, relying on a mix of diplomatic security officers, local contract guards and . The Marines are responsible for guarding classified documents, which they are instructed to destroy if there is a breach of the compound. Senior diplomats are protected by diplomatic security officers, not a detachment of Marines, as Mr. Ryan asserted in Thursday night’s debate.

In deciding whether to extend a military security team, the State Department often faces a difficult financial decision at a time when its security budget is under severe pressure. The department must reimburse the Pentagon for the cost of these soldiers, an expense that can quickly run into the millions of dollars. For that reason, the State Department typically pushes to make the transition to local contractors, who are much cheaper.

In their debate, Mr. Biden responded to Mr. Ryan’s attacks by accusing him and his fellow Republicans of cutting the administration’s request for embassy security and construction. House Republicans this year voted to cut back the administration’s request, but still approved more than was spent last year.

In an agreement between the Pentagon and the State Department, the military team was extended twice — December 2011 and March 2012 — but when it came to a third extension, Eric A. Nordstrom, the former chief security officer in Libya, said he was told he could not request another extension beyond August.

Charlene Lamb, a deputy assistant secretary in the Bureau of Diplomatic Security, said at the hearing that a request from Mr. to extend the military team was only a recommendation and that the State Department had been right not to heed it. Ms. Lamb also testified that budget considerations played no part in considering additional security. Decisions on diplomatic security went no higher than Ms. Lamb and, in limited cases, Mr. Kennedy, officials said.

The broader strategy, Ms. Lamb said, was to phase out the American military team and rely more on the Libyan militiamen who were protecting the compound along with a small number of American security officers. Ms. Lamb said this model of relying on locally hired guards had worked at the Embassy in .

In a July 9 cable signed by Ambassador Stevens, the embassy requested that the State Department extend the tours for a minimum of three security personnel in Benghazi. The department had earlier approved a request for five guards for the mission, which was still in effect at the time of the July 9 cable.

Five American security agents were at the compound at the time of the assault, Ms. Lamb said, though it was later noted that only three were based at the compound and that two had accompanied Mr. Stevens from Tripoli. She said there were also three members of a Libyan militia who were helping to protect the compound.
343 2012-10-13 Armstrong has vehemently denied doping throughout his career. Timothy J. Herman, one of his lawyers, said the terms of the 2006 settlement prevent S.C.A. from reopening the case.

“The full and final release that SCA signed put this to bed long ago,” Herman wrote in an e-mail. “SCA agreed it could never challenge or appeal the award anyway or anyhow — ever.”

Tillotson said Armstrong’s lies, as outlined in the agency’s report, had changed the understanding that was reached through arbitration. He acknowledged that any decision on recourse will rest with an arbitrator. The agency’s move to strip Armstrong of his seven Tour de France titles because of doping, Tillotson said, will boost the company’s prospects of recovering its money.

When asked about the possibility that Armstrong lied under oath during arbitration with SCA, Mark Fabiani, a spokesman for Armstrong, did not directly address the truthfulness of Armstrong’s testimony but said that portions of the evidence that three former teammates provided Usada appeared to contradict sworn statements they made during the SCA process.

The report also said Armstrong attempted to intimidate witnesses and tried to get riders to present false statements to the agency. Fabiani said neither Armstrong nor his lawyers had been contacted regarding accusations of witness intimidation and called them insignificant.

The doping case unveiled by Usada is unlikely to renew an earlier criminal investigation of Armstrong related to doping. In that case, federal prosecutors examined allegations of his doping and doping-related crimes, including defrauding the government, drug trafficking, money laundering and conspiracy. In particular, investigators from the Food and Drug Administration, the F.B.I. and the United States Postal Service, which sponsored Armstrong’s team for several years, looked into whether he and his associates used government money to finance doping.

André Birotte Jr., the United States attorney for the Central District of California, announced in February that he had closed an investigation into Armstrong. He gave no reason for ending the inquiry.

An inquiry by the Department of Justice, however, is believed to be continuing. Floyd Landis, one of Armstrong’s former teammates, filed a federal whistle-blower lawsuit charging that Armstrong and the Postal Service team management defrauded the government by using taxpayer dollars to finance the squad’s doping program.

Landis claimed Armstrong and the team management were aware of the widespread doping on the team when its contract with the Postal Service clearly stated that any doping would constitute default of their agreement, said two people with knowledge of the case. Those people did not want their names published because the case is under seal.

Landis filed the lawsuit under the False Claims Act, the people with knowledge of the case said. Those suits give citizens the right to bring lawsuits on the government’s behalf and provide financial incentives to do so.

If the government decides to join the lawsuit and recovers any money, Landis would be eligible to receive a portion of it.

Armstrong has said Landis made up the story of doping on the team because he had not been hired by Armstrong after Landis ended his two-year suspension for doping.

Fabiani, Armstrong’s spokesman, said Usada’s report was flawed. He said Armstrong’s representatives had seized on the fact that all but one of the affidavits released by the antidoping agency were signed after Armstrong decided in August not to contest the doping charges.

“Not a single key witness was willing to swear under oath until they were absolutely sure that there would be no adversarial proceeding, until they were absolutely sure that they would not be subject to cross-examination, and until they were absolutely sure that their testimony would not be impeached by third parties or by special deals that the witnesses had made with Usada,” Fabiani wrote in an e-mail message.

Richard Young, the lead outside lawyer retained by the agency for the Armstrong case, said that the timing of the affidavits had nothing to do with the willingness of witnesses to testify. Young, a partner with the Bryan Cave law firm, said the legal team originally planned to have the witnesses testify in person at an arbitration hearing, in which case affidavits would not be necessary. But when Armstrong chose not to contest the charges, forgoing the arbitration process, the agency collected the affidavits.

“We were going to be putting them on the stand one after another,” Young said. “It would have been more powerful.”

He also dismissed Fabiani’s suggestion that the witnesses were now being untruthful, noting the detail of their accounts as well as the broad consistency among them.

Tillotson, the insurance company’s lawyer, made a similar observation. “You have to wonder: is every person in the world lying about Lance?” Tillotson said.
344 2012-10-13 LITTLE ROCK, Ark. (AP) — The nation’s largest meat company, Tyson Foods, said on Friday that it was beginning a program to audit the way animals are treated on its suppliers’ farms.

Tyson has been feeling pressure from animal welfare activists, who have urged the company to move away from cramped cages for pregnant pigs.

But the company said the move was not in response to actions from such organizations, including the Humane Society of the United States.

Tyson’s chief executive, Donald Smith, said in a statement that the company knew that consumers wanted assurances that their food was being produced responsibly.

Tyson said auditors would check on things like animal access to food and water, as well as proper human-animal interaction and worker training.

Tyson is supplied by more than 12,000 independent livestock and poultry farmers.

Stock in Tyson, which is based in Springdale, Ark., fell 9 cents on Friday, or 0.56 percent, to $16.02 a share.
345 2012-10-13 Pictures From the Week in Business
346 2012-10-13 BEIJING — Mo Yan, the new Nobel laureate who strenuously avoided antagonizing the Communist Party during much of his literary career, stepped into a political minefield on Friday by calling for the release of Liu Xiaobo, the imprisoned writer and fellow Nobel winner who is serving an 11-year sentence for subversion.

“I hope he can achieve his freedom as soon as possible,” Mr. Mo, 57, told reporters during a news conference held a day after he won the 2012 prize for literature. He spoke not far from his family’s home in rural Shandong Province, the setting for many of his epic novels.

Even if Mr. Mo’s remarks were spare and decidedly nonconfrontational — he went on to suggest he was not an admirer of Mr. Liu’s pro-democracy essays — they are nonetheless likely to infuriate China’s leadership, which has been exulting in the Swedish Academy’s decision to give China its first Nobel in literature.

Beijing considers Mr. Liu a criminal, and the Nobel Peace Prize awarded to him in 2010 has long been seen here as an effort to meddle in China’s internal affairs.

Despite the throng of Chinese reporters attending the news conference, Mr. Mo’s comments did not appear in the state-run news media. But they quickly spread via Twitter, electrifying Chinese literati, many of whom had been critical of his close relationship to the Communist Party, especially Mr. Mo’s role as vice chairman of the government-run Chinese Writers’ Association.

Ai Weiwei, the dissident artist who a day earlier had criticized Mr. Mo for cooperating with the authorities and refusing to stand up for persecuted writers, said he was heartened by the remarks. Murong Xuecun, a prominent writer who frequently jousts with the censors, said Mr. Mo probably felt protected by his newly acquired Nobel mantle. “Maybe all the glory has made him more courageous and more outspoken,” he said in an interview.
347 2012-10-14 "Taken 2" was No. 1, selling an estimated $22.5 million in tickets, for a two-week total of $86.8 million, according to Hollywood.com....
348 2012-10-14 A bobbled double-play ball, a blown call by an umpire and more feeble offense by the Yankees helped Detroit take the first two games of the series on the road....
349 2012-10-14 “I like that ‘Brooklyn’ chant,” Williams said. “Hopefully, that’s a motto this year. That was only 2,000 fans. So imagine 18,000.”

The Nets make their home debut Monday night at Barclays Center against the Washington Wizards.

The Nets’ starting unit pushed the tempo to great effect early, scoring 8 fast-break points in the first quarter while racing to a 30-17 lead. The margin was 18 points early in the fourth quarter when the last of the starters went to the bench.

“They really was utilizing all of our strengths,” Coach Avery Johnson said of his starting five. “Brook inside, shooting on the perimeter, with all three of our perimeter guys posting up, with Wallace and Joe posting up. Obviously with Brook. Deron doing a little bit of everything. That third quarter was pretty much a snapshot of kind of how we’d like to play.”

From there, it got messy, as the Nets’ reserves squandered the lead, necessitating overtime. But it set them up for a nice finish.

Andray Blatche, who is looking to restart his career after a bumpy tenure in Washington, hit the decisive jump shot with 26.8 seconds left in overtime. Watson followed with two free throws to seal the victory.

“It felt good,” said Blatche, who finished with 12 points and 5 rebounds. “I felt confident.”

Nick Young led Philadelphia with 21 points off the bench, including 15 in the fourth quarter to spark the 76ers’ late comeback.

The Nets’ new All-Star backcourt — which 76ers Coach Doug Collins proclaimed as “the best backcourt in the N.B.A.” — performed up to expectations, with Williams and Johnson combining for 27 points and 9 assists in limited minutes.

It was also a promising new start for Lopez, who was playing his first game since March 4. He finished with nine rebounds and three blocks and was efficient from the field (6 for 11). After settling for jump shots early, Lopez worked inside effectively for most of the game.

“That’s what we need,” Williams said. “We’re going to stay on Brook. But you can tell, he wants to play like that this year. He’s excited about the year. He’s motivated.”

The battle in the paint should be tougher for Lopez when these teams meet in the regular season. The 76ers were missing their new star center, Andrew Bynum, as well as shooting guard Jason Richardson, both of whom are nursing injuries.

The Nets were without MarShon Brooks, who is recovering from foot tendinitis. Keith Bogans took Brooks’s place as the backup shooting guard, but the rotation otherwise reflected Avery Johnson’s preferences at this point. His primary bench players were Watson, Blatche, Josh Childress and Mirza Teletovic.

It was a rough N.B.A. debut for Teletovic, the rookie forward from Bosnia, who went 2 for 13 from the field, including 2 for 11 from the 3-point line.

“He’s a real capable 3-point shooter,” Avery Johnson said. “This was his first N.B.A. game. He knows what he’s doing, and we want him to continue to shoot.”

The game was not televised by either team, so the Nets’ first game as a Brooklyn team was witnessed only by the 6,887 in attendance.

The YES network, which carries the Nets, generally does not cover road games in the preseason, and would not have televised this one in any case because it was showing pregame coverage of the Yankees’ playoff game Saturday night. The Nets’ five remaining games will be televised, however, starting with Monday’s preseason home opener, which will be carried by YES.

“I thought it was important for us to get a win in our first game as the Brooklyn Nets,” Avery Johnson said, “even though it’s preseason.”
350 2012-10-14 Melissa Jane Mazzucco and Sean Edward McDonald were married Saturday evening at Bridgewaters, an event space in Manhattan. Stephen P. Kramer, a retired New York City civil court judge, officiated.

Mrs. McDonald, 30, works in Manhattan as a sales account executive at Technorati Media, a San Francisco-based online media company and advertising network. She graduated from Indiana University Bloomington.

She is a daughter of Kathleen A. Mazzucco of Brooklyn and the late Robert G. Mazzucco. The bride’s father, who worked in Long Island City, Queens, retired as a planner for the New York City Department of City Planning. Her mother retired as a reading teacher at Public School 94, an elementary school in Brooklyn.

Mr. McDonald, 34, trades stocks at Quad Capital, a brokerage firm in Manhattan. He graduated from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn.

He is a son of Mary E. McDonald and Edward A. McDonald of Brooklyn. The groom’s mother is an educational consultant in Brooklyn. His father is a partner in the New York office of the law firm Dechert.
351 2012-10-14 Emily Rachel Chiswick-Patterson and Matan Shacham were married Saturday evening by Rabbi David E. Ostrich at the Boalsburg, Pa., home of Linda and Blake Gall, friends of the bride’s parents.

Ms. Chiswick-Patterson, 29, will keep her name. She is the manager for strategy and performance at Education Pioneers, an organization in Oakland, Calif., that recruits and trains candidates for administration, curriculum development and other jobs in public schools. She graduated cum laude from Princeton, and received a master’s in history from Oxford. She is the daughter of Nancy R. Chiswick and Arthur H. Patterson of State College, Pa.

Mr. Shacham, also 29, is an associate at the San Francisco law firm Keker & Van Nest. He graduated with distinction from Stanford, and received a law degree cum laude from Harvard. He is a son of Esther Shacham and Abraham Shacham of Palo Alto, Calif.
352 2012-10-14 Emily Jane Archer Giarelli, the daughter of Ellen Giarelli and James M. Giarelli of Lawrenceville, N.J., was married Saturday to James Lukasz Kozumbo, the son of Jamie and Walter Kozumbo of Baltimore. Judge Stephen H. Glickman of the District of Columbia Appeals Court officiated at the George Peabody Library in Baltimore.

Mrs. Kozumbo, 26, is to join the legal staff of the Bureau of Competition at the Federal Trade Commission in Washington in October; she will evaluate mergers in the pharmaceutical, medical-device and consumer-products sectors. She graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania and received a law degree cum laude from Georgetown.

Her father is the chairman of the educational theory, policy and administration department at the Graduate School of Education at Rutgers in New Brunswick, N.J., and is a philosophy professor there. Her mother is an associate professor in the doctoral program at the College of Nursing and Health Professions of Drexel University in Philadelphia.

Mr. Kozumbo, 28, known as Luke, is a business development manager at Development Alternatives International, a consultancy in Bethesda, Md. He graduated with honors from Johns Hopkins and is a candidate for a master’s degree in economics.

His mother is the coordinator of the parents programs at Johns Hopkins. His father retired as a program manager in the United States Air Force Office of Scientific Research; he developed and managed basic biological research relevant to national defense, and worked in Arlington, Va.
353 2012-10-14 Emily Auer Hood and Timothy Joseph Ferrin were married Saturday at the Episcopal Church of the Holy Spirit in Lake Forest, Ill. The Rev. Richard H. Downes performed the ceremony, with the Rev. Jay Sidebotham, the church’s rector, taking part.

Dr. Ferrin, 31, is a freelance writer and editor, working in Chicago, for online education providers. She graduated from Marlboro College in Marlboro, Vt., and received a doctoral degree in biochemistry from Dartmouth.

She is a daughter of Louise Tate Hood and E. Murray Hood of New York. The bride’s father is a portfolio manager at Mariner Investment Group in New York. Her mother is the assistant vice president for fund-raising at Barnard College.

Mr. Ferrin, 31, is a freelance television producer and editor in Chicago, whose recent work includes corporate and industrial videos. He graduated from the University of Iowa.

He is a son of Kathleen Karnes Ferrin and Joel H. Ferrin of Lake Forest. The bridegroom’s mother is a private voice teacher. His father is a lawyer in the legal department of the building technologies division of Siemens, the German electronics and electrical engineering company; he works in Buffalo Grove, Ill.
354 2012-10-14 Gary Collins, a prolific actor who became a successful host of daytime talk shows and — for almost a decade — master of ceremonies for the Miss America pageant, died on Saturday in Biloxi, Miss. He was 74.

Mr. Collins died of natural causes, Brian Switzer, the Harrison County deputy coroner, said.

In a performing career that spanned more than four decades, Mr. Collins made guest appearances on dozens of television shows, including “The Virginian,” “Love, American Style,” “Charlie’s Angels” and “JAG.”

Mr. Collins became a familiar face in American living rooms in the 1980s as the congenial host of the syndicated afternoon talk show “Hour Magazine,” for which he won a daytime Emmy in 1983, and later, as the host of the Miss America Pageant from 1982 to 1990.

From 1989 to 1994, he was the host of another daytime talk show, “The Home Show,” on ABC.

Born in Venice, Calif., on April 30, 1938, Mr. Collins became interested in acting while in the Army, where he performed on the Armed Forces Network.

He had his first break in 1965 with a supporting role on the NBC series “The Wackiest Ship in the Army,” with Jack Warden. He appeared with Dale Robertson in the 1966-68 series “Iron Horse,” and in 1972 he starred in “The Sixth Sense,” a series in which he played a parapsychologist.

In 1974, he starred in a short-lived TV version of “Born Free.”

In 1967, he married Mary Ann Mobley, Miss America of 1959. The couple separated last year.

Besides his wife, survivors include their daughter, Marcy Clancy Collins; and two children from his first marriage, to Susan Peterson, Guy and Melissa Collins.

In recent years, Mr. Collins, a resident of Biloxi, had legal troubles, including convictions for drunken driving and leaving the scene of a traffic accident.
355 2012-10-14 Based on the past 12 months of earnings, for example, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index has a trailing P/E of around 15, which would make the market attractively priced based on historical levels, according to market strategists.

By contrast, the market’s CAPE reading is nearly 22. Although that’s not as elevated as in 1929 or ’99, it is significantly higher than the market’s long-run average of around 16.

“The basic idea of smoothing out earnings over time is excellent,” Mr. Siegel says. But he points out that the current CAPE for domestic stocks includes a 90 percent annual earnings decline in the first quarter of 2009. “You’re averaging in an unbelievable hole in profits,” he says.

JAMES STACK, president of InvesTech Research, adds that the current 10-year look back is unusual because it includes not just one but two of the worst profit recessions in history. In addition to the earnings decline stemming from the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, the bursting of the tech bubble weighed down corporate profits from 2000 through early 2003.

“Normalized earnings are fine to use if the periods you’re looking at are going to be more normal,” Mr. Stack says. “But anyone looking at 10-year P/E’s today has to realize that the past decade has been anything but normal.”

Based on CAPE, domestic stocks today “look ultraexpensive,” Mr. Stack says. Yet he notes that the true valuation picture may have been distorted, as corporations used the past decade’s recessions “as an opportunity to cleanse their balance sheets by writing off all nonperforming parts of their businesses.”

Mr. Shiller, who is widely credited with having warned investors about the tech crash and the more recent housing bubble, concedes that “corporate earnings have been unusually volatile in the past decade.”

But he argues that this is more reason — not less — to use normalized earnings in calculating the market’s P/E. “What alternatives do people have?” he asked in an interview. For instance, he says, if volatile swings in profits affect 10-year averages, surely they would distort P/E’s based on 12 months of profits even more. (Mr. Shiller is a regular contributor to the Economic View column in Sunday Business.)

Robert D. Arnott, chairman of Research Affiliates, agrees. He notes that based on the last 12 months of profits, the Russell 1000 index — which, like the S.& P. 500, tracks blue-chip domestic stocks — was trading at a modest P/E ratio of around 16. “But those were peak earnings,” he said., adding that his firm prefers to use CAPE to remove the effects of earnings peaks and troughs.

What about the fact that the past 10 years include two major earnings anomalies that skew the market’s CAPE?

“I’m grateful that there are people who believe that, who can be on the other side of my trades,” Mr. Arnott says.

He points out that the past decade has also been witness to much monetary easing by the Federal Reserve, artificially bolstering corporate profits. Moreover, he says, “corporate earnings are the largest share of gross domestic product since 1929, while wages are the smallest share of G.D.P. since 1937.” Those trends are unlikely to continue forever, he says, adding that profit margins will eventually come down as the economy improves and companies start hiring more aggressively.

This isn’t to say that CAPE is telling investors that it’s necessarily time to sell domestic stocks. To be sure, the CAPE of the S.& P. 500 is high by historical standards. But if one’s choice is between investing in domestic stocks or in 10-year Treasury notes, the equities probably still seem the better bet, Mr. Arnott says.

Mr. Shiller adds that based on more than 140 years of history, the market’s CAPE would indicate that investors should expect annualized gains of just under 4 percent a year, accounting for the effects of inflation. That’s worse than the long-run average of real annual returns of more than 6 percent for blue-chip stocks.

“But it’s not extremely low, either,” he says.

FOR his part, Mr. Siegel has a more bullish outlook. He argues that the market is attractively priced, considering how low interest rates are. And he says he thinks that investors will soon be willing to pay more for each dollar of corporate earnings than they are right now. Given that, he adds, domestic stocks could return 10 to 12 percent a year over the next several years — especially if the economy begins to pick up speed.

Mr. Siegel and Mr. Shiller are old friends who have periodically disagreed about market valuations. “Again, let me just say how much I respect my good friend Robert Shiller,” Mr. Siegel said. “His basic idea is excellent, but you have to consider today’s circumstances.”
356 2012-10-14 The decision to emphasize diversity over fairness is one that affirmative-action proponents made long before Wednesday, and it is a big reason they find themselves in such a vulnerable position today.

Americans value diversity. But they value fairness more. Most people oppose a college’s or employer’s rejecting an applicant who appears qualified for the sake of creating a group that demographically resembles the country.

With affirmative action boiled down to a diversity program, it finds itself in retreat. Five of the six states that have held referendums on racial preferences have banned them, including California and Florida. The Supreme Court limited the legal forms of preferences in 2003 and suggested that they had only 25 years left. Based on last week’s oral arguments, and the fact that Justice Anthony Kennedy has never voted to uphold preferences, the court may restrict them further or forbid them.

Yet supporters of affirmative action do not necessarily need to despair. They still have a path open to them, one that remains legal and popular. It involves resurrecting Johnson’s vision of an affirmative action program based on fairness, which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. also favored.

The crucial choice that affirmative-action proponents made long ago was to focus the program on race rather than more broadly on disadvantage.

There were some obvious reasons to do so. Americans have never been comfortable talking about class. It reeks of the social order the country rejected at its founding (Britain’s) and of the economic system the country spent decades fighting (communism). But race was an undeniably American problem, from slavery to civil rights to the discrimination that, according to voluminous social-science research, lingers.

By forgoing a broader view of disadvantage, colleges lost the ability to claim that their overriding goal was meritocracy. “That was the key moment, when they forfeited fairness,” Richard D. Kahlenberg of the Century Foundation, who has written a book about affirmative action, told me.

Institutions using affirmative action could not claim to be bringing everybody — rich and poor, white and black, native and immigrant — up to the same starting line, in Mr. Johnson’s formulation. They instead were creating a system that depended on racial categories.

From a legal perspective, the decision made the supporters’ task harder. The very laws intended to address the country’s racial history set a high bar for any race-based system. In its first major affirmative-action ruling, the Bakke case of 1978, the Supreme Court rejected the notion that society-wide discrimination justified preferences for individuals. The court reaffirmed that finding in 2003, while also reaffirming that diversity was a legitimate rationale.

It is impossible to know whether affirmative action could have had a more enduring foundation were it based on a broader equal-opportunity approach. Proponents never tried this alternative. Courts, however, have consistently upheld socioeconomic preferences. Had black and Latino students been benefiting from those preferences, as many would, at least some portion of affirmative action might be in less peril.

But the liberals behind the great successes of the civil rights and women’s movements never showed as much interest in economic diversity. On college campuses, administrators have insisted for years that they care about disadvantage, beyond race, but they have done relatively little about it. They have preferred a version of diversity focused on elites from every race.

Black and Latino college applicants, as well as athletes and so-called legacies, receive large preferences — the equivalent of 150 to 300 SAT points. Low-income students, controlling for race, receive either no preference or a modest one, depending on which study you believe. At the country’s 200 most selective colleges, a mere 5 percent of students come from the bottom 25 percent of the income spectrum, according to Anthony P. Carnevale of Georgetown. In court on Wednesday, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. attacked the political underbelly of this system. The University of Texas argued that diversity within racial groups was also important, citing “the African-American or Hispanic child of successful professionals in Dallas.” Skeptically, Justice Alito asked the university’s lawyer, “They deserve a leg up against, let’s say, an Asian or a white applicant whose parents are absolutely average?”

Justice Kennedy followed up by telling the lawyer, in one of the most quoted lines of the day, “So what you’re saying is that what counts is race above all.”

Even in California, which has banned racial preferences, race can still dominate the debate. Richard H. Sander, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, has found some hard-to-explain patterns in U.C.L.A.’s undergraduate admissions. The college has accepted a significantly higher percentage of blacks and Latinos than whites and Asians with the same “holistic score,” a number the admissions office gives to every applicant, based on test scores, grades, extracurricular activities and obstacles overcome. U.C.L.A. officials say that the holistic scores do not fully capture the obstacles some students face.

Back in the 1960s, Dr. King understood the vulnerability of today’s affirmative action. “Many white workers whose economic condition is not too far removed from the economic condition of his black brother will find it difficult to accept,” he wrote in a private letter, “special consideration to the Negro in the context of unemployment, joblessness, etc. and does not take into sufficient account their plight (that of the white worker).”

If the courts and voters continue to restrict racial preferences, supporters will have three options. They can give up, which is unlikely. They can quietly subvert the law, as some critics, like Mr. Sander, believe is happening in California. Or they can attempt an overhaul of affirmative action.

The economic argument for a different version has only become stronger over time. Outright racism certainly exists, and colleges would have a hard time taking it into account if race-based affirmative action became illegal. But simple discrimination seems to have become a relatively smaller obstacle over the last few decades, while socioeconomic disadvantage has become a larger one.

The title of a recent paper by Roland G. Fryer Jr., a Harvard economist, summarizes the trends: “Racial inequality in the 21st century: The declining significance of discrimination.”

Racial gaps remain large enough that colleges would struggle to recruit as many black and Latino students without explicitly taking race into account. But some experts, like Mr. Kahlenberg, think they could come close. To do so, they would need to consider not just income, but also wealth, family structure and neighborhood poverty. Those factors disproportionately afflict black and Latino students — and hold back children from life’s starting line.

Mr. Kahlenberg argues that wealth is especially defensible, because it can capture discrimination’s intergenerational effects. Some universities in states where racial preferences are banned, including California, have begun taking small steps to consider class more fully.

Until the Supreme Court rules, sometime next year, the focus will be on its decision. And its decision matters. Yet the choices that universities make matter, too. You wouldn’t have known it from sitting in the courtroom, but there is a version of affirmative action — legal, generally popular and arguably more meritocratic — that higher education has not yet even tried.
357 2012-10-14 But perhaps the most telling anecdote is from early October 2008, when Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, summoned Ms. Bair to his office. No reason was given for the meeting. When she arrived, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, was already there. Timothy F. Geithner, then the president of the New York Fed, was on the phone.

Handed a piece of paper, Ms. Bair saw that she had been ambushed. It was a script, prepared for her by the Treasury and the Fed, stating that the F.D.I.C. was moving to guarantee all the liabilities in the financial system. Astonishingly, the guarantee would cover all bank depositors and even protect unsecured claims against institutions. In short, the F.D.I.C. was being asked to back “everybody against everything in the $13 trillion banking system,” Ms. Bair writes.

Dumbfounded, she told the men she had to discuss the plan with the F.D.I.C. board. Over a few days, they came up with a better, less costly plan.

If she had gone along, Ms. Bair said in an interview last week, “everyone who held bank debt would have immediately gotten a windfall profit,” as their bonds and other bank securities rose in value on the F.D.I.C. backing. “Of course, I wasn’t going to do that,” she adds, “and we ended up with a program that only guaranteed the renewal of expiring debt, which is where the problem was. And we charged a fee.”

Ms. Bair didn’t know it at the time, but this was the first of many situations when the Treasury and the Fed hoped to leave the F.D.I.C. holding the bag. She objected as often as she could, viewing these moves as attempts to assign responsibility for egregious behavior to hundreds of smaller institutions that did nothing to bring about the crisis.

The other disturbing theme in Ms. Bair’s book involves favored treatment given to Citibank and its parent by top regulators. Even as the bank racked up billions in losses on its mortgage and derivatives businesses in 2007 and 2008, Ms. Bair writes, no meaningful supervisory measures were taken against Citi by either the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the New York Fed, its main regulators.

“A smaller bank with those types of problems would have been subject to a supervisory order to take immediate corrective action, and it would have been put on the troubled bank list,” Ms. Bair writes. “Instead the O.C.C. and the New York Fed stood by as that sick bank continued to pay major dividends and pretended that it was healthy.”

Over the course of the three bailouts that Citigroup ultimately received, Ms. Bair watched as regulators showered the company with benefits and tried to stick the F.D.I.C. with the bill. “The larger issue was the fundamental unfairness of the vast lengths the government went to, to protect this institution and its management, shareholders and bondholders,” Ms. Bair writes.

What of the claim that all the rescues were profitable? Ms. Bair contended in the interview that none of the arithmetic used to arrive at these gains takes into account the subsidies banks received in cheap capital, low-interest-rate loans and debt guarantees.

IN her book, Ms. Bair lists 13 actions that she thinks would make financial institutions stronger, and regulators more effective. Even just a few of these — like breaking up megabanks, raising capital requirements and ending the revolving door between the industry and its overseers — would have immediate and extensive benefits.

In the meantime, Ms. Bair says, she is discouraged by a lack of will among regulators to protect the nation from future financial crises. “I wish that the regulators had a more singular focus on making sure the bailouts never happen again,” she told me. “Yet, outside the F.D.I.C., I don’t sense a real commitment to making sure the government will never have to step in.”

That failure is having a genuine impact on our economy, in Ms. Bair’s view.

“Our bailout strategies didn’t clean out bad mortgage assets, and we didn’t force banks to take losses,” she says. “We imposed no accountability and did no fundamental restructuring. We were Japan, and I think we have a Japan-like recovery because of it.”

Having left the F.D.I.C. in 2011, Ms. Bair now works on financial policy issues at the Pew Charitable Trusts and heads the Systemic Risk Council, a private-sector organization that the Pew Trusts helped form, which is working on financial system fixes.

“The balance of power has shifted too far in favor of large financial interests in Washington,” she said in the interview. “The bailouts, and the quantitative easing that continues, have overwhelmingly benefited the upper classes. Workers, homeowners, small businesses have by and large been left to fend for themselves.”
358 2012-10-14 In some ways, that mystery is by design. Umenyiora’s reticence with the public and the news media is not by accident. While Tuck and quarterback Eli Manning readily make themselves available in the locker room, Umenyiora generally stays away. Typically, he speaks to reporters once a week (on Fridays, when fewer are present) and when he does, he rarely ventures beyond the mundane.

“Look, it took me a whole year to get to know the guy,” Canty said. “When I first met him, I couldn’t stand him. I’ll admit that. But what people don’t realize is that he is incredibly smart, incredibly thoughtful and one of the most interesting people you could ever meet.”

Canty laughed, adding, “You just have to get him to talk to you.”

Umenyiora readily acknowledges his aversion to the spotlight.

“I won’t lie to you,” he said. “I’ve wished that I wasn’t in such a big market, that I could have just gone about my business and played football and been in a small corner somewhere where nobody knows anything.”

Yet his reticence is more philosophical.

Umenyiora spent his childhood in London and in his native Nigeria, then moved to the United States as a teenager. He did not play football until 11th grade, then earned a business degree from Troy University in Alabama, and developed an abiding appreciation for history, politics and religion. He recently finished reading the Bible and started the Koran. Tuck revealed that he and Umenyiora were in the midst of a long-running discussion comparing Clinton-era economics with the policies of President Obama.

Quite simply, Umenyiora said, he does not understand all the fuss about the N.F.L.

“That’s the thing,” he said, pointing two fingers at his own body. “Look at what I do. I put on tights and go out there and try to hit someone. It’s hard, but is it really important? Does it matter? Why should we get any attention at all?”

He was not being modest or feigning humility, but simply asking a question. Umenyiora will often raise broader points about a subject, regardless of how universally accepted it is, said Adewale Ogunleye, who retired from the N.F.L. in 2010 and is one of Umenyiora’s closest friends.

The two once spent an inordinate amount of time, Ogunleye said, debating the merits of flying first class when an exit-row seat offered the same leg room. Umenyiora, Ogunleye recalled, was trying to be sure that Ogunleye found some value in the first-class seat as opposed to simply wanting it because he thought that is where a professional athlete should sit.

“He just doesn’t accept things because they are what everyone else accepts,” Ogunleye said. “He needs to see the reason behind it. He needs to think about it.”

Along those lines, Ogunleye added that Umenyiora was seemingly immune to fads and trends. When a visitor recently chided Umenyiora for still having a BlackBerry in a locker room full of iPhones and Androids, he said defiantly: “I really love this thing. Why change?” Umenyiora also avoids designer clothes. He frequently wears dark gray Crocs sandals to and from team headquarters (to complement his gray sweat pants) and once, when Ogunleye and Umenyiora went out for a night on the town with friends, Umenyiora showed up in full Nigerian dress. Their companions were surprised, but “that’s just what he does,” Ogunleye said.

“He wears what he wants even if some people thought it was like something out of ‘Coming to America,’ ” Ogunleye added. “He doesn’t care.”

When Umenyiora bows to public pressure, it rarely goes well. He recently gave in and began reading “Fifty Shades of Grey” (“It was like you couldn’t get away from people talking about it,” he said) but quit after just a few pages because “the writing was just so cheesy I was like, ‘Come on man, you can’t do this.’ ”He added, “I didn’t even get to the good parts.”

Lately, Umenyiora has found himself thinking of the future more. He will be 31 next month. He has struggled along with the rest of the defensive line over the Giants’ first five games, and he is not signed beyond this season.

The notion that he is nearing the end of his career has changed his perspective. That was part of the motivation for his talk in the meeting room, he said, and he acknowledged that he now viewed his contract battles with the Giants differently.

The disputes — which involved public posturing by each side, occasional name-calling, aborted trade attempts and a holdout, among other tactics — dragged on acrimoniously. And when they finally ended, Umenyiora repeatedly said he had no regrets, even though he ultimately secured little in terms of money.

Now, though, his opinion has changed. He recalled a moment after the Giants won the Super Bowl last February, when a reporter approached him in the midst of the giddy celebration and wanted to know how he felt about his contract. Umenyiora’s face fell.

“It was like a cloud hanging over me,” he said. “It was terrible. It felt like it would never go away.

“Of course I regret it,” Umenyiora added. “Because nothing was really accomplished out of it. I didn’t really gain anything. The extra money I’m making this year? Even 10 times that wasn’t worth what I had to endure.”

He laughed. “I have a business degree, but I’m not a good businessman — you could tell that through everything I do,” he said. “That contract stuff — that was the worst thing I ever could have done.”

That is what Umenyiora told the other defensive linemen, he said, using those exact words. He believed in the principle that N.F.L. teams cut players in the middle of contracts, so players should be free to renegotiate as well, but he “never imagined it would get so ugly.”

It was hard to acknowledge his errors, Umenyiora said, but he is changing. Lately he has talked more about family, particularly with Tuck and Ogunleye. Umenyiora “has dated the most attractive women on the face of the Earth,” Ogunleye said, and has a 5-year-old son, Tijani, whom he wishes he saw even more than he does. But he has never married, choosing instead to “run around,” as he described it.

For a long time, Umenyiora said, he believed he might never get married. His parents divorced when he was an infant and that made him “not very easy to love,” he said. He almost never discusses his home life.

But for a moment, he opened up. “Your mother? Your family?” he said. “That’s how you learn to love. I used to think I didn’t need that, but now I know I do. I want that love someday, too.”

He smiled then, not sullen or surly or sour at all. Umenyiora’s public image may never fully recover from the arrows of the past few off-seasons, but that does not mean he should be defined by it. He made sure to remind his teammates of that in the meeting room, too.

“I told them, ‘It takes a genius to learn from other people’s mistakes,’ ” he said. “It’s true. Most people, they have to learn from their own.”
359 2012-10-14 “A Chorus Line” is at once a period piece and a brilliantly timeless work of musical theater about talented people who are striving to achieve their dreams — or at least to make a living. One of them, Mitzi Hamilton — the inspiration for the show’s saucy character Val, who advances her career through strategic plastic surgery — is directing the production currently at the Paper Mill Playhouse.

This revival is dedicated to the memory of the Pulitzer Prize-winning musical’s composer, Marvin Hamlisch, who died in August. Ms. Hamilton wisely chose not to try to improve upon the staging and choreography of Michael Bennett, who conceived of and first directed the 1975 musical; she replicates them fairly faithfully in Millburn.

So that long, thin, white line still stretches across a virtually bare stage, and the characters wear mid-1970s rehearsal togs as they desperately audition to be hired for the chorus of a musical comedy. The book, tautly crafted by James Kirkwood and Nicholas Dante, pieces together different shards from the numerous characters’ narratives to provide a mosaic impression of a dancer’s life. (Mr. Bennett used recordings of talks with performers as raw material.)

Tightly interwoven with the text is Mr. Hamlisch’s rhythmic, gleaming score, which mixes a range of mid-20th-century pop, jazz, classical and Broadway sounds to reflect these individuals’ musical worlds. The lyrics, by Edward Kleban, are very smart, yet often disarmingly seem like everyday language.

Driven by the rush of Mr. Bennett’s dynamic choreography, the mesh of story and songs is wonderfully seamless, especially in extended montages like the frenetic opening, “I Hope I Get It,” and “Hello Twelve, Hello Thirteen, Hello Love,” a complex salute to the million and one pains of growing up.

For people acquainted with the musical, it may be a tad jarring at first to hear Zach, the director of the show-within-the-show, depicted with a British accent by Martin Harvey. But Mr. Harvey is stern without being mean, as his character probes the inner lives of the dancers, who respond with stories about their youthful beginnings and the ongoing challenges they face as professionals.
360 2012-10-14 Outside of New York, such impediments to homeownership are largely unheard of, because co-ops are so rare. But they account for 75 percent of the housing stock for sale in Manhattan, according to Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the Miller Samuel appraisal firm. And although some condos now also ask buyers to submit financial information when they apply, co-op boards subject potential shareholders to more rigorous scrutiny, often requiring reams of financial and personal information, right down to references for pets.

Many buyers are willing to undergo the anxiety-inducing process to get into the Manhattan market, where inventory has become particularly tight. But few are willing to overpay. At the same time, some sellers who lack equity or the economic stability to trade up to a new apartment have decided to cut their losses and list their apartments for prices lower than they had hoped.

“If you’re desperate to get out because you’ve been waiting for two years,” Mr. Miller said, “you sell for what you think you can get.”

Evelyne Luest hasn’t quite reached the desperation level, but her patience is running thin. Ms. Luest, a professional pianist, listed the Hudson Heights one-bedroom apartment that she uses as a practice studio for about $300,000 in 2009, just as the market was beginning to plunge.

Earlier this year, after repeatedly lowering the asking price, she was pleased to receive an all-cash offer for $225,000 — slightly less than 6 percent below the asking price of $239,000 —from a fellow musician, Thomas Bergeron of South Hadley, Mass. They went into contract in the summer. Mr. Bergeron made plans to move. Everything seemed to be falling into place until the board rejected his application.

Ms. Luest said she had spoken with two board members and the building’s sponsor, who all confirmed that price had been a deciding factor. “It’s a business problem,” she said. “It’s not good business for them to sell apartments for a low price.”

After he was turned down, Mr. Bergeron, who recently began a two-year teaching fellowship, offered to put a year’s worth of maintenance in escrow upfront and to have his mother sign as a guarantor — even though he was paying the $225,000 in cash. But he drew the line at paying a higher price, which was suggested by Ms. Luest and her broker as well as Mr. Bergeron’s broker, Kelly Cole of the Corcoran Group.

“In my opinion,” Mr. Bergeron said, “the price we went into contract on was the market price.”

In the end, Ms. Luest decided not to pursue the offer. Mr. Bergeron is now renting, and she has relisted her apartment at the slightly higher price of $259,000.

The board, reached via the building’s management company, declined to discuss its decision.

For all anyone knows, there may have been other reasons Mr. Bergeron was turned down. His profession as a trumpet player could have raised the issue of a potential noise threat.

“I don’t understand how it can be legal for them to deny people without giving any reason,” he said. “It really surprised me that that was O.K. to do.”

As long as it does not discriminate illegally, a co-op can turn down a sale for practically any reason. And recent court decisions have held that a board’s decision to reject apartment sales because of a low price falls within its business judgment.

Compared with just three years ago, “a board’s price-based rejection of an apartment transfer is much more likely to be protected and insulated from challenge in 2012,” said Eva Talel, a partner at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan in charge of the co-op/condominium board representation group. In January she co-wrote an article in The New York Law Journal about co-op rejections based on pricing. “I think courts began to feel a greater comfort level in addressing the issue of the scope of the board’s business judgment to deal with what is a legitimate concern for buildings,” she said. “If prices are not sustained at a certain level, then it would likely have a negative impact on the values of other apartments.”

If the only thing holding up a sale is the price on paper, brokers say there are ways to get around the problem. Earlier this summer June L. Gottlieb, a broker at Warburg Realty, encountered a seller who would not accept her buyer’s $690,000 cash offer for a Midtown East pied-à-terre listed at $700,000 for fear the board would consider it too low and not approve the sale. The buyer refused to increase his offer because the apartment, which was part of an estate sale, needed a total renovation.

“The only way to get the deal done was to agree to split the flip ,” Ms. Gottlieb said. The buyer paid more for the apartment in the contract, but at the closing the seller wrote him a check for part of the flip tax, “so the contract read at a price that would be acceptable at the board,” she said.

Another creative solution, brokers say, is to increase the purchase price on paper and create an offsetting , or a “seller’s concession.” A buyer willing to pay, say, $770,000 for an apartment listed at $800,000, would assent to the $800,000 price, then at closing receive a credit of $30,000 in the form of a check from the seller to be used for renovations or other improvements. That way, the buyer would pay no more than previously agreed, the seller would be able to sell the apartment, albeit at a cost, and the transaction would be recorded at a price that pleased the co-op board.

Such deals are completely legal, as long as the marked-up sales price is disclosed in the transaction documents and all parties understand and agree to it, said Mr. Shmulewitz of Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman.

But Barry Weidenbaum, a New York real estate lawyer, pointed out that some banks and co-ops “may not view such an arrangement as proper.” Some banks, for example, limit seller’s concessions or credits, often capping them at 6 percent, he said.

While secrecy is typical in cases of rejection involving price, some co-op boards are taking a more direct approach. Steven R. Wagner, a real estate lawyer who is on the board of Southgate, a five-building co-op complex in the East 50s near the East River, said sales price had not been an issue there until earlier this year. “Suddenly, there were three or four apartments that came up, all of which were significantly lower than where the apartments had been previously selling for,” he said.

But rather than flat-out rejecting applicants who otherwise would have passed muster with the board, he said, “we actually took a chance and raised the issue with the broker and individuals and said, ‘Listen, before we say no to this application, we want you to know it’s because of this, and if you wanted to submit a different contract price, very likely no would be yes.’ And people did in fact come back.”

Still, even with the best intentions, boards that try to control sales prices may end up hurting themselves. “The irony,” Mr. Miller said, is that “by being too aggressive in policing transfers of property in your co-op, you can actually make it worse.” When apartment deals are repeatedly turned down because the board wants a higher price, the properties end up lingering on the market. The inference, he pointed out, “is they are overpriced when they’re not.”

The board unwilling to approve a lower price for an apartment may also be missing a signal from a seller who is experiencing financial distress and could end up defaulting on maintenance if unable to sell. And co-ops that repeatedly turn down applicants for price reasons also run the risk of gaining a reputation as a tough building — which could ultimately backfire.

“This always says something to me about the board in the building,” said Ms. Cole, the broker who represented Mr. Bergeron, the trumpet player, “and it sends a really bad message. Now, when working with a buyer, I say: ‘By the way, just know there was a board turndown here with a cash buyer, and they pulled the rug out from everyone. So buyer beware.’ ”
361 2012-10-14 There’s something very poignant about Chabon’s pining for a lost utopia. He punctures the myth of postracial America but also infuses the public discourse on race with a sense of hope and meaning. However minute our experiences with other cultures may be, there is a familiarity that belies any momentary discomfiture. Humanity is really just one teeming mass. To sojourn for a while in some ethnic enclave needn’t be seen as exoticizing the other in some sinister way. When we allow humility to replace assumptions, we go a long way toward building a more open society. DANIELLE FORD, Rahway, N.J., posted on nytimes.com

It is a sad commentary on America that a now-defunct vinyl-record store is the closest thing Chabon has found to a vibrant, integrated American culture. His story of being raised in a quasi-utopian community, to becoming a passive racist after college, to looking for the lost ideals of youth in an obscure enclave of American consumer culture is the arc that many disillusioned liberals have followed. We need to look elsewhere than the insides of hipster-culture hangouts for the answers, perhaps to our own attitudes of persistent segregation. Doing so is much more difficult than browsing for old Motown records. ROBL777, Conway, S.C., posted on nytimes.com

I grew up in the same town as Chabon. Many of us moved away and found that the expectations of fairness, acceptance and justice that we had formed as children were not replicated in the outside world. It’s easy to pass off Chabon’s soul-searching as disingenuous, but the ugliness of racism beats white people down as well. What was part of our fabric as children has been pulled out, twisted and redefined so that we are left wondering if what we experienced as children really happened. For a brief moment in the ’70s, Columbia, Md., was proof that color and class were just backdrops on which to form incredibly deep, real and lasting relationships. I appreciate Chabon’s willingness to dig deep and ask himself hard and painful questions. KATE BARKER SWINDELL, Portland, Ore., posted on nytimes.com

I love this interview because of the way Díaz lets his hair down, admitting the difficulty of writing. I would rather read something by him that has been labored over for years than the glib stuff of those “quick” writers any day, anytime, anywhere. NYCMOM, New York, posted on nytimes.com

My wife was on a graduate student committee with Díaz at Cornell. We had him over to our house for a potluck dinner one evening, and he told a hilarious story about how he’d been working on a short story the previous evening, and how the story had a “hole” in it that he’d been trying to “fill.” The more he tried to fill this hole, the bigger it got, until the hole “ate the story up.” I feel privileged to have met Díaz and to have heard this story. ED ECKEL, Kalamazoo, Mich., posted on nytimes.com

Fine examples all, but what a thin slice of the total inspiration landscape. Nothing on technology, the many branches of science, philosophy or mathematics? All these provide beautiful examples on the birth of creative ideas and some memorable quotes, including Albert Einstein’s: “The secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources.” JULIO M. OTTINO, Dean of the Robert R. McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science, Northwestern University, Chicago

Apropos of nothing: Chinua Achebe refers to his friend Chrisopther Okigbo as “Africa’s greatest modern poet.” Amen. @AfricasaCountry, via Twitter
362 2012-10-14 For much of the city’s history, it seems, the only women for whom bar work was deemed appropriate were widows or fearsome brutes. W. Harrison Bayles’s 1915 history, “Old Taverns of New York,” recounts tales of female barkeeps stretching back to the 17th century, when a widow named Annetje Cock inherited her husband’s tavern. Early in the next century, another establishment, the Widow Post’s, became “a favorite place for members of assembly.” Then there was Gallus Mag, “bouncer and general factotum” of a notorious Water Street dive mentioned in Herbert Asbury’s who “stalked fiercely about the dive with a pistol stuck in her belt.”

But times have changed. Now in New York, you’re about as likely to have a woman pulling your pints as you are to have a man. “Behind the bar, you’re in control,” my boss, Dee, always reminds me at South, the Park Slope bar where I work one shift a week. And in , my borough, countless very cool, strong women — like those pictured here, including Dee — are in command at every kind of bar, from dives to plush lounges, from tiny mom-and-pop joints and corner saloons to fine-dining (and drinking) destinations.

I keep Dee’s counsel in mind, even as I occasionally sense that some customers — almost always men — seek to undermine my control. By and large, I love (and I don’t use that word lightly) my customers, but once in a rare while, I get questions and comments that I know would never be addressed to a male bartender. At the same time, though, I think my presence behind the bar puts women at ease. Even in 2012, I know women who’d love to go out on their own for a drink or two but hesitate before entering a bar solo. Some have told me that they feel more relaxed when a woman’s behind the bar. A good male bartender has this effect, too, of course, but I think the extra sense of comfort that a woman has when being served drinks by a woman comes from a feeling of recognition. They know that we’re in this together.
363 2012-10-15 Marissa Mayer announced Monday that she had hired Henrique De Castro, a vice president at Google, as Yahoo's chief operating officer. At Google, Mr. De Castro ran advertising for Google's publisher and commerce partners. Luring advertisers to Yaho...
364 2012-10-15 The Federal Reserve Bank of New York turned over nearly 6,000 pages to a House subcommittee that is examining whether the regulator turned a blind eye to Libor rate-rigging during the financial crisis....
365 2012-10-15 Oracle has one great claim over Salesforce.com: The cloud computing upstart relies on Oracle databases. That may be starting to change, however. Salesforce just started hiring engineers for an open source database project that it says will grow si...
366 2012-10-15 In the first chapter of his book "Why I Left Goldman Sachs, A Wall Street Story," Greg Smith, a former salesman for the Wall Street firm, writes of interns who had to carry a stool with them....
367 2012-10-15 The Missouri Democratic senator reported spending $7 million over three months to defeat Representative Todd Akin in her re-election effort....
368 2012-10-15 The Knicks got Amar'e Stoudemire and J.R. Smith back at practice on Monday....
369 2012-10-15 Mitt Romney’s aides believe that a last-minute flood of advertising is critical to beating President Obama....
370 2012-10-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
371 2012-10-15 Finnish researchers who tracked men for 12 years found those with the highest blood levels of lycopene — abundant in tomatoes — were 55 percent less likely to have a stroke than those with the lowest....
372 2012-10-15 The German artist's "Abstraktes Bild (809-4)" sold for $34.2 million at Sotheby's in London on Friday, setting a record for a living artist at auction....
373 2012-10-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
374 2012-10-15 Why reverse mortgages are costing some older Americans their homes. | Sprint to sell a controlling stake to SoftBank of Japan. | A swift reversal in fortunes for high-speed trading firms....
375 2012-10-15 New research shows no differences in markers of sexual activity among young women who were vaccinated against HPV and those who were not....
376 2012-10-15 Business Day Live: Reverse mortgages are costing some older Americans their homes. | Sprint to sell a controlling stake to SoftBank of Japan. | A reversal in fortunes for high-speed trading firms.
377 2012-10-15 As the presidential campaign focuses increasingly on President Obama's performance as commander in chief, a new study finds that he benefits from endorsements of retired military officers more than Mitt Romney does, particularly with coveted indep...
378 2012-10-15 By buying majority control of Sprint Nextel, SoftBank is making an enormous bet that it can turn around a flailing company beset by larger rivals. It is not the first time the Japanese company and its chief executive, Masayoshi Son, have taken on ...
379 2012-10-15 With a new levy on its own offshore oil and gas resources, Norway raises the stakes in a global game of taxing carbon....
380 2012-10-15 The making of K-Pop, the effect of shale gas on manufacturing, what to pay your employees and the chaos of an online sales tax. What would it mean for you?...
381 2012-10-15 The British pop star Steven Patrick Morrissey, known as Morrissey, joined the cause in May with a letter to the Philippine president, Benigno S. Aquino III.

“I ask that you send Mali to a sanctuary where she would have room to roam and be able to be among other members of her own species,” Mr. Morrissey wrote. “Her life consists of extreme loneliness, boredom and isolation in an area that is a fraction of the size of her natural habitat.”

Two months later, the writer J.M. Coetzee, who was awarded the 2003 Nobel Prize in Literature, weighed in.

“Thirty-five years is a heavy sentence to bear, longer than is served by most murderers,” Mr. Coetzee wrote. “Mali has paid the penalty for not being fortunate enough to be born human. Now is the time to release her.”

Dr. Manalastas has little patience for the opinions of Nobel laureates and British rockers regarding Mali’s treatment.

“We have these celebrities saying things, but they haven’t seen Mali. They have never been here,” said the veterinarian. “They don’t know how we are taking care of her. They are just listening to PETA.”

The zoo opposes the transfer of Mali to an elephant sanctuary because of her advanced age and fears that she would not survive the sedation and stress associated with transporting her to Thailand. It is also not clear that she would be able to assimilate with other elephants once she arrived, Dr. Manalastas said.

“We have asked them, ‘Can you assure us 100 percent that she will survive the trip?”’ he said. “I believe that she considers us her family. Mali feels safe with us.”

Ashley Fruno, a senior campaigner with PETA Asia, disputed the assertion that Mali might die in transit.

“We’re spending a lot of our time dispelling myths about Mali’s proposed transport,” Ms. Fruno said. “Because they don’t have an elephant expert in the country, most people don’t realize how routine it is to transport elephants.”

On May 29, Dr. Mel Richardson, a California-based veterinarian with extensive experience caring for elephants, visited the Manila Zoo at the urging of PETA. In his report, posted on the PETA Web site, he referred to Mali as a “good-natured elephant” and wrote: “Mali’s body condition was relatively good, although she is slightly overweight.”

The principal concerns that Dr. Richardson raised were that Mali’s enclosure is too small and inadequate for her needs, and that she suffers from potentially serious untreated foot problems related to years spent on concrete and that she is alone.

“Female Asian elephants are never alone in the wild. Never!” Dr. Richardson wrote in an e-mail interview. “From birth to death they live in a family of other females and young males.”

In his report, Dr. Richardson noted that 18 zoos around the world had closed or were planning to close their elephant exhibits after concluding that the animals could not be properly cared for in captivity. Those include the Detroit Zoo, the Greater Vancouver Zoo and the San Francisco Zoo, which together have placed 14 elephants in two U.S. elephant sanctuaries. He recommended that Mali be moved to a sanctuary by an organization with expertise in transporting elephants.

“While the Manila Zoo does the best it can with what funds it has, it just isn’t sufficient, and in the case of elephants, good intentions are not good enough,” Dr. Richardson wrote.

Dr. Manalastas said he respected the opinion of Dr. Richardson but said that the zoo was focused not on moving Mali but rather on improving her enclosure and care. He noted that the zoo is a government-run public service organization that charges an admission fee of just 40 pesos, or $1. So he dismissed suggestions that the zoo was exploiting Mali to generate revenue or for any other reason.

“We don’t make money off Mali,” he said. “We are looking out for her interests. She has been with us for 35 years, and she has lived to an old age. We must be doing something right.”
382 2012-10-15 This turned out to be a big night for both bullpens as neither starter made it out of the fourth inning. Five Giants relievers no-hit the Cardinals for the final five and one-third innings to tie a postseason record. Tim Lincecum threw two innings and remains a possible starter for Game 4, Giants Manager Bruce Bochy said.

In Monday’s Game 2, Chris Carpenter of St. Louis, the former Cy Young Award who missed most of the season because of right shoulder surgery, will oppose the San Francisco 14-game winner Ryan Vogelsong.

“We’ve shown how resilient we can be,” Bochy said. “We hate to lose them at home, but it happens. And we’ve got to wash this one off and come out and be ready to go tomorrow.”

The series matches teams that seemingly have no business being here. The Giants lost their first two division series games to Cincinnati at AT&T Park before winning three straight on the road to advance. “We were dead in the water here,” Bochy said. “I don’t think a lot of people had us going there and winning three.”

As for the Cardinals, any television viewer who turned off Game 5 in Washington in the third inning with the Nationals up, 6-0, may still not believe St. Louis won, 9-7 — a record for the largest deficit overcome by a winning team in a deciding postseason game.

“I don’t think there is a safe lead,” Matheny said.

AT&T Park yielded the fewest home runs in baseball this regular season — 84, or 1.04 per game as compiled by Hittrackeronline.com. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, the Giants were the seventh team since 1900 to reach the postseason while finishing last in the majors in homers (103).

So it was notable that Freese got things going with a two-run homer in the second, his first postseason homer since his 11th-inning blast to win last year’s World Series Game 6 — the same game in which his two-run triple tied it with the Cardinals down to their last strike. Freese did not homer in this year’s division series, though he hit .381 with two runs batted in.

Beltran, the former Met and Giant, finished off the four-run Cardinals fourth with a two-run homer to left on what turned out to be Bumgarner’s final pitch. It was Beltran’s 14th career postseason homer, and his ratio of at-bats per home run (7.71 to 1) leads all players in baseball history. Babe Ruth is second (8.6).

“It’s hard for me to explain this production,” Beltran said. “I don’t feel the pressure. I don’t feel like I need to do something special. I just feel like I need to go out there and play the game the right way and let things happen.”

The St. Louis rookie shortstop Pete Kozma said, “Carlos is making it look easy.”

In the last two months, Lynn shifted between the rotation and the bullpen and made four relief appearances in the division series. After no-hitting the Giants through three innings, he suddenly crumbled in the fourth, giving up four runs and five hits.

With the crowd standing and roaring while twirling their free orange towels, the rookie Joe Kelly warmed up rapidly and came on to get the last out, helped by Daniel Descalso’s diving stop of a Pagan grounder for a force play.

“That’s the danger of a guy we’ve kind of yo-yoed a little bit with being a starter and being in the pen,” Matheny said of Lynn. “It’s tough to change gears like that sometimes.”
383 2012-10-15 The legacy of King Norodom Sihanouk, who died Monday in Beijing at age 89, might be forever sealed and tarnished by his alliance with the hyper-communist Khmer Rouge movement that ravaged Cambodia from 1975 to 1979....
384 2012-10-15 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
385 2012-10-15 Microsoft’s do-over in the market is a sign of how a strong music service has come to be seen as a prerequisite for any serious player in the gadget business. Apple first showed the way with that strategy by making it simple to buy songs from the iTunes Store, helping it sell more iPods. Google and Amazon have also gotten in on the act, adding music stores to their Android and Kindle devices.

In addition to competing with those big companies, Xbox Music is entering a landscape thick with independent music services that offer their own variations on the listening experience. Spotify, for example, provides on-demand listening to a large library of music, while Pandora programs radio stations tailored to its listeners’ individual tastes.

Scott Porter, principal program manager for Xbox Music, said many music fans today relied on a variety of services like those, along with more traditional sellers of songs like iTunes, to satisfy all their musical needs. This approach, though, can be tedious.

“The dilemma is that music has become work,” he said. “Our vision for Xbox Music is that it shouldn’t have to be work.”

Xbox Music incorporates elements of all of those services. There is an option to buy songs, so a music fan can own them permanently with minimal restrictions. There are Pandora-like radio stations built around songs and similar-sounding music.

And there is an option akin to Spotify that lets users listen free to any music from their computer, though they will get audio and visual advertisements. (Some major bands, like the Beatles, are missing from the catalog.) Like Spotify, Xbox Music offers a $10-a-month ad-free service that includes many other features, like the ability to listen to music on smartphones and the Xbox 360 game console.

While finding music on other services can sometimes feel like studying a glorified spreadsheet, Xbox Music is much richer visually, with artist photos that can be flipped through quickly.

Analysts say the success of Xbox Music will depend on far more than whether the service itself is any good, since the strategy is to have it enhance the appeal of Microsoft-powered gadgets that have much broader functions. “This is not going to matter if no one wants the devices,” said Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG Research. “You need to have a killer device.”

That will be tricky on phones. The first smartphones on which the service will be available are those running a new version of Microsoft’s mobile operating system, Windows Phone, which has struggled to gain traction.

Microsoft has a far stronger position in the living room with the Xbox, having sold more than 67 million consoles to date. Don Mattrick, president of the Microsoft division that oversees the product, has made it a priority to transform the Xbox from a game device into an all-purpose hub for video and other forms of entertainment. Xbox Music will first appear on that device when Microsoft begins updating its software over the Internet starting on Tuesday.

In a departure for a company that generally favors devices run by its own software, Microsoft will release versions of the Xbox Music service that run on Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS devices next year, Mr. Porter said.

One factor working against Microsoft is its dismal track record in music. Its Zune players sold poorly, and the company eventually stopped making them. After that it focused on making its Zune music service work on its mobile phone software, without much success.

Xbox Music could get its biggest lift from Windows 8, a product Microsoft has redesigned completely to take advantage of touch-screen devices. Early reviews of the new operating system have been mixed. Microsoft urgently needs Windows 8 to help it respond to the blockbuster success of the iPad and to inject some energy into a PC market that is in an awful slump.

While the PC market does not generate the excitement it once did, people still buy hundreds of millions of computers every year, the vast majority of which run Windows. Mark Mulligan, an independent music analyst in Britain, said Microsoft’s bundling of Xbox Music into its ubiquitous operating system could be a way to push digital music services further into the mainstream.

Mr. Mulligan wondered whether that bundling would attract the interest of regulators, especially in Europe, where Microsoft has tangled with antitrust enforcers for a decade. “I assume they’ve done their due diligence,” he said.

Still, Microsoft’s behavior does not appear to be all that different from that of Apple and Google, both of which include software for accessing their own music services in their mobile products.

“Customers expect devices in today’s market to offer core experiences like music services,” said Mr. Porter of Microsoft, adding that Windows users would be able to easily reach other music services through the app store.
386 2012-10-15 Turkey has been a strong supporter of efforts by insurgents to topple Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad. It has harbored anti-Assad fighters on its territory and has hinted that it may take military action against Syrian forces. On Sunday, Mr. Davutoglu said Turkey would not be open for talks with Mr. Assad’s government unless violence against civilians ceased.

Syria has responded to perceived Turkish incursions aggressively. In June, Syria shot down a Turkish fighter plane that it said had entered its airspace, killing two crew members. And last week, a mortar shell fired from Syria fell across the border in a Turkish village, killing five civilians.

On Sunday, government forces pounded rebel strongholds with artillery, and rebel fighters continued a series of strikes in the heart of Damascus.

A suicide bomber rammed a car bomb into a coffee shop in the upper-class neighborhood of Mezzeh in Damascus, Syria’s state news agency reported. The huge explosion caused no injuries or deaths, but was likely to further undermine the sense of security in the capital, where such attacks have become increasingly common.

Video taken in the aftermath of the blast showed twisted chairs and tables scattered in front of the mangled facade of the coffee shop. Hours later, an explosion ripped through the car of a Syrian journalist, also in Mezzeh, wounding him severely, The Associated Press reported.

The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in a statement that the journalist, Ayman Youssef Wannous, might have been attacked for his pro-Assad sympathies.

Witnesses said a third bombing in the city injured a pro-Assad lawyer.

Heavily armed security forces flooded the city, erecting checkpoints and conducting searches of anyone carrying bags.

As many as 200 people have been killed in violence over the weekend, the Syrian Observatory said in a statement. In Aleppo on Sunday, where at least 22 died in fighting on Saturday, Syrian forces continued to bombard neighborhoods, killing fighters as well as civilians, the statement said.

The Syrian Observatory also reported that Syrian authorities had for the first time conducted a prisoner swap with rebel fighters, releasing two detainees for the son of a prominent official. The details of the swap could not be verified, nor could reports of fighting because of restrictions on reporting in Syria.
387 2012-10-15 He put his nation on a modern footing in the 1960s, especially bolstering the education system, but his Buddhist socialist agenda did poorly and produced economic stagnation.

When the Vietnam War threatened to engulf the region, he tried to carve out a neutral role for Cambodia, siding neither with the Communists nor the United States. But when the Vietnamese Communists began using the port of Sihanoukville and Cambodia’s eastern border to ship military supplies on what was known as the Ho Chi Minh Trail, he took steps to repair relations with the United States. He turned a blind eye when the Nixon administration undertook a secret bombing campaign in 1969 against the border area of Cambodia. But this only further unsettled his country and led to a coup that ousted him the next year.

Convinced that the United States had been behind the overthrow, King Sihanouk allied himself with the Khmer Rouge at the urging of his Chinese patrons, giving the Cambodian Communists his prestige and enormous popularity. Their victory in 1975 brought the ruthless Pol Pot to power, with King Sihanouk serving, for the first year, as the figurehead president until he was placed under house arrest and fell into a deep depression. Over the next four years, the Khmer Rouge regime led to the death of 1.7 million people and nearly destroyed the country.

Criticized throughout his life for these dramatic shifts in allegiances, King Sihanouk said he followed only one course in politics: “the defense of the independence, the territorial integrity and the dignity of my country and my people.”

In fact, he skillfully manipulated the great powers, usually with the support of China, to ensure his survival as well as his country’s independence. His worst nightmare, he said in an interview, was to be pushed out of his country’s political life into a quiet retirement, like Vietnam’s last emperor, Bao Dai, who died in obscurity in Paris in 1997.

Instead, King Sihanouk returned in 1993 as monarch and head of state after an accord brokered by the United Nations ended nearly 14 years of war in Cambodia.

Even in his darkest moments, the king never lost his flair for flamboyance or his taste for the finer things. As a young ruler and the scion of one of Asia’s oldest royal houses, he gained a well-deserved reputation as a playboy, a gourmand and an amateur filmmaker.

In his years in exile with his wife, Queen Monique, he kept his Cambodian movement alive by lavishly entertaining diplomats and foreign officials with Champagne breakfasts and elaborate French meals.

Denied any active role in government, he contented himself with the ceremonial position of king, still revered by many peasants.

Occasionally he interfered in politics. He undermined Prince Norodom Ranariddh, another son, by forcing him to accept a position as co-prime minister after winning the first postwar democratic election in 1993. Prince Ranariddh was ousted from that position in a coup by the other co-prime minister, Hun Sen, who became the country’s dominant power during King Sihanouk’s final years.

Norodom Sihanouk was born in Phnom Penh, the Cambodian capital, on Oct. 31, 1922. A prince of the Norodom branch of the royal family, he was never considered a serious candidate to gain the throne. Instead, he was seen as a sensitive, if lonely, prince with a serious gift for music and, later, a passion for film.

He received a first-rate French education, initially at a primary school in Phnom Penh and then at the Lycee Chasseloup-Laubat in Saigon, the best in colonial Indochina. He was only 18 when King Monivong died in 1941 and the French colonial powers tapped him as the unlikely successor.

France had surrendered to Nazi Germany and was under Vichy control, worried that it would also lose its Indochinese colonies to Japan. The prince seemed the most malleable candidate, the one who would obey the dictates of French colonial officials.

For the first three years, King Sihanouk, a true Francophile, met all their expectations. As World War II engulfed Asia, he was a loyal partner of the French colonial administrators, who collaborated with Japan and hoped to fend off a nascent Cambodian independence movement.

In those early years, King Sihanouk seemed uninterested in government. He filled his days pursuing women and, in the tradition of his forebears, had several consorts who eventually bore him at least 13 children.

But in March 1945, as they were losing the war, the Japanese sought to oust the French in Cambodia. King Sihanouk stepped forward on the side of Japan and declared Cambodia the new independent state of Kampuchea. With Japan’s defeat, King Sihanouk welcomed back the French, largely ignoring the growing number of Cambodians who thought their country should remain independent.

By his own account, the king did not pick up the banner of independence again until 1951, using it to fend off challenges from democratic and Communist movements demanding an end to French colonialism.

Taking advantage of the increasing French weakness from Communist victories in neighboring Vietnam, King Sihanouk persuaded the French to make Cambodia independent in November 1953 in advance of the 1954 Geneva peace conference that led to a divided Vietnam.

Then in a cunning move, King Sihanouk announced he would give up the throne to run in his country’s first independent elections. Through a combination of repression, rigging and reliance on the votes of peasants who still considered him a god-king, his party swept the elections, and he set about creating Cambodia anew.

His brand of politics evolved into a one-party rule with some dissidents and rival parties pulled into his umbrella political party, the People’s Socialist Community. The towers of Angkor decorated the country’s new flag, one of the many ways that King Sihanouk used the massive temple complex at Angkor as a visible reminder that Cambodia was once the premier state and culture of the region.

He maintained strong ties to France, hiring French experts to help run his government and French teachers for his schools. In Phnom Penh, he nurtured a cafe society of intellectuals while he left the countryside in what he considered a more or less bucolic state but that was, in fact, a backward region of grinding poverty.

In contrast to its neighbors — Vietnam to the east, with its war, and Thailand to the west, with its disfiguring modern development and militarism — Cambodia appeared to be a welcome oasis throughout the 1960s, with now Prince Sihanouk presiding as charming, benevolent despot, treating his citizens like devoted children.

At the same time, he was imprisoning and sometimes executing opponents or driving others — notably the Communist leader Solath Sar, who would become Pol Pot — into exile and fueling discontent that fed growing political opposition and eventually armed insurrection.

Stories about King Sihanouk’s extravagance became a staple of the diplomatic circuit, especially as he turned his hand to his first loves — music and film. He entertained guests at his exclusive parties on his saxophone and embarked on a film career, eventually producing 19 movies for which he was director, producer, scriptwriter, composer and often leading man.

All the while he was head of state of a country increasingly squeezed by the Vietnam War. He took his place as one of the leaders of the nonaligned movement of newly independent nations — Egypt and India among them — hoping to emerge from poverty and avoid taking sides in the cold war. Yet he also accepted the outstretched hand of China, which was convinced that the United States posed a military threat to its borders.

Crystallizing Cambodia’s hopes for avoiding entanglement was a speech in 1966 by the French president, Charles de Gaulle, in Phnom Penh calling for the end of the Vietnam War and the neutrality of Indochina. He paid King Sihanouk the ultimate compliment by saying Cambodia and France were alike, with “a history laden with glory and sorrow, an exemplary culture and art, and a fertile land with vulnerable frontiers.” But the war would spill across Cambodia’s border.

With King Sihanouk’s acquiescence, the Vietnamese Communists used Cambodia for its logistics. When the Vietnamese sanctuaries expanded, he only mildly objected to the United States’s secret bombing of them. That bombing campaign was later cited in the articles of impeachment drawn up but never used against President Richard M. Nixon.

Despite the growing unrest in Cambodia, King Sihanouk was unprepared for his overthrow in 1970 by Prince Sirik Matak, a cousin, and Gen. Lon Nol. Supported by the United States, the new government immediately allowed American troops to invade Cambodia from Vietnam.

The invasion ignited protests around the world, including those at Kent State University in Ohio, where national guardsmen killed four students. After his ouster, King Sihanouk fled to Beijing, where Chinese leaders persuaded him to join forces with Pol Pot’s Khmer Rouge, the group of Cambodian Communists that had been seeking to overthrow him since the ’60s.

Although King Sihanouk had aggressively pursued the Khmer Rouge, arresting and often torturing them, he was so stung by the betrayal of the coup plotters that he agreed to head their resistance. His name and appearance in propaganda films and booklets helped the Communists recruit peasants in Cambodia and gave respectability to their cause in diplomatic circles. In the end, King Sihanouk helped bring Pol Pot to power.

The Khmer Rouge won in 1975 and immediately began a reign of terror. Cambodians were ordered out of the towns and cities and sent to grueling work camps and farms in the countryside. Cambodia was cut off from the rest of the world. Society was destroyed, with all religion and professions outlawed.

Intellectuals, monks and anyone deemed a political enemy were murdered. Tens of thousands of people died of treatable diseases, overwork or starvation.

King Sihanouk was the titular president during the first year of the Khmer Rouge rule. He said he had resigned a year later and was put under house arrest with his consort, Princess Monique, in one of the palaces. There he listened to world news on a radio and, he said, at times wanted to commit suicide.

He was rescued when the Vietnamese invaded Cambodia and overthrew the Khmer Rouge in 1979. But rather than turn against Pol Pot, King Sihanouk went to the United Nations and defended him, saying the country’s enemy was Vietnam.

For the next 12 years, King Sihanouk provided a fig leaf of respectability for the Khmer Rouge as they and several non-Communist groups tried to evict Vietnam from Cambodia in the name of national liberation. The United States, China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations supported King Sihanouk, who maneuvered himself into a pivotal role in the final negotiations. Lined up against him, the Khmer Rouge and the rest of the resistance were Vietnam, the Soviet Union and Mr. Hun Sen, who was then the head of the Cambodian government established under the Vietnamese occupation.

With the end of the cold war, Cambodia was no longer hostage to great power politics. The United Nations negotiated a settlement to the war in 1991, and national elections were held two years later. King Sihanouk returned to Phnom Penh to a thunderous welcome, encouraging him to believe he could become a powerful chief of state once again. But other Cambodian politicians, including his own children, did not want him back in control.

A party led by Prince Norodom Ranariddh won the elections. Mr. Hun Sen’s party came in second; the Khmer Rouge boycotted the elections. Furious that he had lost, Mr. Hun Sen and his surrogates threatened to reignite the war. King Sihanouk stepped in and persuaded the United Nations to create the position of co-prime minister for Mr. Hun Sen, effectively nullifying his son’s victory. However, King Sihanouk was returned to the throne and became king-father for the rest of his life.

Chastened, he maintained that he had been above the fray throughout, attempting to duplicate the role of national unifier played by King Bhumibol Adulyadej in neighboring Thailand.

But for the most part, King Sihanouk sided with Mr. Hun Sen, his political son. Toward the end of his life, the king reduced his once hectic travel schedule and rarely ventured outside Asia. Beijing, where the Chinese government maintained a villa for him, was his most frequent destination.

Michael Leifer, the Southeast Asia expert and professor at the London School of Economics who died in 2001, wrote that “the powerful myth of Sihanouk contributed to the people of Cambodia and the international community” repeatedly turning to him “as the font of national unity.”

He added: “The record of the man, however, would suggest a greater facility for reigning than for ruling. He has been more at home with the pomp and circumstance of government than with its good practice.”
388 2012-10-15 In 1908 and 1909, after one of the most difficult periods of his life, Gustav Mahler wrote a dark, challenging masterpiece, “Das Lied von der Erde” (“The Song of the Earth”). It is a song cycle for two voices, but given its scoring for full orchestra and its length of more than an hour, on the title page Mahler called it a symphony.

He died in May 1911 having never heard a performance; it had its premiere that November in Munich. A century later the composer Augusta Read Thomas has written “Earth Echoes,” which she calls a “homage to Gustav Mahler 100 years after his death.” It was played for the first time by the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, opening its 40th season on Thursday evening at Carnegie Hall.

It was a distant echo indeed. At one point the score calls for a horn line to be “Mahler-like,” but there is little in this dull, murky work to make you think of the master.

As in “Das Lied von der Erde,” there are two vocalists — here the mezzo-soprano Sasha Cooke and the baritone Nathan Gunn, both sounding uncomfortable and bored — and six movements. They include the languid opening “Flower of Our Heart,” the imposing timpani syncopations of “Mountain With Violets” and the energetic, bouncy “Dancing Flowers.”

At least it’s partly scored as “energetic and bouncy.” In actuality it was as sluggish as the rest. While some individual moments of “Earth Echoes” are nicely done — that timpani part, for one — there is little character in the instrumental or the vocal lines.

Much has been written about how in “Das Lied von der Erde” Mahler used Chinese poetry — often in versions far distant from the originals — to emphasize his position as outsider in an anti-Semitic society. In yet another echo, Ms. Thomas gestures toward Asia with a fashionably multinational, cross-temporal mélange of texts, including the Tang dynasty poets Wang Wei and Li Po, Emily Dickinson, an Inuit female shaman and Tennessee Williams. The fantasy dinner party scenarios were more tantalizing than the music.

The concert began with the overture to Rossini’s “Italiana in Algeri” and closed with a crisp, spirited rendition of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony, the first time Orpheus has performed that classic work. In an onstage interview one of the players explained that in the orchestra’s first decades there was disagreement about whether it was appropriate for that conductorless ensemble to play Beethoven at all.
389 2012-10-15 “There are many of the same red flags, including explosive growth and the fact that these loans are often peddled aggressively without regard to suitability,” said Lori Swanson, the attorney general, who is working on reforming the reverse mortgage market.

Joan Serioux-Forde, 72, thought that she couldn’t feel more devastated after her husband, Christopher, died last year. Then, roughly a month after the funeral, she received a letter from Generation Mortgage, a reverse mortgage lender, informing her that unless she paid $293,000, she would lose her home in San Bernardino, Calif. Ms. Forde said she was never informed that if she wasn’t on the reverse mortgage deed, she would have virtually no right to stay in her home unless she bought it outright. “It’s a nightmare,” she said. Generation Mortgage declined to comment.

Although the numbers of reverse mortgages have declined in recent years, the rate of default is at a record high — roughly 9.4 percent of loans, according to the consumer protection bureau, up from around 2 percent a decade earlier. And borrowers are putting their nest eggs at risk by increasingly taking out the loans at younger ages and in lump sums, federal data and a recent bureau report show.

Peter H. Bell, president and chief executive of the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association, a trade group, said that he met with officials from the to begin hashing out a way for lenders to adopt a uniform standard to determine whether seniors can afford to take on the loans.

Used correctly, reverse mortgages can be a valuable tool for seniors to stay in their homes and gain access to money needed for retirement. Seniors who have built up equity in their homes can borrow against a percentage of that and take out a lump sum or a line of . The loan doesn’t have to be repaid until the homeowner moves out or dies, but borrowers still have to pay property taxes, maintenance and .

Reverse mortgage lenders and brokers note that the loans are highly regulated and require potential borrowers to speak to a certified housing counselor about the potential pitfalls before taking out the loans. Mr. Bell adds that his trade group strictly monitors the advertising of its roughly 400 members to ensure that it is accurate.

Since the financial crisis, the reverse mortgage market has been in flux, dampened by a drop in property values, complaints about the loans and the recent departure of big lenders. Originations backed by the federal government peaked at about 115,000 in 2007 and totaled about 51,000 loans last year.

was the latest major player to exit the market, in April. That followed the departure last year of the two biggest reverse mortgage lenders, and , which cited falling housing prices and difficulty assessing borrowers’ ability to repay the loans.

Into the void left by the big banks have moved smaller mortgage brokers and lenders. Some of them steer seniors into expensive, risky loans with deceptive sales pitches and high-pressure tactics, according to regulators, housing counselors and advocates.

Mark S. Diamond, a former subprime mortgage broker in , who has been sued for fraud by the Federal Trade Commission and the attorney general, faces a federal lawsuit filed in June by seniors who claim that he sold them reverse mortgages and either pocketed their loan amounts or promised to put the proceeds toward home repairs that never materialized. A lawyer for Mr. Diamond did not return calls for comment. Some solicitations reviewed by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau present reverse mortgages as “free money” or mistakenly tell seniors that they could never lose their home. One reverse mortgage lender tells seniors that they can put the proceeds toward a vacation: “Just because you’re retired doesn’t mean you don’t need a vacation every now and then.” Last year, the Commissioner of Banks issued cease-and-desist orders to a handful of reverse mortgage firms for operating without a license. In its advertising, one of those mortgage brokers falsely promised seniors “you won’t lose your home.”

Officials at the bureau, which issued a report on the industry in June, said they heard from a number of seniors who claimed that lenders encouraged them to make their older spouses the sole borrower on the loan. The brokers earn more money when they make larger loans with the older spouse as the only borrower.

Some surviving spouses complained that brokers told them they could be added later, but they were not. The bureau says those seniors are at greater risk of losing their homes. The complaints, according to elder-care advocates and federal officials, have been rising during the past year, although there are no exact numbers.

Linda McMahon, a 65-year-old widow, watched helplessly as the locks were changed on her home in St. Croix Falls, Wis., last month. She said that in 2005, when her husband was 82 and she was 58, a mortgage broker from Wells Fargo promised her that she could add her name to the mortgage once she turned 62. That never happened because that year, in 2009, she didn’t have time to deal with it as her husband’s health quickly deteriorated and he died from a heart condition, she said. Soon, she was unable to pay any of the property taxes and insurance. “I am devastated,” said Ms. McMahon, who is retired, living on income and now renting an apartment.

A spokeswoman for the bank declined to comment. Reverse mortgages also have troublesome incentive structures that might encourage brokers to steer seniors toward lump-sum loans, which carry a fixed interest rate, rather than a line of credit with a variable interest rate, the bureau found. In a lump sum arrangement, the interest charges are added each month, and over time the total debt owed can far surpass the original loan.

Brokers earn higher fees on these loans and even more money when they sell the loans into the secondary market, where they can get rates nearly double those for variable loans, according to rate sheets obtained by the consumer bureau.

Some 70 percent of reverse mortgages are taken in lump sums, up from 3 percent in 2008, according to the bureau. When seniors use the money to pay off other debts, especially right before retirement or early into it, that can leave them with scarce resources to pay their property taxes and insurance.

Ms. Forde, who lives in fear of losing her San Bernardino home, said she could not afford to save her house by paying the full $293,000 debt. Now, she said, she spends much of her day standing guard by the window. Her home is already in foreclosure proceedings. With a wavering voice, she said: “I have nowhere to go.”
390 2012-10-16 Mitt Romney's campaign, in an effort to appeal to women who hold more moderate views on reproductive issues, is releasing a new commercial that highlights his support for contraception and abortion in limited circumstances....
391 2012-10-16 At a time when low rates have led to a boom in new and refinanced mortgages, recent moves by the Federal Reserve have allowed banks to make even more profit off mortgage-backed bonds than they did previously. And those rates could be a half-point lower if banks were satisfied with the profit margins of just a few years ago.

But should the government consider cutting out the middleman, as it does with student loans, and issue mortgages itself?
392 2012-10-16 Despite a ninth inning rally, the Yankees failed to come behind and lost Game 3 to Detroit, risking the possibility of being swept in the American League Championship Series....
393 2012-10-16 The Apple Media Event invitations have been sent out. Twitter is abuzz with excitement and speculation over what they mean. Here is one reading of it....
394 2012-10-16 A student at Virgil I. Grissom Middle School in South Ozone Park was showing the pepper spray to friends during lunch, and, somehow, the canister discharged....
395 2012-10-16 The awards are given to two talented young professionals, one in the field of theater and one in the field of dance....
396 2012-10-16 President Obama and Mitt Romney have had some of their most awkward and politically fraught moments when confronted directly by voters....
397 2012-10-16 The company's troubles could provide new ammunition for Mitt Romney, who has criticized the Obama administration's green energy grant and loan programs....
398 2012-10-16 The side-curtain bag on the passenger side is designed not to deploy in a crash if the front seat is unoccupied, endangering rear-right passengers....
399 2012-10-16 Why putting Hillary on the ticket for 2012 would have been the smart choice for Democrats....
400 2012-10-16 Roasting the eggplant before stir-frying may not be the Chinese way, but it produces great texture without using much oil....
401 2012-10-16 Apple sent invitations on Tuesday to members of the media for an event next week where it is expected to introduce a smaller version of the iPad....
402 2012-10-16 The Justice Department has asked a federal court to dismiss a lawsuit by the House committee seeking to compel the Obama administration to release more internal records involving the troubled gun operation known as Fast and Furious....
403 2012-10-16 Vikram Pandit resigns as chief executive of Citigroup. | "Glengarry Glen Ross" as a classroom text on business ethics. | How a loan relief plan may help well-off students the most....
404 2012-10-16 Instead of adopting Amazon’s lower pricing on the Kindle Fire, Microsoft said the Surface would start at $500, the same as Apple’s iPad....
405 2012-10-16 Michael L. Corbat, 52, was an all-conference lineman on the Harvard football team and has been a Citigroup lifer....
406 2012-10-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
407 2012-10-16 Metropolitan Diary: A SoHo store sells yogurt in glass bowls that can be returned for 25 cents off. Trouble is, people keep forgetting to return them....
408 2012-10-16 OpenTable will upgrade its member restaurants' Web sites to mobile....
409 2012-10-16 A software company founded by a Microsoft veteran and a productivity guru aims to design an “orientation tool” to help organize a person’s digital life....
410 2012-10-16 Every other Tuesday, Steven Petrow, the author of “Steven Petrow’s Complete Gay & Lesbian Manners,” (Workman, 2011), addresses questions about gay and straight etiquette for a boomer-age audience. Send questions for Civil Behavior to stevenpetrow@earthlink.net.

Q. A couple of years ago, I was in the process of divorcing my wife – not because I was starting to realize I was gay, but because I was miserable in our loveless marriage (although I adored my four wonderful children). At age 50, I had promised myself to come out when I still had decades of my life left in which to be happy. Before the divorce was final, though, my wife came to my apartment with two of our teenagers and said: “You might lie to me but I know you won’t lie to them. I think you’re gay.” Caught off-guard, I said, “Yes, I think I am.” By the next day she had told everyone in our small town, and after that nobody would even make eye contact with me. Since then I’ve moved to a larger city and developed a great relationship with my children (now all young adults). But I remain bitter about the whole experience and wonder if there was a better way to have handled coming out in Middle America and at midlife? — Name Withheld, N.C.

A. Let me start by pointing out that you did not “come out” of the closet (a voluntary step of disclosing your sexual orientation) but were “outed” (shoved rudely out of that private space) by your then-wife, not only to your children but apparently to your entire town. No matter her level of anger or feelings of betrayal — understandable and even common in situations like yours — her actions, I’m afraid, cross the line of decency. In a more perfect world, sure, you would have been comfortable in proactively telling family and colleagues, but I understand the weight of shame and fear (of financial ruin, lost friendships, or even violence) that keep many from coming out in midlife.

Your experience brings up the paradox of coming out today, especially relevant as it’s National Coming Out Month. Although the process is never a trivial one, young people come out in a much different environment than the one in which we were raised, if only because of the prevalence of openly gay characters on TV shows like “Modern Family” and “The New Normal.”

For those of us over 50, though, no such figures existed to let us know we were O.K. Gays were called perverts, and homosexuality was classified as a mental illness. Is it any wonder many stayed in the closet? It was a matter of survival – or denial, as many people didn’t or couldn’t recognize their same-sex attraction until much later in life.

So how does someone come out at midlife – and in the heart of Middle America, no less?

First, know that coming out is a process that begins internally before the door starts to open to others. The more confident you are about your identity, the easier the coming out will be.

Before you talk with anyone, think about some of the questions you’ll probably receive, and how you’ll answer them. “Are you sure?” “How do you know?” “When did you realize it?” (Check out Eric Marcus’s book, “Is It A Choice: Answers to the Most Frequently Asked Questions About Gay and Lesbian People.'’)
411 2012-10-16 A black market for genetically modified cotton seeds has more than tripled the cost of these crops, Andhra farmers say....
412 2012-10-16 The Rockets' Jeremy Lin, who is featured in GQ magazine, explains his decision to leave the Knicks and how he felt he had to prove himself as an Asian N.B.A. player....
413 2012-10-16 Two veterinarians from Virginia who were reported missing while hiking in Glacier National Park were found alive Monday, family members and park officials said. The veterinarians, Jason Hiser and Neal Peckens, were reported missing on Friday after failing to catch a flight home. Rescue teams found them after scouring back country near Two Medicine by air, on foot and on horseback, aided by a dog team. The men were able to walk on their own but were being flown by helicopter to the nearest ranger station, family members said.
414 2012-10-16 Soon, she explained in testimony, her staff of prosecutors began telling her that they had found instances in which the defendants lived in the very buildings where the arrests occurred.

“O.K., this seems to be a problem,” Ms. Rucker said, recalling her thinking.

She said she later received an anonymous letter from a person claiming to have been arrested on trespassing charges while leaving a building with a friend who lived there. She forwarded it to other senior prosecutors in the Bronx, adding her own note.

“I said, ‘Enough is enough, we have to stop this,’ ” Ms. Rucker recounted.

Ms. Rucker explained that in one instance an assistant district attorney, David Grigoryan, went to the building where a trespass arrest occurred, where he spoke with a guard and learned that the defendant “lived in the building with his sister.”

That case, Ms. Rucker testified, “really pushed me over the edge.” In July, she sent a brief letter to numerous police officials outlining her concerns and announcing this change in policy: From then on her office would prosecute trespass arrests only after interviewing the arresting officer. Previously, prosecutors went forward with a case simply on the basis of the paperwork the officer filled out.

A lawyer for the city, Mark Zuckerman, objected to much of Ms. Rucker’s testimony as hearsay, on the grounds that she had picked up much of it from members of her staff. Ms. Rucker’s testimony will continue on Tuesday.

While Ms. Rucker’s testimony mostly addressed arrests, the lawsuit that is being heard is narrowly focused on certain police stops for trespassing in the Bronx. At issue is a police program, two decades old, in which landlords of residential buildings enroll the police to patrol the hallways and stairwells and to arrest trespassers.

The program was intended to combat drug-dealing and to provide to tenants of private buildings the same level of police protection that tenants in public housing received. But the plaintiffs claim that the police use the program as a pretext to stop people who leave those buildings.

The plaintiffs are asking the judge, Shira A. Scheindlin, to require outside oversight relating to those police stops.
415 2012-10-16 What the fans witnessed was a talented, thoroughly reconstructed team still finding its way two games into the preseason. The Nets’ starters, who played so smoothly in a victory two nights earlier, initially struggled to find the same rhythm, falling behind early to a Wizards team that was missing its star point guard, John Wall, and its top big man, Nene. The defense was soft at times.

But the Nets (2-0) held Washington to 40 points in the second half, and Andray Blatche, a Wizards castoff, scored 10 of his 16 points in the fourth quarter to secure the victory. Brook Lopez led the Nets with 18 points and 11 rebounds, his second straight strong effort. Joe Johnson and Deron Williams, the star guards, combined for 25 points and 14 assists.

Johnson played 38 minutes. Williams was sent back into the game late in the fourth quarter to help close it out. For the Nets, this was clearly not the average preseason game.

“Certain things, man, you don’t have to say,” Joe Johnson said. “It’s just kind of understood. This is our first time playing in this building — we don’t want to take an ‘L’ the first time in this building.”

The emotions spilled over a bit for A. J. Price, the Wizards’ backup guard, who grew up on Long Island in Amityville and was playing in front of several friends and family members. Price fouled Williams hard in the final minutes, then jawed at him.

Williams said, “I guess he had some boys in the crowd he wanted to impress or something like that, while he can, the little minutes he’s going to get this year.”

Price apparently made a reference to this being his home. Williams said he responded, “It’s my home now.”

The night began with Fabolous’s “Brooklyn” playing through the arena sound system. At 7:36 p.m., David Diamante, the public-address announcer, welcomed the crowd with a deep-baritoned, “Hello, Brooklyn!” The response from the stands was spirited, though not exactly booming. At least one-third of the seats were empty at tipoff.

But the crowd was engaged, serenading the Nets with chants of “Let’s go Brooklyn” and “dee-fense.” It was, by any measure, a huge improvement over the moribund atmosphere of the Prudential Center in Newark, where the Nets played the last two years, or the Meadowlands, where they resided for years before that.

“That was probably better than most of our regular-season games right there,” Kris Humphries said, chuckling. “It was great.”

The focus has been so firmly on Brooklyn that it sometimes seems as though the franchise is forsaking the New Jersey era entirely. The Nets did hang their two A.B.A. championship banners, along with their four retired jerseys, over the Eastern side of the court.

The first points at Barclays were scored by Washington’s Emeka Okafor, on a dunk. The Nets’ first basket came moments later, when Williams fed Humphries for a driving layup. There will be many more firsts to come when the regular season arrives, but for now everything is new and every moment significant in its own right.

The Nets had been in the arena only a handful of times, for media day, for a practice last week and for a shootaround earlier in the day. This was their first chance to play on the distinct herringbone court and under the special stage lighting, which keeps the court illuminated but the stands dark.

“It’s a great arena,” Williams said. “The focus is all on the court.”

No player was more critical than Williams of the Nets’ temporary facilities in Newark, and the utter lack of a home-court advantage. When asked earlier in the day about what his emotions might be, he answered, deadpan, “I might shed a tear.”

It may be a while before the place truly feels like home to the Nets. They have two more games at Barclays this week, on Thursday and Friday, and an open practice here Sunday. That will be the only time they get to acclimate before the season opener on Nov. 1.

“I already think it feels like home,” Williams said. “We been here a couple times now, and this is our arena. It is home.”

The Nets wore their black road jerseys, and will again for the next two home games. They are saving the home whites for opening night.
416 2012-10-16 Pleading guilty to a federal crime is usually a routine matter: defendants waive their rights to a trial and then attest to their crimes in detail, an exercise designed to provide both a public acknowledgment of responsibility and an assurance that the plea is true.

But when a police officer tried to plead guilty to civil rights violations on Monday, something unusual happened. The judge said the acts to which the officer was admitting did not rise to the level of a crime — not initially.

The officer, Admir Kacamakovic, was accused in October of pepper-spraying and illegally handcuffing a man who had gotten into a fight in front of a bar belonging to the officer’s cousin. Officer Kacamakovic, 33, was also accused of accessing law enforcement databases to find information about the man, who was not identified in court papers.

After negotiations with the government, the officer agreed to plead guilty to the least serious charge, a civil rights violation. He came to Federal District Court in Brooklyn to do just that.

In his admission of guilt, Officer Kacamakovic gave the presiding judge, William F. Kuntz II, a vague description of his crime, saying he had handcuffed a man and caused him injury. Judge Kuntz pressed him for detail.
417 2012-10-16 DURING last week’s vice-presidential debate — the first time two Catholics have shared such a stage — a question about abortion was inevitable. To some viewers, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s stance — that he personally opposes abortion but does not believe in imposing those beliefs on others — came across as a wishy-washy mélange of moral intuitions. In contrast, Representative Paul D. Ryan, who laid out his ticket’s policy to “oppose abortion with the exceptions for rape, incest and life of the mother,” appeared to represent the principled, Catholic anti-abortion position.

But while Mr. Ryan’s vision for abortion policy is far more restrictive than current law, it is not the one advocated by the Catholic hierarchy. Along with Mr. Biden, he has joined the ranks of dissenting Catholic politicians, those who preserve a distance between nonnegotiable Catholic moral teaching and civil law.

Mr. Biden’s answer, which followed the script written by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, was no surprise. Everyone knows that the Democratic position that seeks few or no restrictions on abortion rights is not in line with Catholic doctrine. Some bishops have attempted to put politicians who espouse it on “wafer watch”; Mr. Biden was recently warned by the bishop of the diocese of Colorado Springs that he “ought not to be receiving Communion.” Align public policy with Catholic teaching, or be persona non grata at the altar of grace.

Far less pressure has been applied to the point at which the Ryan approach differs from Catholic teaching. Mr. Ryan said he couldn’t “see how a person can separate their public life from their private life or from their faith,” and then narrated the transfixing power of that first ultrasound. So far, so Catholic. But then came the focus-group-tested political answer: the policy of a Romney-Ryan administration would be “to oppose abortion, with the exceptions for rape, incest, and life of the mother.”

This group of exceptions is, of course, not Catholic doctrine. They are simply meant to make the campaign’s stance more palatable to those in the broad middle of the American population, who are deeply unsettled by abortion rates but more unsettled by attempts to criminalize it. Even conservative Mississippi, no bastion of abortion, could not pass a “personhood” amendment that would have defined human embryos as legal persons.
418 2012-10-16 Kennedy was certainly bracing for an “eyeball to eyeball” moment, but it never happened. There is now plenty of evidence that Kennedy — like Khrushchev — was a lot less steely-eyed than depicted in the initial accounts of the crisis, which were virtually dictated by the White House. Tape-recorded transcripts of White House debates and notes from participants show that Kennedy was prepared to make significant concessions, including a public trade of Soviet missiles in Cuba for American missiles in Turkey and possibly the surrender of the United States naval base at Guantánamo Bay.

While the risk of war in October 1962 was very high (Kennedy estimated it variously at between 1 in 5 and 1 in 2), it was not caused by a clash of wills. The real dangers arose from “the fog of war.” As the two superpowers geared up for a nuclear war, the chances of something going terribly wrong increased exponentially. To their credit, both Kennedy and Khrushchev understood this dynamic, which became particularly evident on the most nerve-racking day of all, “Black Saturday.”

By Saturday, Oct. 27, the two leaders were no longer in full control of their gigantic military machines, which were moving forward under their own momentum. Soviet troops on Cuba targeted Guantánamo with tactical nuclear weapons and shot down an American U-2 spy plane. Another U-2, on a “routine” air sampling mission to the North Pole, got lost over the Soviet Union. The Soviets sent MiG fighters into the air to try to shoot down the American intruder, and in response, Alaska Air Defense Command scrambled F-102 interceptors armed with tactical nuclear missiles. In the Caribbean, a frazzled Soviet submarine commander was dissuaded by his subordinates from using his nuclear torpedo against American destroyers that were trying to force him to the surface.

When it was all over, Kennedy aides sought to spin the crisis by depicting their man as fully on top of the situation. Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. later praised the “mathematical precision” with which Kennedy calibrated his threats of force against Cuba and the Soviet Union and the “composure, clarity and control” the president displayed.

The White House tapes demonstrate that Kennedy was a good deal more nuanced, and skeptical, about the value of “red lines” than his political acolytes were. He saw the blockade — or “quarantine,” as he preferred to call it — as an opportunity to buy time for a negotiated settlement. But his aides came to believe their own propaganda. They thought that strategies like “controlled escalation” would work equally well against the North Vietnamese. In the judgment of Clark M. Clifford, who succeeded Robert S. McNamara as secretary of defense in 1968, they “possessed a misplaced belief that American power could not be successfully challenged, no matter what the circumstances, anywhere in the world.”

President Bush made a similarly fateful error, in a 2002 speech in Cincinnati, when he depicted Kennedy as the father of his pre-emptive war doctrine. In fact, Kennedy went out of his way to avoid such a war. Far from “ignoring” Khrushchev’s public offer of a Turkey-Cuba missile trade, Kennedy described it as a “pretty good proposition,” and sent his brother to seal the deal with the Soviet ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynin on the night of Oct. 27. (As it turned out, the Americans were able to keep the missile deal secret for many years.)

In deciding how to respond to Khrushchev, Kennedy was influenced by his reading of “The Guns of August,” Barbara W. Tuchman’s 1962 account of the origins of World War I. The most important lesson he drew from it was that mistakes and misunderstandings can unleash an unpredictable chain of events, causing governments to go to war with little understanding of the consequences.

It is a lesson that Presidents Johnson and Bush would have been wise to ponder when considering what to do in Vietnam and Iraq, and one that remains valid today.
419 2012-10-16 Gannett reported gains in its earnings and revenue on Monday, exceeding Wall Street’s expectations, as the media company benefited from strong television advertising during the Olympics and the political campaign season.

The company, which operates the largest American newspaper chain in terms of circulation, said its third-quarter net income rose 33 percent, to $133.1 million, or 56 cents a share, compared with $99.8 million, or 41 cents a shares, in the period a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings of 53 cents a share in the latest quarter, according to those surveyed by Thomson Reuters.

Third-quarter revenue at Gannett rose 3.4 percent, to $1.31 billion, from $1.27 billion a year earlier. Analysts had expected revenue of $1.29 billion in the quarter.

The company, which has 23 television stations, posted record revenue in the third quarter at its broadcast division.

Gannett’s financial report also showed that revenue declines at the company’s newspapers were moderating. Circulation revenue rose 10 percent, mainly as a result of the digital subscription plan that Gannett introduced for the Web sites of its local newspapers in 71 markets.

Even the pace of advertising declines at its newspapers has begun to slow. Advertising revenue fell 6.6 percent in the third quarter, compared with an 8 percent decline in the second quarter.
420 2012-10-16 Yet Mr. Kristof maintains that his friend was mostly “unlucky,” such as failing to have a spouse with health insurance, and attacks Mitt Romney for suggesting that people are responsible for the results of their own choices. He prefers the Obamacare “solution” of forcing everyone to pay for coverage.

Individual deaths are always sad. But government control of decisions better left to individuals will never be accepted by the majority of Americans. If Mr. Androes dies of cancer, sad as it will be, it cannot be laid at anyone’s doorstep but his own.

I, too, was in Nicholas D. Kristof’s class of 1982 at Harvard University and was saddened to hear about Scott Androes’s health care crisis with metastatic prostate cancer (though I knew neither of them in college).

Like many physicians, I sometimes forget how brutally this supposed outstanding health care system of ours treats people like Mr. Androes. Of course, he bears some responsibility for not seeking preventive care, as I am sure Swedish Medical Center in Seattle, where he is being treated, either provides or could have directed him where to get indigent care. But every health care provider in this country whose job it is to promote health and wellness bears responsibility for care of the uninsured.

In my own office, I was horrified recently when I heard a member of my staff tell a caller (and potential patient) to call back when he had health insurance! I chastised her and reminded her that we try to accept everyone according to his or her ability to pay, or at least to refer the person to someplace where care is available.

Of course, the Affordable Care Act promoted by President Obama will change some of that, but it will not change hearts.

Nicholas D. Kristof’s heart-rending account of his friend’s struggle with prostate cancer does not make an argument for Obamacare (or any other system) because Mr. Kristof fails to show how Scott Androes’s experience would have probably been different had he had health insurance. We are meant to assume that if Mr. Androes had had insurance, he would have had checkups, and that those checkups would have probably changed the course of the disease, but Mr. Kristof presents no evidence for this.

Getting decent health care will not help one avoid cancer; the most it can do is identify it earlier. Identifying cancer earlier is no guarantee that the course of the disease will be changed. For example, a 2011 article in The Archives of Internal Medicine showed that if a woman identifies a breast cancer through a routine mammogram, the chances that she has saved her life by doing so are from 3 to 13 percent.

The writer, a biomedical ethicist, is a professor at Lehigh University.
421 2012-10-16 A court sentenced a Spanish man to four years in prison for his role as the driver in a car crash that killed the dissident Oswaldo Payá, the authorities announced Monday. A state-run Web site said the Spaniard, Ángel Carromero Barrios, was found guilty of the equivalent of vehicular manslaughter in a July 22 crash near Bayamo that killed Mr. Payá and another dissident, Harold Cepero. Mr. Carromero and a Swedish passenger, Aron Modig, both activists in their own countries, had traveled to Cuba to meet and offer support for Cuban dissidents.
422 2012-10-16 “The proposal reflects the security environment and the uncertainty coming out of the government transition in Libya,” said a senior Pentagon official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the program has not been officially announced. “The multimilitia fabric that’s providing security there needs to be brought into a more integrated national security system.”

A spokesman for Libya’s new president, Mohamed Magariaf, did not respond to detailed inquiries by e-mail, and other Libyan military officials did not return phone calls. Its transitional government continues to be in a state of flux as a newly chosen prime minister prepares to appoint defense and interior ministers.

Libyan commentators have expressed hope that a Western power would help train the country’s fledgling national army, so the proposal might be well received. But it still faces many challenges, including how to get the powerful militias to buy into it while taming their influence, and vetting a force to weed out Islamic extremists.

“Over all, it’s a sound strategy, but my concern is that in the vetting they make sure this doesn’t become a Trojan horse for the militias to come in,” said Frederic Wehrey, a senior policy analyst with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace who visited Libya recently and wrote a paper last month on security in the country, “The Struggle for Security in Eastern Libya.”

Mr. Wehrey cautioned that many Libyan officers and soldiers would also need training in English to help them understand various manuals. Other officials warned that any program must be transparent to the Libyan people to avoid starting rumors of ulterior American motives for wanting to train the new commandos. Also, trainers would have to build the professionalism in the officer corps that was lacking under the government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, Mr. Wehrey said.

The internal State Department budget document to Congress states that the program will also be “encouraging increased professionalism and respect for human rights.” It also proposes using some of the money to buy unspecified equipment for the commandos.

The document also describes an additional $4 million to help Libya improve control of its borders. After the revolution, vast arsenals of the Qaddafi-era army were looted, and Western officials are particularly worried that thousands of shoulder-fired antiaircraft missiles were spirited out of the country, possibly into the hands of extremist groups.

The proposed Libyan commando force springs from an unusual partnership between the State Department and the Pentagon. Just last year, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the defense secretary at the time, Robert M. Gates, agreed to pool resources from their departments in a fund approved by Congress to respond more quickly to emerging threats from Al Qaeda and other militants in places like Libya, Nigeria and Bangladesh.

The program, the Global Security Contingency Fund, is small as government projects go with a budget of up to $250 million a year, mostly from the Pentagon, but it is meant to address many of the government’s counterterrorism and broader security challenges over several years.

American officials have had an eye on helping Libya since the NATO-led operation toppled Colonel Qaddafi’s government last year, and new civilian leaders began trying to bring order to the country.

In the first visit by an American defense secretary to Libya, Leon E. Panetta pledged last December that the United States “stands ready to offer security assistance cooperation once the government identifies its needs.” Mr. Panetta did not discuss the commando force during the visit, a Pentagon spokesman said.

Under Colonel Qaddafi, the Libyan Army had special forces units, but they were not particularly well trained or trusted by the government, American officials said. Members of the special forces in the east were among the first to defect, and American officials now envision a new, properly trained commando force as the core around which to rebuild the Libyan military.

The $8 million is considered seed money to begin building and equipping the commando force. One American official who formerly served in Libya said the initial vetting would probably be conducted by American and Libyan officials, and would include screening for physical skills, mental aptitude and ties to extremist groups that were hostile to the Libyan government.

American trainers would likely focus on basic skills, like marksmanship and small-arms tactics, and then move on to more advanced counterterrorism, reconnaissance and hostage-rescue skills.

“It’s basically a quick-reaction force at first,” said the official, who was not authorized to comment publicly on the planning.

Officials in Washington said they were expecting a final decision on the plan by the end of the year, with trainers fielding the initial units within 12 months.

The fluid, shifting security landscape is driving both American and Libyan officials to speed up the planning.

“The bad guys are making plans and organizing,” said the American official who formerly served in Libya. “It’s a footrace between the extremist groups and the Libyan government that’s trying to get organized.”
423 2012-10-16 Despite the cost and relative scarcity of precious metals — iridium, platinum, rhodium — we rely on them to manufacture products from denim to beer, pharmaceuticals to fuel cells. The elements are used as catalysts, substances that kick off or enable chemical reactions.

Dr. Chirik’s work involves dissolved catalysts, which are mixed into the end product. The molecules of the catalyst dissipate during the reaction. For instance, a solution containing platinum is used to make silicone emulsifiers, compounds that in turn feed products like makeup, cookware and glue. Tiny amounts of the expensive metal are scattered in all these things; your jeans, for instance, contain unrecoverable particles of platinum.

“We’re not about to run out of platinum,” said Matthew Hartings, a chemist at American University in Washington, “but this process spends that platinum in a nonsustainable way.”

Dr. Chirik’s chemistry essentially wraps an iron molecule in another, organic molecule called a ligand. The ligand alters the number of electrons available to form bonds. It also serves as a scaffold, giving the molecule shape. “Geometry is really important in chemistry,” Dr. Hartings said. Dr. Chirik’s “ligands help the iron to be in the right geometry to help these reactions along.”

In addition to iron, Dr. Chirik’s lab also works with cobalt, which sits beside iron on the periodic table. Using cobalt, Dr. Chirik said, the scientists have generated “a whole new reaction that no one has ever seen before.” It produces new types of plastics using very inexpensive starting materials.

But the price of cobalt has shot up since the lab first began its research, thanks to the element’s use in the flat batteries that power gadgets like iPads and iPhones.

“The iPad has completely changed the price of cobalt,” Dr. Chirik said, “so something that once was garbage is now valuable.”

While the rising cost may undermine the economic incentive to use Dr. Chirik’s cobalt-fueled materials, it seems to perfectly underscore his basic point about the need for flexibility.

“There’s a broad appeal and logic to focusing on more abundant elements in designing catalysts,” said Roderick Eggert, a professor of economics and business at the Colorado School of Mines.

A vast majority of the chemicals we manufacture and then use to make other products require catalysts. And a lot of catalysts use so-called noble metals like platinum, palladium and rhodium, which are expensive. A pound of platinum costs about $22,000. A pound of iron, meanwhile, costs about 50 cents.

As an undergraduate chemistry major, Dr. Chirik worked on reactions that used iridium as a catalyst. A pound of iridium costs about $16,000. Dr. Chirik’s boss kept the iridium-based compound locked in a desk drawer.

“You had to walk from his office to the lab holding it with two hands, and not talk to anyone,” Dr. Chirik recalled. The experience left him with the seed of an idea, he said. “Why can’t we do this with something cheaper?”

On a spring afternoon at the Princeton lab, a graduate student toiled away at a glovebox, a vacuum chamber that prevents the iron from rusting. Rust is a potential downside of using iron in manufacturing, and controlling it could prove challenging and expensive. “We’re not talking about making a dish of spaghetti at home,” Dr. Chirik said, referring to the volume of chemicals involved when doing reactions on an industrial scale. It remains to be seen, he said, whether concerns about the use of an “air sensitive” substance outweigh concerns about the costs and environmental impact of precious metals.

There have been other hurdles. Dr. Chirik showed two small dishes of silicone flakes, used to make envelope glue. One he made using iron, the other platinum. They were indistinguishable. Getting them that way, however, was no easy task — it’s taken nearly a decade of work.

“One of the reasons most of us got involved in this type of chemistry is that compounds that have metals in them turn really cool colors and it’s fun to watch,” Dr. Chirik said. “But if you’re making something that’s going to go in a consumer product, the glue on an envelope, the bottom of a shoe, an ingredient in shampoo, you really don’t want it to be black.”

Chevron and Momentive, a silicone manufacturer, are financing Dr. Chirik’s work. Merck is also a partner in the research. (Many drugmaking processes rely on rhodium or palladium.) One product in development is a fuel-efficient tire that employs a new, cleaner process, with no byproducts, by using iron instead of platinum.

Dr. Hartings, of American University, believes that using abundant materials where possible could free up the scarcer materials for applications that truly require them. “There’s less of an argument to do crazy mining when you’ve got something else that works just as well,” he said.

Researchers in Dr. Chirik’s lab are also hunting for ways to use catalysts to convert nitrogen from the air into forms used in various products, from fertilizer to carpet fiber. The current method, the Haber-Bosch process, is so energy-intensive it accounts for 1 percent of all global energy use.

Sustainability often focuses on “recycling cans and better gas mileage,” Dr. Chirik said. While important, those efforts are only part of the picture. There’s also the way products are made.

“When you buy jeans, some weird element on the periodic table was used to make them,” Dr. Chirik said. “Or you think you’re doing something good by buying a Prius, but it’s got all this neodymium in it that comes out of a pit mine in Mongolia.

“If you can transition to a completely earth-abundant world,” he said, “you can have a huge impact.”
424 2012-10-16 Offering methadone treatment to drug addicts substantially reduces the risk that they will get H.I.V. or give it to anyone else, a new study has found.

The study, published online on Oct. 4 by the British journal BMJ, pooled data from studies done in nine countries. It concluded that making methadone available reduced H.I.V. risk by 54 percent.

Many countries, including Russia, have large H.I.V. epidemics among addicts but nonetheless outlaw methadone and buprenorphine treatment for political, religious or other reasons.

Methadone itself does not affect the virus; scientists believe it works because addicts on treatment become better able to stop sharing needles and selling sex for drugs. They are also better able to stay on antiretroviral drugs, which lowers the chance they will infect others. The authors speculated that opiate-substitution therapy was so effective because addicts who are motivated enough to seek treatment are also smart about protecting themselves in other ways.

Contaminated needles cause 5 percent to 10 percent of all the world’s H.I.V. infections, the study estimated. The problem is worst in Eastern Europe and in Central and Southeast Asia on the fringes of opium-growing areas.

Although more people have sex than inject drugs, the risk of catching H.I.V. is 1 in 125 from a syringe, about 1 in 122 from anal sex and less than 1 in 2,000 from vaginal sex, according to an editorial published with the study.
425 2012-10-16 The agency emphasized that the heart case was still being investigated, and that it was possible that the infection had come from a source other than the cardioplegic solution. A second heart-surgery patient who had an Aspergillus infection and was initially reported to have received a solution made by the New England Compounding Center had been treated with solution made by another company.

Another patient contracted meningitis after receiving a spinal injection of another one of the company’s steroid solutions, triamcinolone acetonide.

The statement from the F.D.A. also warned of possible contamination in drugs made by the company that are injected into the eye or used during eye surgery.

The agency is recommending to doctors that all patients exposed to any of these products from the New England Compounding Center be notified of the risks and told to be on the alert for signs of infection, even though it is not clear whether the products caused the two additional infections.

Meningitis symptoms that patients are being told to watch for include fever, headache, neck stiffness, nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to light and altered mental status.

Symptoms of other infections may include fever, swelling, increasing pain, and redness and warmth at the injection site. Eye infections may cause vision problems, pain, redness in the eye or discharge from the eye. Patients infected during heart surgery may have chest pain or drainage from their incisions.

The New England Compounding Center has shut down and recalled all its products. At least five states, besides Massachusetts, have suspended the company’s license: Michigan, New Hampshire, Ohio, Maryland and Virginia.

Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, said on Monday that the fresh information “further underscores the need for an immediate criminal investigation.” The Massachusetts attorney general’s office has declined to comment.

A spokeswoman for the New England Compounding Center said on Monday that the company would “continue to cooperate with the F.D.A.”

The meningitis outbreak has opened a debate among legal scholars about how much authority the Food and Drug Administration has over the compounding industry.

Compounding — traditionally a practice in which pharmacies mix medicine for an individual patient — is regulated by states. But in recent decades, some pharmacies began to push the legal limits, becoming mini-drug companies largely out of reach of federal authorities. Federal officials say they do not know what share of the compounding market large-scale pharmacies represent.

“Our drug experts went into some of these operations, and they said, ‘Whoa, these don’t look like ordinary pharmacies,’ ” said Gary Dykstra, who was the F.D.A.’s deputy associate commissioner for regulatory affairs in the 1990s.

Some scholars argue that the agency had more power than it is willing to admit and simply failed to use it.

“They have adequate authority to act, full stop,” said Peter Barton Hutt, a lawyer at Covington & Burling L.L.P. in Washington, who has written extensively on compounding law. “The issue is priorities and resources. Large-scale compounding expanded because the F.D.A. was focusing on other things.”

Even when the United States Supreme Court overturned the first clear legal definition of compounding in 2002, the F.D.A. could still invoke the 1938 Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, which forbids new, unapproved drugs to be sold across state lines, Mr. Hutt argued. The act was passed after more than 100 people died from an antibiotic that was prepared using a poisonous solvent.

But others contended that the agency had been more timid in pursuing compounders since the Supreme Court decision, in part because building a case meant figuring out how to defend it in court, and anchoring an argument is difficult because there are no laws or regulations formally defining compounded medications.

“There’s no bright line in statute distinguishing what the F.D.A. can regulate,” said Daniel Carpenter, a political scientist at Harvard University who specializes in regulatory law. “The only real attempt to draw one was in 1997, and that was struck down. Now to make a case they have to confront an army of industry lawyers.”

Politics were also important. Mr. Dykstra said the industry was adept at applying political pressure, which combined with the litigation, he argued, drained the enthusiasm in F.D.A. leadership to investigate.

“All the inspection work and the amount of time the F.D.A. was putting into it started to dry up,” said Mr. Dykstra, now a professor at the University of Georgia College of Pharmacy.

According to the Center for Responsive Politics, the main trade association, the International Academy of Compounding Pharmacists has spent about $1.1 million on lobbying since 2000. It has also contributed, through a political action committee, to lawmakers’ campaigns.
426 2012-10-16 Red wine and steak, soda and burgers, pickles and pastrami sandwiches — these are combinations that just work. Now researchers provide a scientific explanation for why these unions are appealing to the tongue. Astringents like red wine and pickles balance out the grease of steaks and pastrami.

“They cancel each other out, so to speak,” said Paul Breslin, a sensory biologist at Rutgers University and at the Monell Chemical Senses Center in Philadelphia, and one of the authors of a study in the journal Current Biology.

Dr. Breslin has long been interested in how food attributes like fattiness, creaminess and astringency affect our mouths. “We want our mouth to be lubricated just right,” he said. “Our saliva does it because of the proteins it produces.”

Greasy food causes overlubrication and leaves an unpleasant slippery feeling on the tongue. On the other hand, drinking very dry wine or strong tea or eating acidic fruit causes the proteins to be precipitated out, creating an equally unpleasant dry sensation.

Dr. Breslin and his colleagues asked testers to sample salami and then rinse their mouths with either tea or water. They were asked whether the rinses reduced the sensation of fattiness from the salami. Water did not work well, but the tea seemed to to neutralize the feeling.

They also found that even weak astringents like tea can have a strong countering effect to greasy food when sipped over time.
427 2012-10-16 The fungus in many cases appears to be one called Exserohilum (though one patient was found to have another, Aspergillus). The state health commissioner in Tennessee, Dr. John Dreyzehner, described Exserohilum as “a fungus so rare that most physicians never see it in a lifetime of practicing medicine.” He said experts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention were making recommendations about how to treat it. Health officials said it was possible that other contaminants would also turn up.

With most infectious diseases, the dose of the germ matters: The more people are exposed to, the more likely they are to get sick, said Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious disease expert at Vanderbilt University. Some patients received a series of three shots of the tainted drug a few weeks apart, and so may have been exposed to more of the fungus.

Apparently not all of the vials were equally contaminated. Dr. Marion Kainer, chief of Tennessee’s health-care-associated infections and antimicrobial resistance program, said, “Most of the patients who are affected had injections with one particular lot.”

The number of that lot was 06292012@26, and 1,000 vials from it were shipped to one clinic in Nashville, the St. Thomas Outpatient Neurosurgery Center, where many of the state’s meningitis patients were infected.

The age of the drug may also have made a difference, Dr. Schaffner said. Contaminated vials that sat on the shelf the longest may have become the most dangerous, because the fungus had time to grow. The vials were a breeding ground, a vessel in which fungus cultures bloomed like mold on a piece of bread.

At least one of the vials confiscated by inspectors from the Food and Drug Administration had so much “foreign matter” floating in it that it could be seen with the naked eye. The agency has found fungus in 50 vials it has tested, but has not revealed details of the level of contamination.

Individual differences in immune systems and the ability to fight off infection also probably played a role. By and large, the people who received these injections were healthy. But they tended to be middle-age or older — when spine problems often occur — and the immune system does become less robust with age.

An insidious factor in these cases is that the injections could well have put the immune system at a disadvantage, by introducing a pathogen into the body along with a steroid. Steroids suppress the immune response and very probably crippled its ability to attack the fungus in many patients — sort of like the scenes in gangster movies where one thug holds the victim’s arms while another beats him up.

Another possibility is that differences in the injection technique might have played a role.

An epidural injection is meant to enter an area called the epidural space, near the spinal cord. The needle is not supposed to pierce the dura, one of the membranes that cover the spinal cord and brain.

A needle that went too far in could have nicked the dura and let the fungus into the spinal fluid, from which it could then have easily traveled to the brain. Doctors say that meningitis cannot occur unless the dura is somehow breached.

It is not clear how often nicks or punctures occur. Some doctors use fluoroscopy to help them guide the needle, which may help prevent accidental punctures of the membrane. But other doctors do not.

“I would want it to be performed, if it were my injection, under fluoroscopic guidance,” said Dr. Ray M. Baker, president of the International Spine Intervention Society. “But it is not standard of care.”

Dr. Baker also said that in some areas, doctors who are not specialists and even people other than physicians — nurse anesthetists, physician assistants, radiation technologists — may be performing epidural injections, something his group opposes as potentially compromising safety.

No information has been released about how or by whom the epidural injections were performed in the patients who contracted meningitis. In any case, doctors may never determine whether a slip of the needle made a difference, because even at autopsy the trajectory of the needle would be extremely difficult, even impossible, to trace.

“This would be a much more elaborate post-mortem dissection than you would normally do,” Dr. Schaffner said.

And there is always a still more awful possibility: Even if the needle did not penetrate the dura, the fungus itself might have done the job. It is a fierce pathogen, and in theory, Dr. Schaffner said, it might be capable of eating through the dura on its own to invade the spinal fluid and brain.
428 2012-10-16 The devices use a fluorescent polymer technology developed by Timothy M. Swager, a chemist at M.I.T. under whom Dr. Rose studied. Thin films of the polymers emit visible light when exposed to ultraviolet rays, but molecules of TNT stop the fluorescence. A single TNT molecule can quench many thousands of fluorescence reactions, greatly increasing sensitivity.

Dr. Spitzer’s approach is far different, and also far from being commercialized. The slivers of silicon, called microcantilevers, are fixed at one end and made to vibrate, like a diving board. As molecules of explosives are captured by the cantilever, the added mass alters the rate of vibration, which can be measured by a laser or other means.

Microcantilevers are already used in many sensing applications, but for explosives the cantilevers alone are not sensitive enough. Growing hollow cylinders of titanium oxide, called nanotubes, increases the surface area, allowing more molecules to be captured.

Sensitivity is critical because many explosives compounds, including powerful ones like RDX and PETN, are not very volatile — at normal temperatures, very few molecules vaporize. As a result, bomb detection — which became a priority in aviation after a hidden device destroyed a Pan Am jetliner over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, killing 270 people — has focused more on finding explosive particles on surfaces than on detecting molecules in the air.

David Atkinson, chief scientist for explosives detection research at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in Richland, Wash., said, “We’ve had a particle-based detection paradigm for the past two decades.” Even today, when a laptop or other object is deemed suspicious after being X-rayed, an agent wipes the surface and puts the wipe in a spectrometer that ionizes any explosive compounds present, allowing them to be quickly identified.

“The key is you’ve got to get that particle,” Dr. Atkinson said. “The whole ability to detect explosives is whether the operator correctly samples.”

Researchers always knew it would be difficult to make an instrument that was as good as or better than a sniffer dog. Paul Waggoner, senior scientist at the Canine Detection Research Institute at Auburn University, said that over the years “the instrument guys” have come to appreciate dogs even more.

“We really are not going to ever be able to surpass the dog in terms of its general ability as a mobile sensing platform,” Dr. Waggoner said.

While the basic mechanisms of olfaction are known, no one knows precisely why dogs are so good at it. Dogs have roughly 30 times as many olfactory cells as people, and the brain region devoted to smell is proportionally much larger — but size doesn’t fully explain it. “The black box that is a dog that we don’t really understand makes a lot of scientists uneasy,” Dr. Waggoner said.

But researchers like Dr. Atkinson have plowed ahead. His team is looking at using the same kind of equipment already in use at airports, but analyzing air rather than particles collected on wipes. The trick, he said, is to increase the efficiency of the equipment so that even a small number of explosives molecules in the air will produce enough ions for detection and identification.

Dr. Atkinson envisages a day when the millimeter-wave imaging booths now used at some airports will be used for chemical detection as well. A passenger will step into the booth, and in the few seconds the imaging equipment does its work, a pump will draw an air sample into a spectrometer for analysis.

At the French-German Research Institute of Saint-Louis, established by treaty after World War II, Dr. Spitzer was inspired less by dogs than by the exquisite olfactory architecture of silkworm moths, described in a scientific article he stumbled upon years ago.

“I read about this kind of silk moth, where the males can recognize females from several kilometers away,” he said. The moth’s antennas were said to be capable of detecting even a single pheromone molecule, and to Dr. Spitzer it seemed that its anatomy, with arrays of bristlelike sensory receptors along its length providing a huge amount of surface area, might have something to do with its sensitivity.

Dr. Spitzer, whose lab spends about a quarter of its time on detection — it also works on highly reactive materials called nanothermites, among other projects — realized that he could increase the surface area of a microcantilever by covering it with nanotubes. And he knew just the person to do this: his wife, Valérie Keller, a researcher in photocatalytic materials at the University of Strasbourg, about 80 miles away.

Dr. Keller and her team had developed a process for growing nanotubes of titanium oxide on various surfaces. Growing them on the silicon of a microcantilever took some doing — one crucial step was to leave enough metallic titanium on the silicon surface so that the nanotubes would not fly off the microcantilever when it vibrated.

The process produces about half a million nanotubes on the microcantilever, which is far smaller than the head of a pin, increasing its surface area by a factor of about 80. That creates far more places for the occasional explosives molecule to find a home.

Dr. Spitzer still has a long way to go. His experiments suggest the microcantilever is capable of detecting TNT at concentrations of less than one part per trillion, which is not yet as good as a dog. The next step, he said, is to determine ways to treat the nanotubes so they are more selective — so the sensor does not also pick up water or other unwanted molecules, which would affect the measurement. It might even be possible to “tune” the nanotubes to capture specific kinds of explosives, he said.

Eventually, Dr. Spitzer will need to test the sensors in simulated airport rooms, under conditions that are as realistic as possible. “When you have real conditions, sometimes you can have surprises,” he said.
429 2012-10-16 The relatively low tax bill was mainly due to its valuation, but the owners of that penthouse — the financier Sanford I. Weill sold it to a trust controlled by Ekaterina Rybolovleva, the daughter of a Russian billionaire — were also helped by a program called 421a, which gives developers big tax breaks for a certain number of years that they can pass along to condo buyers, in exchange for which the developers build or help finance affordable housing.

But even without the 421a abatement, the bill for the penthouse would have been only $145,000.

These comparatively meager official values are the result of a state law dating from decades ago that requires the city to calculate the value of condominiums and co-ops by using rental buildings as comparable properties, instead of apartment sales. At the top of the market, populated by $20 million, $30 million, $40 million, even $88 million apartments, real estate experts say that truly comparable rental buildings essentially do not exist.

“The highest-value ones are going to tend to be the hardest to line up,” said George Sweeting, deputy director of the city’s Independent Budget Office. Their resulting effective tax rates, he continued, “will be extremely low, even by the standards of the city.”

According to the Independent Budget Office, the overall city valuation for condos and co-ops is only about 20 percent of what it would be were the city allowed to use comparable sales. That is a striking discount, but one that shrivels in comparison with the market’s upper echelons, which means the percentage of the sales value that those apartments pay in taxes shrivels right along with it.

An apartment at that sold for $48 million last year is valued by the city at $1.7 million, or 3.5 percent of its sale price. A condo at 80 Columbus Circle that sold for $30.55 million last summer is valued at $2 million, or 6.5 percent. And the $88 million apartment is valued at $2.97 million, just 3.4 percent.

The state law mandating the use of rental data has been on the books since the 1980s, when the market in the city was a very different place. Manhattan had more rent regulation, many fewer condos and lots of co-op conversions. A 2006 city report said tying the value of co-ops and condos to rentals was expected to keep an apartment’s official value — and, thus, its property taxes — from rising too quickly, because rent regulation kept rental values relatively stable.

Today, to find a condo’s or co-op’s comparable rental cousin, the Finance Department looks at factors like age, location and size. Older buildings, even the grandest, often have a greater value discrepancy than new condos because older rentals are more likely to have at least some rent-stabilized units; this means that the taxes on those properties are generally lower.

But for any truly lavish building, finding a comparable rental is a challenge. One of the rental buildings used to find the value of 15 Central Park West, for example, is 145 West 67th Street — a very tall, but otherwise unremarkable, building.

“We understand that the requirement by state law to ignore sales prices makes an already complex property tax system even more confusing for property owners, which raises questions of equity within the system,” Owen Stone, a spokesman for the Finance Department, said in an e-mail. “We are always looking for ways to make things more transparent.”

Property tax experts say that from time to time, some effort is made to rethink the way apartments are valued. But changes can be made only by the State Legislature, and the technical and political pressures tend to overwhelm the cause, which then is quietly put on a shelf.

“It’s not so easy to go and change one screw,” said Ana Champeny, a supervising analyst at the Independent Budget Office. “Potentially, you have to redo the whole system.”

These property taxes, of course, are not paid in a vacuum. The city does receive a transfer tax every time a property is sold, as well as a recording tax, though many high-priced homes are bought with cash. And while the property taxes on mansions in the sky may be a relatively low percentage of sales value, they are still substantial.

A spokeswoman for Extell — which is developing the luxury market’s hottest ticket of the moment, One57, where two apartments are under contract for at least $90 million — said the project would contribute over 1,000 construction jobs and hundreds of permanent jobs to the city.

As it happens, Extell has also applied for 421a tax abatements for One57.

But if the property taxes on these luxury apartments were to rise, would it even make a difference in sales to the superrich?

“I think you’d choke off that market,” said Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel.

Mr. Miller said that in some instances, exceptionally high carrying costs had tugged down prices and slowed the pace of sales, even in apartments that cost tens of millions of dollars.

“The logic was that the high end of the market doesn’t really care if the monthly charges are high; it’s more readily absorbed than on the lower end, and that turned out not to be true,” Mr. Miller said. “The conventional wisdom was, ‘Ah, the wealthy don’t care!’ But of course they do.”
430 2012-10-17 The ruling means that the studio and DC Comics can move forward for more plans for Superman movies and products....
431 2012-10-17 An analysis by the Tax Policy Center found that capping deductions would not yield enough revenue to make up the roughly $5 trillion that Mitt Romney's various tax proposals are projected to cost over a decade....
432 2012-10-17 Norodom Sihanouk, the former Cambodian king, loved cinema so much that he directed his own films....
433 2012-10-17 At Tuesday's debate, the Republican candidate said former President Bush was too focused on big businesses....
434 2012-10-17 The continued doldrums in the world of mergers and acquisitions weighed on Greenhill & Company's third quarter, as the investment bank's profit missed analysts' earnings estimates....
435 2012-10-17 Greg Coffey announced in a letter to investors that he was leaving Moore Capital, highlighting the unattractive nature of markets these days to those who can afford to walk away....
436 2012-10-17 Live updates of the TimesOpen: Bigger Data and Smarter Scaling event....
437 2012-10-17 While high gasoline prices are always useful debate fodder, most of the swing states are seeing gas prices below the national average....
438 2012-10-17 The DSC literary prize comes with a $50,000 award....
439 2012-10-17 Medicare recipients can change options during open enrollment through Dec. 7....
440 2012-10-17 Firms like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase would have to bolster their capital cushion and post additional collateral for certain derivatives trades under the new plan proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission....
441 2012-10-17 The agency said that a New Jersey-based fund, Yorkville Advisors, lied to its investors about its performance and asset values in order to earn higher fees....
442 2012-10-17 The increasing cost of keywords has led many owners to seek alternatives to pay-per-click advertising....
443 2012-10-17 The bizarre case of the derailed musical "Rebecca." | How Citigroup's board worked to replace Vikram S. Pandit. | The BlackBerry's fall from grace as a status symbol....
444 2012-10-17 Readers recently submitted questions about handling college financial aid as an older parent to Kalman A. Chany, president of Campus Consultants, a Manhattan-based financial aid advisory company that he founded in 1981. Mr. Chany is also the author of “Paying for College Without Going Broke” (Random House/Princeton Review Books), currently in its 20th edition. Here is Part 1 of his responses; more will be posted on Booming next Wednesday. (Not all questions can be answered in detail, and some questions have been edited or, when on similar topics, combined.)

Q. Should one disclose an imminent retirement (within two years of the start of a child’s college education) when applying for financial aid? — Debbie Smyth, Alameda, Calif.

A. There is no obligation to do so. Until there’s an actual change in circumstances — for example, reduction in income — the schools will not include it in their calculations.

Q. I will be turning 66 during my youngest child’s sophomore year in college. Should I begin collecting Social Security or should I delay it until she graduates? What effect, if any, does this have on college aid, loans, tuition, etc.? — Bronx Boy 48, Bergen County, N.J.

A. It depends on the school. And it depends on whether you have enough other income to make a portion of the benefits taxable. If, for example, you have no taxable benefit, and the school requires the federal aid formula only, then it could make sense to collect the Social Security benefit now. On the other hand, if a portion of the benefit is taxable, it will be considered additional income that could affect aid eligibility, so it may make sense to postpone collecting Social Security. But once your child reaches the point where you no longer have to fill out any aid forms (usually by the end of junior or senior year), you could begin collecting Social Security.

Q. How accurate are the individual colleges’ net price calculators? I’m talking about the online tool required by federal officials to be made available on school Web sites so families can estimate their share of the college costs? — John, N.Y.
445 2012-10-17 Food, wine and film lovers converge in the heart of California's vineyards for the second annual Napa Valley Film Festival....
446 2012-10-17 The reaction inside China to the speech by Liao Yiwu -- which began with Lü Peng, a third-grader killed during the crackdown in Beijing in June 1989 -- was sparse but extreme....
447 2012-10-17 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's "single receivership" approach offers a better way to avoid an uncoordinated and destabilizing series of insolvencies for systemically important financial institutions, the author contends....
448 2012-10-17 Two researchers argue that the cost of living in areas with the greatest economic opportunities has forced low-wage workers to migrate instead to areas with inferior opportunities....
449 2012-10-17 Taylor subtracts from our understanding....
450 2012-10-17 The CME Group, the owner of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade and the New York Mercantile Exchange, said on Wednesday that it had agreed to buy the Kansas City Board of Trade, the leading futures market for hard red winte...
451 2012-10-17 The giant money management company benefited from the strong interest among investors in less risky bond funds and passively managed exchange-traded funds....
452 2012-10-17 In a city already squeezed, many open spaces are underused or illegally developed....
453 2012-10-17 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
454 2012-10-17 “The suggestion that anybody in my team, whether the secretary of state, our U.N. ambassador, anybody on my team would play politics and mislead, when we lost four of our own, Governor, is offensive,” Mr. Obama said, glaring at his opponent. “That’s not what we do, that’s not what I do as president, that’s not what I do as commander in chief.”

China also figured prominently in a debate for the first time, with Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama trading charges over who would be tougher in cracking down on China’s trade practices. Mr. Romney said the president had missed regular chances to label China a currency manipulator for artificially lowering the value of its currency, making its exports cheaper.

Mr. Obama replied that China’s currency had risen during his administration because of constant prodding by the United States. And he jabbed twice that Mr. Romney held investments in Chinese companies and that, as a private-equity investor, had accelerated the trend of jobs being outsourced to China.

But it was the disagreement over Benghazi that generated the most fireworks, erupting toward the end of an already fierce debate.

The attack and its aftermath has emerged as Mr. Obama’s biggest source of foreign-policy vulnerability. Republicans have seized on it to undermine one of his administration’s major accomplishments: its claim that it has dealt a grievous blow to Al Qaeda with attacks on Osama bin Laden and other Qaeda leaders.

After the debate, those on both sides spun the Libya exchange.

"Time and again Mitt Romney was proven wrong, wrong on the facts," said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts. "He was even held accountable by Candy Crowley for not telling the truth about the president acknowledging an act of terror. I think tonight Mitt Romney’s campaign fell away."

But a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, Ed Gillespie, said that the administration initially said that the attack that killed the ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens, and three other Americans was "the result of a YouTube video and a spontaneous demonstration."

"It’s just not the case that he condemned these attacks for what they are; it took him a long time," Mr. Gillespie added, describing the administration’s early accounts of the attack. "He did not say that the ambassador was assassinated by terrorists affiliated with Al Qaeda." Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton’s admission, on the eve of the debate, that she bore responsibility for failing to adequately secure the mission did not defuse the issue.

“Whether there was some misleading or instead whether we just didn’t know what happened, I think you have to ask yourself, why didn’t we know?,” Mr. Romney said. “This calls into question the president’s whole policy in the Middle East.”

Before the debate, Mr. Kerry dismissed suggestions that the president was shifting blame to Mrs. Clinton. Her admission of responsibility for failing to defend the Benghazi mission was appropriate for the secretary of state, he said, and had no bearing on Mr. Obama, whom he said also bore responsibility as the commander in chief.

The fusillade of charges, against the murky, frequently shifting narrative of the attack, has generated more confusion than clarity. On Tuesday, the exchange between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney did little to dispel the haze.
455 2012-10-17 But Mr. Romney can lapse into Thurston Howell-ese, referring to his accountant and making a $10,000 bet in a primary debate. On Tuesday night, he made another such misstep, acknowledging his wealth, investments in China and the Cayman Islands, by telling Mr. Obama that he should look into his pension plan because he, too, had such investments. Mr. Obama looked amused, saying: “You know, I don’t look at my pension. It’s not as big as yours, so it — it doesn’t take as long.”

When asked by a young woman what he would do about wage inequity between men and women, Mr. Romney explained how he made a point of seeking female cabinet members when he was governor of Massachusetts, even boasting that he had “whole binders full of women.”

Mr. Obama has a habit of tamping down feeling with reason, giving long explanations larded with numbers and prosaic facts. He didn’t really engage with the questioners and often lapsed into blue-book essay answers, but he found ways to make his policies personal, answering a query about women’s pay by referring to the struggles of his single mother and grandmother.

In answer to a question about illegal immigration, Mr. Romney’s effort to add a personal touch was more awkward. He referred to his father’s being born in Mexico — to American parents in a Mormon expat community — and his wife’s father’s roots in Wales as the son of a coal miner.

Mr. Obama was more aggressive than in his first debate with Mr. Romney, but kept his cool and looked alert. Mr. Romney was even more belligerent than last time, almost rude, cutting off Mr. Obama in midsentence with the words: “You’ll get your chance in a moment. I’m still speaking.”

Trying to attack an opponent in front of a town hall audience is a little like kicking down a door while holding a baby — it’s almost impossible to do it effectively and safely.

Kind words are sometimes the most stinging. Mr. Romney has in the past stood tall by belittling the president as a well-intentioned man with misguided policies. This time, it was Mr. Obama who put down his opponent with faint praise. He said Mr. Romney was a good man, but one who behind closed doors thinks that 47 percent of Americans consider themselves victims. It was a point he was supposed to make last time and didn’t; this time he closed with it and had the last word.
456 2012-10-17 The United States and Brazil will play a first-round Davis Cup match in February in Jacksonville, Fla. The American team played all three of its matches on the road this year.
457 2012-10-17 Their appearances came on the second day of a hearing in a lawsuit before Judge Shira A. Scheindlin that represents one of the most significant legal challenges to the Police Department’s increasing use of stop-and-frisk tactics over the last decade.

Jovan Jefferson, 20, testified that he was stopped repeatedly on his block of Selwyn Avenue, where he has lived his whole life. His best friend, Kieron Johnson, who lives across the street and one building down, testified that he had been stopped, too, once while waiting outside for Jovan to join him to play basketball. Mr. Johnson told the court that he had come up with a strategy to avoid being stopped while visiting friends: when friends try to make plans, he said, he tells them that “I’d rather they come to see me.”

The hearing before Judge Scheindlin is examining only police stops of people suspected of trespassing in private residential buildings. At issue is the Police Department’s longstanding Clean Halls program, in which private residential buildings enroll the police to patrol the hallways and stairwells.

The program gives tenants an increased level of police protection, and in the Bronx at least 5,000 buildings have posted blue Clean Halls signs. But the plaintiffs argue that the police are using the program as a pretext to stop people leaving those buildings, regardless of whether they are behaving suspiciously.

Although the lawsuit is focused only on a tiny fraction of the overall number of police stops in the city, the hearing is the first in which a federal judge is expected to rule whether the Police Department has engaged in a pattern of unconstitutional stops under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s administration.

On Tuesday, Judge Scheindlin and a lawyer for the city were at odds over where to draw the boundary between public space and private property, a necessary step before any discussion of trespassing could begin.

The pointed exchange revolved around the stop of one plaintiff, Letitia Ledan, outside her high-rise building, part of the River Park Towers complex in the Morris Heights neighborhood.

The lawyer for the city, Mark Zuckerman, observed that there was a security booth nearby to check incoming cars. Although Ms. Ledan was on foot and had used a sidewalk, Mr. Zuckerman suggested that the security booth marked a boundary line beyond which someone “could be trespassing.”

But Judge Scheindlin took issue with whether it was even possible for anybody to be trespassing in the area approaching the towers.

“I’m very troubled by that, because it’s counterintuitive,” Judge Scheindlin said. “I can go there, you can go there.” She noted that there were several businesses there, like a dry cleaner, that were presumably open to the public.
458 2012-10-17 That was a fairly sizable if, considering Granderson’s 15 strikeouts in 29 at-bats in this postseason that have turned the 2010 deal for him into a blinking symbol — if not the primary reason — of why the Yankees’ lineup has flunked October.

If not a bad acquisition, nor in retrospect was Granderson the right acquisition when he was obtained from the Tigers for the young center fielder, Austin Jackson, in a three-team trade that also sent the pitcher Ian Kennedy from the Yankees to Arizona and another pitcher, Max Scherzer, from the Diamondbacks to Detroit.

With Jackson, 25, an emerging all-around player, and Scherzer, a 16-game winner and strikeout machine, primed to follow Justin Verlander in Game 4, we know exactly what the Tigers think of the deal.

The Yankees? Factoring in the players sacrificed for Granderson, the stages of their respective careers and their comparative costs, let’s hazard one possibility: the deal — which by last season was being hailed as one of those that was good for everyone — is now one they deeply regret, or should.

Even if we reason that Kennedy — like many young pitchers out of the Yankees’ organization — would not have pitched in the suffocating South Bronx air as he did out west, or that Granderson’s power bat was vital for a team that reached the postseason in all three seasons, that would be the short-term evaluation.

Granderson hit 43 more homers this season, drove in 106 runs, but struck out a career-high 195 times. At 31, with the Yankees holding a club option and free agency looming after the 2013 season, his future in New York is probably limited.

Jackson, meanwhile, had his best season, hitting .300, with 16 home runs and 66 R.B.I. He reduced his strikeouts to 134 from 181. The logical assumption is that he is just growing into his offensive skills, while already one of baseball’s premier defensive center fielders.

“He was a really good young player a couple of years ago when he broke in,” Tigers Manager Jim Leyland said. “He had almost 200 hits. Then reality set in and people started making adjustments and you make them back because he’s a good player. He’s key for us. Everybody knows that.”

For the Tigers he was a steal. For an aging, $200 million team on a self-declared mission to reduce payroll to avoid onerous revenue-sharing penalties — and that would be the Yankees — Jackson would now be the perfect counterbalance to a salary albatross like Rodriguez. Currently earning $500,000, Jackson will not be eligible for free agency until 2016.

For 2013, the Yankees will probably have to take a deep breath and exercise his option, or play the same potentially deleterious game of sacrificing young talent for his replacement. The cycle of gun-to-the-head expectations — the good chemistry lessons of the 1990s long forgotten — ultimately leads to $40 million worth of talent ($30 million for Rodriguez, $10 million for Swisher) sitting on the bench while another $10 million player batted eighth, 43 homers be damned.

What a spectacle the Yankees have made of themselves on the big national stage, looking more chaotic and desperate with every lineup change. They produced all of five hits on Tuesday night — finally getting one from Cano, their supposed linchpin, a single to left that preceded the game’s final act, Coke striking out Ibanez on a 3-2 pitch to save it for Verlander, who surely deserved it.

Leyland knows he is fortunate to be in the position he’s in, being as much in the dark about the back end of his bullpen as Girardi is about scoring a run. Nunez’s homer to left ended a 20-inning scoreless run but that was it for the game and Wednesday night could be it for the season. Such is the price the Yankees pay for their bloated version of money ball, for trying to play home run derby instead of constructing a lineup that would make sound baseball dollars and sense.
459 2012-10-17 “A123’s bankruptcy is yet another failure for the president’s disastrous strategy of gambling away billions of taxpayer dollars on a strategy of government-led growth that simply does not work,” said Andrea Saul, Mr. Romney’s press secretary, in a statement on Tuesday.

The Energy Department defended the federal grant to A123 as one of many bipartisan efforts to support American manufacturing of lithium-ion batteries for electric cars. A department official, Dan Leistikow, said in a blog post that the administration had awarded $2 billion in grants to 29 companies involved in the electrification of vehicles, creating thousands of jobs.

A123 has used about $132 million of its grant to date, plus another $6 million given in 2007 by the Bush administration, said Mr. Leistikow, the agency’s director of public affairs. Michigan has also given A123 a $9 million grant, plus various tax breaks.

Mr. Leistikow said the federal money would not be wasted because A123’s two Michigan factories would now be operated by Johnson Controls.

“In an emerging industry, it’s very common to see some firms consolidate with others as the industry grows and matures,” he said.

The department previously gave Johnson Controls, based in Wisconsin, its own $299 million federal grant for an electric-car battery project.

The Solyndra bankruptcy, which became the subject of Congressional hearings, stoked concerns about oversight of government-backed energy programs.

Another battery manufacturer that received federal help, Ener1, went bankrupt in January. It had approval for $118.5 million in grants from the Energy Department but had received only about half of that when it entered bankruptcy.

A123 was a centerpiece of the government’s electric-vehicle program, opening two factories in Michigan and securing contracts to supply batteries to automakers including General Motors and the start-up firm Fisker Automotive.

But its financial stability has been in question for more than a year. The company suffered a major setback when it had to recall defective batteries in Fisker cars. And despite orders from carmakers, A123 could not generate sufficient revenue or profit from the slowly growing market for electric vehicles.

In August, A123 surprised industry experts by agreeing to sell up to 80 percent of the company to the American arm of the Wanxiang Group, China’s largest auto parts manufacturer.

Political opponents of the Wanxiang deal asserted that the Chinese company would get access to technology and products made possible by the support of American taxpayers.

One of the critics, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said the sale of A123’s factories to Johnson Controls was “something positive” because it kept the company’s assets out of Chinese hands.

But Mr. Grassley and Senator John Thune, Republican from South Dakota, criticized the Energy Department, saying it ignored warning signs that A123 was faltering.

“The bankruptcy raises the prospect that the taxpayers will get little or no return on their investment in A123 and will lose millions of dollars,” Mr. Grassley said.

The Energy Department countered that A123’s employees and customers would be absorbed by a larger, stronger competitor in Johnson Controls.

“A123’s manufacturing facilities and technology will continue to be a vital part of America’s advanced battery industry,” said Mr. Leistikow.

Wanxiang, which has its United States headquarters outside Chicago, pledged in August to invest up to $465 million in A123, but the deal fell apart for undisclosed reasons.

“We determined not to move forward with the previously announced Wanxiang agreement as a result of unanticipated and significant challenges to its completion,” said David Vieau, A123’s chief executive, in a statement.

Instead, the company found a new suitor in Johnson Controls, which analysts say is now in position to be the dominant American battery manufacturer.

A123 said filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection would ease the sale of its automotive assets to Johnson Controls. The deal includes Michigan plants in the Detroit suburbs in Livonia and Romulus, as well as A123’s equity interest in battery facilities in China.

Johnson Controls said it would provide $72.5 million in financing for A123’s reorganization in bankruptcy.

“We believe that A123’s automotive capabilities are a good complement to our existing portfolio and will further advance Johnson Controls’ position as a market leader in this industry,” said Alex Molinaroli, head of the power systems unit of Johnson Controls.

Brian Johnson, an analyst with Barclays Capital, said in a research note that the deal would help Johnson Controls become “the U.S.-based player” in the market for lithium-ion batteries.

A123 has also received “significant interest” for its remaining assets, primarily its electric-grid technology and products for commercial and government entities, said Mr. Vieau, the company’s chief executive

Whether Wanxiang will bid on those assets during bankruptcy is not known. The head of the Chinese firm’s United States operations, Pin Ni, said in an e-mail on Tuesday, “Our interest and commitment has not changed” regarding A123.
460 2012-10-17 Ike Maxwell walks the streets of Elyria, Ohio, as if determined to break through life’s defensive line. Often he is shouting. But what is he trying to say?...
461 2012-10-17 “By and large, white-collar finance people want to see Romney in there, but there are a number of subplots within that,” said Jack Ablin, the chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank.

Perhaps the sector that has seen its fortunes buoyed most clearly by the Oct. 3 debate is the coal industry, which won a mention from Mr. Romney onstage when he said: “I like coal. I’m going to make sure we’re going to be able to burn clean coal.”

The next day, coal companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index halted a slide that had lasted most of the year, and began to rise while the broader market was falling. Since then, coal stocks have been up as much as 20 percent, more than any of the 154 other sectors in the index.

Mr. Ablin said that along with other developments working against coal stocks, like the increased availability of natural gas, coal companies had been hurt by President Obama’s support for alternative energy sources. Now, he said, they are being helped by the perception that Mr. Romney “is really more fossil fuels.”

Traders have not suddenly concluded that Mr. Romney is a sure bet for the White House — most prediction models still give Mr. Obama better-than-even odds of winning. But few people are more attuned to the subtle movements of polls than the number crunchers on Wall Street.

On trading floors, there is constant discussion and occasional wagering on the changing odds of the election outcome on Intrade, the betting Web site. After the first debate, Mr. Obama’s odds of victory on the site fell from about 80 percent to about 60 percent last Friday.

Mr. Bianco, the strategist, said at an investment conference last week that the pessimism overtaking the market was a direct result of Mr. Romney’s success after the first debate. He argued that investors had been scared off by Mr. Romney’s promise not to reappoint the current Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, when his term is up in 2014. Mr. Bianco, no fan of the Fed’s current policy, said the market had become addicted to the Fed’s stimulus and was frightened by the prospect of losing it.

“The further that Romney surges, the more you could see the market struggle,” he said in an interview.

Jared Dillian, the author of a popular investing newsletter, said he, too, thought Mr. Romney’s success was worrying investors. In addition to Fed policy, Mr. Dillian said, investors are concerned about the budget cuts that Mr. Romney has promised.

“You can pretty much point to exactly that debate and when the stock markets started acting poorly,” Mr. Dillian said.

Monday and Tuesday provided a bit more support for these claims. After a weekend in which Mr. Obama’s odds on Intrade turned up again, rising about 3 percent, the markets also reversed course. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index made up last week’s losses, closing up 1.03 percent, or 14.79 points, at 1454.92 on Tuesday.

But there are several other ways to explain the market’s recent movements. On Monday, investors were buoyed by a report showing that retail sales rose 1.1 percent in September, more than expected. The Federal Reserve provided another reason for optimism when it said Tuesday that industrial output rose in September. And the pessimism of the previous week was fed in part by the weak profits reported by the first companies to announce their third-quarter financial results.

Many strategists believe that the markets reflect all of the economic data, and that it is these indicators that are moving polls, with a rallying market producing confidence in Mr. Obama, rather than the other way around.

“The direction of the economy and the market influences the success of the candidates,” said Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist at S&P Capital IQ. “The candidates don’t necessarily influence the economy and the market.”

But there is little question that the election, and the positions of the candidates, can play a role in the movement of particular corners of the market.

The firm LPL Financial has created an index of companies whose performance has been correlated with the shifting poll results. LPL’s “Wall Street Election Poll” index consists half of sectors that would be expected to do well in the case of a Democratic win and half of sectors that would be expected to benefit from a Republican victory.

LPL has predicted that, along with the coal industry, the financial industry will benefit if Mr. Romney wins, given his promises to loosen regulations on banks. After the debate, the financial stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 were up 2.4 percent, while the broader market fell.

The firm has put homebuilding stocks and health care facilities stocks among those that could be helped by a victory for Mr. Obama. John Canally, the economist for LPL’s research department, said that homebuilders might be helped by another four years with Mr. Obama because he is less likely to disrupt the housing market by pushing for drastic reforms of the government mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These stocks fell 6.5 percent in the week and a half following the debate, after rising for most of the year.

Mr. Canally and many others say the more significant impact of the election will be felt when the results are in and the winners begin to grapple with the most immediate threat to the markets: the so-called fiscal cliff of tax increases and spending cuts scheduled for the end of the year. The outcome of Senate elections could have more of an impact on that than the presidential vote.

“The bigger issue for the markets in this election is the lame duck session that will follow it,” Mr. Canally said.
462 2012-10-17 THIS Halloween, the United States Supreme Court will devote its day to dogs. The court will hear two cases from Florida to test whether “police dog sniffs” violate our privacy rights under the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution. These two cases have not yet grabbed many headlines, but the court’s decisions could shape our rights to privacy in profound and surprising ways.

The Fourth Amendment protects the right of the people to be free from “unreasonable searches and seizures.” Ordinarily, unless the police trespass or otherwise intrude upon a reasonable expectation of privacy, they need not have probable cause or a warrant to justify their investigative activity. For decades now, the court has struggled with what it means for a person to have a “reasonable expectation of privacy” — especially when the police investigate with sense-enhancing means or technology.

One of the new cases asks the court to clarify how accurate a dog must be in terms of its past identification of contraband — for, as Justice David H. Souter once warned in dissent, “The infallible dog, however, is a creature of legal fiction.”

My wife and I learned this firsthand at the Supreme Court itself several years ago. We were visiting the court for a reunion dinner of former law clerks of Justice Harry A. Blackmun. My mistake was to drive a car in which our dog — a tennis-ball-loving Australian shepherd — often rode. As we drove up to the back gate of the court to enter its highly secure underground parking garage, an officer emerged from a guard shack with a fearsome bomb-sniffing German shepherd and circled our car. The bomb dog suddenly perked up, and the officer coldly instructed me to open the trunk of my car. I watched as the court’s canine rose up on its haunches — tail wagging — and snagged from inside one of my dog’s prized tennis balls. No bombs or contraband were found.

The second of the court’s new dog cases asks if the police may take a drug-sniffing dog to the front porch of a home to sniff for evidence of marijuana inside. The court has always accorded special privacy protection for people’s homes. In 2001, the court ruled, in an opinion written by Justice Antonin Scalia, that police officers violated a homeowner’s privacy when they parked across the street from a home and, without a warrant, used a thermal imaging device to scan the outside of the house for signs of unusual heat inside that might be caused by high-intensity lighting, which is often used to grow marijuana.

If the police can’t thermal-scan your home from the street, why let them dog-scan it from your front porch? The government argues that a dog is alerted only by illegal contraband, while a thermal imager is set off more generally by “innocent” and “guilty” heat of all kinds coming from a home — whether from grow lights or from, as Justice Scalia noted in the thermal imager case, “the lady of the house” as she “takes her daily sauna and bath.”
463 2012-10-17 The City of Manchester can enforce an ordinance intended to prevent picketing at funerals by an antigay Kansas church, a federal appeals court ruled on Tuesday. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit reversed a ruling by a three-judge panel of the court that prohibited the city from enforcing the ordinance. The city measure was drafted in response to activities by members of Westboro Baptist Church, who frequently protest at funerals of soldiers with signs containing messages like “Thank God for Dead Soldiers” and claim that the deaths are God’s punishment for immorality and the tolerance of homosexuality and abortion. The ordinance bans protesters from going within 300 feet of a funeral or a burial service from one hour before to one hour after it.
464 2012-10-17 The Justice Department has asked a federal court to dismiss a lawsuit by the House oversight committee seeking to compel the Obama administration to release more internal records involving the botched gun-trafficking case known as Operation Fast and Furious. The judiciary should play no role in a dispute like this one between the executive and legislative branches, the department said in a brief filed Monday night in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. In this case, the White House has asserted executive privilege over its internal deliberations, and the House of Representatives has voted to hold Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in contempt for refusing to comply with the committee’s demands.
465 2012-10-17 Israeli defense officials say that Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip have for the first time fired an antiaircraft missile at Israeli aircraft. The officials say the militants fired a Strela shoulder-fired missile at an Israeli helicopter operating over Gaza last week but missed their target. The officials said Israeli intelligence has long believed that militants in Gaza possessed these weapons, but this was the first time they were fired. They said the air force had taken special precautions for several years assuming that the threat existed. Israel believes that the weapons originated in Libya and were smuggled through tunnels along the Egyptian border. Palestinian militant groups have never acknowledged possessing the weapons.
466 2012-10-17 The incoming prime minister, Bidzina Ivanishvili, said Tuesday that Georgia should participate in the 2014 Winter Olympics in the Russian resort of Sochi. President Mikheil Saaakshvili, whose party was soundly defeated by Mr. Ivanishvili’s coalition in this month’s parliamentary elections, has said he planned to boycott the games as an act of protest against Russia, whose troops have controlled two Georgian enclaves since a brief war in 2008. Mr. Ivanishvili promised, as part of his campaign, that he would work to improve relations with Russia, but he has also said he does not plan to abandon his predecessor’s course toward integrating Georgia into NATO, and indicated his warmth toward America by saying his first foreign trip will be to Washington.
467 2012-10-17 Coca-Cola reported third-quarter revenue that fell short of Wall Street’s expectations on Tuesday. It was pulled down by declines in Europe and Asia, where it sold more lower-priced drinks because of economic uncertainty that the company expects to continue into 2013.

The company, the world’s biggest soft drink maker, with brands like Sprite, Fanta and Minute Maid, also said revenue and profit were hurt by the stronger dollar, which reduces the value of overseas sales.

Still, Coca-Cola’s earnings, which rose 4 percent, were in line with analysts’ expectations.

Coca-Cola gets most of its sales from outside the United States, so shifts in currency can have a big effect. In the third quarter that ended on Sept. 28, the strong dollar shaved five percentage points of growth from net revenue and seven points from operating income.

Aside from currency, Coca-Cola’s results in Asia, particularly China, disappointed some analysts. But Ali Dibadj, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said these results were not surprising, given the softening of consumer sentiment and the slowing of Asia’s economies, which had been a growth engine for multinational companies in recent years.

“China is slowing down a little bit for the long-term benefit of China. As China will settle, there’s a little bit of adjustment,” the company’s chief executive, Muhtar Kent, said in an interview.

Coca-Cola said its sales volume rose 3 percent in the Pacific region. A JPMorgan Chase analyst, John Faucher, expected 4.5 percent growth.
468 2012-10-17 just as its leaders are distracted by the once-a-decade leadership change. While events in Europe are not making headlines as they did last year, the debt situation there is not vastly improved. And don’t forget the numerous flash points of the Middle East and the peril they could pose to global energy markets.

What should investors do? Neeti Bhalla, head of the tactical asset allocation team at Goldman Sachs, said they needed to learn to live with uncertainty for quite some time. “We won’t have an answer to the fiscal situation after the election,” Ms. Bhalla said. “We won’t have an answer to the European crisis after they come up with some fiscal union. We won’t have an answer to China after they transfer power. The issues everyone is concerned about don’t have a finite end to them.”

That’s the bad news. The good news is no analyst interviewed for this article thought the government would drive over the fiscal cliff, since many of the expiring provisions have bipartisan support.

“Our belief is Congress is going to punt,” said Thorne Perkin, a managing director at Papamarkou Wellner Asset Management, which advises very wealthy investors. “They will turn the fiscal cliff into a fiscal hill and do some form of compromise people can live with. I don’t think anyone wants to go through the full shock.”

But even a hill implies some pain to an economy that is not experiencing strong growth now. “You might not get compromise on capital gains rates going from 15 to 20 percent, but Lockheed Martin’s stock price does not reflect $500 billion in defense cuts over the next 10 years,” said Rex Macey, chief investment officer of Wilmington Trust, referring to mandatory defense budget cuts in the worst case. “We’re not ones to believe it makes sense to panic at this point.”

However sober that view is, Mr. Macey said he still had days when he was concerned that lawmakers seemed ambivalent about addressing the tax and spending issues at hand. “I feel like I’m in this bus heading over the fiscal cliff, and I’m looking at everyone and I’m nervous but no one else is,” he said. “I know they see the cliff because everyone’s pointing at the cliff.”

This is one of those times when fretting about all of these bad things may be useless: average investors cannot control them. That still leaves the question of what to do with their money.

There are two complementary schools of thought on getting through the turmoil of the next six months. Both involve restraint and planning. The first requires investors to return to their plan.

What advisers are asking is not that investors necessarily take big risks in the face of the fiscal cliff — after all, really bad economic things could still come to pass at the beginning of 2013. But they are asking that they return to a normal asset allocation and get back to being broadly diversified.

This sounds simple. But it may not be for investors who have been putting their money in cash, whose value is eroded by inflation, and low-yielding United States Treasury bonds.

“The people we are advising have been overallocated to asset classes that they consider to be safe and conservative — cash and fixed income,” said John Taft, head of RBC Wealth Management in the United States. “Cash has the certainty that your purchasing power will be eroded by the rate of inflation. Bonds have the risk that when and if monetary policy tightens, rates will go up and they’ll be exposed to principal loss.”

Bond interest rates move in the opposite direction of bond prices, so a one percentage point increase in rates on new bonds would result in about a 15 percent loss in the price of a previously issued bond on the open market.

For those who are skittish, and want to cling to their cash and low-yielding bonds, G. Scott Clemons, chief investment strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, advises a mental accounting fudge. He has told clients to have enough money in cash to pay expenses for a period of years that makes them comfortable and put the rest into an investment plan meant to increase the value of the portfolio for years after that.

“If an investor has set aside three years of spending needs, she’s bought three years of time horizon for the rest of the portfolio,” he said.

He acknowledged that it was tough to tell people to put money into low- or negative-yielding assets, but he saw it as a trade-off.

“This is the price I have to pay for liquidity,” he said. “It’s a measure of comfort. You won’t worry what the market does tomorrow.”

Fredrik Nerbrand, global head of asset allocation at HSBC Private Bank, has a more daring way of urging clients to return to diversification: adopt a hit-and-run strategy.

“It’s like when you see a bully in the schoolyard — you hit him and run away,” Mr. Nerbrand said. He is telling clients now, “You sit with a very conservative portfolio and from time to time you add a bit of risk.”

For those with more gumption, who think the fiscal cliff will lead to buying opportunities when falling asset values prompt sell-offs, recommendations vary.

One favorite is dividend-paying stocks, which may seem counterintuitive because the tax rate on dividends could increase to as high as 43.4 percent from the current 15 percent.

But Barbara Reinhard, chief investment strategist at Credit Suisse Private Bank, sees two reasons to favor dividend stocks: First, the stocks themselves are inexpensive relative to their historical earnings, and second, companies that are paying and increasing dividends now are strong and often diversified, so they are best positioned to weather any volatility over the next few months.

Ms. Reinhard said that all else being equal, an increase in the dividend and capital gains rate to 20 percent would be preferable to having capital gains taxed at 20 percent and dividends taxed as income, which could go as high as 43.4 percent for the highest earners.

She and other analysts were not worried about the impact of an increase on most investors. Mr. Taft estimated that a third of dividend-paying stocks were owned by foreign investors and another third were owned in pension funds or retirement accounts that did not pay taxes.

For the other third, particularly those who depend on the dividend for income, the increased taxes will be a hit. “If you have a $40 stock and it’s been paying you 85 cents after taxes, next year it will pay you 60 cents,” Mr. Macey said. “That’s a big difference. But we’ll know early enough next year, maybe after one or two dividend payments, what’s going to happen, so we’d rather wait.”

On a less positive note, Keith Voight, a spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute, a lobbying group running a ‘defend my dividend’ campaign in warning of the fiscal cliff, said his group feared a domino effect in which higher earners sell their dividend-paying stocks, depressing the value for all owners.

But Rob Lutts, president and chief investment officer for Cabot Money Management in Salem, Mass., said he was not worried about the long-term effects of a tax increase on capital gains or dividends. “We can adapt to that,” he said. “The market could have some indigestion when we get there, but the valuations are so lopsided toward bonds that it supports equities going forward.”

Still, he has moved 10 to 12 percent of his clients’ money into gold and precious metals as a hedge against the effect on the dollar of the Federal Reserve keeping interest rates low. “There is a cost to that support,” Mr. Lutts said. “We are going to create a fairly high level of inflation down the road.”

There are other hedging strategies for people worried about volatility. Harry Clark, chairman and chief executive of Clark Capital Management, which oversees $3 billion for smaller investors, said his firm had bought a combination of exchange-traded funds and notes to cap any loss for clients at about 10 percent. “We don’t worry about a massive decline,” he said. “But there are other ways to make a portfolio defensive, like buying companies in the materials, energy, consumer essentials and utilities spaces.”

The thinking here is that if the worst happens, there are still some essential things, like soap and gas, that people will need to buy. “I think the biggest risk is in the bond market,” Mr. Clark said. “That’s the next disaster waiting to happen. They’re going to drop like a rock when rates go up.”

For those with the deepest risk appetite — or deepest wallets — the best strategy is one that allows them to look beyond all the noise the fiscal cliff will create. Real estate and private equity come to mind.

Mr. Perkin said he was putting together a group to invest in a unique way in the oil boom in North Dakota: lodging.

“Every oil company in the world is going gaga over the Bakken oil fields,” he said. “The problem is there is zero infrastructure: terrible roads, no restaurants, nowhere to stay, the airport is awful, no hospitals or schools, nothing.”

Despite all that, he said, he has a group of clients investing $60 million into a hotel project with another $40 million of investments planned.

“It’s the kind of thing people are looking for — infrastructure and a hard asset,” he said. “It’s like the California gold rush. Who made the most money on the gold rush? Levi Strauss. We’re looking at the ancillary businesses that come out of the demand for oil.”

This is not without risks beyond the lack of liquidity in the deal. If the price of oil drops below $60 a barrel, the demand for Bakken crude could slow, he said. But now, he said, clients like investments that appear uncorrelated with the market volatility the fiscal cliff could cause.

Still, for most investors, even those with many millions of dollars, the best strategy may be to take a similarly long view without as much risk.

“Most investors are best served by the following strategy, and I say this with 100 percent conviction,” Mr. Taft said. “Sit down with yourself or your adviser and figure out what you’re trying to accomplish over the rest of your life. Develop a plan with as few moving parts as possible and then stick to that plan.”

“Individual investors are notoriously bad about making tactical, short-term changes to their portfolios,” he added. “That’s basic advice, but it’s the best advice there is.”
469 2012-10-17 SAN FRANCISCO — Intel crossed an earnings bar it lowered for itself last month, but the problems plaguing its main market for semiconductors — personal computers — seemed no closer to ending.

Intel, the world’s biggest maker of chips, is feeling pain from a global downturn in demand for personal computers. While Intel makes many kinds of chips, the ones that go into PCs are among its most profitable. The PC market is eroding, however, because of economic weakness and a shift to devices like smartphones and tablets.

Intel has fought the trend by investing in new styles of PCs that work more like tablets, by selling chips for the servers in big cloud computing data centers that connect PCs and the new devices, and by finding new uses for more powerful chips. So far, little of this has worked.

“The problem is demand,” said Ken Dulaney, vice president at Gartner, a technology research firm. “People are buying other things with their disposable income for electronics, like tablets, televisions, smartphones, e-readers and gaming devices. Intel is trying to take its technology to these consumers, but this is a transition period.”

Almost no one is counting Intel out, but the rough market transition will not end soon. In a conference call with securities analysts, Paul Otellini, Intel’s chief executive, said that he expected PC demand would grow at half the normal rate in the fourth quarter.
470 2012-10-17 And so the government has been pushing the idea it might apply for a precautionary credit line from Europe’s bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, which has a potential firepower of 500 billion euros (about $650 billion). Spanish officials describe the credit line as “virtual,” in that they would reserve the right not to borrow the money.

“Spain may not need to use the credit line,” said a government spokeswoman, pointing out that Spain’s borrowing needs are limited for the rest of the year.

Reflecting Madrid’s continued optimism, investors on Tuesday bought 4.8 billion euros worth of 12- and 18-month Spanish Treasury bills at a government auction. The average yield, or interest rate, for the one-year paper was 2.82 percent, even lower than the 2.83 percent paid last month, when markets were buoyed after the European Central Bank said it would buy the country’s bonds if asked.

European officials have said a credit line would be an option for Spain. But even in this lesser form of assistance, they say, the Rajoy government would still be required to sign a memorandum of understanding that would, in theory, commit it to putting in place even more of the austerity measures that the Spanish public has been protesting.

Spain remains insistent, though, that another round of draconian steps would not be needed with the spending cuts and tax increases already in place. “Our view is that we have already done quite a bit,” said the spokeswoman, who could not be identified by name as a matter of government policy.

Analysts say Spain also continues to hold out hope that the European Commission might relax the deficit-reduction target of 6.3 percent of gross domestic product for this year — a lower deficit level that many expect Madrid to miss, in any case. If there is less pressure on Spain to make that target, Madrid might be able to buy even more time before having to request financial aid.

While Mr. Rajoy has been criticized for his dilatory ways, experts in Spain point out that the go-slow approach actually represents more of a calculated strategy advocated by one of Mr. Rajoy’s top economic advisers, Álvaro Nadal, who is a member of Mr. Rajoy’s center right Popular Party. Mr. Nadal, who speaks German and is one of the main point men in the talks with Germany and other nations that use the euro, is said to support the notion that Spain, as the euro zone’s fourth-largest economy, should not be rushed into seeking a demeaning, full-fledged rescue program.

By waiting, and using its size and importance as leverage, Spain might be hoping to secure better terms in whatever aid package it might negotiate.

It is a risky strategy. So far, investors believe Spain will ask for assistance, be it a credit line or some other aid that would involve the European Central Bank’s intervening in the market for Spanish bonds. For that reason, investors have been buying Spanish bonds, especially the two-year securities the central bank has said it would focus on.

But if investors came to conclude that Spain was waiting too long to seek aid, or might avoid it altogether, bondholders could quickly unload their positions. That could throw Spain once again into the condition of the summer, before the central bank calmed the markets by announcing its willingness to engage in “unlimited” bond buying.
471 2012-10-17 Germans already pay some of the highest electricity prices in Europe, at about 25 euro cents, or 32 U.S. cents, per kilowatt hour. By comparison, consumers in neighboring France, which draws 78 percent of its energy from nuclear power plants, pay about 14 euro cents, while Poles pay 15 euro cents, according to European Union statistics.

The German price includes a surcharge that guarantees producers of energy from solar, wind, biofuels and other renewable sources a return on their investment above the market rate, which is widely credited with helping move the country to become a global leader in green technology.

Next year, that subsidy will rise to 5.3 euro cents from 3.6 euro cents per kilowatt hour, hence the higher energy bills for German consumers.

While those upper- and middle-class earners will hardly notice the increase, for a widow on a small monthly pension or a single parent struggling to raise a family on only one salary, the difference can be painful, said Ms. Mascher. She said that about 600,000 homes in Germany had their power cut off last year because people could not pay their bills.

The issue has already divided politicians, and with Ms. Merkel facing a general election scheduled for 2013, the country’s energy transformation is sure to feature as a point of intense debate.

Four months ago, Ms. Merkel pledged a renewed focus on the project, which had become less of a priority in the face of Europe’s pressing sovereign debt crisis. She replaced her environment minister with a loyal ally. Since taking over, Peter Altmaier has increased the visibility of his office and redoubled efforts to speed up needed reforms, such as expanding and updating the country’s grid.

Last week, he proposed changes to the complex law — the Renewable Sources Energy Act, known by its German initials E.E.G. — that governs the surcharge funding with goals of increasing market competitiveness and keeping costs in check.

Under the current law, the more energy produced by renewable sources, the higher the subsidy consumers must fund. This means that the law’s success has caused the green energy sector to grow explosively; the amount of the surcharge has more than quadrupled since 2009. Last year it generated €17 billion, about $22 billion, and analysts expect that it will bring in about €25 billion in 2013.

In addition, the current law allows exemptions for leading power-hungry industries in an effort to maintain Germany’s international competitiveness. More than 730 companies took advantage of the exemption in 2012, according to the Federal Office of Economics and Export Control.

“We need to look at this again and consider whether it was right to have granted exemptions to so many companies,” Ms. Merkel said in Berlin on Tuesday in calling for reforms to the law.

So far Mr. Altmaier’s response has been to encourage Germans to reduce the amount of power they consume, by expanding a program that offers energy-saving tips for lower-income households.

Dubbed simply Energy-Saving Check, the program is run by the Caritas social services organization and has reached about 80,000 households since its inception, said Nicola Buskotte by telephone from Caritas’s headquarters in Cologne.

Organizers recruit from a pool of the long-term unemployed, training them in simple ways to help reduce energy consumption, like turning down the temperature on a refrigerator or replacing an old showerhead with a more economical version, before sending them into mostly low-income households to teach people the techniques.

“That these people are turning every cent over twice is clear,” Ms. Buskotte said in response to criticism that asking welfare recipients to save more is unfair. “But to teach people how they can save €100 a year is useful, not only for them personally, but for the climate.”
472 2012-10-17 Cuba’s doctors, scientists and other professionals, who have long faced tight restrictions on movement, might be held back as well because the new policy includes a caveat allowing the government to limit departures to “preserve the human capital created by the Revolution.”

And yet, the new migration law also gives Cubans latitude to stay abroad longer, letting them remain outside the country for two years, and possibly longer, before losing their rights to property and benefits like health care — an increase from 11 months under the current policy.

Analysts say the government is encouraging a larger class of Cubans to travel, partly so that they can earn money elsewhere and return, injecting capital into the island’s moribund economy. The benefits of such an arrangement are already clear: remittances to the island have grown to an estimated $2.3 billion a year, from $1 billion in 2004.

But whether the new law will create a temporary or permanent mass exodus, Cubans and experts say, will be determined by how many people have the means and passports to leave, and which countries welcome them.

“The decision to lift the exit visa is a significant one for several reasons, although like most of the new reforms, it depends a great deal on how it is implemented,” said Robert Pastor, professor of international relations at American University. “Nonetheless, by removing a state barrier to leave, this reform could lead to a large outflow — many of whom will eventually want to come to the — or it could begin to allow a circular flow of people that could enhance the economic opening of the island.”

The Cuban government’s earlier steps toward a market economy have mostly fallen short of expectations. There are now hundreds of thousands of small business owners on the island of 11 million people, but not nearly the numbers the government initially said it needed to cut back on the nation’s bloated public payrolls.

Experts say fears of instability have often hampered the push for a rapid economic opening, leading celebrated new laws — allowing for property sales and entrepreneurship, for example — to be later larded with restrictions and .

Cubans in and say they are convinced the same dynamic will apply to travel. They mostly greeted the end of the exit visa after 51 years with their usual stance of “we’ll see.”

On Tuesday, there were no long lines at the passport office in Havana or at foreign embassies, and many Cubans said they still faced hurdles to a legal departure.

“It’s all very good,” said Laydis, 30, an employee at a bank in Havana who gave only one name to avoid government reprisals. “But which interesting country is going to give me a visa?”

Her colleague Maricel, 44, who is eligible for a Spanish passport because her grandparents were from , identified another problem. “Sure, I can go,” she said, “but where am I going to get the money?”

After all, the new law, despite cutting a bureaucratic hurdle, might not mean lower costs to leaving: Yoani Sánchez, the well-known Cuban blogger whose exit visa requests have been repeatedly denied, said on that the cost of a Cuban passport will nearly double, to just over $100.

American officials said they were still studying Cuba’s new rules to determine what the impact might be. is one of the few issues that Cuba and the United States regularly discuss, having occupied a spot at the top of their agendas since at least 1980, when hundreds of thousands of Cubans took to the sea during the Mariel boatlift.

That human flood — encouraged by the Cuban government — eventually contributed to a series of migration accords in the mid-’90s, with an annual quota of 20,000 resident visas for Cubans emigrating to the United States.

The United States then adopted a policy known as “wet foot, dry foot,” in which any Cuban who reaches American soil is given legal status. It is a constant source of anger for the Cubans, who say it leads people to make the perilous journey across the Straits of Florida, but American officials say they have no plans to change the policy because of the new travel rules.

“We remain committed to the migration accords under which our two countries support and promote safe, legal and orderly migration,” said Victoria Nuland, a State Department spokeswoman.

The impact may be felt first by newly arrived Cuban immigrants. Because the new law will let Cubans live abroad for two years, they could obtain American legal residency, which takes at least a year, without giving up their rights in Cuba. “Many recent Cuban immigrants will jump at this chance,” said Ted Henken, a professor of Latin American studies at in New York, adding that the change “will allow for a more normal back and forth.”

Other countries are also likely to see an immediate impact.

Spanish officials have said there are 200,000 Cubans with rights of dual nationality, meaning they can apply for Spanish passports and citizenship. Many of them travel already, but others who had been discouraged by the exit visa requirement — including a 50-year-old peddler named Juan Carlos — said Tuesday that the new law might lead them to , to buy jewelry or other items to sell in Cuba.

, which has already let in more than 30,000 Cubans this year, could also face a surge in Cuban arrivals, many heading north to cross the border.

Mr. Pastor, a former Latin America adviser for President , said the new travel rules for Cubans could “put indirect pressure on the United States to adjust its immigration policies either to reduce the level of Cuban immigrants or to allow other immigrant groups to obtain as positive treatment as the Cubans get.”

Or the new rules may be an effort to release pressure for change on the island itself.

“Every once in a while they open up the pressure cooker and let out some steam,” said Raul Hernandes-Morales, 65, a lawyer in Miami who left Cuba at 15. He added: “It’s ‘Show them the cheese, but don’t actually give them the cheese.’ They raise hope, then they kill off that hope — it’s very tragic.”
473 2012-10-18 To those of us unschooled in its ancient lineage and myriad applications, yoga has always seemed like something we should really get around to doing. “Yogawoman,” directed by the sisters Kate Clere McIntyre and Saraswati Clere, presents a range of testimonials about this healthful practice, amid a mood of contentment and uplift (with a dash of downward dog). The film’s firm, warm embrace is a better fit for the already converted, particularly the many women who have adopted yoga.

Adept hands at the yoga arts recount their Damascus moments or generally their comfort in an unjudging unit of centered bodies. There are leading practitioners, cancer survivors, mothers, delinquent teenagers, newly flexible Nairobians. But the film often evokes a yoga video with its statements about feeling in harmony with oneself, and its stories mostly turn on the hard-to-dispute proposition that yoga is relaxing and therapeutic.

“Yogawoman,” with narration enunciated by the actress and yogini Annette Bening, begins with an intriguing premise: yoga, historically a practice dominated by men in India, now occupies a mat-carrying slot on women’s schedules the world over. That idea remains anthemic more than analyzed, and doing yoga proves more appealing than watching a film promote it.
474 2012-10-18 Sam Hunter, the central character in the new Cinemax action drama “Hunted,” has quite a few enemies, but her most formidable one, Carrie Mathison, doesn’t even turn up in the series.

Carrie is the character played by Claire Danes in Showtime’s “Homeland,” and she has set the bar pretty high for this type of loner-heroine. Carrie is brilliant but troubled, passionate but reticent, as tenacious as she is mysterious. Sam, an operative for a private investigative company named Byzantium, is all of those things as well, but somehow just not as deeply. Sam seems as if she were assembled out of standard-issue parts from the character-generating factory, whereas Carrie seems like an original, a comparison that can also be applied generally to the two series.

Melissa George, who plays Sam, of course has her own albatross: Ms. Danes’s Emmy-winning rendition of Carrie. And Ms. George, to be blunt, may simply not be a convincing enough actress to overcome familiar-feeling scripts and her own good looks to achieve credibility in this type of role. Unless she has the capacity to tap into some steely reserve, a flawed heroine ought not to look like she could step out of any given scene for a magazine-cover shoot.

But the main thing that makes “Hunted” a slick but not especially riveting show is its construction. In the premiere Sam is nearly killed during an assignment gone wrong, and during the year it takes her to recover from her injuries she has a lot of time to ponder who on the Byzantium team sold her out. Even Aidan (Adam Rayner), her lover at the time of the botched mission, is a suspect.

She rejoins the company and becomes the lead investigator on a job involving a very rich and brutal man who is among the bidders seeking to acquire a hydroelectric dam in Pakistan. There is something formulaic about the way the show’s writers make sure that everyone on the Byzantium team seems like a possible traitor; it’s reminiscent of a stage who-done-it.

And that’s not the only formula at work here. The gratuitous sex scenes come along like clockwork, Sam’s back story (she witnessed her mother’s murder) is dribbled out in classic fashion and so on. “Hunted” ends up being a competent addition to the high-stakes-snooping genre but not a very surprising one.
475 2012-10-18 The real Romney, the one who seems to have no idea what it's like to be middle-class and struggling, is back....
476 2012-10-18 Anthony Chiasson, a co-founder of Level Global, is trying to show that his more prominent partner, David Ganek, who has not been accused of wrongdoing, traded in the same stocks during the same periods....
477 2012-10-18 The new sitcom will be replaced in the Wednesday lineup with the second-year sitcom "Whitney."...
478 2012-10-18 Well Advantage, which is run by the billionaire Zhang Zhi Rong, agreed to pay more than $14 million related to accusations that it illegally traded in the shares of the Canadian oil producer Nexen before the announcement that it was being acquired...
479 2012-10-18 While it may be tempting to ignore value at risk altogether because it has proved of little worth when times get tough, that might be mistake. Value-at risk-measurements play a crucial role in setting capital....
480 2012-10-18 Staff members at Pelham Bay Park have noticed, but not been able to catch, two ring-billed gulls, a Canada goose and a squirrel with darts sticking out of their bodies....
481 2012-10-18 Led by home runs from Jhonny Peralta and Miguel Cabrera, the Detroit Tigers beat the Yankees in Game 4 to sweep the American League Championship Series....
482 2012-10-18 The book by Greg Smith, a former employee of Goldman Sachs, isn't scheduled to be released until Monday. But some details are already coming to light....
483 2012-10-18 This is why it’s scary to love anything....
484 2012-10-18 At a luxury-goods exposition in Manhattan on Wednesday, Fisker executives discussed the bankruptcy of the battery maker and supplier to the Karma plug-in hybrid sedan....
485 2012-10-18 Aeden Wiggins, who was found on the street in Queens, has a history of sleepwalking, his mother told the police....
486 2012-10-18 How lapses in quality at drug makers are slowing production. | Newsweek to end its print publication. | Rajat K. Gupta fights for leniency after insider-trading conviction....
487 2012-10-18 Walker's frolicsome fashion editorials for Vogue and W are now assembled into a delightful book....
488 2012-10-18 Both Windows and Mac OS X can provide a hint for the computer's password....
489 2012-10-18 In his first public appearance since the company said he lost his voice for undisclosed health reasons, Larry Page, Google's chief executive, answered questions about antitrust and privacy investigations, Google Maps on the iPhone and Google's com...
490 2012-10-18 Smartphones, cloud computing and the data explosion promise a revolution in communications, cost-savings and knowledge discovery. But those technology advances also open the door to a host of new security threats. I.B.M. is introducing new securit...
491 2012-10-18 “It is very alarming to me to have this happen during the rush hour of people taking their children to school,” said Rashida Tlaib, a Democratic state representative who attended the rally. “We are really worried about the impact on these United States citizen children.” Several of Mr. Hernandez’s and Mr. Orozco’s children were born in the United States.

The incident revealed the raw sensitivities in some immigrant communities as federal agents carry out the increasingly complex deportation policy of the Obama administration. Agents have been instructed to focus on capturing illegal immigrants who are convicted criminals or repeat immigration violators, and to avoid detaining those who have committed no serious crimes and have strong family ties to the United States.

After investigating, immigration officials said that the officers’ actions were consistent with agency policies.

“After a thorough review of facts, the arrest of a priority target today in the Detroit metro area adhered to, and was in full compliance of, the stated policies and procedures of the agency,” said Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for the agency. “This includes ICE policy regarding enforcement actions at or near sensitive locations.”

Immigration officials said agents had moved to arrest Mr. Orozco because he had a criminal conviction in 2008 for driving under the influence and had also returned to the United States after being formally deported, which is a felony. The officials said that Mr. Orozco had been detained four blocks from the Chavez Academy.

The officials said that Mr. Hernandez was not a primary target of their operation, but that he had two convictions for driving with an expired license.

In an interview, Mr. Hernandez said his 7-year-old son had also been in his vehicle, along with his wife, when he was stopped. He said his son had become distraught and said, in English, to the officers: “Please don’t take my dad. We want to go to school.”

The episode was reminiscent of a similar confrontation last year when immigrant rights organizations accused immigration agents in Detroit of patrolling near schools and, in at least one instance, setting off a panic. The agency determined that agents had violated no policies but clarified its guidelines for operations near schools.
492 2012-10-18 LUANDA, Angola — Angola’s government announced Wednesday the creation of a sovereign wealth fund that will invest profits from oil sales in businesses in an effort to diversify the country’s economy and spread prosperity beyond the small elite that has benefited from Angola’s outsize economic growth.

With start-up capital of $5 billion, the fund will be the second richest in sub-Saharan Africa after Botswana’s. There, a portion of the proceeds of the diamond industry have been socked away for almost two decades.

The Angolan fund, which will focus on investments in Africa’s booming hotel industry and large infrastructure projects, seeks to wean the economy from oil, a finite resource, to a more diversified and sustainable base, said José Filomeno de Sousa dos Santos, a son of President José Eduardo dos Santos, and a member of the fund’s board.

“The economy is very one sided and very correlated to the volatility of oil prices,” the younger Mr. dos Santos said in an interview. “The aim is to create wealth for future generations.”

Angola is sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest oil producer after Nigeria, with an output of about 1.8 million barrels of crude a day. Oil accounts for nearly all of the country’s export earnings and almost half of its gross domestic product.
493 2012-10-18 JERUSALEM (AP) — The Israeli military calculated the number of calories that Gaza’s residents would need to consume to avoid malnutrition during a sweeping blockade imposed on the Palestinian territory from 2007 to mid-2010, according to a document that the Defense Ministry released under a court order and that was made public on Wednesday.

The military insisted that it never used the guidelines to restrict the flow of food to Gaza. But critics disputed that, saying the calculations appeared to have guided limits on food imports. They said the document provided further evidence that Israel used food as a weapon to put pressure on Hamas, the militant group that won legislative elections in 2006 and took full control of Gaza in 2007 after a brief factional war.

The blockade was imposed shortly after Hamas took over Gaza. Israel declared it a hostile territory in September 2007. Seeking to weaken the militants, it called for “severe restrictions” on civilians that included limitations on food.

Israel maintained that the blockade was necessary to weaken Hamas, but critics accused the government of taking aim at Gaza’s 1.5 million people.

A military spokesman, Maj. Guy Inbar, said the formula was devised as a safeguard to avoid a humanitarian crisis in Gaza. An Israeli rights group, Gisha, which waged a legal battle to make the document public, contended that Israel had calculated the calorie needs to restrict the goods that it allowed in during the blockade.
494 2012-10-18 On Wednesday evening, General Manager Brian Cashman volunteered that Rodriguez had become a $30-million-a-year platoon player for the remainder of the season, however many hours or days that would entail. As with his manager, Joe Girardi, the discussion of the riddle nicknamed A-Rod was conducted in earnest but businesslike tones, Cashman citing a season’s worth of statistics — chiefly Rodriguez’s subpar numbers versus right-handed pitchers that plummeted in the playoffs.

Were they mad at him for the recent New York Post report that had Rodriguez turning the dugout into a dating service after being pinch-hit for in Game 1 on Saturday night, perhaps compensating for the on-field emasculation by puffing up his manhood?

“Purely baseball related,” said Cashman, who has had his own indiscreet fling with the gossip columns. “This is all about winning, regardless of the report that is out there that is a non-baseball-related story.”

Because it has become open season on Rodriguez at the putative end of the 2012 season, any newsbreak has become possible — and immediately deemed plausible. Cashman stamped on a so-called story that a trade was percolating with the Marlins — though his denial said there were “no discussions whatsoever with the Florida Marlins.”

Girardi added: “It’s not that I want to sit Alex Rodriguez.” But he did just that Tuesday night against Justin Verlander even when the numbers — Rodriguez had homered twice off Verlander this season — suggested that he deserved to play.

For his part, Rodriguez stepped out of the dugout for batting practice with the reserves to admit his unhappiness. “Obviously, I come to the ballpark feeling I can help the team win, and when you see your name is not in the lineup, obviously it’s disappointing,” he said. “You’ve got to just sit to be a cheerleader.”

He insisted that he still had rah-rah feelings for the Yankees, saying, “I love this organization.” But are those feelings real? If so, can they possibly be mutual?

Cashman admitted that the decision to bench Rodriguez was “discussed organizationally,” though he said Girardi had the final call. Clearly no one was going out of his way to cushion the blow for Rodriguez, who wound up asking a reporter late Wednesday afternoon for information on the lineup against the Tigers’ scheduled starter, Max Scherzer.

Over all, there has been little overt sympathy expressed by the Yankees for their troubled third baseman, their expensive albatross, which is really the root of the underlying tension.

They apparently blame Rodriguez for the 10-year contract that will ultimately cost at least $275 million — unless Miami or some other team can be talked into picking up a small percentage in a trade and the Yankees not only swallow the rest, but have it count against their payroll for revenue-sharing purposes.

But if Rodriguez is not one to easily feel sorry for, whatever in-house resentment there is for him and his contract is misplaced and grossly unfair.

He didn’t force the Yankees to re-sign him. Rodriguez, in fact, provided them an airtight excuse to sever all ties when he opted out of his original deal during the 2007 World Series. Be it Hank Steinbrenner acting alone or with encouragement from brother Hal and others, a disastrous decision was made because they believed Rodriguez — then considered to be the likely future and clean home run champion — was a potential cash cow.

They even had the audacity to officially announce the deal on the day George Mitchell released the contents of his long investigation into baseball’s steroids culture — the sort of cheesy, transparent call for attention that Rodriguez had long been known for. All things considered, the events leading to where they are now might convince a few folks to think the inscription on that A-Rod Yankees tombstone should actually read: They deserved each other.
495 2012-10-18 Manufactured by the family-owned Ainsworth Pet Nutrition, in Meadville, Pa., Nutrish was the fastest-growing dry dog food brand in grocery stores for the 26 weeks ending Sept. 29. Sales were $22.6 million, up 45.4 percent from the same period last year, according to Ainsworth. The line is expected to reach $100 million in retail sales by January 2013.

The Rachael Ray Nutrish line includes dry and wet dog food and treats that contain no artificial preservatives, flavors or colors. Ms. Ray’s truck will serve several varieties of her newest product, Nutrish Naturally Delish wet dog food, which comes in plastic tubs, including flavors like “Chicken Paw Pie” and “Chicken Muttballs.”

“Dogs will be served their choice on a dish, and they can go home with samples and a bottle of pup water,” Ms. Ray said in an interview this week after the filming of her daytime syndicated talk show, “Rachael Ray.”

Samples have been an important factor in Nutrish’s success, said Beth Nigro, a senior vice president at the marketing agency Engauge. Its Pittsburgh office has worked with Ainsworth for 30 years, and oversaw Ms. Ray’s pet food introduction with a “Switch to Nutrish” campaign that has given away 1.5 million six-ounce samples since January 2009.

“We found that 50 percent of the people who tried a free sample converted to the brand,” Ms. Nigro said. The line includes Nutrish; Just 6 food and treats, which are made from only six ingredients; and Nutrish Healthy Weight.

Ms. Ray, who also has a lifestyle magazine called “Every Day With Rachael Ray,” best-selling cookbooks and a line of cookware, said her blend of advocacy and commercial success helped to support shelters and animal organizations across the country.

“I’ve been an advocate for them all my life,” said Ms. Ray, who dotes on her red-nose pit bull, Isaboo, and previously adopted another pit bull, Boo, who died about seven years ago. She said her mother cared for more than a dozen rescue cats.

On average, pet owners spent $254 on dog food and another $70 on treats last year, according to an American Pet Products Association survey. Some 46.3 million households owned a dog, and 38.9 million owned a cat. Most owners preferred premium dog food, a trend that has gained traction since the 2007 recalls of adulterated dog and cat food.

“Nutrish is made to human standards. I’ve tried the kibble myself,” Ms. Ray said, adding that real meat was the top ingredient in three varieties. “And the wet food looks like real food, not brown mush.”

Helping to increase awareness, she said, is the 2012 Rachael Ray $100K Challenge. The goal of the initiative, begun in August with the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, is for 50 animal shelters to save at least 300 more dogs and cats from August through October than they did during the same three-month period last year. The most successful shelter will win $100,000, and other shelters can win lesser amounts for their efforts.

The average age of Nutrish customers is 45, and the average household income is $135,000. But the brand is vying with established market giants like Purina for a share of the $9.5 billion in annual sales of dry dog food in grocery stores and mass-market locations like Walmart, according to 2011 figures from Nielsen ScanTrack. (Sales increased from $7.1 billion in 2007.)

Nutrish claimed a 2.8 percent share, $22.6 million, of the $823 million in dry dog food sales in grocery stores in the four weeks ending Sept. 29. In comparison, Purina One had $90.4 million in sales over the same period, up 4.4 percent from last year; Beneful had $141.7 million, up 3.3 percent; and Iams had $99.7 million, a 1.6 percent drop, according to Nielsen.

Ms. Ray worked with Engauge to create the green, yellow and brown truck she calls the “Woof Wagon.” She plans to post to Facebook and Twitter from the truck, which will be at Columbus Circle on Thursday before moving to Union Square.

Best Friends Animal Society, a Rachael Ray partner, and two local rescue organizations will have puppies available for adoption at the truck site.

The Nutrish campaign — which also includes print ads in pet specialty publications and in major home magazines like Ladies’ Home Journal and Country Living, as well as online ads — increased its spending on advertising to $4 million in the first six months of 2012, compared with $874,000 in the same period last year, according to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP.

“For some people, pets are as important as anyone in the family,” Ms. Ray said. “We’re going to have more Nutrish products this year and next. And we’ll have food for cats, too, because of my mom.”
496 2012-10-18 He continued, “I hope others will make the same visit.”

The Chinese Foreign Ministry had no immediate comment on the trip. Tibet is a particularly delicate issue between the United States and China, which labels Tibet a “core interest” and has admonished American presidents who have met with the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader.

The publicity around Mr. Locke’s visit could be seen by China as a sign of further foreign interference in what it considers a domestic matter.

But an embassy spokesman said Wednesday that the trip to Aba was not made in secret and was known by Chinese officials. Before going there, Mr. Locke, whose activities are of great interest to Chinese citizens because he is Chinese-American, had spent time meeting officials and business leaders in Chongqing and Chengdu.

The two monasteries that Mr. Locke visited were in Songpan, an area about 100 miles east of the town of Aba, which is called Ngaba by Tibetans and has been the epicenter of the self-immolations. The first self-immolation by a Tibetan monk in modern history took place in 2009 in Aba. The monk was from the Kirti Monastery, where Chinese security forces have been clamping down since officers killed some civilians in Aba during a 2008 protest. The second monk to set himself on fire, in March 2011, was also from Kirti.

A security cordon has generally kept foreigners out of the town of Aba, and the Chinese government has restricted access to many other parts of the Tibetan plateau. Foreigners, however, have had some access to Songpan, where horse-trekking is popular among tourists.

Word of Mr. Locke’s trip to Aba first emerged on Monday, when The Times obtained a photograph of the ambassador greeting the 88-year-old Tibetan monk. A reporter posted the photograph on Twitter, but the embassy had no immediate comment. After being asked about the trip at a daily news briefing in Washington on Tuesday, a State Department spokeswoman acknowledged that Mr. Locke had visited Aba.

“When he was in Aba, he met with a number of local residents, including ethnic Tibetans,” said the spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland. “You saw the quite poignant photo. Some of them work in the travel industry. He also visited villages and monasteries to learn more about how ethnic Tibetan people live and work, and to have a chance to talk to them.” Ms. Nuland added, “We have grave concerns about self-immolations in Tibet and about the underlying grievances that the Tibetan people have.”

Mr. Locke released his statement the day after the briefing. Robert J. Barnett, a scholar of Tibet at Columbia, said the visit “suggests the embassy is finding creative ways to communicate messages within China that are effective without being aggressive.”

In the photograph, Mr. Locke, in a gray suit, is bending down to shake hands with the monk, who is seated, and Mr. Barnett said Chinese would understand the symbolism — an “indication of respect toward religion, the elderly and Tibetan culture.”
497 2012-10-18 In any case, you cannot untangle access and money. Mr. Romney’s stated zeal to “defund” Planned Parenthood is either a rote ideological posture or a belief that it is right to end the federal support that gives many poor women access to , screening, family planning and other services. As Mr. Obama said: “That’s a pocketbook issue for women and families all across the country. And it makes a difference in terms of how well and effectively women are able to work.”

Having fumbled that one, Mr. Romney made things worse when he tried to talk about equal opportunity for women, which was made much harder by his opposition to the Fair Pay Act. He told a strange tale of his early days as governor of Massachusetts when he “had the chance to pull together a cabinet and all the applicants seemed to be men.” He said he went to his staff about it and was told that “these are the people that have the qualifications.”

So far, not so terribly bad.

But then he started a slow, painful slide into one of the most bizarre comments on this issue we’ve ever heard, which became an instant Internet sensation. “We took a concerted effort to go out and find women who had backgrounds that could be qualified to become members of our cabinet,” Mr. Romney said, sounding as if that were a herculean task. An appeal to women’s groups, he said, “brought us whole binders full of women.”

This was important, he said, because “I recognized that if you’re going to have women in the work force that sometimes they need to be more flexible. My chief of staff, for instance, had two kids that were still in school.”

At this point we could practically hear his political consultants yelling

But Mr. Romney did not. “She said, I can’t be here until 7 or 8 o’clock at night. I need to be able to get home at 5 o’clock so I can be there for making dinner for my kids and being with them when they get home from school.”

Flexibility is a good policy. But what if a woman had wanted to go home to study Spanish? Or rebuild an old car? Or spend time with her lesbian partner? Would Mr. Romney have been flexible about that? Or if a man wanted similar treatment?

True equality is not satisfied by allowing the little lady to go home early and tend to her children.
498 2012-10-18 “It would be a big mistake for people to go out and take a multivitamin instead of quitting or doing other things that we have a higher suspicion play a bigger role, like eating a good and getting exercise,” Dr. Gaziano said. “You’ve got to keep wearing your sunscreen.”

The study was supported by the and a grant, initiated by the investigators, from the chemical company . provided the multivitamins. The sponsors did not influence the study design, data analysis or manuscript preparation, the authors said.

About half of all Americans take some form of a vitamin supplement, and at least one-third take a multivitamin. But many recent vitamin studies have been disappointing, finding not only a lack of benefit but even some harm associated with large doses of certain supplements. The 2010 dietary guidelines for Americans state that there is no evidence to support taking a multivitamin or mineral supplement to prevent chronic disease.

The recommends that people eat a , but that those who take supplements choose a balanced multivitamin that contains no more than 100 percent of the daily value of most nutrients.

Though several researchers said they were somewhat surprised by the findings, others called the results encouraging.

“It is a small overall effect, but from a public health standpoint, it could be of great importance,” said Dr. E. Robert Greenberg, an affiliate at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in . “Other than quitting smoking, there’s not much else out there that has shown it will reduce your cancer risk by nearly 10 percent.”

Multivitamin use had no effect on the incidence of , which was the most common cancer diagnosed in the study participants. When researchers looked at the effect of vitamin use on all other cancers, they found a 12 percent reduction in occurrence. Overall cancer deaths were reduced among vitamin users, but the difference was not statistically significant.

A major limitation of the study is that it included only male doctors, who were particularly healthy, with extremely low smoking rates, said Marji McCullough, a nutritional epidemiologist with the American Cancer Society. “We still need to find out whether these findings can be applied to others in the population,” she said.

The research effort might have benefited from the fact that the doctors who participated were diligent about taking their pills, and the researchers suggested that the effect of multivitamin use might have been muted because the participants were health-conscious to begin with.

Dr. David Chapin, 73, a gynecologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston who participated in the trial, said that although he had “never believed” in vitamins, he might start taking a daily multivitamin now, despite the modest benefit.

“A lot of studies make big news, but when you look at the nitty-gritty, they don’t show all that much,” Dr. Chapin said, adding that he recently discovered he had been taking a placebo pill. “This was a very reliable study, it was very well designed and administered, and it went on and on and on.”
499 2012-10-18 To some, King Sihanouk’s death relegated to the past an activist monarchy that blurred the lines between king and politician.

To others, his death created a vacuum of moral authority and highlighted the highly concentrated and lopsided power of Prime Minister Hun Sen, who has presided over the Cambodian government for the past three decades, making him one of the longest-serving leaders in the world.

“This is a new era for Hun Sen,” said Lao Moung Hay, a former civil servant and professor of law and economics. “There is no force to restrain him anymore — there are risks for the country.”

Prince Sisowath Thomico, King Sihanouk’s longtime private secretary and nephew, said that some Cambodians were worried and afraid after the former king’s death.

“He had such charisma,” he said in an interview in the Royal Palace. “And now there will be a kind of hiatus. The people of Cambodia will have to wait for the next person who will have that same moral authority.”

King Sihanouk, crowned in 1941, had gradually withdrawn from public life in recent years. In his long, colorful and complex rule as king and politician, he was praised by historians for his role in peacefully obtaining independence from France and criticized for providing legitimacy to the Khmer Rouge and assisting their rise to power. About 1.7 million people are estimated to have died under the Khmer Rouge regime in the 1970s.

But among mourners in Phnom Penh on Wednesday, King Sihanouk was remembered mostly as someone concerned with the plight of the poor and powerless.

“The king did everything for the people,” said Som Srey Pao, 49, who traveled to the Royal Palace with her three children on Wednesday. “He sacrificed himself for the people.”

The king’s elaborate coffin, draped in a blue royal flag and festooned with flowers, was placed on a gilded carriage shaped to represent a mythical birdlike creature. Mourners clutched incense sticks and lotus flowers. They remained quiet and reverential, many kneeling, as the carriage wheeled past.

Trailing it was the black Mercedes of the current king, Norodom Sihamoni, who reluctantly took the throne when his father abdicated in 2004. King Sihamoni, 59, is a former ballet instructor who remains under the long shadow of his father. He is unmarried and seen as unlikely to produce an heir. Although kings can be chosen from among hundreds of descendants of prior kings, the lack of an obvious successor to King Sihamoni has raised anxiety among some royalists.

Son Soubert, a member of the privy council to the current king, spoke of a “vacuum” following King Sihanouk’s death. He described the current king as much more reserved on many issues than his father.

“Our present king is so neutral that he doesn’t get involved,” Mr. Son Soubert said. “He sticks to his role within the Constitution.”

To allies of Mr. Hun Sen, that is exactly the way it should be.

Phay Siphan, secretary of state in the Council of Ministers, which functions as a cabinet, describes a new era for the monarchy in Cambodia, enshrined in the country’s 1993 Constitution.

“The king should be away from political activity,” Mr. Phay Siphan said in an interview. “The king does not rule the people — the king is respected by the people,” he said.

Mr. Phay Siphan called King Sihanouk a “well-respected politician” and the “godfather of Cambodia.” But he said the nation had moved on.

Critics of Mr. Hun Sen’s government see an effort to monopolize the political arena and the monarchy.

Unlike the royals in Thailand or Britain, the Cambodian royal family is not wealthy and does not have vast landholdings. Kings are largely reliant on the state budget for their activities, giving the government potential leverage over the monarchy.

Depending on the timing of succession, Mr. Hun Sen and his allies may also have considerable say about who becomes the next king. The Constitution puts that power in the hands of a nine-member Throne Council that includes the prime minister and top officials from the National Assembly and Senate, both of which are currently controlled by Mr. Hun Sen’s party.
500 2012-10-18 “Nike does not condone the use of illegal performance enhancing drugs in any manner.”

Nike declined to discuss why it made such an abrupt about-face after a decade and a half of working with Armstrong. On Tuesday, the company called Armstrong’s longtime agent, Bill Stapleton, and told him it was ending its agreement with Armstrong, thought to be worth millions of dollars. The company did not leave room for negotiation.

“We were Nike family,” Stapleton said in an interview.

Nike was not the only sponsor to abandon Armstrong on Wednesday; several others followed suit, and it could cost him millions.

Anheuser-Busch said that it would not renew its sponsorship with Armstrong. RadioShack ended its personal services contract with Armstrong, a person with knowledge of the deal said. Trek, Armstrong’s bicycle maker, Giro, the helmet manufacturer, and FRS, a sports drink maker, are ending their relationships with Armstrong, according to published reports. Honey Stinger, an energy bar maker, is taking Armstrong's image off its products.

Oakley, the sunglasses maker, said it was reviewing its relationship with Armstrong. Another sponsor, Johnson Health Tech, a sports equipment maker, reaffirmed its partnership with Livestrong.

Nike said it would continue to support what it termed the “Livestrong initiatives,” though it did not say how. What is clear is that Armstrong’s value to the world’s largest sporting goods company has diminished. Armstrong, who retired from competitive cycling last year, was stripped of his seven Tour titles when he chose not to contest the Usada doping accusations. He has also been barred for life from competing or having any official role with any Olympic sport or other sport that follows the World Anti-Doping Code. As a result, he was less likely to help Nike sell its co-branded hoodies, shoes and Dri-Fit workout gear.

“The cynical side of me says that they are not making any money off of him and the evidence has piled up so there’s no point in sticking with him,” said Bob Dorfman, who analyzes athlete endorsements at Baker Street Advertising in San Francisco.

Nike stood by Woods and Bryant, Dorfman said, because their controversies were off the field and not directly linked to their performance. Nike cut its ties to Michael Vick, who was convicted of participating in a dogfighting ring, but re-signed him after he returned to the N.F.L.

The allegations against Armstrong undermined his success as a cyclist and prompted a small group to protest outside Nike’s headquarters Tuesday. In recent years, Nike stopped sponsoring Marion Jones and Justin Gatlin, two sprinters entangled in doping scandals.

“When you look at these relationships, the primary factor you choose an endorser for is their performance,” said Jim Andrews, senior vice president at IEG, a sponsorship consultant. “The primary benefit Tiger brings to Nike is his performance as a golfer. When he had his indiscretions, you could decide that he was still going to perform and excuse the character issue. With Lance, you don’t have that avenue because everything he did as a cyclist has been discredited.”

To an unusual degree, Armstrong transcended his racing career because of his well-publicized battle with testicular cancer. He not only survived the disease but also went on to win the Tour, a grueling three-week race. His accomplishments prompted millions of people to buy and wear yellow Livestrong wristbands.

Nike was along for the ride, starting in 1996, when it agreed to endorse Armstrong, who would wear its shoes and gloves. Armstrong said in his book “It’s Not About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life,” which he wrote with Sally Jenkins in 2001, that Nike “didn’t desert me” during his cancer treatment. “As I got sicker, it meant everything.”

Armstrong said that one of the first people he spoke to about his cancer was Scott MacEachern, the Nike representative assigned to cycling in the late 1990s.

While Armstrong chose not to contest the charges against him because, he said, it would have taken too much of a toll on his family, the report by the antidoping agency has affected his foundation. It has raised nearly $500 million since 1997 and plans to celebrate its 15th anniversary in Austin, Tex., this weekend, with nearly 2,000 people expected to attend, including stars like Sean Penn, Maria Shriver and Ben Stiller.

Armstrong, who reportedly is worth $125 million, transferred his duties as chairman of Livestrong to Jeff Garvey, a founding chairman and vice chairman of the foundation. Garvey is a founder of Austin Ventures, a venture capital and growth equity firm with $3.9 billion under management.

While some of Armstrong’s closest confidants — including many of his former teammates — have fallen out of favor with him over the years, Garvey, an avid cyclist, is one of the few people who remain in Armstrong’s inner circle. Armstrong acknowledged him in his book “Every Second Counts,” thanking him for his “unvarnished advice and ever-sure friendship.”

Garvey, who has been involved in the leadership of cycling in the United States for more than a decade, expressed his support for Armstrong after the Usada report was released last week.

The accumulating accusations have helped draw a dividing line between Livestrong supporters and opponents, a trend that continued Wednesday after Armstrong stepped down as chairman.

The blog post announcing the decision on Livestrong’s Web site quickly drew comments from Armstrong’s fans such as, “He is a giant among men!” and “LIVESTRONG not about the bike, or any of the controversy. Nothing can change the fact that it was founded by one of the toughest survivors on the planet. Its mission has always been real.” Thousands also weighed in on Livestrong’s Facebook page, saying that they will continue to wear their yellow wristbands, one of the most popular symbols tied to a nonprofit.

A few, however, were dismayed. “A total fraud,” one person said. “It’s about time this joke of a hero started facing some consequences,” another wrote.

One Web site, standupforlance.com, features a petition and donation option for people to support Armstrong. The site identified itself as being paid for by the Restore America’s Voice Foundation, a conservative super PAC, according to data from OpenSecrets.org.

“It’s devastating for them,” Daniel Borochoff, founder and president of CharityWatch, a Chicago-based nonprofit watchdog group, said of Livestrong. “They certainly have a steep hill here to climb.”

CharityWatch gave Livestrong an A- grade, fueled by the percentage of its dollars that go toward programming, Borochoff said. Because the foundation derives much of its revenue from royalties and licensing, the concern is the cash infusions could decline as Armstrong’s brand fades, he said.
501 2012-10-19 Fifty years ago this week, the United States and the Soviet Union narrowly averted catastrophe over the presence of nuclear missiles in Soviet-backed Cuba....
502 2012-10-19 France’s science academies slam a much-touted, and contended, study finding GM corn harmed rats....
503 2012-10-19 My interview with Lisa Carver, who wrote a Riff on Yoko Ono this week....
504 2012-10-19 An Honest Tea co-founder assesses bans on sugary drinks. | James B. Stewart examines Greg Smith's claims against Goldman Sachs. | A look back at Black Monday....
505 2012-10-19 In 2010, Rep. Darrell Issa said he wanted to hold "seven hearings a week times 40 weeks." He's certainly tried....
506 2012-10-19 A new design shop in Fort Greene offers an eclectic mix of sculptural objects and flea market finds....
507 2012-10-19 The 25th anniversary of Black Monday has prompted some remembrances -- as well as warnings that big market risks remain....
508 2012-10-19 Starbucks opens its first outlet in India, in Mumbai, but offers few details about its plans for the country....
509 2012-10-19 There is often a concern among business owners and aspiring entrepreneurs that when they come up with a new idea, they need to protect it so that it won't be stolen. This mindset is dangerous....
510 2012-10-19 Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington....
511 2012-10-19 The no-limits giving that has let him do it might soon be coming to a campaign near you. The lawyers and activists who played a critical role in abolishing limits on contributions to independent groups — culminating in the ’s Citizens United decision two years ago — now hope to persuade Congress to repeal the federal caps on direct contributions to candidates, one of the last vestiges of the post-Watergate reforms.

Legal and legislative challenges to contribution limits are already proliferating at the state level and federally. This month, the asked the Supreme Court to consider its lawsuit challenging limits on the combined amount an individual can give to party committees in each election cycle.

The future of unlimited giving has already come to pass in Missouri, which in 2008 became one of four states that do not limit contributions to candidates. Mr. Sinquefield’s millions financed a successful 2010 initiative that banned new local income taxes and required citizens in two of Missouri’s largest municipalities, and , to reauthorize their earnings taxes every five years. His contributions to lawmakers and political action committees have propelled efforts to end teacher tenure in Missouri and to end state oversight of St. Louis’s police department.

“He has been able to change the debate,” said Chuck Hatfield, a lawyer who helped lead a court battle several years ago to preserve Missouri’s contribution limits. “He’s gotten the state to consider issues that everyone considered dead.”

Mr. Sinquefield has contributed about 40 percent of the money raised by Mr. Schoeller. Next week, Mr. Sinquefield will hold a fund-raiser for Mr. Schoeller at his home in St. Louis.

The Democratic candidate in the race, Jason Kander, raised more money than Mr. Schoeller through the beginning of September, largely from unions and trial lawyers, but no single donor has given nearly as much.

In an interview at a coffee shop here, Mr. Schoeller said he shared Mr. Sinquefield’s views on the income tax. But if elected, he said, he would treat his largest donor no differently from any other constituent.

“I’m grateful for the support that Mr. Sinquefield has given to me, certainly,” Mr. Schoeller said. “But I think it’s important to say that everybody has a voice in the way that I look at government. Because you’re there to serve.”

Mr. Sinquefield declined to be interviewed for this article.

Laura Slay, his spokeswoman, said in an e-mail, “In general, Mr. Sinquefield’s contributions support initiatives that have the greatest potential for improving the lives of all Missouri families and moving our state ahead economically: education and tax reform.”

Raised in a St. Louis orphanage, Mr. Sinquefield graduated from college in the 1960s and earned a business degree at the , where he absorbed the free-market thinking of the university’s influential economists. He helped pioneer index funds, founded a -based money management fund and amassed a fortune whose exact size he has never disclosed.

In 2005, Mr. Sinquefield retired to Missouri to devote himself to political and philanthropic causes. At the time, Missouri still had contribution limits as low as a few hundred dollars for some offices. To get around them, Mr. Sinquefield formed more than 100 political action committees, allowing him to legally evade the limits by directing multiple smaller contributions through many different PACs. He also founded a St. Louis-based, libertarian-leaning research organization, the Show-Me Institute, and deployed a phalanx of lawyers and lobbyists, known in political circles as “Rex’s World.”

Missouri abolished contribution limits in 2008 after a lengthy legislative and legal battle, and Mr. Sinquefield and his wife, Jeanne Sinquefield, along with a few other wealthy families, began giving large checks directly to candidates. Through the beginning of September, Mr. Sinquefield had given a total of $335,000 to the re-election campaign of Chris Koster, the state’s Democratic attorney general, for example, and in June he gave $385,000 — the largest contribution to a candidate in Missouri history — to a Republican candidate for lieutenant governor. This month, he gave $100,000 to the campaign of the speaker of the Missouri House.

Recent years have also seen an explosion in ballot initiatives in the state, as gridlock in the Capitol — Republicans hold wide majorities in both houses of the Legislature and a popular Democrat is governor — made it difficult to move major legislation. In 2004, Missourians submitted 17 referendums for approval by the secretary of state. This year, that figure is 143. Mr. Sinquefield’s lawyer submitted 22 of them, all variations on proposals to swap income taxes for sales taxes.

Legal challenges have grown at the same pace, as opponents and supporters battle over the 100-word summaries drafted by the secretary of state’s office to appear on petitions.

Mr. Schoeller and his opponent, Mr. Kander, a lawyer and former Army intelligence officer, both say they want to ensure integrity in the ballot-writing process. Mr. Schoeller has proposed allowing a bipartisan committee, appointed by legislative leaders that could rewrite ballot initiatives if the secretary of state’s language is challenged. Mr. Kander opposes the measure, saying that it was the duty of the secretary of state to handle the task.

Mr. Kander met Mr. Sinquefield for lunch in August, a meeting that Mr. Kander requested “in order to build a relationship of respect,” as Travis Brown, Mr. Sinquefield’s lobbyist, described it an e-mail.

In an interview in his campaign office, Mr. Kander said Mr. Sinquefield “seemed like a nice man.” But Mr. Kander suggested that voters be wary of Mr. Sinquefield’s contributions to his opponent.

“Any time that someone who is one of the biggest customers of an office is bankrolling a candidate for that office,” Mr. Kander said, “Missourians should take it into consideration when they vote.”
512 2012-10-19 On the eve of the 2009 mayoral election, Michael R. Bloomberg wrote two checks, totaling $1.2 million, to the state’s Independence Party. Even though the city’s campaign finance board had declared that personal contributions to political committees would soon have to be disclosed, the Bloomberg campaign opted not to report those payments, which only became public months later, when the campaign was over.

On Thursday, after two investigations and a related court case, the city’s Campaign Finance Board, in a 3-to-1 vote, determined that the mayor’s campaign had not violated the city’s campaign finance law, because the disclosure requirement had not yet gone into effect when the payment was made. It rebuked the campaign, however, declaring, “The campaign’s actions contravened the spirit of disclosure” underlying the campaign finance act and board rules.

A top Bloomberg aide said the mayor had been vindicated by the ruling.

“We are pleased that the board dismissed the complaint, and in doing so recognized that the campaign committed no violation,” said Howard Wolfson, a deputy mayor who was the chief spokesman of Mr. Bloomberg’s campaign.

But government watchdogs were not as impressed.

“The appearance here is poor,” said Gene Russianoff, a staff attorney at the Straphangers Campaign. “Voters were left in the dark on more than a million dollars spent in the 2009 mayoral campaign.”

Mr. Bloomberg, a political independent, spent more than $109 million on his 2009 campaign to beat back a challenge by the Democratic nominee, William C. Thompson Jr., a former city comptroller. Mr. Thompson spent a little more than $9 million on his campaign, according to the state Board of Elections.
513 2012-10-19 Carmelo Anthony said Stoudemire’s communication with his teammates had been good throughout training camp. The team has tried to make Stoudemire feel comfortable in his new role by passing to him often during scrimmages.

“It’s something that’s going to be a collective effort,” Stoudemire said.

The Knicks have already showed improvement during the preseason, focusing more on ball movement and working on pick-and-roll plays. Raymond Felton said this week that his next task would be to get the ball to Stoudemire in a spot on the floor where he can succeed.

Felton developed chemistry with Stoudemire when the two played together during the 2010-11 season, before Felton was traded in the deal to acquire Anthony. Friday’s game will be the first time Felton will get to play with both Stoudemire and Anthony, although the starters will play limited minutes.

Anthony said he believed he and Stoudemire struggled last season on offense because of the team’s inexperienced point guards and because the team had to deal with a number of injuries. Anthony sees Felton, along with Felton’s backup, Jason Kidd, as able to keep the Knicks’ offense in rhythm, he said.

“The way we’re playing right now, we are opening the court, and we’re letting Raymond do what he has to do to make guys better,” Anthony said. “It’s only going to help us when Amar’e comes back and gives us another option.”

When last season ended, Woodson asked Stoudemire during his exit interview to evolve as a scorer. Woodson said Stoudemire was excited about the opportunity to learn from Olajuwon, in a two-week stay in Texas that Woodson arranged. Olajuwon said he was pleased with the progress Stoudemire made.

Woodson believes Stoudemire and Knicks center Tyson Chandler should be closer to the basket when making plays.

“My thing was, as you get older, you should expand your game if you’re physically able to,” Woodson said of Stoudemire. “That was one thing I thought that could help him because I’m a coach who likes to post the ball some, too. We have to put it to use.”

The Knicks expect to run plays specifically for Stoudemire against the Raptors. Anthony said it was not just up to Felton to find Stoudemire in the post: all the Knicks should look for him.

Stoudemire knows that if he is successful in the post, the Knicks’ offense should become more dynamic.

“I think once we move the ball enough and get open shots, teams are going to scramble more,” he said. “That’s when the inside play opens up. Or it’s vice versa, and we go inside for easy baskets, and the team sucks in, and we kick it out for an open 3-pointer.”

J.R. Smith did not make the trip for the game against Toronto because of a sore left ankle. Smith missed his second straight practice Thursday. ... Ronnie Brewer did travel with the team, but he is questionable to play Saturday against the Boston Celtics. Brewer has not participated in a contact setting or scrimmaged with the team in practice.
514 2012-10-19 The debate, which broke little new ground as both candidates largely recycled talking points from previous debates, ended a phase of the campaign. Mr. Murphy has been gaining a bit of momentum in a tight race that had earlier been dominated by Ms. McMahon’s aggressive campaign and expensive television ads.

A University of Connecticut/Hartford Courant poll released on Thursday showed Mr. Murphy with 44 percent of likely voters and Ms. McMahon with 38 percent, with 17 percent undecided in the race to succeed Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who is retiring. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points. The results indicated that the race was still up for grabs, as Ms. McMahon continues to dominate the airwaves with advertising.

In a race often focused on female voters, Mr. Murphy has been helped by support from women, who favored him in the poll by 50 percent to 32 percent for Ms. McMahon.

“When we polled on this race last month, there wasn’t much of a gender gap,” the university’s poll director, Jennifer Necci Dineen, said. “The campaigns have included more of a focus on issues that are typically important to women voters, though, and that seems to be helping Murphy.”

In perhaps the debate’s most distinctive moment, Mr. Murphy tried to jump on a remark by Ms. McMahon after she declined to address specifics on her plans for Social Security. In remarks to a Tea Party group, she had talked about her support for sunset provisions for programs including Social Security, meaning that they would periodically be reviewed and reconsidered.

In the debate, she said senators should put options on the table in a bipartisan way, but added: “I’ve not talked about specifics when I’ve been on the campaign trail because they get demagogued.” After the debate, she blamed reporters for an environment not conducive for reforming programs like Social Security and Medicare.

Mr. Murphy responded: “She says she’s going to get demagogued. Well, maybe that’s a different way of saying you’re going to lose votes. Well, you might lose votes when you take a position, but that’s our responsibility as candidates, to tell folks what we would do.”

Ms. McMahon, as she did in the other debates, returned time and again to her jobs plan, accusing Mr. Murphy of not having one. She argued that jobs and her experience in providing them trumped all the other issues.

“Congressman Murphy has never created any jobs,” she said. “He’s not been part of the private market. He’s a career politician, and we don’t need to send the same people to Washington that made this mess and expect them to fix it.”

Linking jobs and the economy to women’s issues, she said that as important as social and health issues were, what women really cared about were jobs.

“More of them have lost jobs; more of them are in poverty,” she said, adding, “The thing that is going to give them the greatest comfort is to know that our economy is going to be sound again.”

And in a rare effort to inject a bit of amity into what has been a brutal race, the candidates were asked by a panelist to say something nice about each other.

Mr. Murphy, who answered first, said Ms. McMahon was clearly “a very driven person” who had shown she could accomplish something when she set her mind to it. He added that she had contributed to Connecticut charities and had done some good things for people in the state. “I give her credit for both of those,” he said.

Given her chance, Ms. McMahon said: “I think one of the nicest things I’ve seen about Congressman Murphy are his two little boys. They are so cute.”

Mr. Murphy said his wife deserved most of the credit, but he seemed to be waiting for some nice words about him. “For the record, I think Linda McMahon said nice things about my little boys,” he said.
515 2012-10-19 It took an ordinary citizen, Nina Gonzalez, to stand up at the presidential debate on Tuesday to raise what has been a phantom issue on the campaign trail: the lack of effective gun controls and any meaningful political discussion about this crisis. Every year, more than 30,000 people are shot and killed in this country.

Ms. Gonzalez politely asked whatever happened to his pledge four years ago to fight for renewal of the ban on assault weapons. That ban, which prohibits the manufacture of semiautomatic firearms for civilian use, was put in place in 1994 and expired in 2004. It was a pledge that Mr. Obama and his administration never made a priority despite the many horrific mass shootings during his term.

The current campaign is now focused on a handful of states where mention of gun control is considered politically toxic. At the debate, Mr. Obama said he wanted to get a “broader conversation” going on reducing violence, and “part of it is seeing if we can get an assault weapons ban reintroduced.” That kind of tepid talk will do nothing to push this crucial legislation through Congress.

was far worse. As the recently anointed candidate of the , he flatly opposes renewal of the assault weapons ban, even though as governor of he signed a statewide ban in 2004 after the federal 10-year ban lapsed. In the statehouse, Mr. Romney unequivocally denounced the military-style weapons as “instruments of destruction with the sole purpose of hunting down and killing people.” That was then. Now, on the national hustings, Mr. Romney says nothing of the sort, and he tries to portray the state ban as a law that was pro-sportsman, too.

Both candidates tried lamely to connect various family, school and social factors to the murders made easy by inadequate and nonexistent gun control laws. In truth, gun laws are being loosened, not strengthened, by state legislatures, often with bipartisan support. Among the worst measures are permits for carrying guns in colleges and other public places and the atrocious “stand your ground” laws that basically permit machismo fantasists to shoot to kill when they feel threatened.

Neither Mr. Obama nor Mr. Romney shows any interest in discussing this threat to public safety. The scourge includes 4.5 million firearms sold annually in the nation and more than one million people killed by guns in the past four decades. Research shows that among 23 populous, high-income nations, 80 percent of firearm deaths occurred in the , where citizens suffer homicide rates 6.9 times higher than in the other nations.
516 2012-10-19 Southwest Airlines eked out a small third-quarter profit in spite of a September slowdown, the company said on Thursday.

Traffic at all the big airlines fell last month. September is traditionally when vacationers complete summer travel by Labor Day, and business travelers get back in the air.

Southwest has been using a mix of fare increases and sales to try to put its prices at a level that travelers will pay. Last month, fares paid by business travelers were soft, Gary Kelly, the chief executive, said. Business travelers tend to pay more because they usually buy tickets closer to their departure date than vacationers.

It is possible the slowdown is over. Mr. Kelly said a critical measure of revenue was 4 percent higher this month than in October 2011.

Net income was $16 million, or 2 cents a share, compared with a loss of $140 million, or 18 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Not counting special items, it would have earned $97 million, or 13 cents a share, in the most recent quarter, a penny more than expected by analysts surveyed by FactSet.

Revenue was the same as a year ago, at $4.31 billion.

While Southwest holds the occasional sale to fill planes — they were 82.1 percent full, a record for the quarter — it has also been aggressive about trying to raise fares in recent months.
517 2012-10-19 “All three proposals were rejected in their entirety,” Fehr said. “The vibe in the room was, ‘Unless you’re prepared to sign with very few changes, don’t bother us.’ ”

Fehr said that in one proposal, the players would receive 55 percent of revenue in the first year of the agreement, stepping down to 50 percent by Year 5 if league revenue grew at a 5 percent rate, and by Year 3 if revenue increased at the current rate of growth, 7.2 percent. In another proposal, the union would agree to an immediate 50-50 split, but only if all current contracts were honored.

But Bettman, who has been seeking a 50-50 split similar to what the N.F.L. and N.B.A. owners received after their lockouts last year, described the offers differently.

“None of the three variations of player share that they gave us even began to approach 50-50, either at all or for some long period of time,” he said.

Bill Daly, the N.H.L.’s deputy commissioner, said in a statement that the union’s proposal was misleading.

“It is not a 50-50 deal,” he said. “It is most likely a 56- to 57-percent deal in Year 1 and never gets to 50 percent during the proposed five-year term of the agreement.”

Fehr said a provision in the owners’ offer, under which current contracts would be preserved via deferred payments, was disingenuous.

He said one player described it as “I’m going to lose salary in Year 3 to pay my salary in Year 1.”

The owners Jeremy Jacobs of the Bruins, Craig Leipold of the Wild, Murray Edwards of the Flames and Ted Leonsis of the Capitals attended Thursday’s meeting. Also present were 18 players, including Sidney Crosby, Jonathan Toews, Eric Staal and Jarome Iginla.

“We’ve done more than enough to show that we’re willing to negotiate and sacrifice,” said Toews, the Chicago Blackhawks’ captain. “It’s come to the point where it’s just disappointing that the league has waited this long to put pressure on us.”

Bettman said the owners’ offer was meant to make a deal in time to play a full 82-game schedule. A number of owners “actually think we went too far in order to get the season going,” he said.

Games through Wednesday have already been wiped out, and the N.H.L. is expected to announce more schedule changes soon. Bettman had said an agreement was needed by Thursday to have a full season, starting Nov. 2. The Jan. 1 Winter Classic could be canceled as soon as this week.

“It takes a lot of time to put together the Winter Classic, and we’re going to have to revisit it,” Bettman said. “At some point in the not too distant future, we’re going to have to commit many millions of dollars in order to play on Jan. 1. That time frame is probably rapidly approaching.”

No talks were scheduled for Friday, but both sides said they would be available.
518 2012-10-19 OMAHA (AP) — Union Pacific said Thursday that its third-quarter profit climbed 15 percent because price increases and more automotive and chemical shipments helped the railroad offset a 12 percent decline in coal shipments.

The railroad reported income of $1 billion or $2.19 a share, up from $904 million, or $1.85 a share, a year ago.

Union Pacific, based in Omaha, said revenue grew 5 percent, to $5.34 billion from last year’s $5.1 billion.

Analysts surveyed by FactSet expected Union Pacific to report earnings per share of $2.18 on sales of $5.38 billion.

Union Pacific shares rose $1.61, or 1.3 percent, to close at $125.34 on Thursday.

Declining coal volumes have been a challenge for the major freight railroads all year because of last year’s mild winter and relatively low natural gas prices. Union Pacific says its total shipment volume declined only slightly because of increases in automotive, chemical and intermodal shipments.

Chemical shipments grew 18 percent to lead all sectors of Union Pacific’s business.

That sector includes the crude oil shipments that have been an important growth area for the railroad as more oil is mined from shale deposits such as the Bakken oil field in North Dakota and Montana.
519 2012-10-19 LONDON (AP) — The Court of Appeal in Britain on Thursday backed a judgment that the Samsung Galaxy tablet computer was “not as cool” as the Apple iPad, and therefore did not infringe on Apple’s rights.

The panel’s upholding of the findings by a lower court endorses a decision that made headlines around the world when it was issued in July. Judge Colin Birss at the time praised Apple’s design while rejecting the company’s case against its rival.

“The extreme simplicity of the Apple design is striking,” Judge Birss wrote at the time, pointing out its “undecorated flat surfaces,” as well as its “very thin rim” and “crisp edge.”

“It is an understated, smooth and simple product,” Judge Birss wrote, saying that Samsung’s products were “not as cool.”

On Thursday, the Court of Appeal agreed unanimously with Judge Birss, with Judge Robin Jacob ordering Apple to publicize the court rulings to make sure consumers knew that Samsung did not infringe on Apple design patents.

“The acknowledgment must come from the horse’s mouth,” Judge Jacob said. “Nothing short of that will be sure to do the job completely.”
520 2012-10-19 The first abortion clinic on the island of Ireland opened Thursday in downtown Belfast, unleashing angry protests on the street and uniting Catholic and Protestant politicians in calls to investigate how the clinic operates. The clinic, run by the British family planning charity Marie Stopes, will be permitted to provide abortions only in exceptional circumstances to women less than nine weeks pregnant. About 400 protesters outside the clinic urged the authorities to shut it down.
521 2012-10-19 Venus Williams, playing her first tournament since the United States Open, defeated ninth-seeded Mona Barthel, 7-6 (4), 6-4, at the Luxembourg Open despite six double faults and four service breaks by her opponent. Williams dealt with a back problem at the Open and was eliminated in the second round.
522 2012-10-19 At the end of Robert Woodruff and Maya Beiser’s multimedia show “Elsewhere,” which had its premiere on Wednesday night at the Brooklyn Academy of Music’s new, intimate Fishman Space, the stage looked like the aftermath of a cataclysm. Framed by a row of disheveled hospital beds, the front half of the stage was covered with black gravel, strewed with once-white sheets that were now sodden with a gray, viscous substance. Among them lay the empty hull of a soft cello case fashioned out of the same gleaming plastic as a police body bag.

Ms. Beiser is a cellist of ferocious energy and talent and a striking apparition with feline beauty and Pre-Raphaelite hair. With “Elsewhere,” which she calls a “cello opera,” she says she wants to give voice — through her cello, her own spoken monologues and the startling vocals of Helga Davis — to women’s suffering across time and space.

Starting with texts by the Belgian surrealist Henri Michaux and Erin Cressida Wilson’s poetic retelling of the biblical story of Lot’s wife, she commissioned music from Eve Beglarian, Michael Gordon and Missy Mazzoli. Four female dancers, choreographed by Brook Notary and directed by Mr. Woodruff, engaged in disturbing rituals of self-abuse. In their final appearance, they dripped with dark goo as they slowly wrapped themselves in white sheets and slithered onto the black gravel.

Female madness, the show suggested, is a slippery subject. The enigmatic utterances of Ms. Beiser’s characters always seemed to hover between insanity and prophecy. Yet whatever unsettling power the work held was ultimately due to the interaction of movement, image and word, with the music playing only a supporting role.

Like the nervous lighting and flittering video projections by Peter Nigrini, the music aimed for disorientation through the multiplicity of impressions and distortion of beauty. Both Ms. Beglarian and Ms. Mazzoli made heavy use of sampling, allowing Ms. Beiser to play with rhythmic and melodic motifs. All three composers made the most of Ms. Beiser’s ability to coax a wide range of sounds out of her instrument. There was a Middle Eastern flavor to the opening of Ms. Beglarian’s “Far-Off Country,” with a keening motif in the cello that was repeated and subtly altered in increasing layers of sound.

Mr. Gordon’s short interlude, “Industry,” which formed the evening’s fulcrum, forced the initially luscious cello sound through ever more painful degrees of distortion. In Ms. Mazzoli’s “Salt,” Ms. Beiser was joined by Ms. Davis, a singer whose range and color palette vie with that of a cello. Her otherworldly voice and ritualistic gestures were well suited to Ms. Wilson’s striking texts, and she shared with Ms. Beiser a certain fierce sexuality that ultimately forbade any suggestion of victimhood.
523 2012-10-19 Signs of the personal computer slump are everywhere. The research firm IDC recently reported that PC shipments declined 8.6 percent globally in the last quarter, much worse than it had expected. Intel, the primary maker of chips that power PCs, said this week that its sales and profit fell because of weakness in the market.

Microsoft expects Windows 8 to help bolster the overall PC market, though Peter Klein, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, declined in an interview Thursday to say how significant it would be. The earliest adopters of new versions of Microsoft’s operating systems tend to be consumers rather than businesses, a pattern Mr. Klein said he expected to continue with Windows 8.

Microsoft said revenue from its core Windows operating system declined 33 percent to $3.24 billion,though it declined 9 percent if Microsoft had not deferred revenue related to Windows 8. Even the Microsoft division that includes its Office applications, which also tends to benefit from sales of new PCs, had a decline in revenue — 2 percent in the quarter to $5.5 billion.

Mr. Klein also said Microsoft had strong sales to corporate customers, many of whom tend to buy software through big multiyear contracts. But Mr. Klein said the company’s results suffered because of “challenges in the PC environment,” especially the consumer market. During the first two months of the quarter, he said, retailers cleared out PCs running older versions of Windows in anticipation of new Windows 8 machines, which they began ordering late in the quarter.

One reason Microsoft has suffered is that it has had trouble capitalizing on the growth in mobile devices. Its Windows Phone operating system has made little progress in halting the momentum of Apple’s iPhone and devices running Google’s Android software.

The huge success of the iPad has started to eat into sales of low-end laptops, though no one in the industry is sure by precisely how much. The planned release of Windows 8 on Oct. 26 will be Microsoft’s most serious effort yet to take part in the surge in interest among consumers and businesses in tablet computers.

Microsoft has radically changed the operating system to take better advantage of touch-screen devices, though it is also aimed at more conventional PCs operated with a keyboard and mouse. With Windows 8, Microsoft is also preparing to release a tablet of its own design, called Surface, that will go on sale for a starting price of $500 on Oct. 26. (Surface will use a variation of the Windows 8 operating system called Windows RT.)

Some analysts say that they believe fears about Microsoft’s deteriorating future are overblown, and that the PC market is still very large. “People want to make it like the last PC was shipped,” said Colin Gillis, an analyst at BGC Partners. “Yes, it’s in decline, but it’s not dead.”

Most of Microsoft’s other divisions experienced declines or little growth in the quarter.

The revenue of the company’s entertainment and devices division, which includes one of the company’s biggest consumer hits, the Xbox 360, fell 1 percent to $1.95 billion, as the console showed further signs of age.
524 2012-10-19 Stocks fell on Thursday, as technology stocks were hit hard after Google confounded the markets with results that disappointed investors and that were released hours before they had been expected.

Google’s stock fell 8 percent — the company’s worst day since Jan. 20 — to close at $695 after the Internet giant’s third-quarter results showed earnings and revenue that fell short of forecasts. Trading of the stock was halted at 12:50 p.m. and resumed at 3:20 p.m.

The slide in Google’s stock after the midday surprise was the biggest drag on the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index. Tech stocks suffered, with the S.& P. 500 information technology index losing 1.53 percent. Shares of I.B.M., which disappointed investors a day earlier, lost 2.8 percent to close at $194.96 and pull the Dow Jones industrial average lower.

“It’s a huge impact on the market, and especially the tech stocks,” Paul J. Nolte, managing director at Dearborn Partners in Chicago, said. “What happened to Google is a continuation in the tech sector of some very poor earnings numbers. But we’re not seeing the same lack of performance across the board from other sectors.”

Travelers, the property and casualty insurance company, gained 3.6 percent to $73.94 and gave the biggest lift to the Dow after it posted record operating earnings.
525 2012-10-19 Verizon’s shared data plans are its response to an industrywide trend in the American wireless business: subscriber growth is slowing, because many people who want a cellphone already own one. Carriers, therefore, are relying on generating more money from each customer, and from what customers use most: wireless data to send e-mail, browse the Web and stream video.

Another factor helping Verizon make more money from each customer is its faster fourth-generation Long Term Evolution, or LTE, network.

Customers who still have the company’s old unlimited data plans, and are using a smartphone on the older third-generation network, must give up those plans if they choose to upgrade to phones compatible with the newer network.

Verizon says that, over time, it expects customers with shared data plans using the faster LTE network to want to pay for increasing amounts of data.

“It is going to be more important that people will start to upgrade in their tiers as they start to really realize the benefits of the LTE networks,” said Fran Shammo, Verizon’s chief financial officer, at the J.P. Morgan Global Technology, Media and Telecom Conference in Boston in May. “Over the future time, as they add more devices, they are going to have to buy up into tiers. So again, you will see the revenue increase there.”

Verizon Wireless said its 4G LTE network was helping it attract customers. With LTE service in 419 cities, it is leading the race to build out faster networks; AT&T, the second-biggest American carrier, is in a distant second place, with LTE service in 77 cities.

The wireless division added 1.5 million contract subscribers, its most valuable type of customer, in the third quarter, bringing the total number of subscribers on contracts to 34.8 million.

That is good news for Verizon, but the overall slowdown of customer growth in the wireless industry is still evident: subscriber growth in the overall American wireless market was only 1 percent in the quarter, said Craig Moffett, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.

“Unless one believes that industry growth rates accelerated — and we certainly don’t — Verizon’s gain is AT&T’s, Sprint’s, and T-Mobile’s loss,” Mr. Moffett said in a research note.

AT&T also has adopted shared data plans, but not every carrier is taking that route. In their efforts to lure customers, T-Mobile USA and Sprint offer unlimited data plans, as Tim Horan, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company, noted during the earnings call. But Mr. Shammo said Verizon was confident that its bigger, more reliable LTE network would keep its customers loyal.

“I think our network and our competitive advantage speaks for itself,” he said. “And I think the superiority of our network, I think, what you’re seeing is that we are competing in that arena today against the unlimited plans.”
526 2012-10-19 What holds our attention in “Back to Blood” — and pushes us past the novel’s sometimes simplistic satire — are Mr. Wolfe’s two main characters: Nestor Camacho, a heroic Cuban-American cop, who finds himself at the center of several race-based clashes that threaten to set off riots, and his former girlfriend Magdalena, an ambitious but good-hearted nurse who, after leaving him, finds herself in one dreadful relationship after another.

Although Mr. Wolfe can be patronizing toward this pair, mocking them for their ignorance and naïveté, he also portrays them with genuine sympathy, using their earnest idealism as a prism by which to view the pretensions, social climbing and Machiavellian manipulation that burbles all around them. Nestor and Magdalena show that after the setback of the disappointing “I Am Charlotte Simmons,” Mr. Wolfe has been able to build upon the advances he made in creating flesh-and-blood people in “A Man in Full” (1998) — people who are not defined simply by their clothes, cars and verbal idiosyncrasies, but who actually possess something resembling an inner life.

Nestor is a likable Everyman, the son of Cuban immigrants, who lives in Hialeah, a “little Cuban capsule” in Miami, in a world defined by his parents’ and grandparents’ hopes and expectations. All he wants out of life is to be with his beloved Magdalena and to earn the respect of his fellow cops. His life is turned upside down after he uses his physical prowess to rescue a Cuban refugee who has climbed to the top of a schooner’s mast in Biscayne Bay — a rescue that enrages Miami Cubans, when the refugee ends up in the hands of the Coast Guard, facing the threat of deportation. Nestor’s heroics in a crack-den bust — which appear in distorted form in a YouTube video — similarly threaten to ignite racial tensions in the wake of accusations of police brutality.

As for Magdalena, she is sucked into the snooty Miami art world after accompanying her boss to Miami Art Basel events, and finds herself falling for Korolyov — the toast of the town thanks to his big museum donation — at the very moment he has become the subject of a newspaper investigation into rumors that the paintings he gave are forgeries. None of this is the least bit plausible, of course. Especially since it just so happens that the reporter doing the story has persuaded Nestor, of all people, to help him with this investigation.

Though the final scenes here aren’t nearly as abrupt or stage managed as those in “A Man in Full,” Mr. Wolfe doesn’t really seem to care if his story line becomes increasingly preposterous in the novel’s second half. His aim is to serve as an entertaining tour guide to the theme park-reality show that he calls Miami. Unlike his earlier novels, “Back to Blood” doesn’t aspire to capture the zeitgeist of an era (i.e., the age of greed in “Bonfire,” or the age of debt and doubt in “A Man in Full”). Rather, the novel is content to give us an impressionistic portrait of Miami as a city of immigrants, where ethnicity — hence the novel’s title — heightens class tensions, a city whose population, the fictional mayor muses, “is more than 50 percent recent immigrants,” where Cubans, Haitians, Venezuelans, Colombians, Russians and Israelis jostle one another to get a foot on the ladder of the American dream, while those above them — the snobs, climbers, rich and superrich — are trying to scramble even higher.

Mr. Wolfe’s mayor, Dionisio Cruz tells the chief of police that they’ll never succeed in making Miami a melting pot — “that’s not gonna happen, not in our lifetimes.” He also quotes a constituent who says: “Dio, if you really want to understand Miami, you got to realize one thing first of all. In Miami, everybody hates everybody.”

That line — “In Miami, everybody hates everybody” — pretty much sums up Mr. Wolfe’s view of the city, and it also describes the motor powering his entertaining but flawed new novel.
527 2012-10-20 Banks are not the problem (at least not at this point)....
528 2012-10-20 The Times is back today to host the best college football watch party in the country. Mike Huguenin will offer up his own analysis and insights on all of the big games....
529 2012-10-20 Congress has set up a Web site and a Facebook page as it prepares for the 57th presidential inauguration on Jan. 21. The Web site includes information about the inauguration and about past ceremonies, according to Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat who is a member of the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies.
530 2012-10-20 LONDON — Prime Minister David Cameron, after a month of bristling resistance that many close associates saw as politically unwise, switched course on Friday and accepted the resignation of a senior cabinet minister who had admitted using abusive language in a confrontation with police officers on duty at the prime minister’s residence and office.

Andrew Mitchell, the 56-year-old Conservative whose position as chief whip made him responsible for maintaining party discipline in the House of Commons, had clung to office after the tabloid The Sun and other newspapers had given headline prominence to the incident, last month. The reports said that Mr. Mitchell, riding a bicycle, had denounced police officers as “plebs” for refusing to open the security gates separating Downing Street, the residence and office, from Whitehall, the avenue that runs to Parliament, barely 500 yards away.

In his resignation letter, Mr. Mitchell gave his own account of what he had said to the police officers who demanded that he get off the bicycle and leave the secured Downing Street area through a pedestrian exit. He denied the official police account that he had used the term plebs, meaning people of a lower social class, but admitted adding a common expletive in telling the police officers, “I thought you guys were supposed to be helping us.”

In the letter, Mr. Mitchell added, “It was obviously wrong of me to use such bad language.”

The incident was seized on by the Labour Party as an example of the “toff,” or upper-class, attitudes of Mr. Cameron and many of his senior ministers as they push a stringent austerity program that Labour says has hit the working poor and the unemployed disproportionately hard. The Labour leader, Ed Miliband, demanded as recently as Wednesday that Mr. Mitchell resign, but Mr. Cameron, in an acerbic House of Commons exchange, said Mr. Mitchell’s apology to the officers had put an end to the episode.

By the time Mr. Mitchell met Mr. Cameron at the prime minister’s country residence, Chequers, on Thursday night, it was clear that a majority of other Conservative cabinet ministers, and a powerful lobby of junior Conservatives in the Commons, had concluded that Mr. Mitchell’s continued presence in the government was costing their party heavily in public opinion. Another decisive factor was the demand for Mr. Mitchell’s resignation from the federation that represents 125,000 police officers, already angered by the sharp cuts in police jobs ordered by the Cameron government.

For Mr. Cameron, the episode seems likely to deepen a growing mood of discontent among Conservative members of Parliament who have questioned his leadership in recent months.
531 2012-10-20 The Knicks went to Amar’e Stoudemire on three of their first six offensive possessions Friday night against the Toronto Raptors in Montreal. The first time, Stoudemire took a few patient dribbles, then used a spin move to his right before scoring with his left hand over Andrea Bargnani. On the next possession, Stoudemire made a quick move to the lane before pulling up and making a short jumper.

Those two sequences from Stoudemire — even if they came in a loss to the Raptors, 107-88, in a preseason game — were encouraging news for Knicks Coach Mike Woodson. After spending time this summer with the Hall of Fame center Hakeem Olajuwon to learn low-post moves, Stoudemire demonstrated he could score in a variety of ways, including in the lane.

In 26 minutes, Stoudemire had 18 points and 5 rebounds. On a powerful dunk in the second quarter, he did not show any sign of pain in his left knee. He missed the first two preseason games because of a bruised knee.

Stoudemire was not the only Knick posting up Friday. Carmelo Anthony (24 points) played with his back to the basket as much as Stoudemire did in the first half. The two, who have faced criticism for not playing well together, scored 13 of the Knicks’ first 20 points.

“Those two guys are the main focal point of our offense, so I have to make sure I keep them happy,” point guard Raymond Felton said in a television interview.

The Knicks’ transition defense was not as sharp — Toronto guards Landry Fields and Kyle Lower helped the Raptors score 16 fast-break points — and they continued to shoot poorly from the 3-point line (5 of 27). Rebounding was also an issue: the Raptors grabbed 13 more than the Knicks.
532 2012-10-20 It wasn’t raining inside the park either, but I heard people talking about a big storm that was to the west and closing in fast. Half an hour passed, an hour, an hour and a half — and still no rain. It was like being trapped inside a jampacked keg party with 43,000 guests, everyone getting hammered because there was nothing else to do. I noticed that the grounds crew hadn’t even pulled the tarp over the infield dirt, despite that big bad storm that was supposed to be on its way. Strange. I started thinking about how much money the concession stands were making, and that got me thinking about Terry Franconi’s remarks. Maybe some kind of fix really was on.

Finally, the rain started to fall two hours after the first pitch was supposed to be thrown — plenty of time to get in most of a game — and the tarp came out and the fans went home. It was a first for me: a two-hour rain delay without any rain.

After the nongame, I went to a different saloon and bumped into Brian McGuire, who works as something called a search engine marketing analyst for a Detroit advertising agency. “I don’t mean to sound like a conspiracy theorist,” he told me, “but I think the powers that be knew this game wasn’t going to happen. The interest is in money — the chance for advertising, marketing, alcohol sales. Let’s milk the cow, then put her to bed and milk her again tomorrow. It’s capitalism.”

All these dark theories became moot the following day, when sunshine drenched the field and Game 4 started on schedule a little after 4 p.m. As I gazed out at the emerald outfield, I had to admit that I, like many old-schoolers before me, had been utterly seduced by Comerica Park, which opened in 2000, replacing Tiger Stadium, the charming old dowager where I grew up watching baseball and football games. They tore the place down in 2008, breaking many hearts.

One such heart belonged to Tom Derry, a postal worker who formed a crew to maintain the former playing field and the vast prairie at the legendary corner of Michigan and Trumbull. Derry and I interrupted a game of pickup baseball so I could snap a picture of him standing on home plate, the original flagpole visible in the distance, where it has stood since 1912 — on what used to be the center-field warning track, in fair territory.

Vaughn Derderian Sr. was not among the brokenhearted. Current patriarch of a family that has been in the bar business in downtown Detroit since the 1920s, he offered the sacrilegious opinion that Tiger Stadium, with all of its view-blocking girders, was a “dump.” Even Loren D. Estleman, a fellow old-schooler and a prolific author of western and crime fiction, much of it set in Detroit, conceded that the new ballpark had beguiled him. “The only bad thing is that they named it after a damned bank,” he said. “But that’s the way the world’s going.”

The snapshots kept coming as I crossed Ohio. There was Lamarr Webb, the sweet-natured, hardworking beer vendor who passed a sunny afternoon with me on his front porch, telling stories. There was the vertigo-inducing view straight down on the ballpark from the 34th floor of the nearby Broderick Tower, which is being converted into a luxury apartment building. If the people who rent apartments on that side of the building are baseball fans, they’ll be living in heaven.

After the Tigers completed the sweep on Thursday evening, the streets around the stadium were blasting music by Diana Ross, Bob Seger, the White Stripes. The throngs were ecstatic but orderly. No burning cars. No ugliness that I could see.

Finally, I made my way down to the Tigers’ clubhouse. I could smell the perfume from 50 yards away. Then I stepped into the room and saw it: cigar smoke so blue and so thick you couldn’t have cut it with a chain saw. For the most part, the players had stopped spraying the alcohol-free champagne and were popping corks on the real thing: Dom Pérignon.

Nothing could kill this euphoria. When teammates gave the star pitcher Justin Verlander a refreshing ice-water shower, he just laughed and laughed and laughed. Then he relit his cigar and kept on puffing.
533 2012-10-20 The activist used to belong to another radical group called Jund Ansar Allah, or Soldiers of the Supporters of God, which was crushed by Hamas in 2009. Now, he spends most of his time researching Islamic law and consulting with other Salafists who come to his home, which has a library of about 100 books on Islamic subjects.

A Salafist leader who also spoke anonymously for fear of reprisal by Hamas said in an interview, “The jihadists as groups are over now.” He said Hamas had been going after the groups one by one.

Hamas government officials refused to comment on measures against the Salafist militants. But Yahiya Moussa, a Hamas member of the Palestinian Parliament, said that while the Salafist groups had the right to carry out resistance against Israel, it must be “within the unified and national program,” meaning in line with Hamas policy.

A senior Israeli defense official, Yossi Kuperwasser, said that in Gaza, Israel was facing a “hostile governing element challenged by an even more hostile element” and that “radical Islamic groups are competing with each other over who is more radical.” In a briefing with reporters in Jerusalem this week, Mr. Kuperwasser, the director of Israel’s Ministry of Strategic Affairs, also said the Palestinian Islamic Jihad group, another significant force positioned somewhere between Hamas and the Salafists, was becoming stronger and better armed. Twice this month, Israel has launched deadly missile strikes against militants in Gaza whom it identified as operatives in the global jihad movement, saying they were involved in firing rockets and planning other attacks against Israel.

One of the strikes killed Hisham al-Saidini, a senior militant who led the Al Tawhid and Jihad group. The Israeli military said Mr. Saidini had been planning a complex attack against Israel along the Sinai border by Gaza-based militants in collaboration with Salafist operatives in Sinai.

Hamas has been tightening security along Gaza’s border with Egypt in an effort to prevent logistical cooperation between the groups on both sides, carrying out more identity checks of people in the area, according to Palestinians who work in the smuggling tunnels that run beneath the border.

While some point to the success of Hamas in containing the Salafist groups, others note that the effort is complicated by the fact that most of the jihadists emerged from the ranks of Hamas. They left after the group decided to participate in Palestinian parliamentary elections in 2006 and beat its secular rival, the Fatah movement.

Salafists said Hamas’s decision to participate in the elections derailed it from its Islamic course. A year later, after bouts of bloody factional fighting, Hamas seized full control of Gaza, routing the Fatah forces there.

Salafists have been active in Gaza for decades, engaged in charitable activities and Islamic education, and dependent on donations from supporters abroad, mainly in Persian Gulf states.

But after the elections in 2006, militant jihadists began attacks against Israel and also against Internet cafes, restaurants and women’s hair salons in Gaza, places they saw as being at odds with their deeply conservative interpretation of Islam.

A turning point came in August 2009, when the radical group Jund Ansar Allah declared an Islamic emirate in the southern part of Gaza. About 100 of the group’s men holed up in a mosque in the southern city of Rafah and engaged in a standoff with Hamas security officers that ended in a shootout. In all, 28 Palestinians were killed in the fighting, most of them Salafists, including the group’s leader, Abdel Latif Moussa.

Nathan Thrall, a Middle East analyst at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group, noted that since the crackdown in 2009, the number of attacks against cafes and entertainment sites in Gaza had decreased dramatically.

“Hamas has been overwhelmingly successful in containing Gaza’s Salafi-jihadi groups,” Mr. Thrall wrote by e-mail.

Adnan Abu Amer, a political analyst in Gaza, said the Salafists, especially those engaged in violence, had only a “modest structure” in Gaza that lacks popular support, making it easier for Hamas to curb them.

Israeli officials also point to a degree of ambivalence in Hamas’s dealings with the jihadist groups.

“Till now, Hamas has not reached a strategic decision to put an end to this phenomenon,” said Mr. Kuperwasser, the defense official. He noted that Hamas had released Mr. Saidini, the militant recently killed in an Israeli strike, from prison in August.

Mr. Kuperwasser said Hamas’s reluctance to decisively confront the jihadist groups may stem from a fear of their strength, as well as the possibility that some Hamas security members would balk at taking tough action against former colleagues.

“They do take some steps on the ground,” Mr. Kuperwasser said of Hamas, “but never full-heartedly.”
534 2012-10-20 He could barely conceal his contempt for Mr. Basescu, a former ship captain, whom he accused of brazenly clinging to power despite having been rejected by a majority of Romanians, calling the president politically “illegitimate.”

“My mentality as a new generation of politician is to respect the institution even if I don’t respect the person,” he said. “He will never give up. He is a former sea captain, and you won’t see a former sea captain being humble or giving up.”

Romania’s troubles have added to concerns in the United States and Europe about the political instability and threats to democratic institutions that are intensifying across the former Communist bloc.

In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orban has come under criticism for flouting democracy with a series of measures that have brought the judiciary and the news media to heel. In the Czech Republic, the government has teetered on the edge of collapse with ministers involved in corruption scandals.

Romania, in particular, lacked a history of stable, enlightened governance even before it endured World War II and then decades of the Ceausescu dictatorship, which ended with his violent overthrow in 1989.

Since then, Romanians have labored to build democratic structures virtually from scratch, finding themselves in a far more challenging position than almost any of their post-Communist neighbors. Romania’s foibles have provoked debate about whether it and Bulgaria, which both entered the European Union in 2007, were invited too soon, before their cultures of lawlessness, corruption and winner-take-all politics had been uprooted.

The vociferousness of the domestic battle in Romania has overshadowed policy-making; rattled the currency, the leu; and undermined investor confidence in a country that is the second poorest in the European Union after Bulgaria.

Mr. Ponta’s government has issued more than two dozen emergency decrees — moves that, while legal, have alarmed Western diplomats and many Romanians. The government dismissed the speakers of both chambers of Parliament, which the opposition said was unconstitutional. And amid accusations that it was pressuring the Constitutional Court, the government ousted the ombudsman, who has the power to challenge emergency legislation before the court.

Some members of the progovernment media have accused foreign journalists of being anti-Romanian agents. The public remains largely disgusted with endemic graft and corruption. Adding to the mistrust are accusations that Mr. Ponta, a former prosecutor, plagiarized parts of his doctoral thesis. (He says the accusations were politically motivated, but an academic panel at the University of Bucharest, where he was awarded the Ph.D. in 2003, upheld them. Yet, he has not been stripped of his title.)

Romania’s mercurial president has also played a key role in fomenting crisis.

The move for impeachment was prompted by accusations from the government that Mr. Basescu had overreached his mandate by, among other things, refusing to appoint ministers chosen by the prime minister, pressuring prosecutors in legal cases and using the secret services against enemies.

Mr. Basescu, who has denied the accusations, accused Mr. Ponta — already being criticized for abusing the system of parliamentary checks and balances — of orchestrating a “coup d’état.”

Mr. Ponta said his main shortcoming had been to not effectively communicate the reasons behind the impeachment vote. To repair the nation’s image, Mr. Ponta said, he was studiously avoiding confrontations with the president, and had recently removed himself from an acrimonious meeting about foreign policy to avoid another public and damaging altercation.

“Our European and American partners appreciate stability and predictability, and the lack of these two leads to overreaction and misunderstanding,” Mr. Ponta said, explaining the lessons he has learned since becoming prime minister.

Mr. Basescu declined an interview request, in keeping with the conspicuously low profile he has maintained since the referendum on his impeachment, which was favored by an overwhelming majority in July, even though the turnout of 46 percent was below the 50 percent needed to make the vote valid.

Western diplomats were so concerned in August that the country was teetering toward lawlessness that in August, Washington dispatched Philip H. Gordon, the assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, to Bucharest, where he met both men and warned that Romania must uphold the rule of law.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and José Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president, have also voiced concerns. Talks on Romania’s bid to join the European Union’s coveted visa-free zone, scheduled for September, were postponed.

Romania has to “remove all doubts on its commitment to the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the respect for constitutional rulings,” Mr. Barroso warned Mr. Ponta last month in Brussels.

Monica Macovei, a former minister of justice and close ally of Mr. Basescu, argued in an interview that the breaches of the rule of law in the run-up to the impeachment referendum were worse than anything since the Ceausescu era, referring to the government’s measures to consolidate its power.

But she insisted that Romania’s membership in the European Union had been instrumental in overcoming the political showdown. The European Union closely monitors Romania’s justice system and also gives Bucharest much-needed financing. That gives Brussels significant leverage over the country.

“We joined the E.U. to follow the rules, not to destroy them,” she said.

There is little indication, however, that the political tumult will end soon. Mr. Ponta’s leftist coalition is expected to do well in the December elections, analysts say, but may fall short of winning a majority. Voters appear even more disenchanted with Mr. Basescu and his rightist party, which they associate with punishing austerity measures.

More than anything, the relentless sparring and stalemate have engendered deep disappointment among Romanians in the promise of their young democracy and disillusionment with their political leadership.

“Our politicians behave like children fighting over a toy,” said Monica Cristea, 43, a manicurist from Poenari, a village near Bucharest. “They have destroyed our international reputation,” Ms. Cristea said. “I am outraged. I don’t like any of them. I don’t trust them.”
535 2012-10-20 Microsoft’s policy, which it calls its Services Agreement, allows it to analyze customer content from one its free products and use it to improve another service — for example, taking information from messages a consumer sends on Windows Live Messenger and using it to improve messaging services on Xbox. Previously, that kind of sharing of information between products would not have been allowed under Microsoft policies, which limited the use of data collected under one of its products to that product alone.

Microsoft has promised, however, that it will not use the personal information and content it collects to sell targeted advertising. It will not, for example, scan a consumer’s e-mails to generate ads that might interest the user. Google does that, and expanding its ability to draw on that content was part of the reason Google changed its privacy policy this year.

But the new Microsoft policy does allow for such targeted advertising. Microsoft promised not to do so in blog posts and e-mails informing its customers about the change, but not in the formal policy. That has some privacy advocates nervous.

“What Microsoft is doing is no different from what Google did,” said John M. Simpson, who monitors privacy policy for Consumer Watchdog, a California nonprofit group. “It allows the combination of data across services in ways a user wouldn’t reasonably expect. Microsoft wants to be able to compile massive digital dossiers about users of its services and monetize them.”

Jack Evans, a Microsoft spokesman, says the company’s plans are benign. He differentiates between the Services Agreement, also known as the terms of use, that was changed on Friday and the company’s Privacy Policy, which was last updated in April.

“Over the years, we have consistently informed users that we may use their content to improve the services they receive,” Mr. Evans said in a written statement. “For instance, we analyze content to improve our spam and malware filters in order to keep customers safe. We also do it to develop new product features such as e-mail categorization to organize similar items like shipping receipts in a common folder, or to automatically add calendar invitations.

“However,” he added, “one thing we don’t do is use the content of our customers’ private communications and documents to create targeted advertising. If that ever changes, we’ll be the first to let our customers know.”

Microsoft’s new services agreement affects only its free, Web-based products, not the software programs that individuals and companies buy off the shelf for home or business use. It covers Hotmail, and its related e-mail service, Outlook.com, but not the Outlook e-mail and calendar program that is individually loaded onto computer hard drives and widely used by corporations. Bing, its search engine, is covered, but Internet Explorer, its browser, is not.

Microsoft’s pledge not to use the data from its Web services to target advertising has some credibility, given the company’s broader privacy initiatives. The company has said it will include a “do not track” feature in its new Internet Explorer 10 Web browser that prevents online advertising companies from monitoring the browsing habits of users so they can target promotions. Microsoft has made “do not track” the default setting on the new version of Explorer, a move that has caused a firestorm among online advertising companies.

Microsoft’s push to provide better privacy protections for consumers comes at a time when its efforts in Internet advertising have sputtered. Online advertising remains a small fraction of Microsoft’s overall business, accounting for $2.6 billion, or about 3.5 percent, of the company’s revenue during its last fiscal year, which ended June 30, according to Microsoft’s filings with securities regulators.

But it is easy to see how Microsoft customers might be confused, because the different divisions of Microsoft that draft and oversee its user agreements and privacy policies did not anticipate that the changes in the services agreement would raise privacy questions.

The drafters of the service agreement, a more technical bunch, thought the changes were so small that they were mentioned in August in a specialty “Volume Licensing” blog dedicated to commercial customers, but seemingly nowhere else on Microsoft’s vast array of corporate Web sites.

Microsoft also sent an e-mail about the change in late August to all of its 325 million Hotmail users. But those notices became the subject of nervous online chatter when some users learned that a similar message, using the same template, was being used by hackers to distribute harmful malware. Online message boards warned against even opening the messages.

Inside Microsoft, officials were focused not on whether the policy changes affected privacy but rather on a different change, one that limits the ability of Microsoft customers to sue the company, including in a class action, over its products. The new agreement requires the use of binding arbitration.

Mr. Evans said the change put in place on Friday in the Services Agreement “did not alter our existing privacy policies.” Those policies include a 4,000-word main policy and at least 16 related product-specific privacy policies.

That itself is an example of how users cannot possibly know what Internet companies are doing with their personal information, said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a consumer protection group based in Washington.

“No one understands how all this data is being put together and being used,” he said. “All of these companies are in a digital arms race to tie together all the information they have about individuals. For companies like Google and Microsoft, the real goal is to expand market share.”
536 2012-10-20 Venus Williams beat top-seeded Roberta Vinci of Italy, 7-6 (2), 6-4, to reach the semifinals of the Luxembourg Open. Playing in her first tournament since struggling with a back problem at the United States Open, Williams will face Andrea Petkovic of Germany, who defeated Ksenia Pervak, 6-3, 6-2. The other semifinalists are Daniela Hantuchova and Monica Niculescu.
537 2012-10-20 “The idea of creating a whole world of one’s own, that’s very important. So I’ve always been ambivalent” about opening it to strangers, he said. “This garden has a Baroque exuberance, or extravagance, and I’ve been holding on to this for a long time, so that when it started to get presentable I decided I would do something more open to the public.”

The revelation of any private place is wrenching for any private person, he said, but it has also been a gesture to some of his closest collaborators. “Very old friends have suddenly discovered a facet, an aspect of my music, of my life,” he said.

MR. CHRISTIE, 67, came to France in 1970 to escape the Vietnam War and a period of American history he says he found unbearable. Born in Buffalo, he signed up for the Army Reserve to stay in graduate school at Yale and spent a summer training at Fort Benning in Georgia, which horrified him. “Seeing beaches full of ladies in white gloves applauding mock attacks on mocked-up Vietnamese villages and someone calling out the body count and people applauding, it was pretty grotesque,” he said.

He taught music at Dartmouth, and his contract was not renewed. At the height of the Vietnam War, and after the killings of student protesters at Kent State, “I was fed up,” he said.

Then serendipity struck. In Vermont, he met a man named John Evarts, who had been a senior Unesco official involved with music. “He was bigger than life, an American Brahmin,” he said, a descendant of William Evarts, a secretary of state, attorney general and senator in the years after the Civil War. “You’ve got to get out of this place,” he said Mr. Evarts told him, because Dartmouth was no place to begin a music career. He introduced Mr. Christie to the orchestra of the BBC.

Equipped with a music degree from Yale and an untested talent, Mr. Christie, a harpsichordist, got a contract with the BBC and then built a new life in France. Here he has become a famous figure who has restored to the French their Baroque repertory and has been repeatedly honored by the government for his work.

The garden is considered a clue to the private Mr. Christie. “Bill has been making this garden for 30 years,” said John Hoyland, a garden consultant who has Glyndebourne, in England, as one of his clients. “This is a man who knows what he wants and has a vision. Who would dream of planting yew and turning it into a Chinese pagoda?”

The garden is a palette of greens, with relatively few flowers, Mr. Hoyland said, built on four basic plants: yew, hornbeam, box and lime trees. “But the range of greens and their vibrancy, and the way the wind moves through it, and the light, it’s just magnificent,” he said. “It’s a garden that calls me back.”

“The French had turned their back on their own musical tradition, and their gardening tradition, too,” Mr. Hoyland said. “Bill has shown the French their own heritage.”

BUT relations with the neighbors have not always been easy for such a flamboyant foreigner, who is both appreciated and resented. Mr. Christie described a meeting of the Thiré council to discuss some houses he had bought. One was to be a rehearsal space, and a council member said, “That means you’re going to make noise.” He wanted to say that he would make less noise than her yapping dogs, but restrained himself. “I thought I’d be cute and amusing and said, ‘Well, I get paid for the noise I make, and sometimes rather well!’ ” he said. “But that went down very badly.”

He said he felt it was important to open his sanctuary to his neighbors, and he also played concerts in the Thiré church. But his beautiful house, which dates from the 17th century and was an abandoned wreck when he discovered it in 1985, is off-limits except to friends.

One of Mr. Christie’s friends and sponsors, Dena Kaye, said that “to fill his garden with his music is a very great thing; this is monumental for him.” Ms. Kaye, the daughter of the actor Danny Kaye, runs a foundation named after her parents, and she and her husband stayed in the house for the festival.

She is working with Mr. Christie on plans for a French-American nonprofit foundation to continue the work of his orchestra and to preserve the garden and the festival.

“I’m 67, going on 68, and I can see where I’m going now,” Mr. Christie said. “I’m talking about the garden but also the Arts Florissants, and that’s far more important.” He fears that the French government, in these budget-crunching days, can no longer provide as much support to culture, and he feels a bit in a hurry.

“I haven’t had my say yet,” he said, staring out over the garden toward the grotto, on the hill beyond the river, as a fountain splashed and birds called to one another in the trees. “There’s an immense amount of music I want to do, to share and play with others.” He used the French word “pérennité,” or sustainability. “How do we keep things going?” he said. “And this has to do with this garden, the epicenter of my life.”

It is inspiring to open his garden to visitors, he said, but it is also a great relief when they leave. “You look forward to the moment when, ah, you can walk out into the garden at any moment of the day or the early evening,” he said. “And there you are, all by yourself.”
538 2012-10-20 Storm clouds continued to grow over Europe’s debt crisis, Vikram S. Pandit stepped down as chief of Citigroup, and Newsweek announced that it would stop printing its magazine at the end of the year....
539 2012-10-20 No one at Twitter would talk on the record about the French posts, but it has its own criteria for regulating content and will sometimes suspend an individual account or withhold individual posts.

In Germany on Thursday, Twitter applied for the first time a policy known as “country-withheld content,” which allows it to block an account at the request of state authorities. The neo-Nazi group had been banned by the government of Lower Saxony.

In the French case, the student union said it was providing Twitter with a longer list of what it considered particularly offensive posts using the same hashtag. Jewish groups in France have cited an increasing number of anti-Semitic episodes since a French Muslim, Mohammed Merah, who claimed to be allied with Al Qaeda, murdered seven people, including four Jews, in Toulouse in March before being killed in a shootout with the police.

“We salute the decision of Twitter to respond to our request and promptly remove racist and anti-Semitic tweets,” said the president of the student union, Jonathan Hayoun. He said the union still intended to file a complaint against the company, which has refused to identify the people behind the posts.

Two other cases involving Twitter created news this week. On Friday in Britain, the police were investigating remarks that appeared on the Twitter account of a right-wing political leader about a case of discrimination against a gay couple who were refused accommodation by the owners of a lodging house.

British news reports said the account — @nickgriffinmep — had been suspended after it was used to publish the couple’s address and call for a demonstration there. It later appeared to have been reactivated without the couple’s address.

The account belongs to Nick Griffin, the British National Party chairman and a member of the European Parliament. The party is a small, xenophobic group that has made electoral gains in recent years, culminating in Mr. Griffin’s election to the European Parliament in 2009. The party campaigned on a platform opposed to what Mr. Griffin calls the “creeping Islamification” of Britain, supporting the voluntary repatriation of immigrants, and calling for Britain to quit the European Union and NATO.

Mr. Griffin reacted angrily to the lodging house case, telling the BBC that discrimination was “a fundamental human right” and that the owners of the lodging house had the right to decide who could enter their home.

And at a hearing in Istanbul on Thursday, a Turkish pianist and composer, Fazil Say, 42, denied charges of insulting religion after he cited a thousand-year-old poem on his Twitter account. The case was adjourned for four months.

In April, Mr. Say reposted a verse in which Omar Khayyám, an 11th-century Persian poet, mocked pious hypocrisy. His case is an indication, critics say, of an increasing distortion of justice by a more conservative interpretation of Islam promoted by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Twitter has said that its goal is to balance freedom of expression with compliance with local laws.
540 2012-10-21 Republicans have been making political use of the phrase made famous in "The Wealth of Nations." But what would Adam Smith think?...
541 2012-10-21 The Knicks announced Sunday that Amar'e Stoudemire had ruptured a popliteal cyst behind his left knee, which will cause him to miss the start of the regular season....
542 2012-10-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
543 2012-10-21 Woodson made sure not to push Stoudemire’s knee on Saturday: he and Brewer — as well as Anthony, Chandler and Kidd — were held out of the game.

Now, Woodson has two preseason games left for his starting lineup to get into a rhythm — and that is assuming Brewer is healthy enough to play Monday against the Philadelphia 76ers.

“If he tells me he’s fine,” Woodson said of Brewer, “I’m going to play him on Monday.”

It is unusual for N.B.A. teams to practice amid a stretch of three games in four nights, but Woodson is making the Knicks hit the court, mostly because Brewer needs to participate in drills.

“My knee feels pretty good,” said Brewer, who ran before Saturday’s game. “I’m trying to get back in shape. I just want to play with confidence in the scrimmage.”

Woodson spoke with urgency after Saturday’s loss about having his other starters play with Brewer in the preseason.

“We just have to get some work time on the floor together where they know each other,” Woodson said.

The Knicks already have several areas in which they can improve before the regular season starts. They did not do a good job of getting back on defense in transition Friday against the Raptors, who had 16 fast-break points, and they did not rebound the ball well, either.

Woodson, a coach known to focus more on defense, says it is essential that his starters get more time to practice their defensive assignments. On offense, Stoudemire needs more minutes to work on the low-post moves he learned this summer from Hakeem Olajuwon. Woodson also wants Stoudemire to go through more conditioning drills after he missed five practices because of his knee injury.

“It’ll come,” Woodson said of Stoudemire’s scoring in the low post. “When you’re doing something new like that, you’re so anxious to make something happen, and a lot of times it’s not there.”

Woodson said his reserves had played better than his starters for the majority of the preseason.

“If you notice in that second unit, when they get out there, the ball just moves freely,” Woodson said. “I have to get that first unit to think like that.”

If all five starters are not able to play Wednesday against the Nets, in the Knicks’ final preseason game, Woodson will be left with only a week of practices, in which the scrimmages will not come close to the speed of a game, to get his top players in sync with one another.

“I should have everybody back and ready to go,” Woodson said of Wednesday’s game. “If they tell me the guys are hurting and can’t go, then we have to go to plan B.”
544 2012-10-21 Emily Nora Betson and Frank James Balsamello were married Saturday at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Roman Catholic Church in Tuxedo Park, N.Y. The Rev. Garry Koch, a Roman Catholic deacon, performed the ceremony.

The couple met at Georgetown, from which they graduated, she cum laude and he magna cum laude. The groom also received a law degree magna cum laude from Georgetown.

The bride, 27, is an intelligence analyst for the Justice Department in Washington.  She is the daughter of Mary-Ellen Betson and Donald E. Betson of Glen Rock, N.J. The bride’s father, who works in Manhattan, is the vice president for finance of Sims Metal Management, a metals and electronics recycler.

The groom, also 27, is a litigation associate at the Washington law firm Williams & Connolly. He is the son of Nancy and Frank A. Balsamello of Old Bridge, N.J. The groom’s father retired as the director of security for Key Food supermarkets in Brooklyn and Queens.
545 2012-10-21 Elizabeth Nan McGarr and Matt McCue were married Saturday evening in Dallas. Judge Barbara M. G. Lynn of the Federal District Court for the Northern District of Texas, whose chambers are in Dallas, officiated at the Brook Hollow Golf Club.

Mrs. McCue, 30, is a writer and reporter for special issues of Sports Illustrated, and covers Nascar for the magazine. She graduated from the University of Texas and received a master’s degree in journalism from Columbia.

She is a daughter of Janie and Cappy McGarr of Dallas. The bride’s father is the president of MCM Interests, a private investment firm in Dallas, and is an executive producer of the Kennedy Center Mark Twain Prize for American Humor, and a trustee of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. Her mother is the chairwoman of North Texas Public Broadcasting, and was the chairwoman of Planned Parenthood of North Texas in 2008 and 2009; both are in Dallas.

The bride’s maternal grandmother, the late Annette Greenfield Strauss, was the first woman elected as mayor of Dallas, and served from 1987 to 1991.

Mr. McCue, also 30, is a freelance writer in New York. He graduated from the University of Colorado.

He is a son of Kathleen and Michael McCue of Iowa City. The groom’s mother is a psychology and religion teacher there at Regina High School, a Roman Catholic school, from which the groom graduated. His father is a business teacher at Clear Creek Amana High School in Tiffin, Iowa.
546 2012-10-21 Suzann Pettersen shot a four-under 68 to extend her lead to five strokes after the second round of the L.P.G.A. KEB HanaBank Championship in Incheon, South Korea. South Korea’s Ryu So-yeon had a 70 and is alone in second place, a stroke ahead of her compatriot Se Ri Pak, who had the day’s best round with a 67. Michelle Wie, playing on a sponsor exemption, is two over after two rounds and tied for 40th place with No. 2-ranked Stacy Lewis.

¶ Bo Van Pelt shot a five-under 67 to take a one-shot lead over his fellow American Jason Dufner after the third round of the Perth International in Australia. Van Pelt started the day four shots behind the overnight leader Emiliano Grillo and grabbed the lead when Grillo bogeyed two of his last three holes.
547 2012-10-21 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
548 2012-10-21 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
549 2012-10-21 MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin on Saturday took the helm of what the Kremlin described as the largest nuclear command exercise in Russia’s recent history, launching unarmed strategic and cruise missiles from the air, the sea and the ground.

Russian news broadcasts on Saturday featured images of the fiery launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile from a site near Arkhangelsk, in northern Russia, which was said to have arced across most of Russia and hit its target in the far eastern region of Kamchatka. Another missile was shown bursting up from the Sea of Okhotsk, west of Kamchatka.

In a brief statement, Dmitri S. Peskov, Mr. Putin’s spokesman, told Russian news agencies that the test took place “under Putin’s personal control.”

“The supreme commander in chief made a high assessment” of the performance of Russia’s combat units and staff, Mr. Peskov told Interfax and other news services. “It was the first time in the recent history of Russia that the strategic nuclear forces have held a command exercise on such a scale.”

Such displays are not unusual in Russia, especially at a period when the government is trying to “beef up the military,” said Pavel Podvig, a researcher with the Russian Nuclear Forces Project.

“Being there and pushing the buttons — that is something that is in his character,” Mr. Podvig said of Mr. Putin. “I wouldn’t read it as any particular message.”
550 2012-10-21 DID you know that science can teach you all sorts of amazing things about how the world works and why it works that way and how the dinosaurs probably all had feathers? Did you know that it can also teach you things that you never wanted to know and now not-so-secretly wish you didn’t?

I am referring to a recent study out of the U.C.L.A. Department of Psychology that determined that the women of the Grand Old Party have more feminine faces than those of their female Democratic colleagues. In conducting the study, researchers analyzed the faces of the House of Representatives in the 111th Congress based on objective measures of feminine facial structure. The faces were then rated according to gender-typical femininity, and shown to undergraduate students, who (in exchange for course credit) were asked to judge which political party they thought each face was affiliated with. The students guessed correctly with surprising accuracy.

The resulting data suggested that the more conservative a female politician is, the more likely her face will conform to subtleties that are considered typically feminine. The flip side being that more liberal female politicians tend to have less feminine facial structures. As in: they’re more masculine, I guess. As in: terrific.

The researchers call it the “Michele Bachmann Effect.” Funny, but that’s exactly how I refer to the tingly feeling that overtakes me when I read or hear something so profoundly ridiculous that I briefly consider living the rest of my life in monkish isolation on a mountaintop with only the cold wind for companionship.

Listen, anybody who has ever attended the Democratic National Convention knows that Democratic women prefer flats over heels, by an estimated ratio of 10 to 1. After all, if the sensible shoe fits... But this is anecdotal. It’s the type of research done after three days of being yelled at on the convention floor by people in 10-gallon hats, with only a steady diet of Coke Zero and SunChips to keep you upright. You’re punchy. Who can blame you for slumping on the floor outside a women’s washroom and counting people’s feet as they go by?
551 2012-10-21 But why? Elections, of course, are not decided on economics alone. “Campaigns matter, at least a little,” said Thomas M. Holbrook, professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee. “The issues and the candidates matter, at least a little.” Yet to the extent that the economy determines the election’s outcome, it’s possible that the stock market holds part of the explanation for Mr. Obama’s outsize electoral strength.

Through Friday, since Mr. Obama’s inauguration — his first 1,368 days in office — the Dow Jones industrial average has gained 67.9 percent. That’s an extremely strong performance — the fifth best for an equivalent period among all American presidents since 1900. The Bespoke Investment Group calculated those returns for The New York Times.

The best showing occurred in Franklin D. Roosevelt’s first term, when the market rose by a whopping 238.1 percent. Of course, that followed a calamitous decline. When his term started, the Dow had fallen to one-fourth of its former peak. In 2008, the year before Mr. Obama took office, the Dow declined by roughly one-third.

After Franklin Roosevelt, the next-best market performances occurred under Calvin Coolidge, Bill Clinton and Dwight Eisenhower. These exceptionally strong markets helped all of them win the next election — and the stock market is undoubtedly helping Mr. Obama, too, even if he isn’t saying much about it.

“What I find most ironic about these numbers is that one of Obama’s weaknesses is said to be his economic record,” said Paul T. Hickey, Bespoke’s co-founder. “While the stock market isn’t a complete reflection of the economy, it is an important indicator, and the stock market is one of the great things the president has working in his favor. But it’s a sensitive subject. With Wall Street so despised by the average American right now, it’s probably something he doesn’t want to be too quick to trumpet. But facts are facts.”

The market’s relationship to the economy and to the political system is complex and varying from era to era. But a simple truth is that the market’s rise and fall has an enormous effect on the wealth of ordinary Americans — and on whether they feel themselves to be wealthy.

Some market effects on wealth are straightforward enough. With the relative decline of traditional pensions, and the rise of defined-contribution plans like 401(k)’s, the well-being of middle-class households is intimately connected to the stock market’s fortunes. That was shockingly evident in 2008, when the Dow declined by more than 33 percent. That market fall, on top of a sharp drop in housing prices, contributed to a 19 percent decline in the total net worth of American households that year, according to figures compiled by the Federal Reserve.

Relatively low housing prices continue to depress aggregate wealth levels, the Fed’s Flow of Funds report shows. But when stock market values are factored in, the rising value of financial assets — including stocks — has restored the total wealth of American households. Using this measure, it is now higher than when Mr. Obama’s presidency began, Fed figures indicate.

Unfortunately for millions of Americans, that can’t be said for median household income, which was only $51,023 last year, down from $53,206 in 2009, according to Census Bureau figures adjusted for inflation. While it appears to have risen in 2012, median household income almost certainly has not returned to its former level. And rising income inequality means that the hardship has been felt disproportionately by poor people, who face a double-whammy: they don’t have financial assets that have grown in value.

Presidential election forecasting models using “objective data” like personal income, gross domestic product and unemployment have captured the gloomy realities of the economy, painting a relatively bleak picture of Mr. Obama’s electoral chances. But Robert S. Erikson, a professor of political science at Columbia University, said, “If you include subjective data — emphasizing expectations about the economy — you get a very different forecast.” In a paper, Professor Erikson and Christopher Wlezien of Temple University described a forecasting model using consumer sentiment measures and leading economic indicators. That model predicts an Obama victory “quite strongly,” Professor Erikson said in an interview.

The performance of the stock market, at least to some extent, is a subjective rendering of market participants’ expectations for the corporate economy. It’s a complicated subject, partly because market prices tend to rise when interest rates are low, as they are now, thanks largely to efforts of the Fed and other central banks.

Do these relatively high prices really reflect the future outlook for the economy? It’s not certain. But the stock market is an important component of many measures of leading economic indicators, and it is clearly painting a rosier picture than the retrospective headline numbers about the economy — like the 1.3 percent annual growth rate of G.D.P. in the second quarter or the 7.8 percent unemployment rate in September.

IT’S often said that Wall Street prefers Mitt Romney to Mr. Obama, Mr. Hickey observed, yet the stock market has flourished under the president — and under Democratic presidents generally. Since 1900, it has returned 7.1 percent annually when Democrats have occupied the White House, and only 3 percent under Republicans.

Mr. Carter was an exception. The market declined 0.3 percent in his first 1,368 days in office — a performance more than 68 percentage points worse than that for Mr. Obama.

Are you better off than you were four years ago? For stock portfolios, at least, the last four years have been bumpy but they haven’t been bad at all.
552 2012-10-21 “The country has stumbled into a windfall on the backs of these entrepreneurs,” said Edward Hirs, a finance professor at the University of Houston who contributed to a report that estimated that the nation’s economy benefited by more than $100 billion last year alone from the lower gas prices.

But while the gas rush has benefited most Americans, it’s been a money loser so far for many of the gas exploration companies and their tens of thousands of investors.

The drillers punched so many holes and extracted so much gas through hydraulic fracturing that they have driven the price of natural gas to near-record lows. And because of the intricate financial deals and leasing arrangements that many of them struck during the boom, they were unable to pull their foot off the accelerator fast enough to avoid a crash in the price of natural gas, which is down more than 60 percent since the summer of 2008.

Although the bankers made a lot of money from the deal making and a handful of energy companies made fortunes by exiting at the market’s peak, most of the industry has been bloodied — forced to sell assets, take huge write-offs and shift as many drill rigs as possible from gas exploration to oil, whose price has held up much better.

Rex W. Tillerson, the chief executive of Exxon Mobil, which spent $41 billion to buy XTO Energy, a giant natural gas company, in 2010, when gas prices were almost double what they are today, minced no words about the industry’s plight during an appearance in New York this summer.

“We are all losing our shirts today,” Mr. Tillerson said. “We’re making no money. It’s all in the red.”

Like the recent credit bubble, the boom and bust in gas were driven in large part by tens of billions of dollars in creative financing engineered by investment banks like Goldman Sachs, Barclays and Jefferies & Company.

After the financial crisis, the natural gas rush was one of the few major profit centers for Wall Street deal makers, who found willing takers among energy companies and foreign financial investors.

Big companies like Chesapeake and lesser-known outfits like Quicksilver Resources and Exco Resources were able to supercharge their growth with the global financing, transforming the face of energy in this country. In all, the top 50 oil and gas companies raised and spent an annual average of $126 billion over the last six years on drilling, land acquisition and other capital costs within the United States, double their capital spending as of 2005, according to an analysis by Ernst & Young.

Now the gas companies are committed to spending far more to produce gas than they can earn selling it. Their stock prices and debt ratings have been hammered.

“We just killed more meat than we could drag back to the cave and eat,” said Maynard Holt, co-president of Tudor Pickering Holt & Company, a Houston investment bank that has handled dozens of shale deals in the last four years. “Now we have a problem.”

Aubrey K. McClendon, chief executive of Chesapeake Energy, had a secret, and he was anxious to share it.

He called Ralph Eads III, a fraternity buddy from Duke who had become his go-to banker. Mr. McClendon explained that he had quietly acquired leases on hundreds of thousands of acres somewhere in the southern United States — he would not say exactly where — that could become one of the world’s biggest natural gas fields.

But to develop the wells, he needed billions of dollars.

“I can get the assets,” Mr. McClendon told Mr. Eads, a vice chairman of Jefferies, according to three people who participated in that call, nearly five years ago. “You have to get the money.”

Get it he did. Mr. Eads, a pitch artist who projects the unrestrained enthusiasm of a college football coach, traveled the world, ultimately raising an extraordinary $28 billion for Mr. McClendon’s “secret” venture in the Haynesville Shale, as well as other Chesapeake drilling projects.

Other bankers working in the glass office towers of downtown Houston were equally busy. While the skyscrapers are home to global giants like Chevron and lesser-known companies like Plains Exploration and Production, they also house storefronts for Wall Street deal makers who play a vital, though less visible, role in the nation’s surging energy production.

Mr. Eads, 53, a Texas native, is a prince of this world. His financial innovations helped feed the gas drilling boom, and he has participated in $159 billion worth of oil and gas deals since 2007.

A Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity brother of Mr. McClendon, he headed to Wall Street directly after Duke. He first earned a national profile in 2001, while working for the El Paso Corporation, a natural gas pipeline operator. Regulators accused El Paso of creating an artificial gas shortage in California in the previous year, contributing to a power crisis in the state. Although El Paso eventually settled the complaints for $1.7 billion, Mr. Eads said El Paso was guilty of nothing more than coming up with creative financial transactions.

“I wake up every day thinking about how to finance big things,” he said.

His tall, lanky frame and bellowing voice make him hard to miss, even in a large crowd. And his deal radar is never off, as he works the room at dinner parties and charity events.

That is how he met Jim Flores, the chief executive of Plains Exploration, who eventually invited him on a duck hunt.

After Mr. McClendon’s urgent request for money, Mr. Eads put in a call to Mr. Flores to see if he might be willing to finance part of Chesapeake’s Haynesville project.

“Aubrey and I have calculated it, and it might be the largest gas field in the world,” Mr. Eads said he told Mr. Flores, noting early results from a single well that showed unprecedented gas flows.

The type of deal he pitched, nicknamed “cash and carry,” was certainly aggressive and innovative. Plains would pay Chesapeake $1.7 billion to gain ownership of about one-third of the drilling rights that Chesapeake had leased in the Haynesville. Plains would also commit to paying out another $1.7 billion to cover half of Chesapeake’s drilling costs, in return for part of the future profits.

“It’s going to be a great investment,” Mr. Flores said on the day the deal was announced in July 2008.

But the deal, like others later struck by Chesapeake, benefited Mr. Eads and Mr. McClendon and their companies far more than the people writing the big checks.

Chesapeake spent an average of $7,100 an acre on the drilling sites it had leased in the Haynesville. Plains paid Chesapeake the equivalent of $30,000 an acre.

Jefferies and the other firms involved in arranging the deal made an estimated $23 million on this transaction.

Much of the money that Mr. Eads raised for American gas drillers came from overseas oil and gas companies, like Total of France and Cnooc, the China National Offshore Oil Corporation. He told them the American shale revolution was an opportunity they simply could not afford to pass by.

“This is like owning the Empire State Building,” Mr. Eads said, recalling one of his favorite lines. “It’s not going to be repeated. You miss the boat, you miss the boat.”

In China, he was in awe at just how much money was available to invest. One senior executive at a major Chinese oil company that Mr. Eads declined to identify, citing the confidential nature of the negotiations, explained that the country wanted to move as much as $750 billion from United States Treasury bonds into the North American energy business.

Mr. Eads was only happy to oblige, helping to secure $3.4 billion from the Chinese for Chesapeake through two deals.

Not everyone believed the story line of endless profits and opportunity. Mr. Eads said one oil company executive whom he would not identify had rejected his pitch, complaining, “The reason for the glut is you guys.” The executive said he expected natural gas prices to plummet.

In private, Mr. Eads acknowledged that his pitches involved a bit of bluster.

“Typically, we represent sellers, so I want to persuade buyers that gas prices are going to be as high as possible,” Mr. Eads said. “The buyers are big boys — they are giant companies with thousands of gas economists who know way more than I know. Caveat emptor.”

Investment banking revenue at Jefferies reached $1.1 billion in 2011, a record for the firm, up from $750 million in 2007. Energy deals were cited among the biggest drivers of that surge, which came despite major problems at the firm because of its exposure to European sovereign debt.

Mr. Eads would not say how much he had been compensated for this bonanza. But Dealogic, a firm that tracks Wall Street transactions, estimated that Jefferies collected at least $124 million in fees from Chesapeake since 2007, a large share of its overall revenue on oil and gas deals, which ranged between $390 million and $700 million during the same period, according to two different industry estimates.

Even before the recent round of deals, Mr. Eads was a wealthy man. He lives in a sprawling, 11,000-square-foot lakefront mansion in Houston and has a wine cellar with 6,500 bottles. In 2010, he bought an $8.2 million home in the exclusive West End of Aspen, Colo., whose other homeowners have included Jack Nicholson and Mariah Carey.

Mr. Eads’s success has produced no shortage of jealousy in Houston.

“A lot of people don’t like him because he got ahead of everyone else,” said Chip Johnson, chief executive of Carrizo Oil and Gas, who made two big deals in which Mr. Eads was involved. “He got the reputation for overselling, but I have a hard time believing you can fool the big companies.”

“Without him,” Mr. Johnson added, “the country would not have had the huge gas supply as quickly as we did.”

Others have been more critical.

“He is like the bartender serving drinks for people who can’t handle it,” said Fadel Gheit, a managing director at Oppenheimer & Company, about Mr. Eads. “And the whole gas industry has gotten a rude awakening, a hangover, with gas prices plummeting. The investment bankers were happy to help with a smile and get their cut.”

“Quit drilling,” T. Boone Pickens, the Texas oilman, barked to his fellow board members at Exco Resources, a small, independent drilling company based in Dallas that, like Chesapeake, had made a big bet in the Haynesville. “Shut her down.”

Mr. Pickens, 84, made billions of dollars as a hedge fund manager and wildcatter drilling for oil and gas. He borrowed heavily to build up the oil and gas reserves of Mesa Inc. in the late 1980s before losing the company during its financial difficulties a decade later, when drooping gas prices hurt its ability to repay debts and pay dividends. He wanted Exco to avoid a similar fate.

There was only one problem: under the contracts that Exco signed, it couldn’t stop drilling.

The company followed Chesapeake’s lead and struck its own $1.3 billion cash-and-carry deal with the BG Group, a British gas company. BG paid Exco $655 million in cash upfront and agreed to foot 75 percent of the bill for future drilling in the Haynesville in return for a share in future profits on the gas produced.

When the arrangement was made, it seemed like a winner all around. Exco had more than 53,000 acres of leases in the Haynesville, but like Chesapeake, it lacked the money it needed to drill on all the land. BG’s financing helped Exco to increase the number of rigs it had working in the Haynesville to 22 from four.

Nevertheless, the agreement, negotiated by Goldman Sachs, came with some important strings attached: Exco had to keep all 22 rigs drilling for gas, even as the price was dropping. BG wanted to reach certain targets for drilling wells and producing gas in the United States, and it was intent on sticking with the plan, even if its partner now insisted that it made no economic sense.

“They are great partners, but they have their pedal down around the world, and we are part of that,” Douglas H. Miller, Exco’s chief executive, explained to Wall Street analysts last year.

Mr. Pickens was furious. “We are stupid to drill these wells,” he said in a recent interview.

But Exco was not alone. Many of its fellow gas companies — including Chesapeake and Petrohawk — had little choice through last year but to keep drilling, no matter how low the price fell or how big a glut was forming.

It wasn’t just the cash-and-carry deals that were forcing them to drill.

The land that the natural gas companies had leased, in most cases, came with “use it or lose it” clauses that required them to start drilling within three years and begin paying royalties to the landowners or lose the leases.

Exco, Chesapeake and others initially boasted about how many acres they had managed to lock up. But after paying bonuses of up to $20,000 an acre to the landowners, the companies could not afford to lose the leases, even if the low price of natural gas meant that drilling more wells was a losing proposition.

The industry was also driven to keep drilling because of the perverse way that Wall Street values oil and gas companies. Analysts rate drillers on their so-called proven reserves, an estimate of how much oil and gas they have in the ground. Simply by drilling a single well, they could then count as part of their reserves nearby future well sites. In this case, higher reserves generally led to a higher stock price, even though some of the companies were losing money each quarter and piling up billions of dollars in debt.

Just as in the earlier real estate bubble, the main players publicly predicted success even as, privately, their doubts were growing, court documents show.

Mr. McClendon suggested in August 2008 to Wall Street analysts that he had fundamentally transformed the once-risky, century-old oil and gas business into something with the reliability of an assembly line.

“We consider ourselves to be in the gas manufacturing business, and that requires four inputs in our opinion — those inputs are land, people, science and, of course, capital,” Mr. McClendon told the analysts. “We think that’s pretty impressive and hope you do as well.”

But soon after, he told some Chesapeake employees that the company might have made some big mistakes. “What was a fair price 90 days ago for a lease is now overpriced by a factor of at least 2x given the dramatic worsening of the natural gas and financial markets,” Mr. McClendon wrote in an October 2008 e-mail that has since become public in a lawsuit against Chesapeake.

And as with so many other shale gas players, Chesapeake struck so many complicated financial deals that it couldn’t stop ramping up the gas factory.

“At least half and probably two-thirds or three-quarters of our gas drilling is what I would call involuntary,” Mr. McClendon acknowledged at one point.

For him, the drilling binge had some significant financial consequences. During the good times, Chesapeake paid him handsomely in cash and perks. He achieved a net worth of over $1 billion, and he made it to the Forbes list of the 400 wealthiest Americans. He bought homes in Bermuda, Colorado and Hawaii, as well as a stake in the Oklahoma City Thunder basketball team.

An unusual company program also allowed Mr. McClendon to buy a small personal stake in Chesapeake’s wells. That is expected to reap more than $400 million for him over the 15- to 20-year life of the wells, although it has strained his personal finances for now. An investigation by Reuters detailed how Mr. McClendon had borrowed heavily from Chesapeake business partners to help finance his share of the wells’ costs. That and other issues drew the scrutiny of the Securities and Exchange Commission, shook investor confidence in him and prompted a shake-up of Chesapeake’s board that included the removal of Mr. McClendon as chairman.

Mr. Eads appears to have fared better. He had seen the coming crash, and, as any master salesman would, found a way to play both sides. He continued to persuade new investors of the great potential in shale while telling his longtime clients to cash out.

“It is a great time to sell,” Mr. Eads recalled telling Terry Pegula, the founder of East Resources, who had built up his own operation in the Marcellus region of Pennsylvania from one well to 75 over the course of one year. “With all these new plays popping up, I had a real concern gas prices would weaken.”

Mr. Eads then helped arrange what will go down as one of the great early paydays of the shale revolution: the 2010 sale of East Resources, which Mr. Pegula had started with $7,500 borrowed from family and friends, to Royal Dutch Shell for $4.7 billion.

There were a handful of other such profit takers, including the Houston businessman Floyd Wilson, who created a company in 2003 called Petrohawk Energy with the intention from the start of selling it. Petrohawk drilled its first Haynesville well in 2008. Last year, it sold itself to an Australian energy conglomerate, BHP Billiton, in a $15 billion deal that brought Mr. Wilson and other executives a payout worth at least $304 million.

But for many gas drillers, there has been only pain.

Exco, whose production of natural gas was still rising in the Haynesville as of early this year, saw its credit rating downgraded in May. It reported a loss of nearly $780 million for the first half of the year, before write-offs and other adjustments, even after it reduced its work force and rig count. BG, its joint venture partner, reported in July that it was taking a $1.3 billion write-down on its shale gas investments in the United States, including the Haynesville deal with Exco.

Plains Exploration, which celebrated its first deal with Chesapeake back in 2008, reported a loss for the first quarter this year, but has since shifted heavily away from gas to oil production and is making money again. Warm weather last winter exacerbated the glut to historic levels, reducing prices even further, since so little gas was needed to heat homes in many parts of the nation.

Chesapeake’s stock price sank this year after it was revealed that Mr. McClendon had taken a personal stake in Chesapeake wells and then used those investments as collateral for up to $1.1 billion in loans used mostly to pay for his share of the cost of drilling those wells. The company is trying to raise $14 billion this year by shedding assets, a goal it has almost reached with huge recent sales of West Texas oil and gas fields and pipelines to Royal Dutch Shell and Chevron.

To help the company through this difficult patch, Mr. McClendon turned to his old friend, Mr. Eads. Jefferies & Company, joined by Goldman Sachs, offered Chesapeake an emergency $4 billion unsecured bridge loan, at 8.5 percent interest, to give the company a lifeline until it could sell enough assets to keep afloat. (The company says it intends to pay back the entire loan this year from recent sales.)

In hindsight, it should have been clear to everyone that a bust was likely to occur, with so many new wells being drilled and so much money financing them.

But everyone was too busy working out new deals to pay much heed.

The bust has certainly hit the Haynesville hard. Some local landowners, having spent their initial lease bonuses, are now deeply in debt. Local restaurants and other businesses are suffering steep losses now that so many drillers have left town.

“At this point we’re struggling,” said Shelby Spurlock, co-owner of Cafe 171 in the town of Mansfield. The restaurant is decorated with wall collages of drill worker uniforms from companies that are leaving the area. Once open from 4 a.m. to 10 p.m. and employing four servers, the restaurant has cut its hours and is down to two servers. “Our very existence is in danger,” she sighed.

Mr. Eads, ever the deal maker, is unfazed. He tells anyone who will listen that the price of natural gas will eventually recover. He is making money, meanwhile, helping struggling companies and opportunistic investors strike deals at the new, lower prices.

“These shale assets are forever,” he said. “They are going to produce for a hundred years.”
553 2012-10-21 Credit: Michael Stravato for The New York Times
554 2012-10-21 SANTIAGO DE COMPOSTELA, Spain — Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and his Popular Party are fighting to avoid a potential setback in regional elections on Sunday that are considered critical bellwethers of both his austerity plans and the growing push toward separatism in parts of Spain.

Mr. Rajoy is a native of Galicia, which has been dominated by his conservative party and is one of two Spanish regions, along with the Basque region, holding early elections this weekend. Galicia has in many ways been a model for Mr. Rajoy’s austerity program, and a loss here would portend badly for its already waning acceptance in the rest of Spain.

Both regions also have their own language and separatist political factions, which, in the case of the Basque region, are expected to pose an unusually strong challenge in the vote. Coming just weeks after a mass rally for independence in Catalonia, the Basque vote could have a significant impact on the future of Spain if the results bolster the centrifugal forces tugging at the country.

In Galicia, the economy is the key issue. The election on Sunday presents “a serious test for Mr. Rajoy’s own credibility because he has used Galicia as a showcase for austerity,” said Santiago Lago-Peñas, a professor of economics at Vigo University.

Though the Popular Party is defending a parliamentary majority in Galicia, recent opinion polls suggest a very tight outcome, with a large number of undecided voters. Mr. Rajoy has praised Galicia for its fiscal discipline, but the pain of his austerity plans is being increasingly felt here, as in other parts of Spain.

Some commentators have suggested that Alberto Núñez Feijóo, the president of Galicia, called the elections five months early, anticipating a further decline in the economy next year. Opposition politicians also say that Mr. Feijóo has done his best to put daylight between the regional and national governments, distancing himself from his own conservative Popular Party. “Feijóo has done everything possible to keep Rajoy and his party affiliation out of his campaign and instead highlight his own rigorous management, because he knows that is the only way he can win another mandate,” said Xaquín Fernández Leiceaga, a Galician lawmaker from the opposition Socialist Party.
555 2012-10-21 ONE might say that beauty is simple. But, as someone else might well add, it’s complicated.

Can it be both? Or is it, say, a question of time? In the 1920s, the great appeal of Modernist design lay in its embrace of an almost machine-made simplicity and its rejection of ornate decoration as not merely superficial but superfluous. Similarly, the elaborations of the 1980s, the junk bonds and faux finishes, were vehemently renounced in the 1990s in favor of John Pawson architecture, Helmut Lang clothing and Calvin Klein Home.

And, one might rightly add, Christian Liaigre furniture. When the Mercer Hotel in SoHo opened in 1998, the low, starkly elegant wenge-wood furniture that Mr. Liaigre designed for the lobby and rooms became a touchstone for minimalist décor. It also made him a household name — at least in 1 percent of houses.

Almost 15 years later, the French designer is still hard at work, having opened his first American store, in New York, this summer. But while he has remained true to his design DNA, that doesn’t mean he doesn’t like to shake it up once in a while. That is one reason Mr. Liaigre has a weakness for a particular and obscure art form: extravagantly carved coconuts.

The curious objects date from the 17th, 18th and early 19th centuries, when the sugar and rum trade between the Caribbean and Europe was at its height and sailors regularly found themselves crossing the Atlantic with nothing other than a jackknife, a coconut and several weeks to kill. Sugar scrimshaw, if you will.

Mr. Liaigre’s desire to get off the grid is what led him to the coconuts in the first place. As a boy, he vacationed with his parents at Île de Ré, an old-fashioned-but-chic island off the west coast of France, which he likened to long-frequented American getaways like Nantucket. (No, there is no good French word for “preppy.”) As an adult, Mr. Liaigre bought a house on Île de Ré and goes there whenever he can.
556 2012-10-21 “If you were to make a movie of Mary McCarthy’s life,” the editor William Abrahams told Ms. Kiernan in the early 1990s, “Grace Kelly could have played the part.”

Could we possibly be having a McCarthy Moment in fashion? This season’s little black cutaway dress from Balenciaga? Or that pretty tie-neck blouse from Lanvin (just look at the author’s portrait-sitting with Cecil Beaton)? She visited both design houses and shopped for leather goods at Mark Cross, cashmere at Brooks Brothers, suits at Bonwit Teller and gloves and scarves at Hermès. All last summer we had espadrilles (hers came from Lanvin); this fall features 1940s-ish cropped jackets, and Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is grooving on Peter Pan collars.

Many female writers whom Ms. McCarthy inspired intellectually reflect her style as well. A. M. Homes’s new McCarthy-ish novel, “May We Be Forgiven,” earned her an austere, short-waisted photo straight out of the McCarthy playbook. The cover art of Susanna Moore’s latest, a World War II novel called “The Life of Objects,” elicits a McCarthy double-take: a woman’s photograph from the ’30s, in profile, naturally, hair in a bun.

Mentioning her name evokes not only the extraordinary number of images of the writer published over the years, but “a literary figure, a political figure, an urbane figure, a very witty figure who had honesty and wasn’t shy about expressing her opinions,” said Ronald Patkus, who organized the Vassar show. “It’s time for people to think about the role she played in the early and mid-20th century.”

Claire Messud, a novelist and critic, refers to the intertwining of Ms. McCarthy’s appearance and pointed intellect as a stance inherited from Edith Wharton and “the glamorous Europeans, like Louise de Vilmorin or the Mitfords or Elizabeth Bowen.”

She added, “McCarthy was probably one of the first female intellectuals I was aware of, and there was this sense of the presentation of yourself as not so much distinctive as elegant, of presenting yourself with respect — self-respect was manifest.”

This packs a particular relevance for young female writers today, said Elissa Schappell, a novelist and a founding editor of the literary magazine Tin House.

“The way she looked had the mark of someone who knows herself,” she said. “Like with her inner life and writing: she could be zingy and ruthless but never sloppy. There was a certain precision and candor, very incisive and sharp. I didn’t know she wore designer clothing, but it doesn’t surprise me. There’s always something very clean, thought-out. The look was very curated.”

In “Memories of a Catholic Girlhood,” Ms. McCarthy wrote: “It was the idea of being noticed that consumed all my attention. The rest, it seemed to me, would come of itself.”

The writer’s likeness was used as cover art for many of her books. Among the photographers were Philippe Halsman, Evelyn Hofer and Mr. Beaton. The cover drawing of the 1955 paperback of “The Company She Keeps” was based on a seminude photograph of the writer from the back, a particular favorite of Edmund Wilson, to whom she was tempestuously married for seven years.

Ms. McCarthy’s husbands (she had four) and affairs were strung like the pearls she wore around her neck. But she refused to call herself the feminist she was in everything but name, dismissing the movement as whiny, greedy and shrill. As evinced by her notorious standoff with Lillian Hellman, she also loved a good fight. Norman Mailer challenged her to a boxing match.

“Women writers are still dealing with that whole thing we were taught since the playground: if you’re smart, you can’t be pretty,” Ms. Schappell said. “Well, of course you can be both, and from Mary McCarthy you get that. Just because I want to be taken as seriously as a man doesn’t mean I have to dress like a man.”

Despite her fear of becoming a “hausfrau,” Ms. McCarthy entertained a lot, and her surroundings were as important to her as her clothes (as they are for her characters). Throughout her fiction, she recycled her Russel Wright cocktail shaker and taste for Scandinavian modern furniture. She took eight suitcases to report on Vietnam.

Alison West, Ms. McCarthy’s stepdaughter (the author’s last husband was the diplomat James West), lives in New York with many of the possessions she inherited from the writer’s later mode: neo-Classical bronzes and furniture, some jewelry, many books.

“I just finished a piece for the centenary on the fact that Mary would read to us, whether it was Howard Pyle’s ‘King Arthur’ or the blue and red guides” for sightseeing, Ms. West said.

“She was a person of exacting standards: she loved beautiful language and very exact grammar,” she added. “She was absolutely individual.”
557 2012-10-21 Credit: Paul Stenquist for The New York Times
558 2012-10-21 Adell Aldrich, a frequent script supervisor on her father’s movies, said that “Twilight” was one of his favorites. “I know he truly believed in it,” she said. “He was afraid that it could happen.”

Aldrich’s no-holds-barred pictures were known for their fierce-willed characters and subversive undertones. His work included brash classics like “The Dirty Dozen,” “What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?” and “Kiss Me Deadly,” as well as the seminal western “Vera Cruz” and “Ulzana’s Raid,” a veiled Vietnam critique. His “Killing of Sister George” was rated X for its lesbian TV-star heroine, while the Depression-era “Emperor of the North” pitted hobos against rail cops in bruising fights.

Born to privilege, a cousin to Nelson A. Rockefeller, Aldrich played college football, worked at booking big bands and ultimately chose Hollywood over banking or politicking. (He was also disinherited, his daughter has said.) Aldrich worked his way up in the industry: as a first assistant director in high demand, he helped Lewis Milestone, Charlie Chaplin and blacklistees. He even started his own studio.

“Twilight” happily reunited him with Lancaster for the fourth time on a project that spoke to their liberal views. The barrel-chested star had headlined a couple of pointed political thrillers: “Seven Days in May” (1964) in which he played a general engineering a coup; and “Executive Action” (1973), a talky drama that attributed John F. Kennedy’s death to a military-industrial conspiracy.

In “Twilight,” Lancaster’s Dell is a wounded idealist, especially sympathetic opposite Widmark’s scheming general. Aldrich based Dell on a conflicted Navy admiral he once observed venting at a party, and drew some research about containment theories from Henry Kissinger’s 1957 treatise “Nuclear Weapons and Foreign Policy.” Yet Dell’s reckless willingness to threaten nuclear holocaust makes him difficult to embrace as a hero.

“The film is so tough, so explicit,” said Giulia D’Agnolo Vallan, a programmer who organized an Aldrich retrospective in Turin, Italy, in 2006. “It combines Aldrich’s political views, his distrust for power and government in general, with his anarchic streak.”

Aldrich made the film more politically charged than its source, the Walter Wager novel “Viper Three.” The screenplay (credited to Ronald M. Cohen and Edward Huebsch) even featured an opening montage cutting between images of the dead Patrice Lumumba and Salvador Allende and pictures of Eisenhower and Nixon. As it stands, the film begins with Billy Preston’s rendering of “My Country ’Tis of Thee” playing over credits and a still of the Statue of Liberty.

Despite the American trappings, filming took place on sets built near Munich, because most of the financing came from Bavaria Studios. A clearing by Bavarian woods stood in for the missile base’s Montana setting. The tanks were German, as the American military, perhaps unsurprisingly, wouldn’t provide support.

Despite his reputation as a maverick, Aldrich was a careful steward. He completed the $6 million picture 10 days early, and used two cameras at once, providing different shots for the same scene.

Burt Young, who played one of the convicts, recalls the director’s generosity with the crew. “He sent me to a clothing store in Beverly Hills, and fixed me up with two thousand-dollar suits — had nothing to do with the plot,” Mr. Young recalled with a laugh. “I was in fatigues the whole movie!”

When released, “Twilight’s Last Gleaming” did not have quite the impact Aldrich, or Lancaster, might have hoped. It performed poorly at the box office. The geopolitical maneuvering that Dell decries was an open secret, and audiences may have experienced a certain fatigue.

Yet Aldrich, who made three more films before his death at 65, thought the premise of “Twilight” was still plenty persuasive.

“I don’t care how smart Jimmy Carter is, or how cynical,” he said in a 1977 interview. “There are going to be things that he never had an inkling of that he’s going to learn in those four years.”

But the director also had another, pressing concern about the new president.

“I can’t get him to come to the movie!”
559 2012-10-21 Ina Drew was clearly a talent, despite her lack of zoomed-out vision. What’s much, much harder to find is someone who has both kinds of judgment — a technical genius who can talk shop with the quants on the credit desk and see risks as they arise but also manage people and analyze the many nonfinancial vectors involved in being a Wall Street bank. Drew’s former boss, Jamie Dimon, was once thought to be one of these C.E.O.’s; now his omnipotence is suspect. There may be others hidden in upper management at big banks. But there also may not be. If Drew is any indication, it’s quite possible to succeed wildly on Wall Street without quite having it all. KEVIN ROOSE, the Daily Intel blog on nymag.com

Drew got the raw deal and was singled out for unmerited negative treatment and blame. She lost $6 billion, but she probably made billions more for the bank and could have done so again. The bank seems to have recovered. Drew was compelled to resign while others dusted off their hands and implied that the banking industry had mended its ways. STEAMTIMES, Florida, posted on nytimes.com

A department head who loses $6 billion will be expected to accept responsibility and resign. This article reinforces a stereotype that female executives should be treated differently. The portrayal of Drew at the end: smeared mascara, tremor in her left hand, “physically weaker” and asking for help is sex-biased and implies that she could not handle the pressure because of her sex. MONICA FISHER, Los Angeles, posted on nytimes.com

THE MITT WHO MIGHT HAVE BEEN

The Times Magazine features a long retrospective on the tenure of a particular Massachusetts governor. You know the guy: salt-and-pepper hair, winning smile, 45 kids. . . . It’s the sort of article that responsible citizens should carve out 30 minutes to read. For the first time that I’ve seen, it walks through how Romney governed — and how, halfway through his first and only term in office, he began to rejigger his positions with an eye toward the presidency. PHILIP BUMP, the Gristmill blog on grist.org

I lived in Boston during the Romney years, and he did a decent job. And he stayed put. Most other governors left a big mess to someone else. But Romney put in place a health care system that worked, amid much controversy. I just wish he would stop pandering to his right-wing base and stay somewhere in the middle where most voters are, and perhaps he might find people will listen. JANICE BADGER NELSON, Park City, Utah, posted on nytimes.com

This article shows how difficult it is to pin down a political chameleon. As governor, Romney was interested in global warming and stem-cell research until he found that they were unpopular with the Republican faithful. Grover Norquist was right when he spoke of what Republicans need in a leader: “We just need a president to sign this stuff.” You must wonder if such subservience in domestic matters and toward Israel is what Americans really want in their chief executive. ANGELA M. MOGIN, Redwood City, Calif., posted on nytimes.com
560 2012-10-22 Senator John McCain sat for a television interview in the spin room before the start of the third presidential debate on Monday in Boca Raton, Fla....
561 2012-10-22 As consumers' trust in banks deteriorates, young companies are pressing their advantage, using technology to pare back costs and improve the customer experience....
562 2012-10-22 The couple who married at 383 Madison Avenue had a past there, working for the now-defunct Bear Stearns....
563 2012-10-22 The insider trading charges against Anthony Chiasson, a co-founder of Level Global Investors, and Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital Management, may end up with one implicating the other as part of a defense strategy....
564 2012-10-22 Scientists have found that living in an area dense with livestock is a significant risk factor for carrying a strain of drug-resistant bacteria associated with farm animals....
565 2012-10-22 The two brands previewed compact crossovers on the eve of the São Paulo auto show....
566 2012-10-22 The technique, involving a parent exhaling a sharp puff of air in the child's mouth to dislodge an object stuck in the nose, is largely effective....
567 2012-10-22 A young African cuckoo at the Central Park Zoo shows off some amazing mouth markings....
568 2012-10-22 Housing affordability is still elusive in some major markets, despite the housing crash....
569 2012-10-22 Joe DePreta joined Pearl Media, Fairfield, N.J., in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had most recently been chief marketing officer at Wharton Innovative Products, Wharton, N.J.

Regan Devlin and Stephanie Fioretti joined Siquis, Baltimore, after they both worked at TIG Global, now Micros eCommerce, Chevy Chase, Md. Ms. Devlin becomes project manager and Ms. Fioretti becomes account supervisor.

Matt Di Paola joined Critical Mass, Calgary, Alberta, and Chicago, as senior vice president and general manager of the Toronto office. He succeeds Cameron Bedford, who is now vice president for strategy at Klick Health, Toronto. Mr. Di Paola had been chief strategy and innovation officer at MediaCom Canada, part of the MediaCom unit of GroupM, which is owned by WPP. Critical Mass is owned by the Omnicom Group.

Kerry Fitzmaurice joined the New York office of Mother in a new post, director for new business and communications. She had been director for earned media at 72andSunny, Los Angeles, part of MDC Partners.

Evan Fry rejoined Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, in a new post, executive director for creative development. He had most recently been chief creative officer at Victors & Spoils, Boulder, Colo., which he help to found in 2009 after leaving Crispin Porter & Bogusky. (Havas recently bought a majority stake in Victors & Spoils.)

Timothy Garcia joined the San Francisco office of Moasis in a new post, vice president for business development and emerging markets. He had been product marketing manager for the Oceania region at the Sydney office of Nokia.

Rei Inamoto, chief creative officer at AKQA, part of WPP, who is based in the New York office, is becoming vice president and chief creative officer and will also take over the management of the office. He assumes those duties from David Bentley, general manager for the New York office, who “decided to move on,” the agency said.

Just Born Inc., Bethlehem, Pa., chose the Terri & Sandy Solution, New York, as agency of record for its Peeps brand of candy. Peeps has not worked with an agency for several years. Spending was estimated at more than $10 million over the next few years. To mark the new account, the agency created a video that depicts its principals as Peeps.

Chris Knoch joined IgnitionOne, New York, in a new post, United States vice president for sales. He had most recently been global vice president for client services at Kenshoo Social.

Marc Marin joined Plink, Denver, a loyalty program, in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had most recently been involved in founding PurePlay, an online poker Web site.

Massage Envy, Philadelphia, which offers therapeutic massages, chose LevLane, Philadelphia, as its first advertising agency of record. Spending was not disclosed. Massage Envy is a co-op of franchisees of a Scottsdale, Ariz., company, Massage Envy Franchising, who are located in Pennsylvania, Southern New Jersey and Delaware.

Mick McCabe joined Leo Burnett USA, Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe, as chief strategy officer. He succeeds Stephen Hahns-Griffith, who left in August, the agency said. Mr. McCabe had been chief strategy officer at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, owned by MDC Partners; Jonah Bloom, director for strategy at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal, will assume Mr. McCabe’s duties. Mr. McCabe is the second senior executive to leave Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal recently; Adweek.com reported that Faris Yakob, chief innovation officer at the agency, is leaving after his contract was not renewed.

Todd McNulty joined Crown Media Family Networks, Los Angeles, as senior vice president for creative services. He succeeds Marvin Dorson, who is now vice president for on-air promotions at Fox Movie Channel, part of News Corporation. Mr. McNulty had been vice president for marketing at TV Guide Network, owned by Lions Gate Entertainment. Crown Media Family Networks is part of the Crown Media Holdings unit of Hallmark Cards.

Kimberly Miller joined the Los Angeles office of ID Media, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, senior vice president and director for media strategy. She had most recently been a vice president at ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe.

Alison Moore joined DailyCandy, New York, as executive vice president and general manager. She succeeds Beth Ellard, who left, the company said, to pursue other opportunities. Ms. Moore had been senior vice president for digital products at HBO, New York, part of Time Warner. DailyCandy is part of the NBCUniversal Entertainment and Digital Networks and Integrated Media division of NBCUniversal, owned by Comcast.

Stephen F. Quinn, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at Walmart U.S., part of Wal-Mart Stores, was elected chairman of the Association of National Advertisers for a two-year term. He succeeds Gary Elliott, vice president for brand marketing at Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Quinn had been vice chairman of the association, and succeeding him in that post is Mark Baynes, senior vice president and chief marketing officer at the Kellogg Company.

Tom Richardson joined Digitaria, San Diego, part of the JWT unit of WPP, in a new post, head of digital product innovation. For the last three years, Mr. Richardson has been a WPP fellow as part of the WPP Marketing Fellowship and chose the Digitaria post as his final placement in the three-year program. Also, Rachel Gigli joined Digitaria as an account director; she had been an account director at the London office of JWT.

Rich Santiago joined BBDO Atlanta as senior vice president and director for behavioral planning. He succeeds Catrina McAuliffe, who left the agency last year. Mr. Santiago had most recently been director for global insights and innovation at Brand USA, Washington. BBDO Atlanta is part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicom Group.

Veronica Smiley joined SBE, Los Angeles, the hospitality company led by Sam Nazarian, in a new post, chief marketing officer. She had been vice president for corporate marketing at Caesars Entertainment, Las Vegas. SBE recently announced that it planned to open a hotel next year in Manhattan, at 444 Park Avenue South and 30th Street.

Joe Warren joined MPG North America, part of the MPG unit of Havas Media, in a new post, executive vice president and managing director of MPG New York. He had been senior vice president and group planning director at MediaVest, New York, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe. Havas Media is owned by Havas.
570 2012-10-22 The association announced nominees for its 2012 awards, including "The Queen of Versailles," "The Central Park Five," "The Invisible War" and "Searching for Sugar Man."...
571 2012-10-22 China's currency manipulation: not what it was....
572 2012-10-22 A foreign policy debate through an economic lens. | Microsoft hopes Windows 8 will bolster the PC market. | The Weather Channel seeks reinvention as a multimedia enterprise....
573 2012-10-22 We had finished 2011 on a high note, I had money in the bank, and sales for January and February were strong. And then something went haywire....
574 2012-10-22 Bolts on the sedan’s power steering rack may not have been torqued adequately, while a concern over a loose steering-shaft fastener led to an investigation of the Hyundai....
575 2012-10-22 Mr. Serkis, who has portrayed memorable motion-capture characters in "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" and the "Lord of the Rings" movies, will direct and act in a new film version of the George Orwell parable....
576 2012-10-22 If in death the Lebanese security chief has become another totem in March 14th's pantheon of assassinated public figures, in life he was more complex, a symbol of shifting alliances in complex politics....
577 2012-10-22 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
578 2012-10-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
579 2012-10-22 Economic alarm bells, a $41,500 refrigerator, Michael Jordan's barbecue sauce, and have you said anything you regretted on Twitter?...
580 2012-10-22 The unreal, inauthentic, American Durga Puja experience....
581 2012-10-22 Venus Williams won her first WTA tournament in more than two years, beating Monica Niculescu, 6-2, 6-3, at the Luxembourg Open. Williams, ranked No. 41, won her 44th singles title. Niculescu, ranked 70th, lost in the Luxembourg Open final for the second straight year.

¶ Caroline Wozniacki beat Samantha Stosur, 6-2, 4-6, 7-5, in the final of the Kremlin Cup in Moscow. Andreas Seppi rallied to beat Thomaz Bellucci, 3-6, 7-6 (3), 6-3, to win the men’s final.

¶ Tomas Berdych won his second ATP title this year, rallying against top-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4, in the Stockholm Open.
582 2012-10-22 The gap between the talking points prepared for Ms. Rice and the contemporaneous field reports that seemed to paint a much different picture illustrates how the process of turning raw field reports, which officials say need to be vetted and assessed, into polished intelligence assessments can take days, long enough to make them outdated by the time senior American officials utter them.

Intelligence officials, alarmed that their work has been turned into a political football, defend their approach, noting that senior administration officials receive daily briefings that reflect the consensus of the nation’s array of intelligence agencies, but can also dip into the fast-moving stream of field reports, with the caveat that that information is incomplete and may be flat wrong.

“A demand for an explanation that is quick, definite and unchanging reflects a naïve expectation — or in the present case, irresponsible politicking,” , the director of national intelligence, said at an intelligence symposium on Oct. 9.

The Associated Press reported Friday, for instance, that within 24 hours of the attack, the C.I.A.’s station chief in Tripoli, Libya, e-mailed headquarters that witnesses said the assault was mounted by heavily armed militants. But intelligence officials said Sunday that one report was not enough to establish the attack’s nature.

According to interviews with a half-dozen American officials, including policy makers and intelligence officials, here is a rough chronology of what happened, some details of which The reported Friday.

On Sept. 13, Ms. Rice and other cabinet-level officials were told about the assessment that there had been protests at the diplomatic mission in Benghazi.

“The first briefing was exactly as one would expect in the early aftermath of a crisis,” an American intelligence official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the continuing investigation of the assault. “It carefully laid out the full range of sparsely available information, relying on the best analysis available at the time.” Briefers said extremists were involved in attacks that appeared spontaneous.

On Sunday, Sept. 16, Ms. Rice summed up a common theme she voiced on all five television programs: “What this began as was a spontaneous, not a premeditated, response to what happened, transpired in Cairo,” where protesters angered by invaded the grounds of the American Embassy.

Critics say Ms. Rice overlooked that might have been involved. But when asked by Bob Schieffer of CBS News about Al Qaeda’s possible role, Ms. Rice said: “It’s clear that there were extremist elements that joined and escalated the violence. Whether they were Al Qaeda affiliates, whether they were Libyan-based extremists or Al Qaeda itself, I think, is one of the things we’ll have to determine.”

The unclassified talking points were written by the C.I.A. with input from other intelligence agencies so that members of Congress and senior officials could say something preliminary about the attacks; the points would be expected to be somewhat cautious, American officials said.

“The points clearly reflect the early indications of extremist involvement in a direct assault,” the American intelligence official said. “It wasn’t until after the points were used in public that people reconciled contradictory information and assessed there probably wasn’t a protest around the time of the attack.”

That change in the intelligence community’s assessment did not happen until a series of reviews from Sept. 20 to Sept. 22, an American official said on Sunday. Some of the new information came from American officials evacuated from Benghazi on Sept. 12.

The American intelligence official said it took time to determine “whether extremists took over a crowd, or if the guys who showed up were all militants.”

Mr. Clapper, the director of national intelligence, approved the release of an unusual public statement on Sept. 28 about the evolving intelligence conclusions. His spokesman, Shawn Turner, said then that analysts had revised their assessments “to reflect new information indicating that it was a deliberate and organized terrorist attack carried out by extremists.”

By the end of last week, intelligence officials settled into a new position that they had been suggesting for several days. American officials cautioned that it, too, could change as more information became available.

“Right now, there isn’t any intelligence that the attackers preplanned their assault days or weeks in advance,” said the intelligence official. “The bulk of available information supports the early assessment that the attackers launched their assault opportunistically after they learned about the violence at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo.”
583 2012-10-22 With two weeks remaining before Election Day, advocates for creating a system of public financing for state elections are preparing to funnel at least $600,000 into two State Senate races in an effort to make money in politics a more prominent campaign issue.

Two outside groups, one started by a son of the billionaire financier George Soros and the other by the husband of the Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes, are preparing to show television advertisements in the Hudson Valley and Buffalo area to promote candidates who favor tightening the state’s campaign fund-raising rules. Other advocates are planning a statewide tour, the Caravan of Corruption, to highlight Albany’s long history of ethical transgressions. Some progressive leaders are urging Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to take a more active role in supporting candidates who favor public financing of campaigns.

Government reformers are hoping that with “super PACs” dominating the presidential race, voters in New York will be more interested than ever in confronting the flood of money into the political system, providing a window of opportunity in Albany to overhaul campaign fund-raising laws that are among the most lenient in the country. They are pushing for the state to adopt a campaign fund-raising system modeled after the one used in New York City, where candidates can receive $6 in public money for every dollar they raise from small individual donors.

Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said last week that the proposal could be among those that lawmakers consider if they return to Albany for a special session after the Nov. 6 elections. In the meantime, a coalition of labor unions and government reform organizations is trying to rally support for what they refer to as “fair elections,” starting with a push to raise awareness among voters.

The efforts could have implications for control of the State Senate, where Republicans hold a slim majority. In the Hudson Valley, where a new Senate seat created through the redistricting process is seeing one of the most competitive races in the state, advocates of public financing have earmarked at least $500,000 for advertising to support the Democratic candidate, Cecilia Tkaczyk. That outlay dwarfs the fund-raising by Ms. Tkaczyk, who at the beginning of October had just under $35,000 in her campaign treasury.
584 2012-10-22 As the case count rises day by day, experts are racing to see if they can determine which patients among all those exposed are most likely to contract meningitis. If they can identify the high-risk patients, doctors can follow them intensively with spinal taps and other tests in hopes of detecting the disease and treating it early enough to prevent its dreadful complications.

As early as Monday, health officials may be able to offer doctors a method to estimate a patient’s risk and help decide how aggressive the follow-up should be, Dr. Marion Kainer of the Health Department said on Friday during a telephone conference.

In Tennessee, which has had more cases and deaths (69 cases and 9 deaths as of Saturday) than any other state, the State Health Department has found that one lot (06292012@26) infected more patients than others, and that the older the medicine when it was given and the higher the dose, the more likely a patient was to get sick. But Dr. Kainer emphasized that another lot (08102012@51), more of which went to other states, also appeared to be heavily contaminated and risky. She said researchers thought older medicine was riskier because the fungus was multiplying in the vials and making them more dangerous.

The earlier treatment begins, the better. Doctors do not want to wait until patients become seriously ill — but they say they must also avoid treating people who are not infected, because the drugs have severe side effects.

Yet doctors responding to the outbreak say it can be extremely difficult to determine whether symptoms are getting worse in people who were probably already suffering from chronic pain.

The stress of knowing that they have been exposed to a potentially deadly infection is also making matters more difficult. During the teleconference, one doctor said, “To be real honest, I believe I would have symptoms if I had been told I was given this medication.”

So far, most of the meningitis cases have been caused by a fungus called Exserohilum, a type of black mold. People with severe symptoms have been hospitalized and given high intravenous doses of a powerful antifungal drug, voriconazole, that can cause liver and kidney problems, and .

But when the symptoms are mild and a spinal tap finds evidence of early infection, some patients can be treated at home with pills, said Dr. Carol Kauffman, an expert on fungal diseases at the . It is not clear how long the treatment will have to continue.

The medical profession has no experience in treating Exserohilum infections of the nervous system, said Dr. Thomas F. Patterson, chief of at the Health Science Center in . However, he said that in a meningitis outbreak in in 2002, also caused by a black mold, voriconazole cured four of five patients (the fifth died). That outbreak was also caused by a contaminated steroid injected for back pain, also made by a compounding pharmacy (not the one).

Mrs. Literski, a retired school guidance counselor, has already had one spinal tap to look for signs of meningitis. It was negative, but doctors warned that the disease could still develop later and that she might have to be tested again. The test is unpleasant, and her mother has declined it.

Mrs. Literski previously tried spinal injections for disc disease, without success. She then had two back operations, but still had severe pain. Desperate for relief, she tried the injections again in August and again on Sept. 20.

On Oct. 3, before hearing about the meningitis outbreak, she woke up with a severe and a stiff neck. She does not commonly have headaches. Two days later, on a Friday, she heard about the outbreak. That weekend, she had a headache, nausea and , and very early on Oct. 8, when she got up to use the bathroom, she passed out, something that had never happened before.

She went to the emergency room, where doctors performed a spinal tap and told her the results were normal. But they said she should come back if her headache worsened.

So far, the headache has not worsened, but it has been severe, she said on Friday.

“I don’t want to be tested again unless I have to,” she said.

She has consulted a lawyer, Alyson Oliver in , Mich., who said that about a half dozen other patients had also contacted her.

Mrs. Literski said she felt “terribly guilty” because her mother, who previously had the injections and thought they helped, had planned to get them at a different clinic, until Mrs. Literski talked her into switching.

“I was the one who encouraged her to come to the Brighton facility so I could be with her,” Mrs. Literski said.

She added: “I’m concerned that my mother isn’t sharing symptoms because she’s terrified to have a spinal tap.”

For herself, Mrs. Literski said, the only option seems to be to wait and see.

She said, “It’s like an ominous cloud following me around every day, sapping the joy out of life because you’re waiting to find out if you have a deadly disease festering in your body.”
585 2012-10-22 ¶Macy’s, part of Macy’s Inc., New York, chose Carat, New York, part of the Aegis Group, to handle its television and digital media planning and buying assignment, which had been handled by MEC, part of the GroupM unit of WPP. Spending was estimated at $500 million to $700 million. The account does not include newspaper media buying, which is handled internally.

¶Wendy’s Company, Dublin, Ohio, expanded its agency roster by selecting VML, Kansas City, Mo., part of WPP, as its digital agency of record, handling duties that include the Wendy’s Web site, apps and social media. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Publicis Kaplan Thaler, New York, part of the Publicis Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe, which continues as the advertising agency of record for Wendy’s.

¶LegalZoom, Glendale, Calif., named MEC North America as media agency of record, working with the MEC office in Irvine, Calif. The assignment, with billings estimated at $50 million, had been handled by Initiative, part of the IPG Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. MEC North America is part of the MEC unit of GroupM, which is owned by WPP.

¶Bob Winter joined Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, to lead the agency’s Miami creative department as executive creative director, succeeding Ari Merkin, who left. Mr. Winter had been chief creative officer of the Chicago office of Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Group unit of WPP, where he is being succeeded by Bill Cimino; Mr. Cimino had been senior vice president and executive creative director at the Chicago office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, where he also served as the global creative director on the agency’s McDonald’s account.

¶Susan Kim-Kirkland, executive vice president and managing director at JWT Canada, Toronto, part of the JWT unit of WPP, was promoted to chief executive, succeeding Tony Pigott, who is taking a new post, global chief executive at JWT Ethos, the social change and corporate social responsibility practice at JWT. Mr. Pigott is also being named nonexecutive chairman at JWT Canada.
586 2012-10-23 The agreement between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney about the practically unlimited reach of presidential power keeps us from talking about where the limits ought to be....
587 2012-10-23 A recurrent image in “The Zen of Bennett,” Unjoo Moon’s tender, touching documentary portrait of the singer Tony Bennett, now 86, is of an unblinking eye in the sky gazing through turbulent clouds. It is as good a visual metaphor as any for the career of a singer who has flourished by keeping a steady focus on what has mattered most to him for more than six decades: the American Songbook.

If Mr. Bennett looks down from on high, he also looks up from below. For there is hardly a moment when you are not aware that Mr. Bennett, who appears soft-spoken, unpretentious and sometimes at a loss for words, comes from a place of deep humility. He admits to having made “mistakes.” And his emphasis on the word suggests that they were not trivial. But that was then. As for now, he declares, “I love to sing and paint, and as far as I’m concerned, I’ve never worked a day in my life,” adding that “they’re the only things I know how to do.”

Along the way he has weathered the interference of music moguls like Mitch Miller, who pressured him to record commercial fluff for Columbia Records, and waited out the rock insurgency of the 1960s and ’70s that made him and the music he championed profoundly unfashionable.

But guided by his son, Danny, credited as the movie’s creator and producer, he re-emerged as a Frank Sinatra-like musical elder statesman, minus the rancor and volatility. A benign, grandfatherly figure, he is revered as the epitome of cool by younger generations of performers.

Ms. Moon’s film was made during the sessions for Mr. Bennett’s recent blockbuster album, “Duets II.” And he is shown interacting with Norah Jones, Lady Gaga, John Mayer, Amy Winehouse, Michael Bublé, Andrea Bocelli, Aretha Franklin and others.

Some of these encounters are perfunctory. But several are electrifying. His hot duet on “Body and Soul” with Ms. Winehouse was her last recording before she died at 27. In the movie’s saddest moment, they express their shared admiration for the great R&B singer Dinah Washington, an obvious influence on Ms. Winehouse, who observes, “She died so young.”
588 2012-10-23 Lawyers for Raj Rajaratnam, who was sentenced to 11 years in prison for insider trading, contend that the government improperly obtained a wiretap in violation of federal laws on electronic surveillance....
589 2012-10-23 Apple sells screens that range from 2.5-inch iPods to 27-inch iMacs. Could an Apple-branded television be the next screen from the company?...
590 2012-10-23 Consumer groups says a new federal court ruling could threaten the effectiveness of saferproducts.gov, a relatively new federal database of unsafe products....
591 2012-10-23 The 10 winners receiving $50,000 each include Danai Gurira and Samuel D. Hunter....
592 2012-10-23 Another fancy watch has disappeared from a portrait of a leading Russian -- this time, the president of Udmurtia, a small ethnic republic in Russia's Volga district....
593 2012-10-23 The service has hit a milestone with 25 million households subscribing in the United States, but it isn't adding subscribers fast enough to satisfy investors or its own forecasts....
594 2012-10-23 In this lesson, which includes a slide show of historic photos, students decide whether the crisis stands as an example of cool leadership under pressure or a cascade of error and miscalculation....
595 2012-10-23 Fifty years ago, the Cuban missile crisis cast a shadow over the city and two men who would have played pivotal roles if the worst had happened....
596 2012-10-23 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
597 2012-10-23 Silence reigned on the issue of climate change in all three presidential debates. Frustration is palpable among environmental groups and on college campuses....
598 2012-10-23 Mitt Romney has argued for a more traditional Chapter 11 bankruptcy for General Motors and Chrysler, without any direct government involvement. But at the time, that might not have been possible....
599 2012-10-23 Apple unveiled a smaller iPad and a new iMac on Tuesday at an event at the California Theater in San Jose, Calif....
600 2012-10-23 Central Park has long been a favorite cause for the financial world. Now one of the most prominent names in high finance, John Paulson, has given Manhattan's largest park a record $100 million donation....
601 2012-10-23 Carol Muller displays pictures of herself demonstrating an African dance style at the University of Natal in South Africa.
602 2012-10-23 Debate emphasizes dubious portrayal of China as an economic villain. | What the Federal Reserve might look like under Mitt Romney....
603 2012-10-23 Ally Financial took its biggest step yet to slimming itself down and raising money to repay its $17.2 billion taxpayer-financed bailout after it agreed to sell its Canadian operations to the Royal Bank of Canada for about $4.1 billion....
604 2012-10-23 Restoration Hardware said in a filing on Tuesday that it planned to sell 5.2 million shares at $22 to $24 a share in an initial public offering....
605 2012-10-23 I had developed a new product, supported it with advertising, and now the calls were coming in. Success! Or so I thought....
606 2012-10-23 Ahead of state elections, the election commission is confiscating undocumented cash in transit....
607 2012-10-23 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
608 2012-10-23 Many of the implications of a rising China for the United States were barely addressed by President Obama and Mitt Romney in their debate Monday night. The heated tensions between China and three American allies in the Pacific - Japan, South Korea...
609 2012-10-23 There is now a Dickensian feel to . You walk below the El on Roosevelt Avenue in Corona and find so many hard-fought-for laws — against overcrowded tenements, and wage violations and sanitary conditions — winked at. In this Upstairs, Downstairs city, those at the bottom of the pile learn the virtues of silence.

Of late, however, a coalition of community groups has taken up the cudgel in support of paid sick days. This is a luxury denied to 700,000 to 1.2 million New Yorkers.

The City Council has talked of mandating that all employers with more than five employees provide five paid sick or flexible vacation days.

“Paid sick days should be on par with the minimum wage, the eight-hour day,” says Bill Lipton, deputy director of the Working Families Party.

Perhaps, although in truth New York’s reform pulse flutters weakly. Last year the City Council spent months debating a so-called living wage that in the end, sanded down by compromise, seemed to apply to approximately 14 workers.

Mayor worries a lot about our health; he’s banned in bars and vat-size cups of soda. But suggest that a couple of women should be allowed to take off a day rather than cough bacteria into the chicken quesadillas, and his free-market spine stiffens.

Compromise is no option. When the leaders of Chambers of Commerce in the , Queens and sounded dangerously amenable to a deal, the mayor’s top aides set straight these weak-kneed sorts.

When more than 100 owners of small businesses signed a petition urging the City Council to pass sick-days legislation, some sharp-eyed fellow working against the bill happened to notice that a few of these owners had city liens.

Voilà! The New York Post published an article proclaiming: “They want more government mandates but can’t even pay their taxes.”

In theory, a sizable majority of the City Council supports sick days. In reality, few of this often emasculated body will buck the Council speaker, , particularly as she has a case of the mayoral fevers and much desires the endorsement of Mr. Bloomberg.

Could it pass despite her opposition, I ask a councilman who favors the legislation. “Totally free to vote their conscience, the vast majority would vote for sick days,” he notes brightly.

Then he acknowledges that conscience does not rate so high on the scale of useful City Council attributes.

Ms. Quinn, unlike the mayor, takes pain to express her sympathy with those who say they’d like a day or two off if they or their children fall ill. A former tenant organizer, she recognizes that this city is defined as much by the crowded shift-bedrooms of Elmhurst as by the resale value of luxurious Chelsea co-ops.

“I really don’t think this is a good idea for small businesses at this time,” she says. “But the economy has not yet turned the corner and we’ll put them in harm’s way.”

Opponents have placed the cost of the sick-days bill as high as $800 million. But those mathematics are more than a bit dubious, relying on assumptions that every single employee would take the maximum number of sick days, and then some.

More to the point, you wonder if perhaps there are a few jobs that a 21st-century global capital perhaps should consider passing on.

Ms. Alvarez recently found a new job. Her pay is a touch better. Does she, I ask, have sick days? She shrugs.

“They haven’t said anything,” she says. “I just pray to God each night I have good health.”
610 2012-10-23 A former senior official at the Research Foundation for the State University of New York used his foundation credit card to pay for nearly $131,000 in hockey tickets, iPhones, Godiva chocolates, groceries and other personal expenses, according to an audit released on Monday.

The review, by the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, also questioned why foundation money had been used to pay for a private club membership for the chancellor of the State University system, Nancy L. Zimpher, and for alcoholic beverages at functions hosted by her office. And it raised broader concerns about weak controls over spending and procurement at the foundation, which supports nearly $1 billion in research across the State University system each year.

“For too long, SUNY Research Foundation employees took advantage of lax oversight to cheat taxpayers, skirt state laws and violate the foundation’s own policies,” Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement.

The audit comes almost 17 months after the president of the research foundation, John J. O’Connor, resigned under scrutiny. The state ethics commission had accused him of giving a no-show job to Susan Bruno, the daughter of a former State Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno; Mr. DiNapoli’s office said it had referred questions regarding Ms. Bruno’s employment to the attorney general’s office.

The State University system started its own review of the research foundation before the comptroller’s audit. In a statement on Monday, Dr. Zimpher described the audit as “an opportunity to acknowledge past problems” and said the foundation had put in place new policies in many of the areas that Mr. DiNapoli highlighted.
611 2012-10-23 Some were killed in battle, some were taken as prisoners of war, and many died of cold and disease. A few, however, ultimately decided to convert to Islam, marry Afghan women and make their lives here. Some went to Pakistan and others ultimately fled to Europe or South Africa, according to books on the period.

Mr. Lavrentyev’s main goal is to help the families of those whose fate remains unknown (roughly half are Russian and the others are from former Soviet republics).

“Their loved ones are still waiting for them. So this conference is to ask people to help us,” he said, appealing especially to Afghan journalists who, he said, talk to many more people than his committee can. He hoped that they would be able to go to areas that are again conflict zones, but where Soviet soldiers may be buried in unmarked graves.

“Sometimes people ask, ‘why are you working on this issue and reopening old wounds?’ And I always have the same answer: I recommend to everyone that they go to the mother who has lost her son and she will tell you his story,” he said.

For such families, the stories have awaited final chapters for decades: is our son, our brother, dead? Or is there a chance he has adopted a new life?

“What is it they say: the war isn’t over until the last soldier comes home?” said Lt. Col. Dmitry Priymachuk, the Russian Embassy’s assistant military attaché, as he showed in a visitor.

Similar questions have driven a long campaign within the United States to find the dead and missing from the Vietnam era. That the Russian Embassy opened its doors to reporters was a measure of the importance that the missing in Afghanistan still hold for former Soviet republics that are still wrestling with the Afghan war’s legacy.

Several Afghan journalists snapped pictures or recorded video as they walked through the lush rose garden and into the dignified marble reception room of a compound that is usually off limits. The embassy, one of the larger diplomatic installations in Kabul, has been there for many years, but was evacuated in 1992, after it came under fire during an intensified Afghan civil war. It was officially reopened in 2007, as the Russians cautiously began forging a new relationship with Afghanistan.

The present ambassador, Andrey Avetisyan, is a longtime Afghan hand; he was here in the early 1980s, and again when the embassy was evacuated in the ’90s. Fluent in Pashto and Dari as well as English, he co-hosted the news conference, taking questions in Dari.

Mr. Lavrentyev emphasized the importance of acting now because those who remember the war are dying. In Afghanistan, life expectancy for men is barely 50 years.

Mr. Lavrentyev said that of the nearly 300 Soviet soldiers missing at the time of the withdrawal, 29 have been found. Twenty-two of them returned to Russia; the other seven chose to remain in Afghanistan. The committee has also exhumed 15 remains, and five of them have been identified: three Russians and two Kazakhs. Extensive DNA testing and matching is being done on the remains of the other 10 to determine their identity.

The remains of three were buried this year: Sergey Kolesov of St. Petersburg, and Alexey Zyev and Abdulhakim Ezgeshov of Kazakhstan. Mr. Ezgeshov, a Muslim, was buried with the proper Islamic rites, Mr. Lavrentyev said. He seemed to want to emphasize to the mostly Afghan audience that whatever Afghans might believe about Russians, they respected Islam and wanted to do right by all their soldiers regardless of their background.

A number of Soviet soldiers in Afghanistan were Muslims, often from republics on Afghanistan’s borders. For them the war was particularly emotionally fraught, as they were compelled to fight Afghan Muslims who believed they were engaged in a holy war.

Some defectors came from such backgrounds, but a number of those who ended up staying in Afghanistan were ethnic Russians, many of whom felt compelled to convert to Islam.

Among the most famous was a man known as Islamuddin, who converted and married an Afghan and became a bodyguard to Ahmed Shah Massoud, the Tajik commander who was a fierce opponent of the Taliban. Islamuddin has returned to Russia with his wife, who is being treated in a Russian hospital, and family, said Mr. Lavrentyev, who said Islamuddin had helped him locate potential areas of excavation in Panjshir and Parwan Provinces, where Massoud was active.

Mr. Lavrentyev estimates there are 30 to 40 others who stayed and are still living somewhere in Afghanistan or Pakistan.
612 2012-10-23 And despite a few warnings from bankers, the farmland boom shows no signs of slowing. Almost every year since 2005, except during the start of the recession in 2008, agriculture land prices have posted double-digit gains. In the same period, the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index has had double-digit gains in only three of those years.

An August survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago showed a 15 percent increase in farmland prices since last year across a region that covers Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin and Michigan. Another survey released at the same time from the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City showed even higher growth in the Great Plains states, where farmland prices have increased 26 percent since last year.

The two Fed surveys and sales data have raised concerns from bank regulators about a potential farmland bubble, similar to the housing frenzy that helped set off the financial crisis. A year ago, rising farmland prices prompted regulators to warn banks not to relax lending standards. In July, the Kansas City Fed held a symposium to discuss concerns about a bubble.

“Any time you have an asset that doubles in value over a decade, there is cause for concern about how sustainable that growth is,” said Richard A. Brown, chief economist at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

For farmers in the land hunt, a potential bubble was barely a concern. Many said they needed to buy more land to expand their businesses so they can generate more income. And in this wobbly economy, they found safety in stashing their money in farmland.

“What’s a C.D. at the bank? Half a percent,” said Clark Wadle, who attended the auction. “What’s the stock market? Unstable. Whether land prices go up or they go down again, you still have the property.”

The winning bidder, Gaylord Jones of Eagle Grove, said that buying farmland was a way to invest on his own terms.

“I don’t buy stocks,” he said. “This way, I make my own damn mistakes.”

The worst drought in decades this summer seemed a distant memory here as about two dozen farmers escaped the cold and rain for the coffee-and-cookie-infused air inside the lodge where the auction was held.

In some cases, the drought has benefited farmers seeking land. Brent Kuehnast, who bought 190 acres this summer to add to the roughly 1,200 his family owns, said the drought helped him negotiate a below-market price on the property near his home in Humboldt, Iowa.

But the drought also caused some anxiety over his purchase.

On a recent afternoon, as his pickup truck bobbed like a vessel in choppy water over the dirt of his new plot, Mr. Kuehnast, 44, smiled when asked how often he inspected his new land, which he will start farming next year.

“All the time,” he said. “I like to find out where it needs to be improved.”

No state has benefited more from the farmland boom than Iowa.

According to an agriculture land survey by Iowa State University, prices have risen 32 percent since 2010. Statewide, farmland prices averaged $6,700 an acre, the highest ever, even after adjusting for inflation. Four years ago, prices averaged $3,900 an acre.

Because of the strong demand for farmland, banking regulators fear that farmers could take on more debt to make purchases, a repeat of the 1970s and early 1980s, when overleveraged farmers used their farms as collateral to buy up more land. The resulting debt led to a slew of bankruptcies and plummeting land values.

Those days are fresh in the mind of John Kintzle, 68, who lives near Cedar Rapids and attended the auction here in north-central Iowa just to observe. Back then, he said, prices dropped from $3,000 an acre to $1,000 an acre in three years.

“I’m a little gun-shy,” he said, though he added that he was open to purchasing. “My wife thinks I’m nuts.”

Economists say that so far there are few signs of a repeat of those days.

Agriculture Department data show that net farm income is expected to increase to $122 billion this year from $117 billion in 2011, a 4 percent increase even with the effects of the drought. That’s the highest income level since 1973 on an inflation-adjusted basis. Economists say farmland values are getting a boost from corn and soybean prices, which had reached records highs because of the drought.

Farmers are carrying less debt than they were 30 years ago, and low interest rates are also a factor because they make it less costly for farmers to borrow. The federal crop insurance program also plays a role in keeping farmland prices high, by covering a majority of losses in revenue or crop yields.

Regulators, however, say that despite the continued growth in farmland prices there are reasons to be cautious. Some lenders have reported that a number of farmers are taking out loans based on the current value of their land to take advantage of the farmland boom.

Fed officials and some real estate brokers said these buyers could be in trouble if interest rates rose and crop prices fell. This could cause farmland values to drop by a third to a half, putting farmers at risk of default. Another risk is that if the drought stretches into multiple years, it could interrupt the boom in farmland prices, officials said.

But that was not something to worry about, said Brian Wagner, who stopped his bidding at the auction because he thought values would eventually drop, allowing him to buy a better piece of land at a lower price.

“That would be like me asking you, ‘When you get in your car or on the bus, do you think about getting into an accident?’ ” he said. “Accidents happen randomly. Droughts come and droughts go. They don’t come very often.”
613 2012-10-23 Microsoft said on Monday that it would change its new disclosure policy to tell consumers explicitly that it would not use personal information it collects from users of some Microsoft products to produce or promote targeted online advertising.

The action followed a letter by Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who is co-chairman of the Congressional Bipartisan Privacy Caucus, to Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, expressing concern about the policy, which went into effect on Friday.

In raising questions about Microsoft’s new policy, Mr. Markey cited an Oct. 20 article in The New York Times, which reported that the new Microsoft Services Agreement gave the company broad leeway to collect and use personal information gleaned from consumers of its free, Web-based products like e-mail, search and instant messaging.

The policy allowed Microsoft to use the personal data in targeted advertising, although Microsoft pledged in its blog posts and e-mails to customers that it would not do so. The products affected by the Service Agreement include the company’s Web-based Hotmail and Outlook.com e-mail services, but not the Outlook program that is bought and loaded directly onto a personal computer’s hard drive.

Microsoft said it wanted to make its intentions clear in light of the Times article and the letter from Mr. Markey. “One thing we don’t do is use the content of our customers’ private communications and documents to target advertising,” Microsoft said in a statement released on Monday afternoon.
614 2012-10-23 A Tibetan man, Dhondup, is believed to have died after he set himself on fire on Monday at a monastery in a Tibetan region of western China to protest Chinese rule, according to Free Tibet, an advocacy group based in London. The protest took place at Labrang Monastery, in a town that the Chinese call Xiahe, in Gansu Province. Nearly 60 Tibetans have set themselves on fire since 2009.
615 2012-10-23 Aleksei K. Pushkov, the head of the State Duma’s foreign affairs committee, said debates about human rights have become “a constant feature” of Russia’s relations with the West since the fall of Communism, and that Russia would no longer listen passively. He said Russia had “spoiled the Americans” by remaining silent on their human rights violations for 20 years.

“Yeltsin wanted to make Clinton laugh, and he laughed at all of us,” Mr. Pushkov said of the relationship between Presidents Bill Clinton and Boris N. Yeltsin. “We wanted to win their trust and approval, and they became used to this, so today, when we speak of flagrant violations of human rights in the U.S.A., they are experiencing shock — that we dare to do this. But we are one of the leading countries of the world, and we have the right to do this.”

The most disturbing presentation came from Pavel Astakhov, Russia’s ombudsman for children’s rights, who described in detail abuse of Russian children adopted by American families. Cases of death are not common — Mr. Astakhov counted 19 since adoptions by Americans began — but the descriptions are agonizing. Mr. Astakhov said abusive parents have been given mild punishments because American courts view Russian children as inferior.

“The basis of the jury’s verdict was an interesting one,” he said sardonically, referring to a verdict in the case of a parent whose adopted 7-year-old died of brain trauma. “The boy was born in Russia, the boy was an orphan who was brought up in an orphanage, he has bad genetics, because in fact all Russian orphans are genetically underdeveloped, have an inclination to drug addiction, stealing, self-harm. It turns out the boy beat himself to death on an iron stove.”

Among the speakers was the nationalist leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, who said that “anti-Russian propaganda” in the United States had its roots in Jewish emigration.

“There are 10 million of them there who came from the Soviet Union and new Russia, and they are all prejudiced against our country,” he said. “All of them influence public opinion, the lawyers, the newspapers, and that is where the intensity of the anti-Russian mood comes from.” He was one of several speakers to note that the United States ambassador to Moscow, Michael A. McFaul, had not accepted an invitation to attend.

“It would be unpleasant for him to hear two hours of criticism of his country,” Mr. Zhirinovsky. “But his diplomats are recording it, they will let him know, and today his lunch will be spoiled.”

As lawmakers filed out of the hearing, some marveled at the shift in the political atmosphere. Vyacheslav N. Tetyotkin, a deputy from the Communist Party, said such a hearing would have been “unthinkable” two years ago, when United Russia, the governing party, sought to prevent legislators from other parties from making statements unfriendly toward the United States.

“And suddenly, this same ruling party holds a parliamentary hearing on the violation of human rights in the United States,” he said. Mr. Tetyotkin said that “what changed was the mood within the Russian elite,” who now realized that their American counterparts would not treat Russia as an equal partner, but “as if it were Gambia or something.”

“As well-informed people will tell you, Mr. Medvedev had a slightly different political orientation, much closer to the United States,” he said, referring to the Mr. Putin’s protégé, Dmitri A. Medvedev, who left the presidency in May to allow Mr. Putin to serve a third term.

“Mr. Putin positions himself, though I do not like this term much, as a Russian nationalist.”

The audience at Monday’s hearing consisted largely of invited students, and some emerged upset by the catalog of abuses they had heard. Already, opinions in Russia have been changing since last fall. A poll released in September by the Levada Center, a Moscow-based polling agency, showed positive feelings toward the United States had fallen from 67 percent a year ago to 46 percent today. The hearing left some more convinced.

“The way they humiliated those children, it is horrible,” said Emilia Galimova, 21, a law student. “They tell us that they are the parents of democracy, and that we should learn from them, but they are not paying attention to what is going on in their own country.”
616 2012-10-23 My only option was to leave a day earlier and spend an extra night in a hotel. So I arrived in Houston a little after 11 p.m. on Saturday on a US Airways flight from Tucson that had required a mad dash to make the connection at Phoenix, after the airline abruptly switched gates from one terminal to another.

Incidentally, when I arrived at the Tucson airport at midafternoon on Saturday, I saw 10 flights on the departure board for that day — nine westbound, to places like Los Angeles or San Diego, and not a single one, other than the flight I was on, heading east.

Midsize and smaller airports, which are after all local businesses at their core, have been scrambling to attract more air service, though many aviation experts contend it’s a lost cause because the airlines have become so adept at reducing capacity to keep planes full.

The strategic decisions about air service, usually made in conjunction with the airline’s global alliance partners, “are all about matching costs to revenues that can be generated by any given route,” said Michael Boyd, the president of Boyd Group. “Airlines are no longer chasing passenger volume.”

A result is that the air travel system is contracting, and there are no signs that will change in at least the next few years. The airports that are sponsoring studies to attract new airlines or new nonstop routes are wasting their money, Mr. Boyd said ruefully. “There are no airlines left” that have a strong desire to add new regional capacity, he said, adding: “The cavalry isn’t coming. The cavalry doesn’t even exist anymore.”

Tucson, a vibrant city of more than 500,000 in southern Arizona, is one good example. From 2004 to 2007, air service at the Tucson airport increased 27 percent, said Mary Davis, the airport’s senior director of business development and marketing. Then, as airlines fundamentally shifted strategy and consolidated markets after the spike in fuel prices in 2008 and the economic effects of the recession, the airport “lost about 30 percent of our service,” she said.

“We’re trying to re-engage a conversation with our airline partners and say, look, we understand you need to be profitable; we understand that you’ve had to change your business models; we even understand that airlines are now hub-centered; we understand that if you’re going to have nonstop service, passengers are going to pay a premium for it,” she said. “But where does that leave the middle guy?”

As a middle-guy business traveler, I saw on Saturday that the very, very pleasant Tucson airport was very, very quiet, while the Phoenix airport, a big hub, was so crowded that people were sitting on the floor and gate agents were making desperate calls for volunteers to give up seats on overbooked flights

Meanwhile, at the Houston airport late that night, I waited for a hotel shuttle bus while listening to repetitions of that singularly irritating security announcement used at Houston. You know, the one in which the lady with a voice like Granny on “The Beverly Hillbillies” warns that “inappropriate remarks or jokes concerning security may result in your arrest.”

Don’t worry, I thought. There is absolutely nothing to joke about in any aspect of domestic air travel these days.
617 2012-10-23 Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of tractors and excavators, slashed its 2012 forecast for the second time this year on Monday and warned that the global economy was slowing faster than it had expected.

The caution sign is the latest in a string of forecasts from multinational manufacturers, including General Electric and Honeywell International, that the economic recovery remains tenuous and tepid at best.

Caterpillar’s retail dealers are selling off inventories, rather than buying new machines, forcing the company to idle some production at plants earlier this year with additional shutdowns coming, the company’s executives said on Monday.

“As we’ve moved through the year, we’ve seen continued economic weakening and uncertainty,” Caterpillar’s chief executive, Douglas R. Oberhelman, said in a statement.

Caterpillar does not expect the global economy to begin to improve until the second half of 2013, he added.
618 2012-10-23 Last week, Mr. Udaltsov was briefly taken into custody by investigators. Mr. Markin said that he could face terrorism charges and potentially a sentence of life in prison. Mr. Udaltsov, who is well known by the authorities and has been arrested frequently on minor charges, was released but barred from leaving Russia.

One of his associates, Konstantin Lebedev, was also arrested last week, and officials said then that they were looking for Mr. Razvozzhayev. He has worked for a prominent member of the Russian Parliament, Ilya V. Ponomarev, who is also active in the political opposition.

In a post Friday on the social media site VKontakte, Mr. Razvozzhayev denied all accusations stemming from the NTV documentary, and explained his decision to go into hiding. Mr. Ponomarev, in an interview, said that Mr. Razvozzhayev had gone to the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Kiev to seek asylum.

In a statement, United Nations officials confirmed this account and said they were “deeply concerned about the disappearance” of Mr. Razvozzhayev.

Officials said they had directed Mr. Razvozzhayev to a nonprofit group that provides free legal assistance to asylum seekers, and that he vanished during a lunch break.

“Mr. Razvozzhayev said he would go to a nearby cafeteria for lunch and left his personal belongings in the office,” according to the United Nations statement. “When he did not return to the interview and the lawyer could not contact him on the phone, a missing person’s report was immediately filed.”

The statement noted that governments had legal obligations to protect asylum seekers.

Mr. Markin, the spokesman for the federal Investigative Committee, said that a preliminary investigation had begun into the assertions that Mr. Razvozzhayev had been kidnapped. But Mr. Martin denied that any torture had taken place, and insisted that Mr. Razvozzhayev was in his “right mind” when preparing a 10-page written confession.

Mr. Markin insisted that Mr. Razvozzhayev did not need or request any medical treatment.

“In his admission, he reported in detail on the circumstances of preparing to organize mass riots on Russian Federation territory by himself, Sergei Udaltsov and Konstantin Lebedev,” Mr. Markin said.

About two dozen supporters of Mr. Razvozzhayev gathered outside the headquarters of the Investigative Committee on Monday night, including Mr. Ponomarev and Mr. Udaltsov, who said he expected to be railroaded by the authorities.

“I am under a threat of arrest at any second,” Mr. Udaltsov said, adding, “I think they have in mind a show trial in the spirit of the totalitarian era and a show of swift retribution, in order to intimidate the whole country and prove to everyone that Putin will rule forever.”

The Georgian official accused of meeting with the Russian opposition figures, Givi Targamadze, who is the former chairman of the Defense and Security Committee in the Georgian Parliament, also denied the accusations. “First the Russian law enforcement authorities identified a goal — to arrest Udaltsov,” Mr. Targamadze told the Interfax news agency. “Then, with this goal in mind, they began collecting different absurdities.”

The intrigue surrounding the case of Mr. Razvozzhayev on Monday overshadowed the conclusion of three days of elections by members of Russia’s political opposition to choose a leadership council. The election, conducted entirely by Internet balloting, was scheduled for the weekend, but was extended for a day after the computer system came under a hacker attack.

In the more than 10 months since outrage over fraud in last December’s parliamentary elections spurred tens of thousands of people to demonstrate on the streets of Moscow, the opposition has struggled to develop a cohesive organization and message.

While the rallies have continued, in some cases attracting large crowds, and while white ribbons were adopted by many as a symbol of protest, the opposition remains a loosely formed coalition of disparate groups, including leftists and Communists, neoliberals and conservatives, nationalists, hipsters and a constellation of others.
619 2012-10-23 Even Mr. Agius, who works at the university’s Center for Aviation and is an avid flier, said that taking the train is sometimes a good option. “I would prefer to take the train anytime, simply out of convenience, if the overall journey time from door to door is similar to that by plane,” he said.

About five years ago, the 300-mile trip to Paris from Strasbourg, in eastern France, took six hours. In 2007, the French railroad SNCF began running a high-speed train that made the trip to Charles de Gaulle Airport in two and a half hours. The rail service effectively killed Air France’s Strasbourg flight, a spokeswoman said, and so on Dec. 9, the airline will eliminate its four-times-a-day air service and sell a trip to Paris that goes by rail.

“Passengers will be checked into their final destination by Air France staff at a special check-in desk at Strasbourg station,” the spokeswoman, Claire Jacobs, said.

Replacing an air route with rail is a first for Air France, but it follows an example set nearly 30 years ago when Lufthansa, in Germany, started selling airline tickets with flight numbers on trains operating between the Frankfurt and Düsseldorf airports. By eliminating these flights, airlines like Lufthansa and Air France free up gate slots for more profitable routes — usually long-haul flights.

Outside Europe, however, commercial partnerships between rail and air operators remain novel. This year, for the first time, Canada’s national rail system, VIA Rail, signed agreements with Royal Jordanian Airlines and Air Transat that allow the companies to sell each other’s tickets, coordinate schedules and share revenue.

“This initiative of ours is mostly to allow Royal Jordanian to be competitive in the Ontario market, from where we have no flights and our interline agreement fares with Air Canada are prohibitively high,” said Manouk Manoukian, head of operations for Royal Jordanian in Canada.

Royal Jordanian operates twice-weekly service from Montreal to Amman, and many travelers from Canada transfer to other flights in the region on arrival in Jordan. Much of Canada’s Arab population is in Ottawa (125 miles from Montreal) and Toronto (300 miles).

The partnership “is a solution that will help us achieve a higher level of sales,” Mr. Manoukian said in an e-mail.

Like other code share agreements, the one between Royal Jordanian and VIA allows passengers to buy a complete journey by rail and by air through either company.

“Right from the start, providing door-to-door mobility has been the holy grail,” said Mohamed Bhanji, director of marketing technologies at VIA. The company runs intercity, regional and transcontinental trains, as well as motor coaches, and Mr. Bhanji said its plan was to link Canadian cities to airports across the border: for example, Windsor, Ontario, to Detroit and Vancouver to Seattle.

In other countries, the challenge is instilling a taste for trains among those who prefer air travel. When the Spanish airline Spanair went out of business, Avianca in Colombia has this problem. Spanair had been responsible for sending 10,000 passengers to Colombia on Avianca, and its collapse left the Colombian carrier with a problem in Spain, said the airline’s chief operating officer, Estuardo Ortiz. “Without them, we had no distribution,” he said.

Avianca turned to Spain’s Renfe train system. The deal with Renfe, which went into effect in April, allows Avianca to sell tickets to 15 destinations in Spain departing by rail from airports in Madrid and Barcelona.

Even in places where train travel is common, railroad stations have to be close to or in the airport, as they are in Europe, for the agreements to work, according to a report Mr. Sharp wrote for his air rail organization, which receives support from a Heathrow Airport rail link, Heathrow Express. “A train station at an airport is virtually essential,” it said.

This is why in the United States, Amtrak has just one airline agreement — a 10-year-old code share with United Airlines at Newark, which is near a high-speed train station.

“The U.S. rail system has grown up independently from the airport system,” said Matt Hardison, chief of sales, distribution and customer service at Amtrak. “That is the No. 1 challenge we face.”

About 24,000 people a year take Amtrak to Newark to connect to United flights, with 90 percent of them coming from Philadelphia, 79 miles away, Mr. Hardison said. Travelers in Delaware and Connecticut can also book a combination ticket through Amtrak or United.

“We picked those because we wanted to test underserved cities, places where rail had an advantage over air,” Mr. Hardison said. But, he added, customers traveling from Connecticut encounter 15- to 20-minute layovers at Pennsylvania Station in New York, and that is dissuading them.

“We’re in the transportation business, and we’re all about giving options to the traveling public,” said David Kinzelman, managing director of alliances at United. “Look at the population in the United States. There’s not an aversion to taking a train to the plane, but it’s physically not possible in very many places. It’s a chicken and egg situation.”
620 2012-10-23 He rose to national attention as a leader of the American Indian Movement in 1970 by directing a band of Indian protesters who seized the Mayflower II ship replica at Plymouth, Mass., on Thanksgiving Day. The boisterous confrontation between Indians and costumed “Pilgrims” attracted network television coverage and made Mr. Means an overnight hero to dissident Indians and sympathetic whites.

Later, he orchestrated an Indian prayer vigil atop the federal monument of sculptured presidential heads at Mount Rushmore, S.D., to dramatize Lakota claims to land. In 1972, he organized cross-country caravans converging on Washington to protest a century of broken treaties, and led an occupation of the . He also attacked the “Chief Wahoo” mascot of the baseball team, a toothy Indian caricature that he called racist and demeaning. It is still used.

And in a 1973 protest covered by the national news media for months, he led hundreds of Indians and white sympathizers in an occupation of Wounded Knee, S.D., site of the 1890 massacre of some 350 Lakota men, women and children in the last major conflict of the American Indian wars. The protesters demanded strict federal adherence to old Indian treaties, and an end to what they called corrupt tribal governments.

In the ensuing 71-day standoff with federal agents, thousands of shots were fired, two Indians were killed and an agent was paralyzed. Mr. Means and his fellow protest leader Dennis Banks were charged with assault, larceny and conspiracy. But after a long federal trial in in 1974, with the defense raising current and historic Indian grievances, the case was dismissed by a judge for prosecutorial misconduct.

Mr. Means later faced other legal battles. In 1976, he was acquitted in a jury trial in Rapid City, S.D., of abetting a murder in a barroom brawl. Wanted on six warrants in two states, he was convicted of involvement in a 1974 riot during a clash between the police and Indian activists outside a Sioux Falls, S.D., courthouse. He served a year in a state prison, where he was stabbed by another inmate.

Mr. Means also survived several gunshots — one in the abdomen fired during a scuffle with an Indian Affairs police officer in in 1975, one that grazed his forehead in what he called a drive-by assassination attempt on the Rosebud Indian Reservation in in 1975, and one in the chest fired by another would-be assassin on another South Dakota reservation in 1976.

Undeterred, he led a caravan of Sioux and Cheyenne into a gathering of 500 people commemorating the centennial of Gen. ’s last stand at Little Big Horn in in 1876, the nation’s most famous defeat of the Indian wars. To pounding drums, Mr. Means and his followers mounted a speaker’s platform, joined hands and did a victory dance, sung in Sioux Lakota, titled “Custer Died for Your Sins.”

Russell Charles Means was born on the Pine Ridge reservation on Nov. 10, 1939, the oldest of four sons of Harold and Theodora Feather Means. The Anglo-Saxon surname was that of a great-grandfather. When he was 3, the family moved to the San Francisco Bay area, where his father, a welder and auto mechanic, worked in wartime shipyards.

Russell attended public schools in Vallejo and San Leandro High School, where he faced racial taunts, had poor grades and barely graduated in 1958. He drifted into delinquency, drugs, and street fights. He also attended four colleges, including Arizona State at Tempe, but did not earn a degree. For much of the 1960s he rambled about the West, working as a janitor, printer, cowboy and dance instructor.

In 1969, he took a job with the Rosebud Sioux tribal council in South Dakota. Within months he moved to Cleveland and became founding director of a government-financed center helping Indians adapt to urban life. He also met Mr. Banks, who had recently co-founded the American Indian Movement. In 1970, Mr. Means became the movement’s national director, and over the next decade his actions made him a household name.

In 1985 and 1986, he went to to support indigenous Miskito Indians whose autonomy was threatened by the leftist Sandinista government. He reported Sandinista atrocities against the Indians and urged the Reagan administration to aid the victims. Millions in aid went to some anti-Sandinista groups, but a leader of the Miskito Indian rebels, Rivera, said his followers had not received any of that aid.

In 1987, Mr. Means ran for president. He sought the Libertarian Party nomination but lost to , a former and future congressman from . In 2002, Mr. Means campaigned independently for the New Mexico governorship but was barred procedurally from the ballot.

Mr. Means retired from the American Indian Movement in 1988, but its leaders, with whom he had feuded for years, scoffed, saying he had “retired” six times previously. They generally disowned him and his work, calling him an opportunist out for political and financial gain. In 1989, he told Congress that there was “rampant graft and corruption” in tribal governments and federal programs assisting American Indians.

Mr. Means began his acting career in 1992 with “The Last of the Mohicans,” ’s adaptation of the James Fenimore Cooper novel, in which he played Chingachgook opposite and . Over two decades he appeared in more than 30 films and television productions, including (1994) and (2007). He also recorded CDs, including “Electric Warrior: The Sound of Indian America” (1993), and wrote a memoir, “Where White Men Fear to Tread” (1995, with Marvin J. Wolf).

He was married and divorced four times and had nine children. He also adopted many others following Lakota tradition. His fifth marriage, to Pearl Daniels, was in 1999, and she survives him.

Mr. Means cut off his braids a few months before receiving his cancer diagnosis. It was, he said in an interview last October, a gesture of mourning for his people. In Lakota lore, he explained, the hair holds memories, and mourners often cut it to release those memories, and the people in them, to the spirit world.
621 2012-10-24 Maizelin Knowlin, who was assistant principal at Public School 276 in Canarsie, Brooklyn, left work early and was paid for work she did not do, a city panel said....
622 2012-10-24 Jason Turbow is providing occasional updates on the big moments of Game 1 between the Detroit Tigers and the San Francisco Giants....
623 2012-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
624 2012-10-24 Representative Jim Renacci has canceled $850,000 in advertisement reservations for the final days of his campaign for re-election, going dark on network television in one of the most expensive House races....
625 2012-10-24 Is the FiveThirtyEight forecast better than Intrade and other betting and prediction markets?...
626 2012-10-24 The Season of Cambodia festival, a gathering of more than 125 artists, performers and scholars, will present Cambodian film, dance, visual art, shadow puppetry and more at venues all around the city next spring....
627 2012-10-24 A new ad reminds voters how the country could have taken a much different turn in 2000 had more of Al Gore's supporters turned up at the polls....
628 2012-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
629 2012-10-24 Apple reveals the iPad Mini. David Pogue reviews the Microsoft Surface in 60 seconds. The Mr. GIF artist collective....
630 2012-10-24 People given a contaminated drug in the last six weeks may merit extra monitoring, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which has issued suggestions for detecting the disease in people who were exposed....
631 2012-10-24 TimesCast Media+Tech: Apple reveals the iPad Mini. | David Pogue reviews the Microsoft Surface in 60 seconds. | The Mr. GIF artist collective.
632 2012-10-24 When what you remember most about the day your child was born is not her or his cute nose, but the way your body was ripped apart, it can be hard to admit....
633 2012-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
634 2012-10-24 Q. Our son is attending a selective private university, and has received scholarships and need-based grants. I was given a raise last year that reduced his need-based grant. I have received another raise that I expect will further reduce the grant. I have considered putting money into a 403(b) pre-tax plan and wonder if that would minimize the reduction in the need-based grant. I am worried, however, that if I do, I won’t have enough cash on hand for what I anticipate may be a larger bill from the university. How would you handle this? — Perplexed, Tenn.

A. Since your child is already at least in his second year and receiving a need-based grant – and you indicate some cash-flow issues — you would probably be better off waiting to contribute to such a retirement plan until after you are out of the base income years affecting aid. Voluntary contributions to tax–deferred retirement accounts — like 401(k)s, 403(b)s and deductible I.R.A.'s — normally reduce your income tax liability.

However, for most families such contributions do not reduce the amount of money you are expected to contribute toward college under the federal or any institutional aid formulas. That amount could even increase. Such tax-deferred contributions are considered part of your untaxed income. Both taxable and untaxable income are normally taken into account the aid calculations. While you will most likely get some federal income tax savings by contributing to such plans, you should realize that the amount of your federal tax liability is an expense item against income in the aid formulas. So if you reduce your federal tax liability and your income stays the same in the aid formula, the family contribution is likely to be greater.

Q. I’ve been told that distributions from a grandparent’s 529 will count the following year as untaxed income for the purposes of the student’s FAFSA. That would increase the student’s expected contribution by nearly that amount, requiring nearly twice the distribution the following year. At that rate, by the junior year, the expected contribution would be huge, and the 529 would be gone. Surely this can’t be how it would work, but I’d like to know more about just how grandparent 529s are handled by FAFSA. — Don, Bradford, Pa.

A. Distributions from a 529 plan owned by any individual not required to report his or her financial information on the student’s FAFSA form — like a grandparent or even a noncustodial parent — are considered part of the student’s untaxed income in the federal aid formula. All dependent students receive an Income Protection Allowance of $6,130 in the federal aid formula for the 2013-2014 academic year. So if a student’s total after-tax income (including both taxable and untaxed income) is below that amount, there is no contribution expected from the student. (Note: both Work-Study earnings and earnings from a co-op program offered by the college are excluded from the student’s income.)

However, once a student’s total income exceeds his Income Protection Allowance, any additional income can reduce aid by as much as 50 cents on the dollar. As such, you would be best off keeping the student’s after-tax income below the assessment threshold by minimizing or avoiding any distributions from the grandparent-owned 529 plan until after the base income years have ended. Depending on credits accumulated, some students may be out of the financial aid woods as early as the spring semester of junior year. Also, if the school uses an institutional aid formula for awarding its own aid, the after-tax income threshold for an upperclassman could be as low as $5,650 before affecting the student contribution.

Q. My daughter is 4. Stepdaughter #1 is at a private liberal arts college, Stepdaughter #2 (currently a high school senior) is headed that way. I’m 47 and my husband is 54. We both work. His job has no benefits. We don’t have a lot of extra money, after the mortgage, child support, nursery school, child care, etc. I save for retirement, and currently have around $300K; my husband has little ($60K). He has approximately $100K in 529’s to help pay for his share of his older daughters’ tuition. We have a 529 for the 4-year-old with about $4K. Question: I think we should consider moving some 529 savings from the older daughter’s to the younger. Any advice? — Bronx Girl, NYC

A. I would not recommend transferring the funds to the little one’s 529 plan. If you wish to put more into the 4-year-old’s 529, you would be better off contributing new funds to the New York State 529 Plan so you can take advantage of the deduction — up to $10,000 per year for a married couple filing jointly — on your state income tax return. You’ll also want to be careful with how much money, if any, you take in distributions from the stepchildren’s 529 plans to pay for college. These could affect aid eligibility as well some federal tax benefits.

You can follow Booming via RSS here or visit nytimes.com/booming.
635 2012-10-24 Have you asked yourself why you want your business to grow? Have you considered the potential costs?...
636 2012-10-24 Hackers attack Barnes & Noble. | Safety of some energy drinks becomes a concern. | Selling coffee in a Starbucks world. | Corporate America's wariness over the economy....
637 2012-10-24 Charles W. Scharf, a former head of JPMorgan Chase’s vast retail arm, will take over as Visa’s chief executive once Joseph W. Saunders, the company’s current leader, retires next year....
638 2012-10-24 Businesses that operate near bike lanes, pedestrian plazas or faster-moving buses have seen a pronounced bump, according to a new report from the city's Transportation Department....
639 2012-10-24 The deal comes five months after Nike announced it would sell both Umbro and the Cole Haan lifestyle brand in a streamlining effort....
640 2012-10-24 In the spring, the vast majority of the metrics that I track looked good — all except for the one that matters most: sales....
641 2012-10-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
642 2012-10-24 “Certainly ignoring the sticker price would be wrong,” Sandy Baum, a co-author of the report, said in a briefing for reporters before it was released. “But we cannot understand college affordability without looking at net prices.”

When incomes shrank in the last downturn, financial aid from colleges and governments soared, keeping in check the costs actually paid by students and their families. In particular, federal aid ballooned for veterans and low- and moderate-income students, to more than $51 billion in 2010-11 from $23 billion in 2007-8.

About one-third of students pay full price, and the gap between them and those receiving financial aid is growing, a potential source of friction. Yet many prospective students from low-income families, who would actually pay little or nothing, are scared off by the big numbers, unaware of how much aid is available, said Ms. Baum, a senior fellow at the Graduate School of Education and Human Development at George Washington University.

“All of the trends we’re talking about are more complicated than the simple one-liners would suggest,” she said.

Not only do sticker prices and net prices tell different stories, so do public and private school costs.

Prices reached a plateau earlier and stayed there longer at private nonprofit colleges. Before this year’s increases, their average net price, adjusted for inflation, had barely changed since 2004, despite ever-increasing published prices.

Holding the line has been harder for public institutions as state governments have slashed support, offsetting the flood of federal aid. Public colleges’ net prices rose gradually before and during the recession, and more sharply in the last three years.

Community colleges show yet another pattern, with higher prices outweighed by increased aid. As a result, inflation-adjusted net prices are, on average, lower than they were in the last decade or the 1990s.

Among for-profit colleges surveyed, sticker prices average about $15,170 this year, up about 3 percent, and net prices average about $4,950. But the study cautioned that estimating those figures and gauging trends over time was tricky because most for-profit institutions do not participate in the survey.

Ms. Baum expressed concern that this year’s increases in what students really pay at four-year colleges could be a sign of things to come. After soaring from 2008 to 2010, financial aid from colleges, states, the federal government and private sources has been flat for two years, and budget pressures are likely to defeat any increase.
643 2012-10-24 A Tibetan advocacy group based in London announced what it described as the second self-immolation in two days in a city that Tibetans call Labrang and China calls Xiahe in Gansu Province. Tibetan activist groups contend that the Chinese government represses the Tibetan people and denies them religious freedom, allegations that Beijing officials strongly deny. The self-immolations this week followed dozens of others by Tibetans since 2009.
644 2012-10-24 Not much further down the list is education, probably the country’s most diffuse, localized area of government policy. As skill levels have become even more important for prosperity, the has lost its once-large global lead in educational attainment.

Some of the disconnect between the economy’s problems and the solutions offered by Washington stem from the nature of the current political debate. The presidential campaign has been more focused on and an “apology tour” than on the challenges created by globalization and automation.

But economists and other analysts also point to the scale of the problem. No other rich country — not , not any nation in — has figured out exactly how to respond to the challenges. “The whole notion of the American dream,” said Frank Levy, an economist, “described a mass upward mobility that is just a lot harder to achieve right now.”

For the first time since , median family income has fallen substantially over an entire decade. Income grew slowly through most of the last decade, except at the top of the distribution, before falling sharply when the financial crisis began.

By last year, family income was 8 percent lower than it had been 11 years earlier, at its peak in 2000, according to inflation-adjusted numbers from the . On average in 11-year periods in the decades just after , inflation-adjusted median income rose by almost 30 percent.

Matching the growth rates of the postwar period — when the country was poorer, when harsh discrimination against women and minorities was receding and when the rest of the world was weaker — is probably impossible. Yet there is still a vast difference, both economically and politically, between incomes that are rising modestly and not at all.

Historically, periods of economic stagnation have tended to bring pessimism, political turmoil and a lack of social progress, said Benjamin Friedman, an economic historian and the author of “The Moral Consequences of Economic Growth.” The political volatility and partisan rancor of the last several years seem to fit the pattern.

The recent stagnation has also led, economists say, to confusion and even scapegoating about the real sources of the problem. The causes that can seem obvious, and that often shape the political debate, are not necessarily the correct ones.

Take immigration, especially illegal immigration. Whatever other problems it may cause, evidence suggests that it has not played a significant role in the income slump.

It may have caused a slight decline in the wages of native-born workers without a high school diploma (and maybe not even that). But most illegal immigrants lack the skills to compete with the bulk of native workers, according to research by Giovanni Peri, Chad Sparber and others. Notably, incomes in some states with large immigrant populations, like , have risen faster than in states with relatively few immigrants, like Ohio.

The minimum wage, similarly, appears to play only a minor role in the income slump. It has risen faster than inflation since 2000, even as overall pay at the bottom of the income distribution has not. And the size of the federal government also looks like a dog that is not barking: Washington collected taxes equal to 15.4 percent of last year, down from 20.6 percent in 2000.

A second group of much-cited forces have indeed played a role in middle-class stagnation and inequality, many economists argue, just not as big a role as automation, globalization or education.

Health care costs have grown sharply over the last decade, leaving employers with less cash to use on salaries. Labor unions have shrunk; all else equal, unionized workers earn more, often at the expense of corporate profits. Tax rates have fallen more for the affluent than for anyone else, directly increasing the take-home pay of top earners and indirectly giving them more incentive to earn large amounts.

But many of these factors are particular to the United States, while globalization and automation are obviously universal forces.

One of the more striking recent developments in economics has been economists’ growing acceptance of the idea that globalization has held down pay for a large swath of workers. The public has long accepted the idea, but economists resisted it, pointing to the long-term benefits of trade. “That is starting to change only in the face of very strong evidence over the past decade,” said Edward Alden of the .

In particular, job growth and wage growth have been weaker in sectors exposed to global competition — especially from — than in sectors that are more insulated.

Automation creates similar patterns. Workers whose labor can be replaced by computers, be they in factories or stores, have paid a particularly steep price. The American manufacturing sector produces much more than it did in 1979, despite employing almost 40 percent fewer workers.

Workers with less advanced skills have also suffered disproportionately. The pay gap between college graduates and everyone else is near a record. Despite the long economic slump — and the well-chronicled struggles of some college graduates — their unemployment rate is just 4.1 percent.

What is the solution to this thicket of economic forces?

That question is the one that Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney are trying to convince voters that they can best answer. They both accept that the government and the market have a role, but they put a different emphasis on those roles.

It is hard to see how either globalization or automation can be stopped. The proposed solutions instead tend to involve managing them.

If the economy can be made to grow fast enough, incomes can still rise across the board, as they did when the unemployment rate fell below 5 percent in the 1990s and briefly below 4 percent in 2000. If educational attainment rises, more people will be able to get jobs that benefit from technology and global trade, rather than suffer from it. And if inequality continues to soar, the government could choose to use the tax code to ameliorate it — a solution that Democrats favor and Republicans say will hurt economic growth.

Maybe the biggest reason for optimism is that there is still a strong argument that both globalization and automation help the economy in the long run. This argument remains popular with economists: Trade allows countries to specialize in what they do best, while technology creates opportunities to extend and improve life that never before existed.

Previous periods of rapid economic change also created problems that seemed to be permanent but were not. Neither the cotton gin nor the steam engine nor the automobile created mass unemployment.

“When technology reduces the need for certain kinds of labor, we know that some inventive people will one day come along and find a way to use that freed-up labor making things that other people want to buy,” said Mr. Friedman, the economic historian. “That’s what in the long run made the Luddites wrong.”

He added, “How long does it take the Luddites to be wrong — a few years, a decade, a couple of decades?”

Perhaps just as important, what happens to the workers who happen to be living during a time when the Luddite argument has some truth to it?
645 2012-10-24 The real start to the rivalry — whatever form it takes — will come eight nights later, on Nov. 1, when the Knicks and the Nets open the regular season at Barclays Center. Knicks fans are vowing to take over the Nets’ new home, just as they did for years in East Rutherford and Newark. Nets fans are scoffing at the notion.

Passions will undoubtedly be heightened that night, but for now both teams are playing it safe with the rhetoric and focusing on their preparations for the season. Wednesday’s meeting is the last preseason game for both teams, the last chance to tune up defensive schemes and mold rotations for the 82 games that matter.

“We just want to get better,” said the Nets’ Deron Williams, who referred to Wednesday’s meeting as “just another game.”

“This rivalry with them, it’s getting blown up by the media,” Williams said. “But internally, we haven’t talked about it any. We haven’t said anything about it. We’re looking forward to playing those guys. We’re looking forward to forming a rivalry, but it’s not there yet.”

The concerns for both teams are much more rudimentary at the moment.

The Nets (3-2) are trying to shore up their disjointed defense, which was exposed in preseason losses to the Boston Celtics and the Philadelphia 76ers last week. The Knicks (2-3) also have defensive concerns after lackluster performances against Toronto, Boston and Philadelphia.

And the Knicks’ lineup is in flux, having lost Amar’e Stoudemire to a knee injury that will keep him on the sideline for two to three weeks. Coach Mike Woodson is experimenting with Carmelo Anthony at the power forward spot. He is also working to incorporate guard Ronnie Brewer, who made his Knicks debut Monday night after missing most of training camp following knee surgery.

Neither team expects the other to expose much of the playbook, knowing they will see each other again next week.

In the meantime, the debate over who rules New York has already commenced. On a conference call Tuesday, TNT’s Charles Barkley mocked the Knicks’ aging lineup and called the Nets “the best team in New York.”

His fellow analyst Reggie Miller disagreed, saying that the Knicks would benefit from their infusion of experienced players, Jason Kidd in particular. He called the Knicks “a slight favorite over the Nets.”

Shaquille O’Neal split the difference. He praised the Nets’ revamped roster and gave them the edge competitively. But, he said, “The Knicks will always have the bragging rights.”

The Nets’ C.J. Watson returned to practice and will be available for Wednesday’s game. Keith Bogans (foot) and Josh Childress (ankle) were held out of practice. ... Deron Williams shrugged off his omission from a list of the N.B.A.’s top point guards, as named by N.B.A. general managers. Chris Paul earned the most votes in the poll, followed by Derrick Rose, Rajon Rondo and Tony Parker. Williams received no votes. “I don’t care where I’m ranked among point guards,” Williams said. “I’m not here to do any point guard battles this year.” Williams topped the same poll in 2010, when he was a star for the Utah Jazz. But his reputation took a hit over the last season and a half with the Nets. “It’s easy to forget about people when they’re losing, when a team’s not really relevant and not on TV,” he said. “I didn’t have a great year statistically, so that’ll hurt, too.”
646 2012-10-24 Under the America Invents Act, which was passed last year, the post-grant review process is being strengthened and applies to patent re-examination requests filed after Sept. 16.

Patent specialists say the new rules will make it more likely that courts will wait until the patent office has finished studying whether a patent should be invalidated. And the new law gives the director of the patent office the power to order that a patent be re-examined.

“The patent office now has the opportunity to actually take the lead rather than following the courts,” said Arti K. Rai, a professor at Duke University School of Law and a former external affairs administrator at the patent office. “This has the potential to be a really important way to try to curb the problems with existing patents.”

A major problem, according to patent specialists, is that the patent office grants patents too easily in the first place. That is particularly the case, they say, with certain kinds of patents, including those on software. Unlike pharmaceuticals, where a single clearly defined molecule can be the patented invention, software patents often describe digital concepts carried out in code. In software, the boundaries are less clear, and innovation tends to be step-by-step, building on years, sometimes decades of work.

Big technology companies, patent specialists say, have exploited the complexity and uncertainty of software to amass large portfolios of patents.

Frontline patent examiners, working under tight time pressure, they say, tend to be outmatched by wealthy companies when patents are filed. But post-grant review affords another, more painstaking look. “It gives the patent office the ability to focus on the patents that really matter,” said Colleen Chien, an assistant professor at the Santa Clara University Law School.

The patent office’s re-examination team issued its invalidation decision on patent 7,469,381. It was one of the six patents that formed the basis of the jury verdict against Samsung in a federal court in San Jose, Calif.

The patent is at the center of Apple’s intellectual property strategy in smartphones and tablets of patenting user-experience software. Upon review, the patent office determined that the idea and the bounce feature had been invented earlier, even if the pointing device was not a finger on a touch screen.

Before the California trial, Samsung had made a change to sidestep the Apple patent on its newest smartphones. The same finger stroke brings a blue glow at the bottom of the screen, not a bounce.

This week, Samsung filed a copy of the patent office’s initial invalidation ruling on the Apple patent with the judge in the California case, Judge Lucy Koh. Samsung has asked that Judge Koh overrule the jury. And the company is appealing the entire verdict.

The Android camp has filed other requests to re-examine Apple smartphone patents with the patent office.

In a statement, Allen Lo, Google’s deputy general counsel, said: “The patent office plays a critical role in ensuring that overly broad patents cannot be used to limit consumer choice. We appreciate the care the patent office has taken in re-examining dubious software claims."

Apple did not respond to an e-mail request for comment.
647 2012-10-24 A list of 63 Barnes & Noble locations where hackers are said to have gained customers’ credit card information as recently as September....
648 2012-10-24 THE battery maker A123, a producer of lithium-ion cells for hybrid cars made by General Motors and Fisker Automotive that was founded in 2001 by MIT scientists, filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 16. ReVolt Technology, a maker of zinc-air batteries with a North American headquarters in Portland, Ore., called it quits last week. Another battery company, Ener1, went bankrupt in January.

Companies fail all the time, of course, for various reasons, and the incidence is bound to be high among start-ups in fledgling industries. But bankruptcies of companies that have received millions of dollars in government grants and loan guarantees — in the cause of promoting electric vehicles and independence from foreign oil — are another matter, especially in the cauldron of an election year.

Beyond the inevitable birthing of new targets for political point-scoring, the failures contribute to the doubts that have arisen from lethargic sales of plug-in hybrids like the Chevrolet Volt, which recently took a four-week vacation from manufacturing because of excess inventory, and electrics like the Nissan Leaf. In an avalanche of new hybrids, plug-in hybrids and battery-only models — 21 fresh models by the end of 2015 from Toyota alone — industry executives have been faced with questions over whether there will be sufficient production capacity to meet the demand. China has shut down some battery makers who have violated environmental standards, and popular consumer electronics like the iPad and latest iPhones corner a lot of battery production.

“We do not see any supply difficulty,” said Anand Sankaran, executive technology leader for energy storage and high-voltage systems at Ford Motor. “There is no shortage of raw materials but there is a time frame to capacity,” he added, referring to the time lag in achieving production capacity.

More critical in the long term is the question of whether the crucial lithium ion cells will become cheap enough, at a fast enough pace, to make pure electric and plug-in hybrid cars economically practical. After a rapid rate of price declines in the 1990s, the rate has slowed.
649 2012-10-24 The Target Corporation said on Tuesday that it reached a deal to sell its entire consumer credit card business to the TD Bank Group, ending an almost two-year search for a buyer.

Target, based in Minneapolis, said the sale price was equal to the gross value of the outstanding receivables at the time of closing. Target’s portfolio currently has a gross value of about $5.9 billion.

The two companies also entered into a seven-year deal under which TD Bank will underwrite, finance and own future Target credit card and Target Visa receivables in the United States.

As part of the agreement, TD Bank, based in Toronto, will control risk-management policies and regulatory compliance and Target will continue to perform account-servicing functions. That means TD Bank will make decisions about which applications are accepted and what interest rates are charged to customers, for example, while Target will still handle bill processing and customer service issues.

Target said the agreement would not affect its Red Card credit card holders, who receive a 5 percent discount on purchases.
650 2012-10-24 Iran threatened on Tuesday to halt all its oil exports if the West’s antinuclear sanctions on the country are strengthened, apparently in the hope that such a warning would spook the international petroleum market by raising prices and reminding the world of Iran’s potential to wreak havoc with the global economy.

But the threat, made by Rostam Qasemi, Iran’s oil minister, at the World Energy Forum, a conference in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, appeared to have no impact. In a possible reflection of how steeply Iran’s influence in the market has eroded, oil prices fell to a three-month low.

Iran holds the world’s fourth-largest oil reserves and was once the second-biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, behind Saudi Arabia. But the regimen of American and European sanctions over the past year has severely restricted its ability to produce and sell oil, the country’s most important export.

The International Energy Agency, a group of mostly Western oil importers, reported this month that Iran’s daily production fell to a nearly 25-year low of 2.63 million barrels a day in September and that oil exports that month totaled only 860,000 barrels a day, compared with 2.2 million barrels a day at the end of 2011. Iran has disputed those figures.

At the same time, Iranian officials have acknowledged that the Western sanctions have wounded the country’s economy. Outside experts, noting a severe devaluation in the currency and other troubling indicators, have said the country’s economic problems are severe and worsening quickly. The United States and European Union have said more sanctions are looming.
651 2012-10-24 While rising car ownership fit nicely into the government’s narrative of life as ever-improving after the 1979 Islamic revolution, clouds of smog from increased traffic congestion did not. To deal with the pollution, Iranian government planners found an answer in natural gas and its infrastructure, which was already serving the heating and cooking needs of consumers.

“We already had a network of gas pipes in place all over the country,” said Reza Hajj Hosseini, a spokesman for the Iranian Fuel Distribution and Refinery Company, a subsidiary of the state oil company. “It was relatively inexpensive for us to start offering alternative fuel.”

As a means to counter outside economic pressure, natural gas’s usefulness is clear. Because of its inadequate investment in oil refineries, Iran has long been forced to refine a portion of its own crude at refineries in Europe to satisfy rising domestic demand for gasoline. So when the European Union in July barred gasoline sales to the country, natural gas helped to blunt the blow.

Despite the sanctions against Iran, motorists like Mr. Ahmadi can make their commute for the equivalent of less than a penny a mile using the alternative fuel at subsidized prices. Gasoline is more expensive, especially because government subsidies have been reduced, but it is still incredibly cheap by Western standards: less than $1 a gallon.

Iran’s gradual natural gas conversion has focused heavily on installing natural gas canisters in cars and altering engines for dual gas and gasoline use, although Iran Khodro, Iran’s largest carmaker, and Saipa both produce natural gas vehicles. About 40 percent of the nation’s vehicle fleet is now natural gas capable. Still, long-range planning has been uneven, especially as regards filling stations.

A long line of yellow taxis waited in front of the Azadi natural gas station the other day. Peddlers were selling hot lunches, ice cream and nuts to those in line, with a waiting time of two hours minimum.

“Sure it’s cheap,” said Amir Mousavi, 32, who drove a domestically built Peugeot 405. “But the waiting really puts me off. I usually buy gasoline because its more convenient.”

In a way, the government program is a victim of its own success, Mr. Hajj Hosseini said. “When the fuel prices rose, many more people started converting their cars, much more than we had foreseen,” he said. “Now we have too few natural gas stations in Iran.”

Iran has 1,262 vehicles per refueling station compared with 856 vehicles per refueling station in Pakistan, the No. 2 country in natural gas vehicles, according to a report in The Economist in July, which cited the Gas Vehicle Report, an industry resource.

“The long waits are a real problem for those using natural gas,” said Reza Zandi, a prominent oil and gas specialist. He faulted poor planning throughout the country’s natural gas supply chain.

“It starts with our huge gas projects in the south of Iran — they are behind schedule,” he said. “The building of natural gas stations is behind schedule. And we also lack the know-how to build more efficient engines for our domestically built cars. The situation is relatively good, but should be much better.”

In January, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad conceded that while it was possible to convert many more cars to natural gas, the infrastructure to fuel them was lagging. “We have to work on a larger scale,” he said in a speech. “We need to be ready to serve millions and millions of cars.”

On Tehran’s main Enghelab boulevard, which cuts crosstown through the capital, natural gas-powered buses have become common, but perhaps not common enough.

“There still is a lot of pollution,” said Hamid-Reza Samadian, an information technology student. Cars stood at a near standstill in the afternoon rush hour, pumping out exhaust fumes. “I guess if we wouldn’t have natural gas, the pollution would be much worse,” he said. “At least we are coping now.”
652 2012-10-24 Sheik Hamad, who has ruled Qatar since 1995, has gradually transformed the tiny nation into a regional powerhouse, relying on its immense wealth to extend its influence. That has been especially true in the past two years, as Qatar has played decisive roles in the revolutions in Libya and Yemen and the isolation of the Syrian government.

Qatar allied with the West in helping oust Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya, while financing Islamists on the ground. In Egypt, it has close ties to the Muslim Brotherhood. In Syria, it provides cash and weapons to Islamists battling President Bashar al-Assad, and at the same time it hosts a large United States military base that affords it protection in a volatile neighborhood.

“Qatar is a secure little kernel with huge resources that has chosen to use those resources in foreign policy,” said Paul Salem, director of the Beirut-based Carnegie Middle East Center. “They have no constraints. They can take any position anytime anywhere.”

But eight months after Doha, the Qatari capital, hosted the signing of a reconciliation agreement between the Hamas leadership and Mr. Abbas, the deal has not come to fruition in the form of national elections. On Tuesday the emir’s visit drove a deeper wedge between Hamas and Fatah, the party of Mr. Abbas, and raised alarm in Israel.

Hamas has refused to reject violence or recognize Israel, which also considers it a terrorist organization, and has struggled lately to control more militant Islamist groups within Gaza. Since the uprising began in Syria in March 2011, Hamas has closed its offices in Syria, its primary patron, and tried to establish a close and direct connection to Mr. Morsi of Egypt, who was a leader within the Muslim Brotherhood before his election.

Yigal Palmor, a spokesman for Israel’s Foreign Ministry, declared that the emir had “thrown peace under the bus,” noting that his visit came a few hours after an Israeli soldier was severely wounded when a bomb exploded along the border with Gaza. Southern Israel has faced what he described as “a steady drizzle of rockets” in the last few weeks.

“It helps Hamas entrench themselves in Gaza, not to yield one inch to the P.A., and enhancing the division and the reality of two de facto states,” Mr. Palmor said. “Most of the money that he’s pouring in Gaza will go to Hamas pockets, directly or indirectly. You think that will encourage them to hold national elections?”

The Qatari projects dwarf the roughly $300 million in foreign aid that analysts estimate Gaza receives annually. They come as international donations to the Palestinian Authority have nose-dived, from a peak of $1.8 billion in 2008 to less than $700 million this year, according to a World Bank report. The shift is part of a broader financial crisis that has caused the delayed or partial payment of government salaries three months running, the focus of violent street protests in the West Bank last month.

Nathan Thrall, an analyst with the International Crisis Group, said a critical question was whether rumored visits to Gaza by other regional heads of state would follow Qatar’s. He said that Cairo’s role in brokering the visit was an important signal in the evolving relationship between Gaza and Egypt, and that Hamas was hoping it would help reverse the so-called “West Bank-first model of attempting to promote prosperity in Ramallah and austerity in Gaza.”

“The message that Hamas wishes to convey is ‘We are the future; the P.A. is disintegrating,’ ” he said. “The argument Hamas is hoping to make is that this is the beginning of a sort of Gaza-first model: Arabs ignoring a failing P.A., and supporting Gaza with sums of money that Europeans, even if they wanted to, couldn’t match.”

The six-hour visit ended with a large rally at the Islamic University in Gaza City, where the emir and his wife received honorary doctorates.

Speaking at the university, he called on Palestinian leaders to repair their rift, which he said “was more painful than the Israeli aggression” and left them “without peace negotiations or a resistance and liberation strategy.”
653 2012-10-24 But with all the action in the tablet market lately, smaller models have become impossible to ignore. Google, Apple’s fiercest competitor, recently released its 7-inch Nexus 7 tablet for $200. Amazon recently introduced seven new Kindles, including a 7-inch tablet for $160 and an 8.9-inch tablet for $300. Barnes & Noble’s Nook tablet, which starts at $200, has also sold well. Combined, the three companies have sold about 15 million of these smaller, cheaper tablets, according to estimates by Forrester Research.

Apple recognizes that it has competition. At the news conference, Mr. Schiller made a side-by-side comparison of the iPad Mini and a Google Nexus 7. He said the Mini was thinner, lighter and more durable than Google’s tablet, and still had a bigger screen.

“Others have tried to make tablets smaller than the iPad, but they’ve failed miserably,” Mr. Schiller said while showing images of apps running on the Nexus 7 and the iPad Mini. He noted that the iPad Mini had access to Apple’s catalog of 275,000 apps that have already been made for iPads. Most of the 500,000 apps in Google’s Android app store are designed for phones, not tablets.

Apple still dominates the tablet market; it announced that it had sold 100 million iPads to date. But it might have sold 15 million more if it had put a smaller, cheaper version on the market earlier, said Sarah Rotman Epps, a Forrester analyst.

“Rather than cede the low end of the market to Amazon and Google, they’d prefer to take it themselves,” Ms. Rotman Epps said. “Apple is smart to be acting before it gets to be more of a problem.”

Ms. Rotman Epps said the iPad Mini could appeal to women because it can more easily fit in a purse. It may also have better luck than the larger, more expensive iPad in developing countries like China, where iPad demand has been low compared with demand for cheaper Android tablets.

The iPad Mini’s components are on par with those of Apple’s other mobile devices: it includes the Lightning connector and a five-megapixel camera. The smaller tablet does not, however, have the high-resolution Retina display of its bigger counterpart, presumably to keep it thinner and lighter. The new iPads will begin shipping Nov. 2, and the version with a cellular connection will ship two weeks later.

Apple also introduced a family of new Macs on Tuesday, including upgrades for the MacBook Pro, iMac and Mac Mini. The 13-inch MacBook Pro notebook now includes a Retina display, which Mr. Schiller said had twice as many pixels as a high-definition television. The iMac is 80 percent thinner and eight pounds lighter than the previous model.

The larger fourth-generation iPad comes about seven months after Apple introduced the last version — an unusual move, as the company has traditionally waited a year before upgrading products. But this timing allows Apple to market its tablets during the holiday season.

Apple’s stock dropped 3.3 percent to close at $613.36. Shaw Wu, an analyst with Sterne Agee, said investors were mostly disappointed by the iPad Mini’s price, as some had hoped it would be closer to the prices of Google’s and Amazon’s tablets.

But Mr. Wu noted that in general, Apple does not try to drive its products down to the lowest price, possibly sacrificing quality. Unlike Amazon and Google, Apple is driven by profits from hardware sales, not content, so Mr. Wu said he expected the iPad Mini to generate solid margins.

“It’s like Mercedes and BMW,” he said. “Will they go lower than Honda or Toyota? Probably not.” He added that Apple’s strength was its universe of apps, books and music, and that neither Google nor Amazon had all of those bases covered.
654 2012-10-24 Stock fell sharply for the second time in three days after a new batch of American corporate executives raised concerns about global economic growth.

The Dow Jones industrial average finished the day down 1.8 percent, or 243.36 points, to end at 13,102.53, its worst performance since June. The losses added to the big declines on Friday, and dropped leading indexes to their lowest levels since early September, before the Federal Reserve announced its latest monetary stimulus program.

Since the Standard & Poor’s 500 index hit this year’s high of 1,465.77 on Sept. 14, the benchmark index has fallen 3.6 percent. It finished Tuesday down 1.4 percent, or 20.71 points, to 1,413.11.

Share futures were falling even before the opening bell because of disappointing financial results from American companies. The chemical maker DuPont said Tuesday morning that its revenue was down 9 percent in the third quarter from a year ago, and that it would eliminate 1,500 jobs. The company’s stock ended down 9.1 percent.

Thomson Reuters said Tuesday that 63 percent of the companies that have reported earnings so far have given revenue figures for the third quarter that were lower than what analysts expected.
655 2012-10-24 In general, there was a sense among analysts and observers outside the United States that these were two intelligent, competent candidates who do not differ overly much on the central issues of foreign policy and were actually debating with domestic constituencies in swing states foremost in mind.

The debate over Iran and Israel was really about Jewish voters in Florida, while the debate over China was really about jobs in Ohio and the Midwest, noted François Heisbourg, a special adviser at the Foundation for Strategic Research, based in Paris. And that makes perfect sense in a tight American presidential election, where most voters do not consider foreign policy a priority, Mr. Heisbourg said.

“The balance was more toward 9/11 than the pivot to Asia,” Mr. Heisbourg said. “There was more about risks and threats than friends and allies. Both spoke in a Hobbesian world as tough characters willing to deal with monsters out there, not as people spreading the gospel of working with friends and allies to make the world a better place or spreading U.S. influence to help people get along.”

Le Monde said on its Web site, “For each question, the two candidates came back to the economic situation of the country, proof that this is the electorate’s main preoccupation.”

Mr. Obama even spoke of China as an “adversary,” although he said it was also “a potential partner in the international community if it’s following the rules.” Mr. Romney said essentially the same thing, speaking of confrontation over trade and not about working with China on issues like North Korea, Pakistan and Iran. For Mr. Heisbourg, “Both were wrong on China, portraying it as an adversary, but each got the message across about defending jobs in Ohio.”

Not surprisingly, the attack that killed Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans last month in Libya was an important topic, leading to an essentially roundabout discussion of Syria, where Mr. Romney’s sole difference with Mr. Obama was his willingness to provide arms to the rebels. But both agreed that no American troops should be used against Syria.

But given all the praise of the successful intervention in Libya (the vital — even leading — roles of France and Britain went unmentioned), there was no discussion of why what was a powerful motivation for American intervention in Libya is not relevant in Syria, where many more people have been killed by another “dictator.” That is a question that absorbs many in the Middle East and Europe, however complicated the responses.

There was hand-wringing about the progress of radical Islam, both in chaotic countries and through the ballot box, as a result of the turmoil of the “Arab awakening.” But there was little specificity about causes or cures.

There was no mention, let alone discussion, of the role of Turkey or its dilemma as a Muslim nation sharing a border with Syria, no discussion of the aging royal family of Saudi Arabia and its sponsorship of radical and conservative Islam, no mention of Somalia or Islamist threats to allies like Jordan and Morocco. There was a glancing reference to the Palestinians, but no discussion of their divisions, of the role of Hamas, of the separate status of Gaza, of the weakening grip of Mahmoud Abbas and his Fatah movement, of what might happen if and when Mr. Abbas, the Palestinian president and leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization, leaves the scene.

And there was no criticism of Israel, its settlements or its occupation of the West Bank. Mr. Romney did say that Mr. Obama had not visited Israel as president even after his 2009 visit to Cairo in which he pledged a new era in relations with the Muslim world.

Mr. Obama responded with descriptions of an earlier visit as a legislator, but Mr. Romney missed an opportunity to respond tartly, for even top Obama aides concede that failing to go quickly to Israel after Cairo to make a similar speech and then calling for a “settlement freeze” in East Jerusalem, instead of in the larger West Bank, were errors.

Even on the question of American military strength, there was little debate other than numbers. Mr. Obama is right that the United States has more aircraft carriers than any other nation, and got off a good line about bayonets and horses and the game Battleship. But the United States is reported to have only 11 carriers, and carriers are increasingly vulnerable to more sophisticated longer-range missile attacks.

As for Europe, the lack of attention made perfect sense. Europe is an ally, not a policy dilemma, and the crisis of the euro zone has been technical, lengthy and tedious, and seems to be losing steam. America’s own debt problems dwarf those of Europe.

But the French daily Libération asked: “And what about Europe? It isn’t far from Australia in the competition for the status of the most forgotten continent.” But silence was good for Europe, the paper said. “At least the euro crisis isn’t brandished by Obama as a major source of economic trouble for America, and Romney has stopped making ‘European socialism’ his campaign scarecrow.”

On the Internet and on Twitter there were thousands of reactions to the debate. But speaking for many was @jonathanwatts, a Latin American correspondent for The Guardian, who wrote: “Obama won this debate. World lost. Apart from 5 mins on China, it was all Middle East. Where was LatAm, Europe, climate?”
656 2012-10-24 The extent to which the scandal has shaken the country from its moorings was captured by the sight of one of the BBC’s own political correspondents reporting live from outside the hearing and comparing the elusive testimony of Mr. Entwistle, the reporter’s ultimate boss, to that given last year by . Mr. Murdoch’s stewardship of his father’s media empire in Britain ended, effectively, when he was grilled by the same committee last year as it investigated the that has convulsed .

Other events during the day enhanced the sense that the scandal has the potential to force far-reaching change in a cultural climate that many commentators here have described as slow to respond to accusations of sexual abuse, especially when they have involved people in authority or with the power of celebrity. Without waiting for the inquiries to be completed, two charities established by Mr. Savile and bearing his name, dedicated to raising funds for the poor and the sick, announced that they were shutting down, and would distribute their funds to other charities.

After Mr. Entwistle struggled to give a precise answer to the lawmakers’ questions about other instances of sexual abuse uncovered by the BBC, the broadcaster issued a statement saying that it was aware of allegations involving nine other current or former staff members or contributors, whom it did not name, and that it had referred the cases to the police. One may have been the 1970s pop star Gary Glitter, a convicted child sex abuser who was named in an investigative documentary broadcast by the BBC on Monday as having been accused of abusing young people in BBC studios while performing on one of Mr. Savile’s shows.

In another development that prompted comparisons with the phone hacking scandal that has embroiled the Murdoch empire, there were fresh signs that inquiries into the Savile scandal may rely heavily on the e-mail trails left by important witnesses.

Channel 4 television reported Tuesday that it had seen an e-mail from a BBC reporter, Liz Mackean, in which she said the editor of “Newsnight,” Peter Rippon, who had shelved an investigative report she was working on, had diminished the seriousness of Mr. Savile’s abuse by saying of the victims, “The girls were teenagers, not too young,” and,  “They weren’t the worst kind of sexual offenses.”

The decision to kill the investigation by “Newsnight” drew much of the lawmakers’ ire at the hearing. Mr. Rippon was forced to step aside from his “Newsnight” post on Monday, the first BBC casualty of the scandal, after Mr. Entwistle decided that there were unspecified “inaccuracies” in a blog post by Mr. Rippon defending his decision. In the blog, Mr. Rippon said journalistic concerns about the conclusiveness of the case by “Newsnight” against Mr. Savile, not management pressure, had caused him to halt the investigation.

At its core, the scandal has centered on the extensive evidence, some of the most compelling laid out in the documentary broadcast on Monday, that many people at the BBC and other institutions Mr. Savile frequented knew or strongly suspected from the 1960s on that he was a serial sexual predator. The program suggested that he felt sufficiently protected by his status against any would-be accusers that he joked and boasted about it.

The parliamentary committee focused on more recent issues, including the role of top BBC executives in acquiescing in Mr. Rippon’s decision to kill the investigation by “Newsnight” in the last weeks of 2011. Mr. Entwistle, then the BBC’s television chief, said he first heard of the “Newsnight” story when the head of BBC News warned him that it might require the cancellation of several tribute programs on Mr. Savile set to run over Christmas.

Mr. Entwistle said he had not asked the subject of the program’s investigation so as not to infringe on a BBC management policy of giving program editors full autonomy. That drew astonished responses from committee members, one of whom suggested that his lack of curiosity bordered on “willful .”

Ben Bradshaw, a former BBC reporter who is a panel member, offered a withering rebuke to Mr. Entwistle. “You have to get a grip,” he said.
657 2012-10-25 The Islanders' move to Brooklyn after the 2014-15 season raises a number of intriguing and complicated issues that were easy to overlook Wednesday when the relocation was announced. With a chance to consider the ramifications of the Islanders' dec...
658 2012-10-25 There’s an ugly, jittery beauty to “Pusher,” a very fine British redo of a 1996 Danish movie of the same title. Beauty and drug dealers don’t often exist in the same hemisphere. Here, though, beauty sneaks into neon-streaked streets and reveals itself in a woman’s tear-stained face, in the shimmering of her sequined dress and at a dance club pulsing with luscious candied colors. This is the world that the dealer Frank (the excellent Richard Coyle) inhabits when he’s not racing from one trouble to the next, anxiously trying to peddle dope (he calls it gear) and staying out of the gun sights of one scary big fixer.

From the beginning the director, Luis Prieto, lets you know that you don’t need to see the old “Pusher” to dig the new. Like the first movie this one revs up with several self-reflexive storytelling devices, including a gaudy, mildly amusing opener in which the main characters enter, striking representative if teasingly exaggerated poses, their names splashed on the screen. There’s a cartoonish quality to these introductions, with Frank’s friend Flo (Agyness Deyn) crawling near a stripper pole, and his laughing nemesis Milo (a great Zlatko Buric reprising his role and the same tasty villainy), pointing a gun at the camera. Their poses indicate that each has a role to play, and they know it as well as you do. See Flo. Crawl Flo crawl. See Milo. Shoot Milo shoot.

The screenplay by Matthew Read follows the increasingly kinked story line of the original to a remarkably faithful degree, including the on-screen display of the days of the week (starting with Monday) to suggest that time is running out. It’s business as usual, though, that dawning day, with Frank and his sidekick, Tony (Bronson Webb), haggling over the price of coke with a dissipated party boy. The buyer’s decadence is nicely telegraphed by his lavish digs and picturesquely decayed teeth, which contrast with Frank’s no-nonsense professionalism. When the buyer comes up short and pleads for a break, Frank just scoops out enough coke to make up the difference. Frank may sample his own goods, but he manages to stay ahead until he falls disastrously behind.

The worst happens when a drug deal goes south, leading to a cascade of oh-so-unfortunate events. It can be difficult to find the right tone or approach in stories about dealers, partly because they don’t solicit easy sympathy. In Oliver Stone’s recent “Savages” the tale’s pot growers are golden boys whose physical attractiveness suggests that they live on Mount Olympus instead of a Southern California beach town. Good looks are a way that filmmakers try to win the audience’s support, and sometimes a clever way to inoculate characters from criticism. The charismatic, gruffly appealing Mr. Coyle, with his pouchy eyes and snaky moves, serves a similar function in “Pusher” or so it initially seems, and he effortlessly brings you into the story and right alongside him.

One of the satisfactions of “Pusher” is how Mr. Prieto deploys Frank to play gently with our love of on-screen criminality. He pulls you close enough to Frank — at times with looming, shuddering close-ups — that you have a line on his good and bad choices, desires and fears. Frank is more personable than in the earlier version and more shaded morally, a complexity mirrored throughout. When a man dies in the first “Pusher,” you notice the room, the gun and the splatter. In the remake you see all that (as does Frank), but you also see the man and his trembling and you feel, as you should, his terror. In the original nothing is at stake except filmmaking virtuosity.

The Danish “Pusher” is from Nicolas Winding Refn, a director whose shotgun marriage of the art house and the grind house is lavishly on view in his neo-exploitation flick “Drive,” featuring Ryan Gosling as one self-consciously cool cat. (They recently paired up for another movie, “Only God Forgives.”) Mr. Refn also wrote and directed two “Pusher” sequels and served as an executive producer on Mr. Prieto’s remake. Directing a “Pusher” movie is certainly now a calling card. It’s become such cultish catnip that it has even inspired another remake, also called “Pusher,” also made in Britain, but in Hindi. (It’s available at pushermovie.com.) In any case, Mr. Prieto has arrived with this “Pusher.” It’s his first English-language movie; it won’t be his last. I hear Mr. Gosling calling now.
659 2012-10-25 Newspaper Endorsements From Across the Nation

The presidential endorsements of the nation’s largest papers are starting to trickle in. Not surprisingly, most editorial boards supported the same party in 2012 as they had in 2008. But there were some notable exceptions.
660 2012-10-25 San Francisco, behind a strong pitching performace by Madison Bumgarner, has a 2-0 lead in the World Series....
661 2012-10-25 Traditional investing standards that have been in place for decades in Brazil may soon change, forcing fund managers to dive into riskier investments in order to meet performance goals....
662 2012-10-25 Wen Jiabao, the outgoing prime minister of China, is state-run media’s favorite populist leader. But a New York Times investigation reveals that he is the head of one of China’s wealthiest families.
663 2012-10-25 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Thursday's selection includes online companies now pursuing profits offline, a look at the lives of Ellen Pao and her husband, Alphonse Flet...
664 2012-10-25 It is no small feat that David Stern will have stayed atop the N.B.A. for 30 years. But Stern isn’t popular everywhere....
665 2012-10-25 A long-awaited restaurant serving smorrebrod is set to open in TriBeCa on Nov. 2....
666 2012-10-25 Shale gas, extracted through the environmentally controversial method of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has transformed the U.S. natural gas market. Mr. Magness is leading Chevron’s shale gas exploration efforts in Europe.

The company has identified a belt across Europe from the Baltic countries to the Mediterranean that it predicts may hold large accumulations of extractable shale gas. It has already acquired roughly four million acres of exploration acreage in Poland and Romania. Chevron is also negotiating a production-sharing contract in Ukraine and is trying to coax Bulgaria into lifting its moratorium on shale gas drilling.

Mr. Magness says that so few wells have been drilled in most eastern European countries that it is almost impossible to assess the size of the potential resources or whether they are commercially exploitable at all.

Exxon Mobil stopped drilling in Poland earlier this year after just two wells. “The information strongly suggested it wasn’t going to be commercially viable,” Tristan Aspray, Exxon Mobil’s Greenland operations manager, said in an interview. But he emphasized that Exxon’s view applied only to the area where it drilled — not the rest of the country.

Mr. Magness said he and his colleagues, in their hunt for data, have clambered around “in torn jeans” in the dusty repositories of state geological services trying to find old paper records of wells and rock cores. Chevron has drilled two wells on its Poland concessions and is planning to begin another soon.

The company is also planning to reopen one of the earlier wells, in southeast Poland, to perform further tests. Mr. Magness said that what he had found in the early efforts was enough to interest him in investing more time and money. “I am not seeing anything that would tell me to pull the drill bit up and go away,” he said.

Because of fears that the extraction method could pollute drinking water, several European countries, including France, have barred fracking in their territories, despite indications of promising shale gas deposits. Exxon Mobil temporarily halted drilling in Lower Saxony in Germany in deference to local opposition.

Stephan Singer, energy policy director for the World Wild Life Fund in Brussels said that the concerns about hydraulic fracturing included the large volumes of water that it uses for shale gas operations. Another worry: that fracking would damage geological formations, turning them into “a leaky swiss cheese” unsuitable for storing carbon dioxide in the future, as environmental groups hope.

Environmentalists also worry fear that tapping into huge troves of gas will lead to an enormous new volume of carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere, Mr. Singer said.

Mr. Magness, a crew-cut New Orleans native, contends that persuasion and data can overcome the environmental resistance. But Chevron has encountered protesters in Poland, including people blocking roads to its drill sites.

“We need to sit down and talk to folks and not have them put themselves in harm’s way,” he said.

He said he was confident that a case could be made to at least some European governments that shale gas could bring them major benefits in terms of jobs and energy security. A big selling point is that successful development of shale gas would lessen the dependence of former Soviet satellites like Poland on gas imports from Russia’s Gazprom monopoly.

Easing dependence on Russian gas is perhaps the strongest argument in the oil companies’ arsenal when they approach countries in eastern Europe about shale gas. Europe received a painful reminder of this dependence in the winter of 2009 when a pricing dispute between Gazprom, the Russian gas export giant, and Ukraine led to a three week cutoff of gas that left hundreds of thousands of people without heat.

In addition, the European Union recently opened an investigation into whether the Russian export monopoly Gazprom blocks fair competition in the natural gas markets of Central and Eastern Europe. Gazprom raised strong objections to the investigation.

“It is incumbent on us to show a government what is there,” he said. “Once people know what is there we can have a conversation about developing it.”
667 2012-10-25 Prosecutors sue Bank of America over bad loans. | The inventor James Dyson on patent infringements. | Zynga plays a game called survival....
668 2012-10-25 Qatar, an emirate with relatively little oil and vast supplies of natural gas, wants its national airline to use the latter as fuel. \...
669 2012-10-25 Microsoft threw a coming-out party for Windows 8 and the Surface tablet, presenting new devices from its hardware partners that will run Windows 8....
670 2012-10-25 "I don't think any politician in Washington, most of whom are male, should be making health care decisions for women," the president said in Florida....
671 2012-10-25 In four months, workers will begin restoring one of the missing blocks of Cortlandt Street, between Church and Greenwich Streets, as Cortlandt Way, not entirely restricted but not exactly public, either....
672 2012-10-25 Rajat K. Gupta gets a two-year prison sentence for leaking boardroom secrets to Raj Rajaratnam. | Federal prosecutors sue Bank of America over a mortgage program. | The incoming chairman of Barclays plans "a clean sweep" of the board....
673 2012-10-25 Four additional brands are joining the Coca-Cola Company and the musician Will.i.am in an environmental initiative called Ekocycle, which seeks to develop creative ways of recycling plastic beverage bottles....
674 2012-10-25 The New York Times Company reported third-quarter net income of $2.28 million, or about 2 cents a share, on revenue of $449 million. The market responded by sending shares down nearly 22 percent....
675 2012-10-25 Our June sales were our lowest since August 2008. I convinced myself that something had shifted in the outside world and there simply weren't as many shoppers looking to buy high-end conference tables....
676 2012-10-25 By the time the Khmer Rouge regime finished filling the killing fields in Cambodia in the 1970s, more than 90 percent of the country’s artists and intellectuals had been wiped out. Cambodia’s artistic community has slowly been rebuilding itsel...
677 2012-10-25 The Swiss reported a 63 percent decline in net profit in the third quarter after taking a charge related to the value of its debt....
678 2012-10-25 Officials of Medtronic, the medical device maker, edited studies by outside researchers about a controversial spine treatment sold by the company, inserting claims that their product was superior to a competing one, according to a Senate finance committee report released Thursday.

The treatment at issue, known as Infuse, uses a bioengineered protein to fuse spinal vertebrae as a way of reducing back pain. Spinal fusion procedures can also use a competing technique that employs real bone.

In recent years, critics of Infuse have charged that Medtronic overplayed its benefits in studies in medical journals that also played down its risks.

The Senate finance inquiry, which reviewed internal Medtronic documents, found that the company paid about $210 million from 1996 to 2010 in consulting fees, royalties and other payments to doctors involved in outside research on Infuse.

In a statement, Medtronic said it vigorously disputed any suggestion that its employees had improperly influenced or written any of the medical journal reports. The company also said those studies had accurately represented the procedure’s risks and that the payments to researchers had been largely royalty fees that were in line with industry practice.

“Medtronic does not agree with many of the findings” in the report, the company stated.

The Senate inquiry was spurred in part by the release last year of a special issue of a medical publication, The Spine Journal. In that report, a group of spine specialists publicly repudiated the studies performed by the Medtronic-financed researchers, saying they had understated serious adverse effects connected with Infuse, including male sterility. The researchers involved defended their reports as accurate.

The Senate inquiry also found that internal Medtronic documents indicated that the company had put language into reports claiming that Infuse was superior to a bone graft because it eliminated the pain associated with harvesting bone from a patient’s pelvis. Medtronic said that there was a medical debate about the complications of bone graft use and that any suggestions that it used that issue for marketing purposes was wrong.
679 2012-10-25 Because elections are so tight and a small number of votes can decide races, each voter is highly coveted and doggedly targeted.

“It’s a true swing state, and a close state ignites people’s passions,” said Roger Stone, a longtime Republican consultant who lives in Miami Beach. Add to that the state’s mix of immigrants, many from countries well practiced in tainted politics, and New Yorkers, who are accustomed to delighting in political rumbles, and the result is not altogether unpredictable.

Nowhere is this more obvious than in South Florida.

Since he was elected to Congress in 2010, Mr. Rivera, one of three Republican Cuban-American House members from Miami, has been dogged by allegations of wrongdoing while he was a state legislator. On Wednesday he was charged by the Florida Commission on Ethics with 11 counts of filing fraudulent financial disclosure forms, misusing campaign funds and concealing a $1 million consulting contract with a Miami gambling business while he served in the State House.

Mr. Rivera, who was Senator Marco Rubio’s roommate when both were state representatives, called the charges false in a statement, but he is also confronting another series of damaging accusations.

The Miami Herald has reported that Mr. Rivera ran a puppet candidate in the Democratic primary against his Democratic challenger, Joe Garcia, who lost to Mr. Rivera in 2010. The candidate, Justin Lamar Sternad, a part-time hotel worker with no political experience, has told the F.B.I. that Mr. Rivera was secretly behind his race, The Herald reported. The newspaper said Mr. Rivera funneled as much as $43,000 to Mr. Sternad, who paid cash this summer for expensive campaign fliers attacking Mr. Garcia. A federal grand jury is investigating.

One witness in the case — a political operative who describes herself on Twitter as a “Republican Political Guru and Conservative Bad Girl!” — vanished hours before she was scheduled to talk to prosecutors. Mr. Rivera, who declined through his lawyer to comment, has said he has done nothing wrong and knows of no investigation.

“We are not going to respond to unfounded rumors and innuendo,” said his lawyer, Michael R. Band. But, he added, “it’s like a Carl Hiaasen novel.”

Analysts say Mr. Garcia stands a good chance of winning next month. And if so, he would be a new breed of Cuban-American in the House: a Democrat who supports travel by Americans to Cuba.

Meanwhile, his party has stepped back from Mr. Rivera.

“I know the Republicans are putting enormous pressure on him to drop out,” Mr. Stone said, adding that Mr. Rubio has been asked to intervene.

But Mr. Rivera, who was named the most corrupt member of Congress this year by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics, a nonpartisan group in Washington, has refused to back down. Recently, he ran a television advertisement saying, inaccurately, that Mr. Garcia was “under investigation for breaking the law.”

Last week, Mr. Garcia counterpunched, starting a Web site,

davidriverafacts.com, delineating the accusations. An accompanying video warns: “The more we know, the worse it gets.”

Caustic races are nothing new to Alan Grayson, a brash, blunt Democrat from Orlando who was elected to the House in 2008, only to lose two years later to Daniel Webster, a Republican.

Known for provocation, Mr. Grayson described the Republican Party’s health care plan in 2009 as “die quickly.” He once compared former Vice President Dick Cheney to a vampire. And in 2010, he ran a television advertisement calling Mr. Webster “Taliban Daniel Webster” — Taliban Dan, for short — for his views on women and marriage, and his connection to a Christian group. The spot was widely criticized.

“I’m saying what a lot of other people are thinking and nobody else is saying,” Mr. Grayson said. “People should be allowed to see a doctor when they’re sick. If you work, you ought to have a pension, insurance, vacation and sick leave, and your taxes should be lower than Mitt Romney’s.”

“What the heck has happened?” he asked.

But Mr. Grayson, 54, a native New Yorker who put himself through Harvard as a janitor and night watchman, is back, running in a new Democratic-friendly district against Todd Long, a Tea Party activist who has lost two previous House races.

“This time we don’t have five and a half million dollars in vicious personal ads against me,” Mr. Grayson said, referring to the 2010 race as “an onslaught of sewer money.”

So far, Mr. Grayson has faced no ads paid for by Mr. Long. He has outraised Mr. Long by 55 to 1 and has run weeks of advertisements that, among other things, blasted Mr. Long for wanting to “dismantle” Social Security. Mr. Long backs a plan to privatize the program for people under 55 and raise the retirement age to 72.

Amid mentions of Aristophanes and hexadecimals on his online posts, Mr. Grayson also calls his opponent a “miscreant,” and does not shy away from poking at Mr. Long’s conviction for drunken driving and his divorce.

Without much money, Mr. Long, a Christian conservative who has said that he is also running against the Republican establishment, has little recourse but to lob his own word bombs.

“He’s a bully,” Mr. Long said. “His record is complete lies and meanness.”

A debate last month between the two candidates immediately deteriorated.

“The first thing I want you to know is if I go to Congress, I’m not going to be a character assassin,” Mr. Long said right away. “I’m not going to try to divide the nation, call Democrats names.”

“You know this is nonsense,” Mr. Grayson interjected.

“Don’t shout at me, Mr. Grayson,” Mr. Long said seconds later.

And so it went. Mr. Grayson called Mr. Long a liar. Mr. Long, angry at being interrupted, snapped at Mr. Grayson, “Hey, you can shut up.”

The atmosphere is no less heated in the tight race between Mr. West, an outspoken conservative, and Mr. Murphy, his 29-year-old Democratic opponent, who is fighting back hard in his first political race. Both are running in a new district that encompasses Martin County, St. Lucie County and a part of Palm Beach County.

In late September, Mr. West, a former Army lieutenant colonel and battalion commander, released a scathing television advertisement that juxtaposed his day on Feb. 16, 2003 (preparing his men for war in Iraq) with Mr. Murphy’s (getting into a drunken bar fight and “verbally assaulting a police officer”).

While Mr. Murphy was arrested that night for disorderly intoxication and possessing a fake driver’s license, the case was later dropped, and he has called it “the biggest mistake of my life.”

But Mr. Murphy retaliated a week later, telling voters in an ad that Mr. West was forced to leave the military. The military did charge Mr. West with aggravated assault in 2003 for using his gun to coerce an Iraqi during an interrogation, but it then decided against court-martialing him. Mr. West was fined $5,000 and relieved of his command.

The final Army report said Mr. West “performed illegal acts, merited court-martial, faced 11 years in prison,’ ” the ad says. Mr. West called the add “a smear.”
680 2012-10-25 Shares of the online media company IAC/InterActiveCorp fell as much as 14 percent Wednesday amid investor confusion after a mistake by a financial information provider.

IAC’s third-quarter results, which were released before the market opened, beat Wall Street’s expectations and the company’s stock was up slightly in early trading. But share prices declined after what appeared to be a misinterpretation of the company’s guidance for 2013 by FactSet Research.

Shortly before its 11 a.m. earnings conference call, IAC, which is run by Barry Diller, issued a statement saying that it expected to report an operating loss for its “media and other” segment in 2013. FactSet mistakenly reported that IAC was expecting an operating loss for the whole company. IAC said it pointed out the error during the conference call.

FactSet said it recognized the error and issued a correction. In the confusion, Nasdaq briefly halted trading in IAC stock. Nasdaq later canceled some trades.

Even with the mistake cleared up, IAC’s stock ended Wednesday’s trading down $4.41, or 8.4 percent, at $48.

IAC runs a variety of Web sites, including Match.com and Ask.com, as well as About.com, which it acquired from The New York Times Company for $300 million in a deal that closed last month. It also has a controlling stake in the company that publishes Newsweek and the Daily Beast Web site.

In the third quarter, IAC reported net income of $40.7 million, or 43 cents a share, a decline of 41 percent from $65 million, or 69 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding onetime items, IAC earned 71 cents a share.
681 2012-10-25 Microsoft’s makeover of its Windows operating system is another example of manufacturers trampling over older users to worship at the altar of youth. I wonder if there was even one senior citizen in the focus groups who thought the new interface was cool.

My soon-to-be 90-year-old mother relies on her computer to pay her bills, keep up with her grandchildren on Facebook, play Euchre and Scrabble, and follow her favorite golfers on the P.G.A. Web site. Senior citizens are not computer-averse, but they believe the adage “If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.”

I am so glad that she got a new PC a few months ago before Windows 8 became the default operating system. I will advise her not to take advantage of the upgrade offer that came with it.

You quote a copywriter in New York as saying the new version of Windows makes him feel “like the biggest amateur computer user ever.” As a senior citizen still inching toward an intermediate level of the user-friendly Mac, I would like to remind him of the advantages (as well as frustrations) of having to acknowledge his “beginner’s mind” in his struggles with basics again.

As we older people develop skills and competence with the continuing changes in technology, we are using our brain cells to hunt for new techniques and knowledge (as our forefathers did); we are not coasting, complacent in our accumulated wisdom.

Hang in there. New knowledge will become wisdom. And then there will be another new version!
682 2012-10-25 “Legendarium” comes to Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center....
683 2012-10-25 MOSCOW — A jailed Russian opposition leader who disappeared from Kiev, Ukraine, on Friday was held for three days by men who threatened to kill his children if he did not sign a lengthy confession, according to an interview published on Wednesday.

The activist, Leonid Razvozzhayev, who had visited a United Nations office in Kiev for advice on seeking political asylum, reappeared on Sunday night outside a Moscow courthouse. In an interview with The New Times, a magazine, he said he had been held in a tumbledown house and not allowed to eat, drink or use the bathroom for three days.

“They told me, ‘If you don’t answer our questions, your children will be killed,’ ” Mr. Razvozzhayev said in the interview. “They said that legally I didn’t exist, and anything could happen to me.” After he signed the confession, he said, his captors delivered him to the authorities in Moscow.

Vladimir Markin, a spokesman for Russia’s top federal investigator, has said that Mr. Razvozzhayev turned himself in voluntarily and did not report any “torture, abduction or any other unlawful actions.” He said investigators would look into the report.

The Russian authorities have accused Mr. Razvozzhayev and other opposition leaders of plotting mass riots and of seeking financing from Georgia to help topple the government of President Vladimir V. Putin. It was a measure of the case’s resonance that Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, said the Kremlin would have no comment on Mr. Razvozzhayev’s allegations.

“The Kremlin hardly can, or should, comment on this matter,” Mr. Peskov told journalists on Wednesday. “This is a case that involves investigative organs, prosecutors, judges, lawyers and human rights advocates.”
684 2012-10-25 BERLIN — Germany paid tribute on Wednesday to the hundreds of thousands of Romany people killed in the Holocaust, opening a long-awaited place of remembrance for a minority still plagued by discrimination.

Addressing a crowd that included Holocaust survivors and prominent German politicians, Chancellor Angela Merkel noted that the site, called the Memorial for the Sinti and Roma of Europe Murdered in National Socialism, served to honor the Roma and Sinti victims of the Nazis’ racial purge of Europe while reminding the living of their duty to shield minority populations from harm.

“Humanity means not turning a blind eye when another person’s dignity is being violated,” Ms. Merkel said. “In the commemoration of victims always lies a promise, and this is how I see our duty to protect our minorities.

“But let’s not beat around the bush,” she told the audience, which included the head of the German Central Council of Sinti and Roma, Romani Rose, and Joachim Gauck, the German president. “Sinti and Roma suffer today from discrimination and exclusion.”

The ceremony took place in a leafy corner of the city’s sprawling Tiergarten park, across the street from the Reichstag, Germany’s Parliament building, and close to Berlin’s other monuments to victims of Nazi persecution, including a sea of polished concrete slabs, unveiled in May 2005, that commemorates the millions of Jews who were killed during the Third Reich, and a smaller memorial for gay men and lesbians that opened three years later.

After Ms. Merkel’s speech, somber violin music played as a young Sinti girl placed a single flower on a retractable, triangular stone pillar at the center of a circular pool of water.
685 2012-10-25 Over all, Boeing’s third-quarter sales increased by 13 percent to $20 billion from $17.7 billion a year earlier. Its net income dropped, as expected, because of higher pension expenses, but still exceeded analyst expectations.

Third-quarter net income totaled $1.03 billion, or $1.35 a share. That was 6 percent less than the $1.1 billion, or $1.46 a share, that Boeing reported a year earlier.

Boeing said growing sales of its older 737 and 777 commercial models, as well as increasing deliveries of the new 787 and 747-8 jets, should help it earn $4.80 to $4.95 a share for all of 2012. It previously had forecast earnings of $4.40 to $4.60 a share for 2012.

About a year ago, Boeing began deliveries of the 787 Dreamliner, the first passenger jet to make substantial use of the composites, and the 747-8, an enlarged version of the classic 747. Both models were late and over budget. But Boeing is shipping 70 to 85 of the new planes to customers this year, and Robert Stallard, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, wrote to clients on Wednesday that the company was “getting pretty good” at completing “trouble-free” quarters.

Boeing said it remained on track to deliver 585 to 600 commercial planes this year, which could enable it to reclaim the top spot in worldwide aircraft sales. Europe’s Airbus, which passed Boeing in deliveries in 2003, has projected that it will supply 570 planes to customers in 2012.

Boeing has already started to update its best-selling 737 single-aisle planes, and Mr. McNerney said the company was now considering replacing the metal wings on the larger 777s with the lightweight composites and switching to more fuel-efficient engines on that model.

He said that even with just those changes, rather than a complete redesign, Boeing could deliver cost savings on the 777 that are “pretty eye-watering.” He said the company was still considering the options, but expected to start delivering a new version of the 777 by the early 2020s.

In terms of military business, both Boeing and Lockheed, the largest military contractor, said they had increased sales overseas to offset some of the reductions at the Pentagon.

Lockheed said Wednesday that its net earnings from continuing operations increased in the third quarter to $727 million, or $2.21 a share, from $665 million, or $1.99 a share, a year earlier. Its sales were $11.9 billion compared with $12.1 billion a year earlier.

Lockheed said it expected its sales to decline at a low single-digit rate in 2013. But it also expects its profit margins to remain above 11 percent as long as Congress can stave off sequestration, the plan to force large automatic spending cuts at the Pentagon. Both President Obama and his Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, have promised that they would stop the cuts if they win the November election.

Northrop Grumman’s earnings also beat analyst expectations, though its quarterly profit fell 12 percent from last year’s levels on a drop in net pension income. General Dynamics, another large arms company, missed the analyst consensus on its earnings. Its profits fell by 8 percent, partly because of a $25 million charge to revalue inventory.
686 2012-10-25 Mr. Almunia said he warned Microsoft officials “at the highest level possible” of his concerns about Windows 8 and had made clear to them what “should be avoided if they don’t want to take the risk of new investigations.”

Microsoft apologized for the latest infringement when it came to light in July, calling it a technical problem it had learned of only recently.

On Wednesday, Microsoft said, “We take this matter very seriously and moved quickly to address this problem as soon as we became aware of it.”

“Although this was the result of a technical error, we take responsibility for what happened, and we are strengthening our internal procedures to help ensure something like this cannot happen again.”

The significance of Wednesday’s action could reach beyond Microsoft. It comes as Mr. Almunia’s office is negotiating with Google to try to settle the commission’s concerns about that company’s dominance of the Internet search and advertising markets.

Legal experts say that by cracking down on Microsoft, Mr. Almunia is also sending a warning to Google that settling its case may not be possible unless there are also effective monitoring mechanisms.

Mr. Almunia said that the case involving Google was different and that there was no direct link with his decision to charge Microsoft. But he underlined that the move against Microsoft was “a very serious message not to infringe the commitments that have been agreed and have that been given status as legally binding.”

Mr. Almunia can levy a fine totaling up to 10 percent of a company’s global annual revenue. In Microsoft’s case that could mean a penalty of $7 billion, but analysts say it is probably unlikely to reach that level.

The largest single fine ever levied by the European antitrust authorities was €1.1 billion, or $1.4 billion, in 2009 against Intel for abusing its dominance in the computer chip market. Intel is still appealing that ruling.

Microsoft has paid a long series of fines to European regulators over the past decade.

In 2008, Microsoft was fined nearly €900 million in so-called periodic penalties for defying a decision that regulators had imposed on the company.

In June, the General Court, the second-highest in the Union, handed a small victory to Microsoft by reducing the fine by €39 million to €860 million after finding that the commission had miscalculated the amount.

Microsoft also paid fines of €497 million and €281 million for separate but related offenses, bringing the total to €1.7 billion during its battle with European regulators.

The current dispute stems from the settlement of a case concerning Microsoft’s dominance in Internet browsers — a dominance that the company has relinquished to market forces in recent years.

In Microsoft’s 2009 settlement, the company did not pay a fine but instead committed to installing a system called Browser Choice Screen with Windows. It was intended to offer users alternatives like Google Chrome and Mozilla Firefox to counter the strength of Internet Explorer, Microsoft’s own browser product. The choice must be offered for five years, according to the agreement.

Millions of European users of the Windows 7 SP1 version of the software may not have been offered a choice of browsers between February 2011 and July 2012, Mr. Almunia said.

The company said it only learned of the error when the commission sent a notification about reports it had received indicating that alternative browsers were not being offered on some personal computers.

On Wednesday, Mr. Almunia saved his sharpest words when discussing Microsoft’s highly anticipated new Windows 8 operating system, one which the company has high hopes for.

In particular, Mr. Almunia said users of Windows 8 should be able to remove the icon for Microsoft’s browser, called Internet Explorer, from the start screens on their personal computers if they had chosen another browser as their default option.

Once users had made the choice of another browser, “there should not be unnecessary warning windows or confirmations by the user, and the Internet Explorer icon should also be unpinned from the Start screen,” said Mr. Almunia.

Mr. Almunia said it had examined another operating system by Microsoft called Windows RT for tablet computers but had decided not to take that investigation further — at least now.

“We will remain vigilant and we will continue to monitor all aspects of Microsoft’s compliance with its commitments in the future,” he said.
687 2012-10-26 A crunchy Saturday solve courtesy of Joon Pahk....
688 2012-10-26 Fox Soccer has lost the rights to broadcast English Premier League games in the United States, the latest blow to a channel that once dominated the soccer scene on American television....
689 2012-10-26 The Knicks' center said he had only bruised his knee in a recent preseason game and that he would be ready for the regular-season opener....
690 2012-10-26 The Nets' Deron Williams had been dealing with intermittent pain, although it had not limited him until now....
691 2012-10-26 Prosecutors say an insurance executive in Denver traded on secret information about Kirk Kerkorian's firm acquiring a significant stake in an oil and gas company. Also Friday, a former employee of the former hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam agree...
692 2012-10-26 The Times did exactly what one would hope and expect in handling this situation involving the Chinese government....
693 2012-10-26 A mile-by-mile look at the New York City Marathon ahead of the Nov. 4 race. Today: Mile 18 continues up First Avenue, through the Yorkville neighborhood and its echoes of a Bohemian past....
694 2012-10-26 The play, based on published materials and public appearances, is to open in January at the Red Room theater in Copenhagen....
695 2012-10-26 Mitt Romney has forecast that the optimism resulting from his election to the presidency will give a lift to the economy. In keeping with the claim that he will deserve credit for good things that happen after he wins, the following charts measure performance of the Dow Jones industrial average over four-year periods beginning at the end of October in each presidential election year, a few days before the actual election. In general, voters have tended to throw out the incumbent party after four-year periods when the Dow rose at a compound rate of less than 5 percent a year, and to keep the incumbents if the market gain exceeded that figure. If that pattern continues, Barack Obama will win re-election.
696 2012-10-26 David Carr and A. O. Scott argue about how much is too much, or not enough, in covering American politics and the presidential race.
697 2012-10-26 The Wen family empire. | Random House and Penguin consider merging. | Referendum could enshrine union rights. | Transcript of the 1944 Bretton Woods conference....
698 2012-10-26 The Delfina Foundation and the Mayfair gallery, two art spaces that are known for their diverse exhibitions, are in expansion mode....
699 2012-10-26 Apple and Amazon both reported quarterly earnings on Thursday. For Apple, it was a story of increasing profits. But Amazon reported its first quarterly loss in four years....
700 2012-10-26 I had to keep trying things until we either recovered or went under....
701 2012-10-26 But time is dwindling. The implications for the next two years cannot be overstated. If Mr. Obama wins a second term, his hand would be much strengthened by a Democratic-led Senate, even a narrowly divided one, as opposed to unified Republican majorities in the House and the Senate.

At the moment, Democrats are given little chance of winning the net 25 seats they would need to take the House, though they could well gain House seats.

If Mr. Romney wins the White House, even a one-seat Democratic majority in the Senate could thwart his domestic ambitions, from an immediate repeal of Mr. Obama’s health care law to his proposed 20-percent across-the-board tax cut.

Those proposals rely on both a Republican majority and the use of a parliamentary budget procedure that would negate a Democratic filibuster. But a Democratic majority leader could keep the proposals from coming to a vote without substantial Democratic changes. An opposition majority would also ensure leverage in the fight over the so-called fiscal cliff, what to do with the expiring Bush-era tax cuts and looming across-the-board spending cuts, called sequestration, that go into force in January.

Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the chairwoman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, predicted that Democrats would hold on.

“If you look back two years ago, not one person thought we would be able to keep the majority,” she said. “Our prospects are very good.”

Republicans recognize that the climb back to the majority has become much harder than it appeared a year ago. Some of the difficulty was just bad luck. The unexpected retirement of Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine changed the math early. Some was self-inflicted.

Mr. Mourdock’s comment in a debate that when conception resulted from rape it was intended by God followed Representative Todd Akin’s assertion that conception would not result from “legitimate rape.” That comment turned a Missouri Senate race that Republicans expected to win into one where the Democratic incumbent, Claire McCaskill, could survive.

The fierce battle between grass-roots conservatives and Washington power brokers that hurt Republican Senate ambitions in 2010 has also continued. Mr. Mourdock’s primary victory in May over Senator Richard G. Lugar, a six-term veteran, had already put Indiana into play before his explosive comment.

Expensive and divisive primary fights in Wisconsin and Arizona ended the way Washington Republicans wanted, with victories for former Gov. Tommy Thompson and Representative Jeff Flake. But both nominees emerged bruised and broke.

Now, for the Senate’s balance of power to switch, Republicans need a night of good fortune rivaling the Democratic sweep of 2006, when six Republican incumbents were defeated. Democrats currently hold 53 seats, but that number could rise if, as expected, former Gov. Angus King of Maine, an independent, wins the seat held by Ms. Snowe and caucuses with the Democrats.

Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat, is also seen as having the advantage in her Massachusetts battle with Senator Scott P. Brown, a Republican.

Republicans are clearly favored to win a Democratic seat in Nebraska. From there, they would have to win Democratic seats in Montana, North Dakota, Virginia and Wisconsin to reach 50, enough for the majority if Mr. Romney wins the presidency.

To get the 51st seat, Republicans would have to win more difficult races in Florida, Ohio or Pennsylvania, all of which lean Democratic but have been tightening recently as Mr. Romney gained in the polls and Democrats came under attack through tough ads.

In Connecticut, the Republican candidate, Linda McMahon, and a well-funded campaign financed out of her World Wrestling Entertainment wealth could also factor in, but the latest polling shows the race moving away from her as Democrats consolidate around Mr. Obama and their Senate candidate, Representative Christopher S. Murphy.

That math ignores Democratic wild cards in Arizona, Indiana and Nevada, where Representative Shelley Berkley, a Democrat, has a shot at snatching a Republican Senate seat away from Dean Heller.

In Arizona, Richard Carmona, a Democrat, is running neck and neck with Mr. Flake in the fight to succeed Senator Jon Kyl, a Republican who is retiring.

Then there is Indiana. Mr. Mourdock’s primary victory over Mr. Lugar gave Democrats hope that the seat would be in play for Representative Joe Donnelly. The race was close for months as Mr. Donnelly tried to paint Mr. Mourdock, a Tea Party favorite, as too extreme. But as Mr. Romney solidified his lead in the state, the Senate race appeared to shift toward Mr. Mourdock.

Then at a debate on Tuesday, Mr. Mourdock tried to distinguish himself from two opponents who also oppose abortion by explaining that he does not support abortions even in the case of rape.

“And even when life begins in that horrible situation of rape, that it is something that God intended to happen,” he said

In the ensuing storm, independent Senate analysts shifted the race back to a pure tossup.

Mr. Jesmer said that any suggestion that Mr. Mourdock’s comments would have an impact on races beyond Indiana was a “complete joke” and that they did not equate to Mr. Akin’s remarks about “legitimate rape.”

“Some people believe life is precious, regardless of the circumstances,” he said. “He didn’t say it in a particularly articulate way. He apologized for it. But that’s not a foreign concept to people all over the country.”
702 2012-10-26 Much of the decline involved two-year institutions, but Steven Johnson, spokesman for the Texas Association of Community Colleges, was less concerned than the commissioner. He said community colleges are still experiencing the third-highest enrollment levels in the state’s history. (The Texas Association of Community Colleges is a sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)

Texas is not the only state experiencing a drop in enrollment. According to the United States Department of Education, among more than 7,000 institutions that receive federal student aid, undergraduate enrollment dropped to about 18.62 million in 2011 from 18.65 million in 2010.

But Texas is running out of time to reach the goal it set in 2000 — to increase enrollment by 630,000 students by 2015 in order to bring the state’s higher education productivity to parity with other large states.

If the preliminary numbers hold, enrollment will have to increase by an average of 28,000 per year for the next three years in order to meet that benchmark. “I think we’ll do it,” Mr. Paredes said, “but obviously, we have a challenge ahead.”

Representative Branch said he hoped the new numbers would help his effort to change Texas’ higher education financing system to take student outcomes, like graduation rates, into account. The state currently gives money to colleges and universities based only on the number of students.

“While this should be one element, because you still want to encourage increasing enrollment,” Mr. Branch said, “it’s not the only thing that matters.”

He also said that the commissioner’s reaction to the preliminary figures indicated a need to improve the state’s data collection and forward-looking analysis so that no one is taken by surprise. “If there’s some longer-term trend here than just a plateauing after some pretty dramatic increases, then we need to be aware of that,” he added.

Mr. Paredes said that the coordinating board was taking a close look at enrollment.

“There are a number of moving parts, and we’re going to try to understand what’s going on as well as we can,” he said, “but I’m not sure we’ll ever reach a definitive conclusion about what’s happening in Texas.”
703 2012-10-26 In appeals to Hispanic men, economic discussions tend to be held in more formal, businesslike settings and generally are focused on the family’s finances.

A poll by the Pew Research Center conducted Sept. 7 to Oct. 4 found that most Latino men and women are not so far apart on the issues: They give nearly equal importance to health care, jobs and education, and nearly half say the country is headed in the right direction. Both sexes tend to vote Democratic.

Mr. Gonzalez, 79, hewed to that pragmatic view. An Obama volunteer in Aurora, a Denver suburb, he said government must offer the same types of benefits that were available to him — a Korean War veteran, he became a court reporter and went to law school on the G.I. Bill of Rights — to foster economic stability.

“Nobody can do it by themselves,” Mr. Gonzalez said.

To Latinas, though, who are likely to have more caregiving responsibilities and less income than most other female voters, policy discussions are played closer to the heart.

“I am who I am because a public school teacher helped me along the way, because I got grants to go to college,” said Ms. Gallegos, 41, the executive director of Focus Points Family Resource Center, a Latino outreach organization in Denver.

A meet-and-greet on a recent Saturday in Ridgway, a rural outpost in southwestern Colorado where 5 percent of the population is Latino, attracted mostly women, many of whom carried their children. Rick Palacio, the chairman of the Colorado Democratic Party, which organized the event, said they were not there “to hear our positions on quote-unquote women’s issues.”

They were there, instead, “to hear about stuff that affected the long-term growth and success of their families, whether that be college affordability or the sustainability of Social Security or the survival of health care,” he said. “That’s what’s driving their interest in this election.”

Sylvia Manzano, a senior analyst at Latino Decisions, which studies Latino voting trends, said the “personal element” gave immigration, particularly efforts to give immigrants smuggled across the border as children a path to legalization, a prominent role in their political discussions, even if it was not their top priority for the next president.

“To them, immigration, health care, jobs, education, they’re all part of the same nexus of ideas that defines the economic viability of their families, or of the people close to them,” Ms. Manzano said.

“Hispanics know that we’re not the only community of illegal immigrants,” said Pauline Olvera, 46, a member of a grass-roots group called Colorado Hispanic Republicans, a Romney volunteer and a self-described “third-generation American.”

For Maria S. Young, who is from Mexico, it is the tough-on-illegal-immigrants laws of recent years — in places like Arizona, where 30 percent of residents are Latino, and Alabama, which had the second-highest Latino growth rate in the nation between 2000 and 2010 — that have driven the partisan wedge.

“It has forced immigrants to pick a side, and it has made it a much easier decision,” said Ms. Young, an Obama supporter who is the president of a company that helps high-skilled immigrants get professional accreditation in the United States.

Polly Baca, the first Hispanic woman elected to Colorado’s State Senate, has organized a group called Catholic Women for Obama to drive religious Latinas to base their vote on what she described as the church’s social-justice teachings — “Compassion,” Ms. Baca said, “for the poor, for immigrants.”

At the same time, the treasurer of the state’s Republican Committee, Christine C. Mastin, whose mother is from Chile, said priests in some heavily Hispanic enclaves have been encouraging congregants to “vote your values,” which she celebrated as a veiled message against the mandate for employers to cover birth control under Mr. Obama’s health care law.

Ms. Gallegos said she hoped this would be “the last election where people are going to try to squeeze us into ideological boxes,” adding, “It does nothing to give us the type of civic education we need.”

She went on, “It’s about jobs, it’s about schools, it’s about the economy, yes, but in the end, it’s about making life better for all people, including people like me.”
704 2012-10-26 Over the past month, has aggressively appealed to moderate voters. , for some reason, hasn’t. But, in what he thought was an off-the-record interview with The Des Moines Register, Obama laid out a pretty moderate agenda for his second term.

It occurred to me that this might be a good time to describe what being a moderate means.

First, let me describe what moderation is not. It is not just finding the midpoint between two opposing poles and opportunistically planting yourself there. Only people who know nothing about moderation think it means that.

Moderates start with a political vision, but they get it from history books, not philosophy books. That is, a moderate isn’t ultimately committed to an abstract idea. Instead, she has a deep reverence for the way people live in her country and the animating principle behind that way of life. In America, moderates revere the fact that we are a nation of immigrants dedicated to the American dream — committed to the idea that each person should be able to work hard and rise.

This animating principle doesn’t mean that all Americans think alike. It means that we have a tradition of conflict. Over the centuries, we have engaged in a series of long arguments around how to promote the American dream — arguments that pit equality against achievement, centralization against decentralization, order and community against liberty and individualism.

The moderate doesn’t try to solve those arguments. There are no ultimate solutions. The moderate tries to preserve the tradition of conflict, keeping the opposing sides balanced. She understands that most public issues involve trade-offs. In most great arguments, there are two partially true points of view, which sit in tension. The moderate tries to maintain a rough proportion between them, to keep her country along its historic trajectory.
705 2012-10-26 In response to Mr. Panetta’s decision, a small Special Operations “strike force” team moved from Central Europe to the Sigonella Air Base in Sicily while two Navy destroyers already in the Mediterranean were moved off the Libyan coast. A rapid-reaction team of elite Marines left Rota, Spain, and arrived to protect the American Embassy in Tripoli, the Libyan capital, the next day.

But a senior military official said that uncertainty about what was happening on the ground in Libya delayed the decision about where to send the Special Operations forces until about 9 p.m. in Washington, or 3 a.m. on Sept. 12, in Libya.

Ultimately, the decision relayed from the military’s Joint Staff in Washington was “to get close but not into Libya,” the official said. The task force then deployed over the next 24 hours to Sigonella, which is about an hour by plane from Benghazi. But by that time the shooting was over and the Americans were eventually evacuated.

As Mr. Panetta told reporters on Thursday, “This happened within a few hours, and it was really over before we had the opportunity to really know what was happening.”

Republicans, in the meantime, continue to question the Obama administration about its handling of an event that has become a source of sharp debate in the presidential campaign.

On Thursday, Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio released a letter asking the president to answer a number of questions about Libya publicly, including what military options he had been offered or had considered during the attack and its immediate aftermath.

Mr. Boehner also said in his letter that “information now in the public domain contradicts how you and senior administration officials consistently described the cause and nature of the terrorist attack in the day and weeks immediately following.”

Why, Mr. Boehner asked, “did the administration fail to account for facts that were known at the time?”

Mr. Boehner sent his letter after a series of three leaked e-mails sent by State Department officials shortly after the attack began — including one that alerted the White House Situation Room that a militant group had claimed responsibility for it — stirred new debate on Wednesday about the Obama administration’s shifting accounts.

The first e-mail, sent about a half-hour after the assault began, said the State Department’s regional security officer in Tripoli had reported that the mission in Benghazi was under attack, and that “20 armed people fired shots.” A second said the firing at the mission had stopped. In the third, the embassy in Tripoli reported that a local militant group, Ansar al-Shariah, had claimed responsibility through postings on Facebook and Twitter.
706 2012-10-26 The Times article has caused plenty of confusion in the United States, where Mr. Obama seemed to contradict himself on the issue during Monday night’s debate with Mitt Romney, his Republican challenger. First Mr. Obama declared of the reports, “They are not true,” but later he told Mr. Romney, “I’m pleased that you are now endorsing our policy of applying pressure and potentially having bilateral discussions with the Iranians.”

On Sunday, the Iranian Foreign Ministry dismissed the Times report. Meanwhile in Jerusalem, officials and spokesmen and spokeswomen struggled to manage their message, knowing that a central issue in the coming campaign would be the Iranian nuclear program, and whether Mr. Netanyahu’s aggressive battle against it had hurt Israel’s precious relationship with Washington.

In the United States, cabinet secretaries and leaders of the president’s party typically speak from the same talking points and, on significant matters, only upon authorization from the White House. That is not the case in Israel’s coalition government, where individual ministers are far freer to express themselves and do so without regard to official policy — at great length, in many forums and in colorful language. It is a truism of Israeli politics that if Mr. Obama wakes up worrying about what his Republican opponents will say about him, Mr. Netanyahu wakes up worried about ministers walking out of a cabinet meeting and diverting from the decision just made.

“I think most people who react don’t know anything and just speak as if they know,” one top Israeli official said of potential talks between Iran and the United States, speaking on the condition of anonymity in light of the prime minister’s order. “I heard from the P.M., not privately but in a group, just in passing, that we have no information about it. The prime minister should know. I think if he says it, it’s true.”

What the prime minister said, according to a statement e-mailed to international journalists at 7:51 p.m. on Sunday, was this: “I have no information about such talks, and I cannot say that they are taking place.” He neither denounced nor embraced the notion, but said more broadly that “Iran is using the negotiations with it to buy time” and that the international community should impose stricter demands on any further talks.

But this followed about 24 hours of confusion.

Around 8 p.m. Israeli time on Saturday, a senior Israeli official, demanding anonymity, told a Times reporter that the Israelis were aware of the effort toward bilateral talks and were open to it, so long as Washington’s demands were clear: Tehran must stop enriching uranium, export its enriched-uranium stockpile and forfeit any effort to weaponize the material. Iran insists that its program is only for civilian use.

Two hours later, Israel’s ambassador to the United States, Michael B. Oren, called the reporter with an official response he said was authorized by a high-ranking person in Jerusalem. The White House had not informed Israel of the agreement with Tehran, he said, and “we do not think Iran should be rewarded with direct talks.”

Israelis woke up Sunday morning to see the Times article splashed across local news sites, and public officials were in high demand to discuss it.

Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman told Israel Radio that “there is no one in Israel who knew, and we hope this is nothing beyond selling half a duck.” But Deputy Prime Minister Moshe Yaalon, who is the head of strategic affairs and is well briefed on Iran, encouraged “any negotiation that will lead to the end of the nuclear program.”

Also on the radio was Silvan Shalom, a leader of Mr. Netanyahu’s Likud Party whose portfolio has nothing to do with foreign affairs but is a frequent commenter on pretty much everything. “The Iranians are trying to buy time,” Mr. Shalom said. “Their desperate efforts to resume the dialogue stem only from the fact that the sanctions are working.” He added, “I do not think that we need to fall into this trap.”

Some who heard Mr. Shalom grew concerned. “Israelis speak even when they’re not in the loop because they don’t want anyone to know whether they’re in the loop or not,” noted one senior official, again on the condition of anonymity because of the prime minister’s demand. “The minister of transportation can talk about it, the minister of agriculture can talk about it, anyone can talk about anything.”

Conveniently, it was a Sunday morning, when Mr. Netanyahu meets at 9:30 with a forum of Likud officials called Sarenu — Hebrew for “our ministers” — and then with the full cabinet.

“He said that everybody who wanted to talk about it should be on the same page with him,” recalled a senior official who was at the session.

Another person who attended said the admonition was neither routine nor rare, especially on Iran but also on other delicate security issues, like Gaza or Egypt.

“Ministers like Yaalon, like Dan Meridor, like Ehud Barak — they know everything,” the official said, naming two deputy prime ministers who deal with Iran, plus the defense minister. “It’s more important for the ministers who are not in the security circle.”

Hours later, Mr. Netanyahu spoke for himself, and his words were widely distributed around the government with the warning — again, something that does not happen every day — not to deviate.

Shortly afterward in Washington, Ambassador Oren posted a link to the prime minister’s statement to international journalists on Twitter.
707 2012-10-26 Crucially these works and the accompanying texts also reveal that Munch saw “The Scream” much the way we do: as a highly promotable, reproducible image and one that could accommodate many types of anguish.

You can see, at MoMA, how “The Scream” fits into Munch’s painting cycle “The Frieze of Life,” not to mention his larger lexicon of femmes fatales and melancholy men. To the left of the pastel, in the painting “The Storm,” a ghostly slip of a woman muffles the sound of the wind by holding her hands to her head. This work dates from 1893, the year Munch made his first “Scream.”

And on the flip side of the wall that holds “The Scream” Munch’s longhaired “Madonna” shivers ecstatically within a frame of wriggling spermatozoa. Crouching in the corner is a bald, fetal figure that looks like the screamer.

Rounding out the selections is a veritable “Twilight” franchise of vampires and brooders. They remind you that “The Scream” is not a particularly sophisticated work, which is part of its charm, and that its vision of alienation has particular appeal to teenagers (which may be a clue to its resilience).

Knowing this doesn’t necessarily diminish the viewer’s sense of the intensity of Munch’s suffering. By the time he painted the first “Scream” he had lost his mother and sister to tuberculosis and his father to heart failure; another sister had been incarcerated in a mental institution.

The pastel, even in its Plexiglas coffin, conveys Munch’s own fraying mental state with an immediacy that’s just not possible in reproductions. The scene’s steep perspective comes across more emphatically when seen in person, as does the fragility of the medium. On the other hand, the contrast of orange and dark blue is subtler than you might think, especially if you’re accustomed to seeing “The Scream” on a backlighted screen.

Over the years these colors may have been further intensified, in our imaginations, by the text Munch carved into the work’s gilded frame. As translated by MoMA, it reads: “I was walking along the road with two of my friends. The sun set — the sky became a bloody red. And I felt a touch of melancholy — I stood still, dead tired — over the blue-black fjord and city hung blood and tongues of fire. My friends walked on — I stayed behind — trembling with fright — I felt the great scream in nature.”

The connection to van Gogh, whose journal entries described the landscape in similarly colorful and manic terms, is palpable. Two paintings by Ensor, flanking the gallery where “The Scream” hangs, add to the dialogue about Symbolism and mental illness.

Writing in the exhibition brochure the curator Ann Temkin reminds us that Munch often revisited his motifs and that “long before the legions of imitations appeared, ‘The Scream’ was both singular and multiple.” Her point is reinforced by a black-and-white lithograph of “The Scream,” from an edition Munch made in 1895. Compared with the pastel, just to the left, it’s screechy and cartoonish, giving the screamer arched brows and an elongated mouth.

This thought is comforting; we can’t violate “The Scream” by reproducing it, because Munch did that from the very beginning. It was, even to him, more of an insignia than a magnum opus.

So does it make sense to give this particular “Scream” the MoMA masterpiece treatment? Its placement may be the museum’s not-so-subtle way of persuading the work’s owner to give it a permanent home there. But as a practical matter the MoMA debut of this “Scream” might have been better handled in the special exhibition galleries and with a no-photographs rule. Space on the fifth floor is already at a premium; on opening day the gallery was thoroughly logjammed, and it will probably get worse.

In any case, you should see “The Scream” not because it’s famous, or because it’s expensive, but because it’s time for a level-headed look at this zeitgeisty little outburst of psychosis.
708 2012-10-26 Microsoft saw a need for a major change in both the design of Windows and its strategy for delivering it to customers after the huge success of Apple in the tablet market. The iPad is already stealing sales from laptop computers, and Apple’s chief executive has predicted that the tablets will one day outsell PCs.

But Microsoft’s move into hardware has perturbed many of its traditional partners, with implications that are still unclear. The company was to start selling Surface at midnight on Friday at about 60 Microsoft-operated stores in North America, a move that has annoyed retailers who will be deprived of a high-profile electronics device backed by a big marketing campaign. Prices start at $500.

There is grumbling, too, a lot of it private, from Microsoft’s hardware partners about the company competing with them for sales. But there aren’t many compelling software alternatives to which these partners can turn.

Michael Gartenberg, an analyst at Gartner, said Windows 8 was too important for the company to leave to its partners, who often churn out uninspired designs. “This is Windows the way Microsoft wants you to see it,” he said of Surface, which has an eye-catching magnesium case. (The first version of Surface will run a variation of Windows 8 called Windows RT that cannot run older Windows applications.)

Things could get even trickier in the future. Steve Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, has left open the possibility of making more hardware products, with analyst speculation focusing on a possible smartphone.

In a rare joint interview on Wednesday, Mr. Ballmer and Michael Dell, the chief executive of Dell, one of Microsoft’s oldest partners in the PC business, played down any fallout from Microsoft’s move into hardware. Mr. Ballmer said Mr. Dell was the first person he showed a Surface device to before announcing the product in June. He said he flew to Chicago with one of the devices to meet Mr. Dell, who was on his way to Lagos, Nigeria.

Mr. Ballmer said it was important for him to explain the device to Mr. Dell in person because he expected his initial reaction to be: “What the heck? This is different.”

Mr. Dell, for his part, said he did not have a problem with Microsoft making Surface. “As I’ve understood Steve’s plans here, if Surface helps Windows 8 succeed, that’s going to be good for Windows, good for Dell and good for our customers,” he said.

Of course, if Surface flops, Microsoft’s partners will probably find it easier to ignore. The company still has to convince customers, including businesses, that the product is as compelling and reliable as Apple’s iPad, which has had several years to develop.

Rich Adduci, chief information officer of Boston Scientific, a medical device company, has more than 20,000 PCs at his company using older Windows. But he has also deployed more than 5,500 iPads to sales representatives and other employees.

“Candidly, Surface is going to have a long, hard road ahead of it, given the marketplace and how it has matured with iPad and Android devices,” Mr. Adduci said. “There’s a very high bar for Surface that it’s going to have to hit initially for it to have a real chance.”
709 2012-10-26 Underscoring how drastically Apple’s business has been transformed by mobile products, revenue from the iPhone rose 56 percent to $17.13 billion, making up 48 percent of the company’s total revenue. It sold 26.9 million iPhones, 58 percent more than a year earlier.

Apple said its net income was $8.22 billion, or $8.67 a share, compared with $6.62 billion, or $7.05 a share, a year ago. Revenue for the period rose 27 percent to $35.97 billion, and revenue for the full fiscal year was $156.5 billion. To put that in perspective, Apple’s revenue for the year exceeded that of Microsoft, Google and Facebook combined.

Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected Apple to report earnings of $8.75 a share and revenue of $35.8 billion. The results were well ahead of Apple’s own forecast of $7.65 a share in earnings and $34 billion in revenue for the period.

It was the company’s projections for its current holiday quarter that raised eyebrows among investors. The company forecast earnings of $11.75 a share and revenue of $52 billion for the period, typically its biggest of the year. That implied a gross profit margin of 36 percent, lower than the 40 percent margin Apple reported in the fourth quarter, said Rob Cihra, an analyst at Evercore Partners.

Apple executives attributed the decline to higher costs associated with building its new products, which tend to get less expensive over time as Apple gets better at manufacturing them. While this pattern is familiar, the company said the sheer magnitude of its product-line overhaul made the decline in gross margin more severe. In addition to the new iPhone and iPods, Apple has announced new Macs and a smaller version of the iPad, called the iPad Mini.

Mr. Cihra said the company might be lowballing its estimates. “They have a history of beating their guidance,” he said.

Apple said its revenue from the iPad rose 9 percent to $7.51 billion.

As with most Apple products, the iPad Mini’s arrival was widely anticipated after months of rumors and leaks about the product in the news media. Mr. Cook said the rumors led people to postpone tablet purchases.

At the iPad Mini event, Apple hinted that sales of the iPad had been slower than expected when it revealed that the company had sold 100 million of the devices since their introduction two years ago, causing some analysts to trim their forecasts for the quarter.

“I think on balance it was pretty in line with reduced expectations,” said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Bernstein Research.

At a starting price of $329, the iPad Mini is more expensive than many people were hoping, and well above the sub-$200 bar for smaller tablets set by Amazon and Google. But the device could still open the iPad to a new swath of customers who were put off by the larger size of the original.
710 2012-10-26 The Delfina Foundation and the Mayfair gallery, two art spaces that are known for their diverse exhibitions, are in expansion mode....
711 2012-10-26 But the business leaders’ position also contradicts the stand of Mitt Romney and other Republicans, who say that all tax increases are “job killers,” that the federal budget can be balanced with spending cuts alone and that any overhaul of the tax code should be “revenue neutral,” neither raising nor lowering the government’s total tax collection.

“To say that you can solve this without increases in taxes is ludicrous,” said David M. Cote, the chief executive of Honeywell, a Republican and a member of Mr. Obama’s Bowles-Simpson fiscal commission in 2010. “Most wealthy people get it. They just don’t want to be put in the position, though, where you pay more in the taxes and the profligate spending continues.”

The Wall Street event on Thursday was just the latest, if the highest profile, of near daily developments in recent weeks in which prominent figures have stepped out of corporate suites to back a deal that would generate more revenue and, by implication, raise taxes on themselves. They support those moves if they are part of a bipartisan compromise that also reduces the long-term costs of entitlement programs, chiefly Medicare and Medicaid, that are the biggest factors driving projections of unsustainable federal debt.

Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, who is a Democrat, said, “The people, including myself, who are willing to give more revenue don’t want to take on the moral hazard” of sending more money to Washington unless the White House and Congress “deal with the pressing need to cut the budget.”

On Monday, Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase hosted a Wall Street lunch for about 75 other chief executives to hear from budget experts, including Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, a Democrat, and Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a Republican, about what the business leaders could do to promote a bipartisan deal. How, for example, could they persuade Republicans to drop their antitax position?

Business leaders “think it’s just really important that we fix this,” said Mr. Dimon, an early backer of Mr. Obama whose relationship with him later frayed. “They’re not into whether the tax rate for higher-paid individuals is 35 percent or 39.6 percent.” He was referring first to the top Bush-era tax rate, which high-income taxpayers now pay, and then to the Clinton-era rate, which they face after Dec. 31 if the Bush tax cuts expire as scheduled. Mr. Obama supports ending the cuts for high incomes, and Republicans oppose it.

On Tuesday, attendees at the national conference of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association met in New York with Mr. Warner and Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia. The two belong to the Senate’s bipartisan “Gang of Eight,” which has struggled for nearly two years to draft a spending and taxes deal.

“I’m talking to everybody in this room,” Mr. Chambliss told his audience. “If you like the package that we ultimately come up with, then we haven’t done our job — because everybody is going to have to ultimately pay a price in this.”

Like others who have privately lobbied lawmakers, Mr. Blankfein and Mr. Cote reject suggestions that the philosophical chasm between the parties is unbridgeable.

“There are very conservative Republicans in the House who sit there and say, ‘I would agree to a revenue increase if there was significant entitlement reform,’ ” Mr. Cote said. “And then you’ll run into Democrats who say there won’t be any entitlement reform unless there’s revenue increases. For most of us in the business community, we say: ‘It sounds to us like you’ve got a deal. You just need to sit down and flesh out the details.’ ”

That, as members of the Simpson-Bowles commission can attest, is easier said than done.

The panel’s dissenters, who opposed the majority’s recommendations of a $4 trillion, 10-year package to reduce annual deficits with a combination of spending cuts and new revenue, included all three House Republicans. Among them was Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the House Budget Committee chairman, who is now Mr. Romney’s vice-presidential running mate.

The Fix the Debt campaign’s inspiration is the dormant Simpson-Bowles framework, and the group’s formation is due in large measure to nonstop proselytizing of business leaders by the commission’s chairmen, Erskine B. Bowles, a businessman who was a White House chief of staff to President Bill Clinton, and Alan K. Simpson, a former Senate Republican leader from Wyoming.

According to the group’s president, Maya MacGuineas, the money raised is financing a growing staff of about 35 at a Washington “war room,” chapters in up to 35 states and ultimately, perhaps, television ads and other help for politicians — members of Congress or even the president — who would need support in taking unpopular positions on tax increases or spending cuts.

Mr. Dimon, speaking for JPMorgan Chase, said: “You know, we’re in 1,900 hamlets in America. I’d — we’d — be calling them all up, literally we’d start flying people in. It would be a whole different ballgame, I think, if we had something to support, and with the president supporting it.”
712 2012-10-26 “Michigan’s union bosses are field-testing a new weapon,” said Rich Studley, president of the Michigan Chamber of Commerce. “If this weapon is successful in banning legislation, we’ll see it deployed in the 21 other states that allow initiatives and referendums.”

Further flexing their muscles, unions are sponsoring two other proposals on the Michigan ballot. One would repeal a law that allows emergency managers appointed to oversee financially distressed communities to void union contracts. Another would amend the Constitution to guarantee home health aides the right to unionize.

Both sides are flooding the airwaves with ads about Proposal 2, with each side accusing the other of using misleading scare tactics.

In one union-backed commercial, for example, a firefighter is wearing an elaborate fireproof apparatus over his head. “This air pack I’m wearing gives me 30 minutes to look inside your burning house and find you,” he says. “Having the most modern dependable equipment when the clock is ticking, that counts. If it comes from collective bargaining, the politicians can’t cut it without our say-so.”

Opponents are broadcasting an ad that begins with a child leaving for school. “When we send them off in the morning, we should be certain they’re safe in school,” the voice-over says. “If Proposal 2 passes, it would eliminate safety rules for school bus drivers. Worse, Proposal 2 could prohibit schools from removing employees with criminal records. That’s dangerous for kids and terrifying for parents.”

Although most of the campaign’s financial disclosures are not due until after the election, political experts estimate that more than $30 million will be spent in the fight, with national business and labor groups contributing substantial financing.

At the moment, the proposal’s chances of passing are difficult to predict. Proponents had a significant lead at first, but that has eroded as business-backed groups have escalated their attacks. A Detroit News poll released Oct. 12 found that 43.2 percent of the 600 people surveyed supported the proposal, and 41.8 percent opposed it. The difference was within the poll’s margin of error.

Union leaders say Proposal 2 has a simple aim: to protect collective bargaining against further assault.

“Collective bargaining is a fundamental right; collective bargaining lifts all boats,” said David Hecker, president of the Michigan branch of the American Federation of Teachers. “There’s no question that in Michigan, every worker, union or not, is better off today because of what the U.A.W. has achieved historically. People can afford to send their kids to college. They have a cottage up north.”

Governor Snyder is fighting hard to defeat Proposal 2 and preserve the emergency manager law, which was updated during his tenure.

He said the emergency manager law is vital to help communities that have lost population bring their cost structures into line, avert bankruptcy and return quickly to local control.

But many union officials oppose the law because it empowers emergency managers to scrap union contracts. “We see it as a power grab against democratically run communities,” said Albert Garrett, the top Michigan official of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.

As for Proposal 2, Mr. Snyder said he urged labor leaders not to place it on the ballot for the same reason he successfully urged Republican legislators not to introduce right-to-work legislation — the issues are highly divisive.

“They call it the collective bargaining proposal, but I call it the back-in-time proposal,” Mr. Snyder said in an interview. “This would literally wipe out up to 170 laws that are on the books, some dating from the 1960s. The cost of litigation that would come out of this is huge.”

He said he feared that Proposal 2 would trump two laws he deemed particularly important, one making it easier to fire ineffective teachers and another requiring all government employees to pay at least 20 percent of the cost of their health care plans. Under Proposal 2, those provisions would be superseded in communities or school districts that agree to union contracts that contain conflicting provisions.

“It would significantly raise the cost structure of local government,” Mr. Snyder said.

Labor leaders say public sector unions have bargained innovatively to hold down health costs, asserting that the current restrictions might inhibit future innovation. They further argue that if a democratically elected school board agrees to let union members pay 17 percent rather than 20 percent of their health care coverage, state lawmakers should not get in the way.

Governor Snyder’s allies complain that Proposal 2 would undercut his efforts, which include cutting corporate taxes, to make Michigan friendlier to business.

“Proposal 2 is a very scary thing to me,” said Ralph Beebe, president of Highland Engineering, a military equipment manufacturer. “Michigan is going in the right direction, and I think it would be a huge step backward.”

Chamber of Commerce officials warn that if the proposal passes, businesses in southwest Michigan that are weighing expansion might decide to expand just across the border in Indiana, which passed a right-to-work law early this year.

Right-to-work laws prohibit union contracts at private sector workplaces from requiring employees to pay any dues or other fees to the union, a move that often saps unions’ strength and treasuries. In states without such laws, workers at unionized workplaces generally have to pay such dues or fees.

John Armelagos, a nurse in Ann Arbor, acknowledged that Michigan’s Republican-dominated legislature had not enacted a broad law curbing many unions’ ability to bargain. That contrasts with Wisconsin and Ohio, where the legislatures enacted wide-ranging antibargaining laws, although Ohio voters repealed that law in a union-backed referendum last November.

“In Michigan, we’re dying a death by a thousand cuts,” Mr. Armelagos said, pointing to laws that limit bargaining on such issues as how to evaluate teachers or staff levels for fire trucks in some communities. “Conservative politicians are passing law after law that restricts our collective bargaining rights.”

To rally public support, proponents have sought to turn Proposal 2 into a referendum on whether collective bargaining is good or bad for America.

Ivy Bailey, an elementary-school teacher in Detroit, said collective bargaining helped lift her father, a longtime assembly plant worker at General Motors, into the middle class and send two daughters to college.

“People fought for the right for us to bargain,” she said. “If we could trust the boss to do the right thing, we wouldn’t need collective bargaining.”
713 2012-10-26 And shipments of those goods fell for the third straight month. That means business spending on equipment and software probably declined 4.9 percent in the July-September quarter, economists said. It would represent the first drop in that category since the recession.

Corporate investment helped the American economy emerge from the recession three years ago. But businesses have grown more cautious since spring, seeing tepid growth in consumer spending and declines in exports.

The disappointing report on durable goods led several economists to downgrade their forecasts for third-quarter economic growth. Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase, lowered his forecast to an annual rate of 1.6 percent, down from 1.8 percent. Peter Newland, an economist at Barclays Capital, reduced his forecast to a rate of 1.8 percent from 2 percent.

Either figure would reflect little improvement from the April-June growth rate of 1.3 percent.

Sluggish business investment has burdened job creation at American factories. Manufacturers slashed 20,000 jobs in the third quarter. Factories added 194,000 jobs in the previous three quarters.

A separate report Thursday suggested hiring remains modest, at best. Weekly applications for unemployment benefits fell last week to a seasonally adjusted 369,000, stabilizing after two weeks in which seasonal factors distorted the data. The four-week average, a less volatile measure, rose to 368,000, the Labor Department said.

Applications are a proxy for layoffs. A number below 375,000 suggests hiring is strong enough to lower the unemployment rate.

Applications have fluctuated between 360,000 and 390,000 since January. At the same time, employers have added an average of nearly 150,000 jobs a month. That is barely enough to lower the unemployment rate, which declined to 7.8 percent in September from 8.3 percent earlier this year.

A third report on Thursday showed the housing recovery may be cooling off. The National Association of Realtors’s index of sales agreements showed that the number of Americans who signed contracts to buy homes rose slightly in September from August. That suggests sales may level off in the coming months after solid gains in the past year.
714 2012-10-26 In a statement, the Parliament said its members had rejected putting “men only” at the central bank, and it noted that governments had shown “intransigence in failing to commit to a better gender balance within what is effectively Europe’s most powerful financial institution.”

The motivations behind such a high-profile vote were probably more complex. Some members seeking a greater  role for the Parliament may have seen  an opportunity to challenge the power  that governments still exercise over the European Union.

Other members may have been expressing dislike of some of Mr. Mersch’s  economic ideas — in particular a wariness of inflation.

And some may continue to be  miffed that a northern European, rather  than a representative from southern  Europe, had been selected to replace José Manuel González-Páramo of  Spain, whose term expired on May 31.

Mr. Mersch, the head of the central  bank of Luxembourg, is known for his  hawkish stance on inflation. He was  nominated by euro area finance ministers in July.

Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council, which represents the European Union’s leaders, told the Parliament on Tuesday that Mr. Mersch’s appointment should proceed based on his professional qualifications and experience. Mr. Van Rompuy also said he had asked the union’s member governments to suggest more female candidates in the future.

But Mr. Van Rompuy’s appeal did little to sway the opinion of some of the Parliament’s most influential members, including Sharon Bowles, a British member who heads the economic and monetary affairs committee.

“Mr. Van Rompuy has not taken the opportunity to offer more than lip service to what is a very serious matter,” Ms. Bowles said after the vote on Thursday. “He has promised nothing, not even a road map, for appointing women to the E.C.B. board in the future.”

Ms. Bowles said two years had gone by without an adequate response from governments on the lack of female candidates.

A spokesman for Mr. Van Rompuy said that he had no immediate comment on the outcome.

A spokesman for the Luxembourg central bank said on Thursday that Mr. Mersch had no comment at this stage.

Sven Giegold, a member from Germany and a spokesman on economic and monetary affairs for the Greens group, said after the vote that there had been no women on the board since 2011, when Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of Austria left the board at the end of an eight-year term. Mr. Giegold noted that there were no female presidents of European central banks.

“With no change anticipated on the E.C.B. board before 2018, this means that women will be excluded from the euro zone’s highest decision-making bodies for the near future,” said Mr. Giegold, who called on Mr. Mersch to withdraw his candidacy.

Hannes Swoboda, an Austrian member who is the president of the group of Socialists and Democrats, said in a Facebook chat after the vote that the Parliament could not stop the nomination of Mr. Mersch. But he warned that lawmakers would see it “as a seriously unfriendly act.”
715 2012-10-26 The British economy grew by 1 percent in the July-September period, the  best quarterly result since the third  quarter of 2007, before the onset of the financial crisis here. Although continued  growth is not certain, the International  Monetary Fund has predicted 1.1 percent growth for Britain next year, compared with a growth forecast of only 0.2  percent for the euro zone.

The third-quarter figure far outpaced  estimates by economists and comes at a  convenient time for the Cameron government, which has been under relentless political pressure to relax its core  policy of reducing the deficit through  spending cuts and tax increases.

The British economy had shrunk for  five consecutive quarters starting in the  second quarter of 2008, righted itself,  then sputtered along for a time before  returning to recession in the last  quarter of 2011.

Critics point out that the third  quarter’s 1 percent growth was nothing  near the 2 percent-plus growth that  Britain has reported during past recoveries, and they argue that the government should take advantage of these  low rates to spend more and cut less to  in order to produce a more robust economic turnaround.

“The return to growth is welcome  news for the U.K. economy but unfortunately does not change the big picture  that the recovery has been exceptionally weak,” Charles Davis, an economist  at the Center for Economic and Business Research in London, said in a research note.

Other key economic drivers, like construction spending and bank lending, remain in the doldrums, keeping this recovery considerably below previous ones.

Ed Balls, economic spokesman for the  opposition Labour Party, said the result  was given a lift by one-time factors like  the Olympic Games. He described the  economy’s overall performance as  “weak.” Labour, which is currently  more favored than the Conservatives in  national polls, has long called for the  government to focus less on cutting the  deficit and more on investing to spur  growth.

But whatever the internal divisions,  Britain can contrast itself with the 17  European countries in the euro zone, because it has control of its own monetary  policy. During the financial crisis, this  has enabled Britain to take extraordinary measures, like the Bank of England’s injection of £375 billion, or $600  billion, into the economy through its  program of buying government bonds.

Britain has also had the luxury of pursuing a less drastic program of spending cuts compared with many of the  hardest-pressed euro zone countries.

In fact, Thursday’s figures showed  that government and other public services — despite some cuts — contributed 0.4 percent to the positive number.  Still, because the bulk of spending cuts  are yet to come in the next two years,  economists say it would be premature  for the government to argue that the  economy has seen the worst of austerity’s effect.

The annualized rate of 4 percent  growth, if Britain stays on course, would  be a stronger recovery that the United  States is currently experiencing. United States economic figures to be released Friday  are expected to show 1.9 percent annual  growth for the quarter, according to a  Reuters poll of economists. The euro  zone economy, for which the data will be  available in November, is expected to  have contracted sharply.

Compared with Europe, the British  economy has also been helped by a relatively favorable employment picture.  The government and most corporations  have not embarked on widespread layoffs, which is why the unemployment  rate, just under 8 percent, remains considerably lower than in many euro zone  countries.

If there were any negative political repercussions for Mr. Cameron, it might  be in the way the good news emerged.

The U.K. Statistics Authority, the British agency responsible for ensuring the  integrity of official data, has fielded “a  number of complaints” that he hinted  prematurely at the positive growth figure in remarks he made Wednesday in  the heat of a parliamentary debate with  the Labour leader, Ed Miliband.

Mr. Cameron said “the good news will  keep coming” on the economy.

The prime minister, along with a few  other senior politicians in government,  received an early notice of the figures  on Wednesday on the strict condition  that they not disclose them before their  public release on Thursday.

The U.K. Statistics Authority has begun an investigation of the prime minister’s speech, Ross Young, a spokesman  for the authority, said Thursday.

The complaints allege that Mr.  Cameron violated the terms of privileged access to official statistics, Mr.  Young said. “I cannot say what the next  stage would be” when the investigation  is completed, he added.
716 2012-10-26 He was one of Al Qaeda’s most elusive operatives, a master of disguise who helped to orchestrate the deadly 1998 bombings of two American Embassies in East Africa. He then stayed on the run for more than a dozen years until he was finally killed in 2011 in a shootout at a security checkpoint in Somalia.

He was Fazul Abdullah Mohammed, a Qaeda leader in East Africa and, it turns out, the author of an autobiography that is now playing a role in a terrorism case in Federal District Court in Manhattan.

“The main principle of our work in Kenya was to remain covert,” Mr. Mohammed wrote in one excerpt quoted in court papers. In another passage, he said, “I worked hard on the new Kenyan and Tanzanian brothers to raise their morale and to clarify the fundamentals of jihad in their minds.”

In yet another section, Mr. Mohammed told how he stayed alive, given his clandestine mission, by moving to a house whose location was not known to anyone, including to fellow operatives.

“Severance of all associations with previous places and colleagues is my successful way to survive in my line of work,” he wrote.
717 2012-10-27 The Tigers’ offense went silent on Saturday night, failing to generate any runs against Ryan Vogelsong and the Giants’ bullpen as San Francisco took a commanding 3-0 series lead....
718 2012-10-27 The Missouri Senate race has narrowed to a dead heat, according to a new poll released on Saturday, a drastic turnaround since Representative Todd Akin, the Republican challenging incumbent Senator Claire McCaskill, upended the race with controver...
719 2012-10-27 All of the big games as they happened, including No. 5 Notre Dame’s victory over No. 8 Oklahoma....
720 2012-10-27 Eloy Gutiérrez-Menoyo, who went from fighting beside Fidel Castro as a rebel commander to spending 22 years in prison for trying to topple him, died on Friday in Havana, where he had lived his last years as a tolerated dissident. He was 77.

The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Flor Ester Torres Sanabria, told The Associated Press.

On Dec. 8, 1934, Mr. Gutiérrez-Menoyo was born into a Spanish family dedicated to fighting for freedom: his oldest brother died fighting fascists in Spain’s civil war. The family moved from Madrid to Cuba in 1945. In 1957, another brother died in a failed attack against the Cuban strongman Fulgencio Batista. Eloy soon joined the fight against Batista, assembling an army in Cuba’s mountains almost as large as Mr. Castro’s own force.

After Batista fled on Jan. 1, 1959, Mr. Gutiérrez-Menoyo and his troops arrived in Havana on Jan. 3, days before Mr. Castro led his own army into the city. Mr. Gutiérrez-Menoyo was not offered a post in the Castro government, and later said he had not wanted one. He retained the rank of major, the highest in Cuba at the time. His army was absorbed into Mr. Castro’s.

But disturbed with Mr. Castro’s turn toward leftist dictatorship, Mr. Gutiérrez-Menoyo and a dozen military and civilian supporters fled by boat to the United States in January 1961. He settled in Miami and formed an organization to overthrow Mr. Castro, naming it Alpha 66. It was not involved in the failed Bay of Pigs invasion in April 1961, and it grew to become one of the largest anti-Castro exile groups.

In October 1964, Mr. Gutiérrez-Menoyo led a cadre of men into the Cuban mountains to establish a secure base from which to expand to fight the Communist state, just as Mr. Castro had done to fight the Batista government. He told interviewers that the mission was financed by other exiles, not by the Central Intelligence Agency.

Mr. Gutiérrez-Menoyo and his men were captured by government troops. Blindfolded, he was taken on a 90-minute plane ride, and when the blindfold was removed he found himself facing Mr. Castro, who was sitting behind a desk surrounded by his top aides.
721 2012-10-27 Free Tibet, a London-based activist group, said that Lhamo Tseten, 24, burned himself to death on Friday. It was the fourth self-immolation this week in an area that Tibetans call Sangchu County, and that the Chinese identify as Xiahe in Gansu Province. On Saturday, another activist group reported a fifth self-immolation. China has offered a reward of $7,700 for information about anyone orchestrating the immolations.
722 2012-10-27 China’s political system is not very transparent, but corporate and financial information is often readily available to the public.

Thirty years of economic reform — and government policies aimed at attracting foreign investment — have created a set of government agencies that keep records on private corporations and their major shareholders, including copies of resumes and government-issued identity cards.

It is this system that allows news organizations, including The New York Times, to request and review corporate records. Although ordinary citizens are not allowed access to the records, they can hire a lawyer or consulting firm to request documents for a fee of $100 to $200 per company. The Times used this process in obtaining thousands of pages of corporate documents to review the business networks controlled by the relatives of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.

In many cities, the local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the S.A.I.C., as it is known, provides records for companies that are locally incorporated.

Corporate files often include details of when and where the company was incorporated, the name of the company’s legal representative and a list of major shareholders. There is often financial information, including a company’s registered capital.

China recently tightened access to corporate information, possibly because of a growing number of corporate fraud scandals, but also media investigations into the fortunes held by the relatives of political leaders, including the former Chongqing party boss Bo Xilai.
723 2012-10-27 The companies involved said that the discussions were part of an unbroken effort to reach an agreement with regulators. But an employee at one of the firms said that after Mr. Geithner’s warning, the industry had grown concerned about losing the ability to influence reform.

“That’s when people started to say, ‘Is that really what we want, or is it better to try to be more open to working with the regulators?’ ” said the employee, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the negotiations are continuing.

Money market funds hold $2.6 trillion, though investors have steadily pulled money out of them because of the tiny yields they offer in the current low interest rate environment.

Most investors still view money market funds as essentially risk-free investments. They rarely lose money, because they make short-term loans to governments and businesses. But in the depths of the financial crisis, the shares of one prominent fund dipped below $1, provoking a run on many funds that was only stopped when the federal government stepped in with guarantees. The industry opposes the two options that Ms. Schapiro has proposed.

Those proposals would require funds to keep a cushion of money at all times to cope with possible losses, or to give up their promise to pay investors $1 for every $1 they put in, a so-called fixed net asset value. Regulators have said that fixed value leads investors to believe, incorrectly, that the value of their investment cannot go down. The proposal presented on Friday was similar to one of the three options that Mr. Geithner recommended when he called for stronger regulations in a letter to regulators on Sept. 27. The plan would require investors to pay 1 percent of their investments if the fund’s ability to turn assets quickly into cash suddenly decreased. This would encourage investors to leave money in their accounts until the fund recovered any lost value.

Besides the meetings at the S.E.C., industry executives met Friday with one of Mr. Geithner’s deputies, Mary J. Miller, the Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic finance.

A Treasury spokesman, Anthony Coley, said only that the department “continues to be receptive to alternative approaches to reform” the funds.

New regulations were imposed in 2010, but regulators said more change was needed. The industry grew increasingly opposed to these efforts, saying they would lead to a mass exodus from the funds.

In May, negotiations broke down after the last group meeting between Ms. Schapiro and industry representatives.

Fund executives were furious that they were portrayed as supporting regulatory reform, according to people who were at the meeting.

The new plan has not won universal approval in the industry. John D. Hawke Jr., an industry lobbyist, said that the plan would be likely to accelerate any future runs on money funds by encouraging investors to remove their money before the 1 percent fee kicked in.

But the industry group for asset managers, the Investment Company Institute, said that member companies were “in a united effort” to build on earlier reforms.
724 2012-10-27 The drugmaker Merck said Friday that third-quarter profit rose 2 percent as lower spending and taxes, plus sales growth for several important medicines, offset new generic competition that cut sales of its top-selling drug, Singulair. Merck, the maker of the diabetes pill Januvia, beat Wall Street’s profit expectations by 2 cents. The company also narrowed its 2012 profit forecast to a range of $2.08 to $2.24 a share from $2.04 to $2.30. Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., said net income was $1.73 billion, or 56 cents a share, up from $1.69 billion, or 55 cents a share, a year earlier. Excluding acquisition, integration and restructuring charges totaling $1.2 billion, net income was $2.93 billion, or 95 cents a share. Revenue was $11.5 billion, down 4 percent. Analysts had expected $11.57 billion. Unfavorable exchange rates lowered revenue by 4 percent. Stock in Merck fell 15 cents, to $46.15 a share.
725 2012-10-27 Bill de Blasio was pacing the conference room, listening to small-business owners in Long Island City, Queens, bemoaning municipal red tape, when he relayed the tale of a frustrated laundromat owner whose water bill was inflated, erroneously, by an extra zero.

“The system is not based on trying to give you a ready, available opportunity to appeal, or a fair way to actually make sure that all the facts are looked at,” Mr. de Blasio said, prompting a few “Yes! Yes!” incantations reminiscent of a Sunday service. “Let me ask — how many people in this room have seen their water bills go up sharply in the last year? Raise your hand.”

Up rocketed a dozen or so arms, vindication for Mr. de Blasio, who has increasingly made amplifying the concerns of small-business owners a cornerstone of his expected campaign for mayor of New York, and a cudgel with which to critique not only Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg but also one of his probable rivals in the Democratic primary, Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker. He does not have the bully pulpit or the historic candidacy that have allowed Ms. Quinn to garner much of the attention thus far, but he is also freer to run with the voice of a populist outsider, despite having held public office for years.

Mr. de Blasio, the city’s public advocate, has sharpened his pitch since a reporter first tagged along with him six months ago. He now stokes audiences by noting that, after hearing complaints at forums, he filed a lawsuit recently against the Bloomberg administration for data on city revenues from fines, which have nearly doubled in the last decade.

“If small-business people in this city did not have those additional burdens, if they could depend on not being socked with those additional charges, it would be easier for them to grow, it would be easier for them to employ more people — it’s as simple as that,” he said at the forum, held at LaGuardia Community College.

Mr. de Blasio is also deploying more sarcasm. Asked by one businessman about the confusing signs governing the proliferating bicycle lanes that eat up parking spaces for delivery vehicles, a frequent topic, he quipped: “You obviously missed a new law that says all signs have to be in hieroglyphics now.”
726 2012-10-27 Despite the censorship, there were signs that the article was attracting attention. According to the company’s statistics, the number of page views and unique users of the Chinese-language site fell by only a third on Friday compared with the previous Friday, even though 85 percent of users are typically located in mainland China.

The investigative article was the site’s most popular, drawing nearly a third of page views, while the home page drew another third.

The continued strength of traffic to the site was a sign that many users were using virtual private networks, or V.P.N.’s, to effectively bypass servers in China and circumvent the country’s censors.

“We are incredibly proud of the story, which is an example of the quality investigative journalism The Times is known for,” Eileen Murphy, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail, later adding that the company remains very focused on global expansion and that “we see great opportunity in China as we do in other countries around the world with growing economies and a citizenship interested in quality journalism about global affairs.”

There were many comments about the article on social media sites outside China, including some suggesting that such a detailed and comprehensive look at a leading family’s finances in a secretive country like China could have been possible only as a result of a deliberate leak by one of Mr. Wen’s rivals in the country’s factional power struggles.

Those struggles appear to have become more fierce in recent months ahead of the Communist Party Congress, which is scheduled to start on Nov. 8 and is expected to produce a new slate of leaders to run China for the next 10 years.

But the reporter who wrote the article, David Barboza, said that he had begun gathering corporate records for the investigation late last year. “Thirty years of economic reform — and government policies aimed at attracting foreign investment — have created a set of government agencies that keep records on private corporations and their major shareholders, including copies of résumés and government-issued identity cards,” he said.

While China has started restricting access this year to some of these documents in Beijing, they were previously publicly available, and Mr. Barboza said that he had gathered many of them before the restrictions were put in place. He also found that documents still remained available in Tianjin — Mr. Wen’s hometown — as well as in Shanghai, Shenzhen and other cities.
727 2012-10-27 Pictures From the Week in Business
728 2012-10-27 KAMPALA, Uganda — A leading human rights activist from the Democratic Republic of Congo said on Friday that he had narrowly escaped what appeared to be an assassination attempt when gunmen infiltrated his home, took his children hostage and killed a security guard in a spray of bullets before fleeing in the family car.

On Thursday evening, four or five unidentified gunmen entered the home of the activist, Dr. Denis Mukwege, 57, while he was out, forced his two daughters and their friend onto the floor, confiscated their telephones and threatened to shoot them if they made any noise, according to a statement from Physicians for Human Rights, a humanitarian organization based in the United States, and a neighbor.Dr. Mukwege, one of Congo’s most high-profile personalities and a past Nobel Peace Prize nominee, said in a telephone interview on Friday that when he pulled up to the gate at his home in Bukavu, in eastern Congo, about an hour later, he saw “very strange people.” The gunmen forced their way into his car, and one stepped out and trained his gun on the doctor. Then one of his security guards appeared out of nowhere. The gunman menacing Dr. Mukwege whirled around and opened fire on the guard instead, Dr. Mukwege said, then fired at him. “They were shooting bullets in my direction,” he said. He scrambled to get away, and the assailants ran out of ammunition without hitting him. “And then they just jumped again in the car.”

The three children were also unharmed, but Dr. Mukwege’s security guard — Papa Djef, as he was known to the family — was killed. “He was like my child,” Dr. Mukwege said. “He was really a brave man. He just paid his life to save mine.”

Amnesty International called the attack a suspected assassination attempt, as did Physicians for Human Rights and Dr. Mukwege’s neighbor Christine Schuler Deschryver, the Congo director of V-Day, a group that fights sexual violence. Government agencies, including the Congolese Army and the local police force, could not be reached for comment on Friday. Dr. Mukwege said police officers had been sent to protect his house.

The attack comes amid seething violence in eastern Congo, where months of fighting between government troops and rebel militias has displaced more than 100,000 people. In the last 15 years, Congo’s churning instability has been blamed for the unintended deaths of millions.

But the attack on Dr. Mukwege, a gynecological surgeon who directs a hospital treating victims of sexual violence, raised fears that Congo’s conflict was deepening to swallow even its most beloved citizens.

Since rebels backed by neighboring countries overthrew Congo’s dictator, Mobutu Sese Seko, in 1997, wanton sexual violence has become a trademark of Congo’s conflict. Dr. Mukwege opened Panzi Hospital in Bukavu in 1999 to treat victims of sexual violence. The hospital has treated more than 30,000 women. While the identity of the attackers remained unknown, it was clear that they knew Dr. Mukwege, and his schedule, well, Ms. Deschryver said. The doctor was originally supposed to return from a trip to Europe on Friday but flew back Thursday instead.
729 2012-10-27 Stocks finished flat on Friday, recovering from moderate declines as bargain hunters rushed in to buy Apple stock, lifting it off its lows, and acquire other stocks battered recently by disappointing results.

For the week, though, stocks slid after a series of weak results, especially from multinational companies.

The stock of Apple, the world’s largest publicly traded company, pulled up sharply from its session low, although it still ended down 0.9 percent at $604. The company surprised analysts late Thursday with a weak margin outlook, as well as with quarterly earnings and iPad sales figures that fell short of forecasts. The stock fell as low as $591 in Friday’s session.

The PHLX semiconductor index rose 0.5 percent as a number of companies bounced back from losses last week, including Intel, the dominant chip maker. Intel had reported net earnings and revenue that missed estimates, but in Friday’s session, its stock gained 1.2 percent to close at $21.95.

“As people chose to buy the dips in Apple, I think that gave people a little bit more conviction to buy other names,” said Michael James, senior trader at Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles.
730 2012-10-27 TEHRAN — The European Union gave its most prestigious human rights award on Friday to two convicted Iranian activists, Nasrin Sotoudeh, an imprisoned lawyer,  and Jafar Panahi, a fomerly imprisoned filmmaker.

The award, the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, which has previously gone to international figures like Nelson Mandela of South Africa and Daw Aung San Suu Kyi of Myanmar, comes at a time of deepening tensions between Iran and the West.

Last week, the European Union, which in July began a boycott of Iranian oil, terminated the European satellite access to nearly two dozen Iranian state television and radio channels, which had relied on that access for their broadcasts.

Martin Schulz, the president of the European Parliament, said in a statement that the prize was awarded as “recognition to a woman and a man who have not been bowed by fear and intimidation and who have decided to put the fate of their country before their own.” He said he hoped that Ms. Sotoudeh and Mr. Panahi would be able to travel to Europe to receive the prize next September.

Ms. Sotoudeh, 49, one of Iran’s most prominent rights activists, is serving a six-year sentence for acting against national security and spreading propaganda against the government. Last week, she started a hunger strike after the authorities denied her visits with her two children.
731 2012-10-28 The Giants, who won the World Series for the second time in the past three years, scored the winning run in the top of the 10th when Marco Scutaro hit a single to drive in Ryan Theriot....
732 2012-10-28 On Monday, OpenX Technologies, a provider of digital advertising technologies, will announce the acquisition of JumpTime, a company that helps publishers determine what each piece of their digital content is worth....
733 2012-10-28 The New York Stock Exchange suspended all trading on Monday as Hurricane Sandy approached, in the first weather-related closure in 27 years....
734 2012-10-28 Each new Apple product makes the previous generation look old. How else could the company persuade people into replacing their perfectly fine iPhones, iPads and iPods year after year?...
735 2012-10-28 Judging from a remark he made on Friday, Mitt Romney may be opening the door to a compromise on the wind energy tax credit....
736 2012-10-28 Horrible Hubbard....
737 2012-10-28 Melissa Jean Iorio, a daughter of M. Joan Iorio and E. Vincent Iorio of Greenwich, Conn., was married Saturday to Ronald John Sylvestri Jr., the son of Donna P. Sylvestri and Mr. Sylvestri Sr. of Bronxville, N.Y. The Rev. Msgr. Kieren Harrington, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at St. Anthony’s Roman Catholic Church in Warwick, Bermuda.

Mrs. Sylvestri, 32, is a partner in Barington Capital, a hedge fund in New York, where she also serves as the director of marketing. She graduated from Saint Michael’s College in Colchester, Vt.

Her father owns a residential real estate development company in Greenwich that bears his name. Her mother is a learning specialist, handling testing, evaluation and remediation, at Green Acres School, an elementary school in Scarsdale, N.Y.

Mr. Sylvestri, 39, owns Quail Ridge Asset Management, an asset management and advisory firm in New York. He graduated from Babson College in Wellesley, Mass.

His mother is the president of Madison Home Management, a company in Bronxville that provides nursing services to the elderly. His father is a senior vice president and the regional manager at Hudson Valley Bank in New York.
738 2012-10-28 GREENBURGH, N.Y. — The timetable for Amar’e Stoudemire’s return to the Knicks remained unclear Saturday. But Dr. Thomas Carter, whom Stoudemire consulted for a second opinion on the ruptured cyst in his left knee, mainly agreed with the Knicks’ medical staff: Stoudemire should be healthy by roughly the end of November.

Carter’s assessment of Stoudemire’s knee matched most of what the Knicks thought in terms of the severity of the injury and how long it would take to heal, said Happy Walters, Stoudemire’s agent. But Walters used the phrase “several more weeks” in describing what Carter felt should be the appropriate length of Stoudemire’s rehabilitation. The Knicks initially said Stoudemire would return to the team within two to three weeks.

In the past, the Knicks have recommended that players seek second opinions from personal doctors when they have been injured. A team spokesman said Stoudemire chose to have Carter look at his knee on his own.

“He is going to continue rehab and hope to come back sooner than later,” Walters said of Stoudemire in an e-mail.

Walters also attempted to calm worried Knicks fans through his Twitter account.

“To all of the Knicks fans sending me messages ... Stoudemire will be fine,” Walter wrote. “He’s working with team trainers. No one wants to be out there after working all summer on his game more than Stoudemire.”

Stoudemire, who is entering his 11th season, has had knee problems throughout his career, and he missed action during the preseason with a bruise on his left knee.
739 2012-10-28 While the statement disputed that Mr. Wen’s mother had held assets, it did not address the calculation in the article that the family had controlled assets worth at least $2.7 billion.

Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for The Times, expressed confidence in the article. “We are standing by our story, which we are incredibly proud of and which is an example of the quality investigative journalism The Times is known for,” she wrote in an e-mail.

The lawyers’ statement represents an unusual move for the family of a senior Chinese leader. When Bloomberg News published an article in late June describing real estate and other assets held by the family of Vice President Xi Jinping, his family did not respond publicly.

The statement published in The Post was attributed to Bai Tao, a partner in the Beijing office of the Jun He Law Firm, and Wang Weidong, the managing partner of the Beijing office of the Grandall Law Firm.

No one answered phone calls to both lawyers’ offices on Sunday, nor did Mr. Wang respond immediately to an e-mail.

The statement denied an anecdote in The Times article that described how one investment in the name of Mr. Wen’s mother, Yang Zhiyun, was worth $120 million five years ago. “The mother of Wen Jiabao, except receiving salary/pension according to the regulation, has never had any income or property,” the statement said.

Corporate registration records reviewed by The Times showed that in 2007 the prime minister’s 90-year-old mother held about $120 million worth of shares in Ping An, an insurance company, through investment vehicles. A signature bearing her name and her government-issued identity card were included in the registration record, which was obtained from government regulatory filings.

The family’s statement also said that some members had not engaged in business while others “were engaged in business activities, but they did not carry out any illegal business activity. They do not hold shares of any companies.”

The statement also said that Mr. Wen had not been involved in those activities. “Wen Jiabao has never played any role in the business activities of his family members, still less has he allowed his family members’ business activities to have any influence on his formulation and execution of policies.”

The Times article did not allege any illegal business activity, and it said that Mr. Wen did not appear to have accumulated assets. The article also said that there was no evidence that Mr. Wen personally intervened to help family members’ investments. The article pointed out that as prime minister in a country where the state plays a large role in the economy, Mr. Wen oversaw many government officials whose decisions could play a large role in the fortunes of businesses and investors.

Hong Lei, the spokesman for China’s foreign ministry, criticized the article on Friday during a briefing, saying that it “smears China and has ulterior motives.”

The Times posted the article in English on Friday, and in Chinese three hours later, after final edits in English were translated. The Chinese government quickly blocked access from mainland Chinese computers to the Chinese-language and English-language Web sites of The Times before the article was posted in Chinese. But many people in China appear to have used virtual private networks to view the article anyway.

The report on the finances of Mr. Wen’s family has also received heavy coverage in the Hong Kong news media, which has extensive reach inside mainland China.
740 2012-10-28 We know that public policies, the old and the new alike, will be executed by Mr. Taft reasonably, with calmness, with sanity. He is less impulsive than Mr. Roosevelt, not given to disturbing utterance, averse to spectacular and ill-judged display. We know nothing of the kind about Mr. Bryan, for he has not been tried. We do not know that his mind is unsteady, his principles unsafe.
741 2012-10-28 BEIJING — A week of protests against the planned expansion of a petrochemical plant in the port city of Ningbo turned violent on Friday and Saturday when demonstrators attacked police cars and tossed bricks and water bottles at officers, according to accounts from participants posted on the Internet.

The protesters, who witnesses said numbered in the thousands, were opposing the expansion of a state-run Sinopec plant, which is already one of the nation’s largest refineries. Local residents, citing environmental concerns, have been demanding that the government move the plant from Ningbo, a prosperous city of 3.4 million in Zhejiang Province, not far from Shanghai.

The clashes come at a delicate time for the government, as it prepares for a once-a-decade change in leadership that is scheduled to begin on Nov. 8 during a weeklong series of meetings in Beijing. Public concerns about industrial pollution have become a problem for the governing Communist Party, which often backs economic growth over public concerns about environmental degradation.

In recent years, educated urbanites have harnessed social media to stage street protests against the construction or expansion of factories, mines and refineries. Although such demonstrations are illegal and organizers face arrest, they sometimes have the desired effect.

In July, officials in Shifang, a city in China’s southwest Sichuan Province, canceled plans for a huge copper smelter after tens of thousands of residents joined protests that turned violent. In September 2011, a solar energy company in Jiaxing, near Shanghai, was closed after demonstrators cited noxious chemicals used in the manufacturing process. And in August of that year, officials in Dalian, in northeastern China, said a petrochemical plant would be closed and relocated after at least 12,000 people took to the streets.

In a statement, the Zhenhai district government condemned those it blamed for organizing sit-ins and blocking roads in Ningbo but insisted that public sentiment would be taken into consideration before the start of construction. “Detailed information will be published when environmental reviews are implemented, and public opinions on the project will be heeded,” the statement said.
742 2012-10-28 The prophetic tradition of speaking truth to power, regardless of political winds or social pressures, has a long history. Ida B. Wells risked her life to publicize the atrocity of lynching; W. E. B. Du Bois linked the struggle against racial injustice to anticolonial movements around the world; Cornel West continues to warn of the “giant triplets of racism, materialism and militarism” that King identified a year before his death.

But that prophetic tradition is on the wane. Changes in black religious practice have played a role. Great preachers of social justice and liberation theology, like Gardner C. Taylor, Samuel DeWitt Proctor, John Hurst Adams, Wyatt Tee Walker and Joseph E. Lowery, have retired or passed away. Taking their place are megachurch preachers of a “gospel of prosperity” — like Creflo A. Dollar Jr., T. D. Jakes, Eddie L. Long and Frederick K. C. Price — who emphasize individual enrichment rather than collective uplift. “There’s more facing us than social justice,” Bishop Jakes has said. “There’s personal responsibility.”

Mr. Obama hasn’t embraced this new gospel, but as a candidate he did invoke the politics of respectability once associated with Booker T. Washington. He urged blacks to exhibit the “discipline and fortitude” of their forebears. He lamented that “too many fathers are M.I.A.” He chided some parents for “feeding our children junk all day long, giving them no exercise.” He distanced himself from his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., whose incendiary remarks about racism’s legacy caused a maelstrom.

But as president, Mr. Obama has had little to say on concerns specific to blacks. His in 2011 was the first by any president since 1948 to not mention poverty or the poor. The political scientist Daniel Q. Gillion found that Mr. Obama, in his first two years in office, talked about race less than any Democratic president had since 1961. From racial profiling to mass incarceration to affirmative action, his comments have been sparse and halting.

Early in his presidency, Mr. Obama weighed in after the prominent black professor was arrested at his home in , Mass. The president said the police had “acted stupidly,” was criticized for rushing to judgment, and was mocked when he invited Dr. Gates and the arresting officer to chat over beers at the White House. It wasn’t until earlier this year that Mr. Obama spoke as forcefully on a civil rights matter — the fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager, , in — saying, “If I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon.”

INSTEAD of urging Mr. Obama to be more outspoken on black issues, black elites parrot campaign talking points. They dutifully praise important but minor accomplishments — the settlement of a longstanding class-action lawsuit by black farmers; increased funds for black colleges; the reduction (but not elimination) of the disparities in sentences for possession of crack and powder cocaine — while setting aside their critical acumen.

For some, criticism of Mr. Obama is disloyal. “Stick together, black people,” the radio host Tom Joyner has warned. (Another talk show host, Tavis Smiley, joined Dr. West on a “poverty tour” last year, but has been less critical of the president than Dr. West has.)

It wasn’t always so. Though was wildly popular among blacks, black intellectuals fiercely debated affirmative action, mass incarceration, welfare reform and racial reconciliation during his presidency. In 2001, the Harvard law professor Charles J. Ogletree called the surge in the inmate population “shocking and regrettable” and found it “shameful” that Mr. Clinton “didn’t come out and take a more positive and symbolic approach to the issue of reparations for slavery.” But Mr. Ogletree, a mentor of Mr. Obama’s, now finds “puzzling the idea that a president who happens to be black has to focus on black issues.”

Melissa V. Harris-Perry, a political scientist at Tulane who hosts a talk show for MSNBC, warned in 2005 that African-Americans “who felt most warmly toward Clinton and most trusting of his party’s commitment to African-Americans” were in danger of underestimating “the continued economic inequality of African-Americans relative to whites.” But she has become all but an apologist for Mr. Obama. “No matter what policies he pursues, the president’s racialized embodiment stands as a symbol of triumphant black achievement,” she wrote in The Nation this month.

Black politicians, too, have held their fire. “With 14 percent unemployment if we had a white president we’d be marching around the White House,” Representative Emanuel Cleaver II of , the chairman of the , told The Root last month. “The president knows we are going to act in deference to him in a way we wouldn’t to someone white.”

Some of the reticence stems from fear. “If we go after the president too hard, you’re going after us,” Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat, told a largely black audience in last year.

But caution explains only so much. Representative John Lewis of , one of King’s last living disciples, has not used his moral stature to criticize the president’s silence about the poor. Neither have leaders of the biggest civil rights organizations, like Benjamin Todd Jealous of the , Marc H. Morial of the National Urban League or Wade Henderson of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, whether because of emotional allegiance or pragmatic accommodation.

The two black governors elected since Reconstruction — L. Douglas Wilder of and Deval L. Patrick of — have also de-emphasized race. So, too, have the new cadre of black politicians who serve largely black constituencies, like Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark, Mayor Michael A. Nutter of and Representative Terri Sewell of — all of whom, like Mr. Obama, have degrees and rarely discuss the impact of racism on contemporary black life.

Some argue that de-emphasizing race — and moving to a “colorblind” politics — is an inevitable and beneficial byproduct of societal change. But this ideal is a myth, even if it’s nice to hear. As Frederick Douglass observed, “Power concedes nothing without a demand.” The political scientist E. E. Schattschneider noted that conflict was essential to agenda-setting. Other interest groups — activists, environmentalists, advocates for gay and lesbian rights, supporters of and, most of all, rich and large corporations — grasp this insight. Have African-Americans forgotten it?

IN making this case, I have avoided speculation about Mr. Obama’s and background — his biracial heritage, his transnational childhood, his community organizing, his aversion to being seen as “angry,” his canny ability to navigate multiple worlds, his talent at engaging with politics while appearing detached from it. As a social scientist I keep returning to the question: What is the best strategy for black communities to pursue their political interests as a whole?

Were Harold Cruse, the author of the unsparing 1967 book “The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual,” still alive, he would despair at the state of black intellectual life. Eddie S. Glaude Jr., a professor of religion and African-American studies at , told me: “Too many black intellectuals have given up the hard work of thinking carefully in public about the crisis facing black America. We have either become cheerleaders for President Obama or self-serving pundits.”

There are exceptions. Writing in the journal Daedalus last year, the Harvard philosopher Tommie Shelby called Mr. Obama’s approach “a pragmatic strategy for navigating hazardous racial waters” that might improve lives for poor minorities. But he added: “Judged alongside King’s transformative vision of racial equality and integration, Obama’s philosophy is morally deficient and uninspiring.”

Mr. Obama deserves the electoral support — but not the uncritical adulation — of African-Americans. If re-elected he might surprise us by explicitly emphasizing economic and racial justice and advocating “targeted universalism” — job-training and housing programs that are open to all, but are concentrated in low-income, minority communities. He would have to do this in the face of fiscal crisis and poisonous partisanship.

Amid such rancor, African-Americans might come to realize that the idea of having any politician as a role model is incompatible with accountability, the central tenet of representative democracy. By definition, role models are placed on pedestals and emulated, not criticized or held accountable.

To place policy above rhetoric is not to ask what the first black president is doing for blacks; rather, it is to ask what a Democratic president is doing for the most loyal Democratic constituency — who happen to be African-Americans, and who happen to be in dire need of help. Sadly, when it comes to the Obama presidency and black America, symbols and substance have too often been assumed to be one and the same.
743 2012-10-28 Mr. Vaxevanis, one of Greece’s most famous investigative journalists, said he was being wrongly targeted. “Instead of arresting the tax evaders and the ministers who had the list in their hands, they are trying to arrest the truth and free journalism,” he said in a telephone interview that was uploaded on the Internet and widely circulated.

The issue of the list has shaken the country for weeks, posing new challenges to the fragile three-way coalition government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. Above all, it put intense pressure on the Socialist party, a key member of the coalition, whose leader, Evangelos Venizelos, is one of two Socialist former finance ministers accused of not having acted on the information.

The finger pointing, likely to intensify with the list’s publication, is certain to distract Greek politicians during a week when European finance ministers are scheduled to discuss whether to release billions of euros in fresh financial aid. Greece’s lenders have long said that the country must crack down on tax evasion to be eligible for further infusions of cash.

According to Hot Doc, the list includes not only some in the government and businesspeople, but also actors, doctors, lawyers and architects. It also includes several women identified as housewives who the magazine said had moved large amounts of money to the HSBC accounts.

There was no immediate comment from Mr. Samaras, who was meeting with aides throughout the afternoon to discuss the new austerity measures demanded by Greece’s lenders.

Giorgos Voulgarakis, a former culture minister from Mr. Samaras’s center-right New Democracy party, denied having any overseas bank accounts and accused the magazine of mudslinging.

Hot Doc said it had been given the list by “one of the people who had received” it. Yannis Stournaras, the finance minister, sent a letter to his French counterpart several days ago asking for the original list, but so far the Greek official has not received a response, according to the ministry spokesman, who was not authorized to speak publicly. The aide said that the Greek Finance Ministry wants to be certain that it has the original list of names before investigating whether any tax evasion occurred. The magazine said it had called a sampling of account holders on its list to confirm that they had deposits in the Swiss bank. Citing privacy concerns for those on the list, Hot Doc said it had redacted how much money was said to be in each account, but added that some accounts were listed as containing as much as 500 million euros. The list dates to 2007.

The magazine also carried a long report on Mr. Voulgarakis. According to Hot Doc, Mr. Voulgarakis, who also previously held the public order minister and merchant marine portfolios, opened an account at HSBC in 2003 that was jointly managed by him, his wife and an offshore company based in Liberia.

The magazine said the deposits do not show up on Mr. Voulgarakis’s tax declarations.

Mr. Voulgarakis, a former government minister who was investigated but later exonerated in another high-profile corruption inquiry, issued a statement saying, “I declare categorically that neither my wife nor I have any offshore companies or foreign bank accounts.”

On Friday, the office of former Prime Minister George Papandreou denied claims that he had been aware of the list, after a member of the opposition Syriza party alleged that Mr. Papandreou had helped set up a meeting with the head of the Geneva HSBC branch in Geneva when he was in office.

Last week, former Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou told lawmakers that he had asked Greece’s financial crimes unit to investigate about 20 Greek citizens thought to hold large deposits at the HSBC Geneva branch after French authorities forwarded him the list of names in October 2010.

But he said the Finance Ministry’s legal adviser had warned that the list was a problem because a HSBC employee had illegally leaked it.
744 2012-10-28 Even after shoving the Elephant Trunk into the proverbial drawer, the couple were convinced that it would eventually see the light of day; it was just a matter of when. Sure, computers had become skinnier, but more and more people were shopping online for a wide range of products, and they often were not home to accept the packages.

Beyond the annoyance of coming home and finding those packages “behind a planter,” Ms. Troyer said, or wet from the rain, there was the danger of parcel theft.

Still, when they floated the idea of a mailbox for packages, the response from retailers was, “I think it’s too soon for that,” Ms. Troyer said.

“They’d say: ‘I don’t get it. It’s too big,’ ” Mr. Farentinos said. The couple, who have been married for 23 years and business partners for 11, often finish each other’s sentences.

BUT as the years went by, and online retailing became ever more pervasive — 167 million United States consumers now shop online, according to a report by Forrester Research — the idea of a safe place to store deliveries seemed more of a no-brainer. Amazon.com is experimenting with a service that lets shoppers have their purchases sent to metal lockers, much like post-office boxes, that are set up in convenience and other stores.

Last year, good timing was compounded by luck when Ms. Troyer and Mr. Farentinos met with Theresa Graham, a merchant for the builders hardware category at Home Depot. As they chatted, Ms. Graham explained that she was a working mother who often came home to boxes strewed all over the porch. She said to Ms. Troyer and Mr. Farentinos, “You know, what I’d really like to see is not a mailbox, but a parcel drop,” Ms. Troyer recalled.

“Chris and I looked at each other and our eyes lit up. It was like, O.K., it’s time.”

Yet even with a green light, the Elephant Trunk needed some tweaking. For one thing, it was much too big, measuring 3 feet by 3 feet by 3 feet.

But what was the proper size? “The constraint was how willing people are to put something like this on their front porch,” Mr. Farentinos said. “We wanted to make it big enough to accommodate almost anything, but we also wanted to make it, at least out of the chute, something that would not be so obtrusive that they would be resistant to using it, and also not cost-prohibitive.”

After researching what types of items people most often buy online — the answer was clothing — the couple began experimenting with different dimensions, settling on a model that is narrower and less deep than the original “E.T.,” as Ms. Troyer affectionately called the Elephant Trunk. They also modified the original design so that now it can accept multiple deliveries.

Another hurdle was persuading a major parcel carrier to deliver to the Elephant Trunk. Ms. Troyer spent months trying to contact executives at United Parcel Service via LinkedIn.

“I’d search, search, search, find their e-mail and send them our presentation,” she said. “I’m an online stalker! That’s what I’ve turned into.”

In the end, no stalking was necessary. Through Ms. Graham, a meeting was set up with U.P.S., which agreed to deliver packages to the Elephant Trunk if residents provided instructions to do so.

The product “satisfies a growing need to provide a secure drop location of parcel deliveries,” Ms. Graham said. “No one wants their purchases left out in plain sight.”

Ms. Troyer and Mr. Farentinos are already envisioning different types of Elephant Trunks for the future — say, for apartment dwellers, or for people who might actually want a bigger mailbox.

“We call her Mama E.T. She’s going to have babies,” Ms. Troyer said, smiling as she patted an Elephant Trunk next to her on the floor. “There’s going to be more.”
745 2012-10-28 Eileen Lainez, a Pentagon spokeswoman, said the program was intended to fill “some of our most critical readiness needs.” This time around, the Army is looking for dentists and surgeons, and for psychology professionals to help with the severe emotional strains soldiers have undergone in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Officials are also looking for native speakers of 44 languages, including Azerbaijani, Cambodian-Khmer, Hausa and Igbo (both spoken in West Africa), Persian Dari (spoken in Afghanistan), Portuguese, and Tamil (spoken in South Asia). Spanish is not on the list of languages.

Recruiting officers were quietly frustrated that Pentagon officials took more than two years to restart the program. The renewal became tangled in a broad security review after the shooting rampage in 2009 at Fort Hood, Tex., according to accounts from military officials. The background checks for the immigrants were scrutinized with added caution, even though the man charged in the killings, Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, is a native-born American.

In renewing the program, military officials added a new layer of security screenings, Ms. Lainez said.

To make their case to the Pentagon, recruiting officers compiled dossiers on the first class of immigrants, of whom 943 out of 1,000 were in the Army. On average, immigrants who enlisted in the Army language program scored 17 points higher (on a scale of 99) than other applicants on an entrance test, said Capt. Carol Stahl, who manages the program for the Army. One-third of the first class of recruits had master’s degrees or higher.

One-third of the class went into the Special Forces, a highly selective assignment that can often lead to combat missions, Captain Stahl said. Attrition was one-quarter the rate of other soldiers who entered at the same time.

A soldier from Nepal who entered with the first class, Sgt. Saral Shrestha, just won the Army’s Soldier of the Year award after a grueling four-day competition involving fighting skills at Fort Lee, Va.

“This was a boost of very high quality people,” said Margaret Stock, an immigration lawyer in Alaska who is a retired lieutenant colonel in the Army Reserve and helped devise the program. Even before they enlist, she said, the immigrants have been screened because they have to pass background and occupational checks for their temporary visas.

To qualify, immigrants must have been living in the United States legally for at least two years. They must be high school graduates and pass the entrance test.

The program — known as Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest, or Mavni — is not open to illegal immigrants, who are barred by law from enlisting. In general, immigrants who are not citizens must have a permanent resident visa, known as a green card, to enlist.

The first round filled up quickly, and the Army turned away thousands of people. Many of them signed the Facebook petition and were hoping the program would start again.

Health care professionals, who enlist as officers, must serve either three years of active duty or six years in the Reserves. Immigrants who enlist based on their language skills must serve for a minimum of four years of active duty. Participants who fail to serve their term can lose their citizenship.

One of the first temporary immigrants the Army accepted this year was Dr. Amen Dhyllon, 33, a dentist practicing in Philadelphia who was born in India and came to the United States in 2006. Dr. Dhyllon said he completed a postdoctoral program at the University of Pennsylvania in June combining two dental specialties.

Dr. Dhyllon said he was eager to become an American citizen.

“Even in the position where I am today,” he said, “no one would appreciate me as much as people appreciate me here. This country does not differentiate between color or accent. Here, if you are good, people will put you to the front.”

Dr. Dhyllon said he was not worried about the risks of service. He said he was attracted to the Army because of the wide range of patients he would see.

“I can be part of the culture,” he said. “I can learn everything about this country from the root.”
746 2012-10-28 The Aprilia Tuono V4 and Ducati 1199 Panigale, pictured, are tradition-rattling departures from their respective makers’ heritage....
747 2012-10-28 “Art institutions are cautious about lending large volumes of high-value works from a collection to any single entity in the absence of some sort of exchange that will benefit the lending audience,” Mr. Griswold said. This is particularly true of delicate works on paper and vellum, which make up a majority of the Morgan’s collection.

“Exchanges allow us to borrow works that, because of their fragility or value, institutions might otherwise be reluctant to lend,” he said. “If a museum’s mission is to make great works of art accessible to a broad audience, these are important tools to make that happen.”

Jennifer Tonkovich, the organizing curator of “Master Drawings,” spent years collaborating on both exhibitions with her Munich counterparts, a process she called “hugely satisfying.”

“As much as we are exchanging drawings we are exchanging ideas about them,” Ms. Tonkovich said. Working on another museum’s collection “provides a great opportunity for scholarship, dialogue and growth” among curators that can yield new insights regarding respective collections, she said.

In preparation for “Master Drawings” she helped track the provenance of a Francis Picabia work from Munich, ensuring it was not a forgery.

Exchanges also provide “a terrific experience” for museum visitors, Ms. Tonkovich said. “They give a privileged glimpse into foreign collections and meet the needs of a range of audiences by giving them the opportunity to see superlative examples held by an institution that is often far away.”

Traveling to an institution does not necessarily guarantee access to fine art either. “Even if you went to Munich you would not see these drawings on view,” because they are delicate, she said. Ford W. Bell, president of the American Alliance of Museums, said museums today “are in steep competition for people’s leisure time,” and collection exchanges are one way to attract visitors.

An exchange between the Allentown Art Museum in Pennsylvania and the Dixon Gallery and Gardens in Memphis was well received, Mr. Bell said. In 2009 the Allentown museum lent the Dixon 15th- to 18th-century European paintings. The Dixon sent French Impressionist paintings to Allentown. “We are drawn to the authentic work,” he said. “There is a difference between seeing fine art on a computer screen and standing in front of the original object.”

Collection exchanges can involve as few as two significant works. A collaboration by the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art in Hartford and the Musée des Beaux-Arts in Strasbourg, France, resulted in “reuniting long separated lovers,” said Susan L. Talbott, director and chief of the Wadsworth.

When the Dutch artist Hendrick Goltzius painted his 1613 portraits of Adam and Eve on separate wood panels, “it is clear his intent was they were always meant to be together,” she said, but they were last seen together as a pair “sometime in the early 19th century.”

“Eve” was acquired by the Strasbourg museum in 1936. The location of “Adam” remained a mystery until what appeared to be the missing Goltzius surfaced on the French art market in 2003. When the portrait became available in New York, the Wadsworth bought it in 2004 even though it had not been positively identified as the mate the “Eve” in Strasbourg, Mrs. Talbott said.

Curators from the two museums collaborated on investigating and authenticating “Adam.” After two centuries apart, “Adam” and “Eve” were reunited in an exhibition shown at the two museums in 2010 and 2011. “It was a wonderful experience seeing these separated lovers looking at each other once again,” she said. They are again apart in their respective museums.

Both museums are part of French Regional American Museum Exchange, a nonprofit consortium that promotes exchanges between its 26 members in France and North America. “We all know we have to help each other,” Charlotte N. Eyerman, the director, said.

“When you do something like ‘Adam’ and ‘Eve,’ you invite people to see your permanent collection with new eyes,” she said. “For every museum the permanent collection is its life blood and exchanges can show it in a new light. It is really profound to see works of art together in a different context, and that’s what these swaps provide.”
748 2012-10-28 New exhibitions at each institution give a small sample of the recently acquired work - appetizers leading up to a much larger double exhibition in 2016 meant to be the definitive take on Mapplethorpe.

“We wanted people to know right away that we are now in possession of this great material,” said Paul Martineau, the Getty’s associate photography curator.

Mapplethorpe (1946-89) pushed the limits of his art, both technically and in what he chose to picture. His passion was capturing the human body, and for a time he became synonymous with controversy when the most explicit male nudes in the 1989 exhibition “The Perfect Moment” caused an uproar in Congress and elsewhere, leading the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington to cancel the show.

Since that time, his reputation has solidified, putting him by most accounts in the pantheon of the 20th century’s best photographers.

The Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Getty — which have never done a joint acquisition of this magnitude, with each other or any other partner — found it fairly easy to divide the Mapplethorpe oeuvre for the initial shows.

At the Getty, the 23-work show “Robert Mapplethorpe: In Focus” is “a chocolate box of greatest hits, plus a few things that people haven’t seen before,” Mr. Martineau said.

Among the images on display is “Ken Moody and Robert Sherman” (1984), in which Mapplethorpe captured the gleaming bald heads of his male subjects, one white and one black.

The Los Angeles museum is displaying the striking work that Mapplethorpe considered among his best — the 39 photographs spread over three discrete portfolios called “X,” “Y” and “Z.” Included are some of the sadomasochistic-themed nudes that provoked outrage almost 25 years ago, like “Self-Portrait, N.Y.C.” (1978), but there are also opulent pictures of flowers, the photographer’s second-best-known body of work.

“The Getty wanted to draw out his classicism,” said Britt Salvesen, Lacma’s chief photography curator, referring to the Getty’s renowned collection of antiquities. “For us, the ‘X,’ ‘Y,’ ‘Z’ material made sense in the context of our modern and contemporary art collection.”

“Photography depicts something real,” she added. “Mapplethorpe’s work shows its power to entice, but also disturb.”

The acquisition was originally put in motion by Michael Ward Stout, the longtime president of the New York-based Mapplethorpe Foundation and estate.

“I felt that we had to look into the possibilities of aligning ourselves with a major institution,” said Mr. Stout, a partner in the law firm Stout & Thomas and a friend of Mapplethorpe’s. “The idea was depositing a big chunk of our holdings — the whole story of Mapplethorpe, as many artworks as we could possibly give them. So we started to explore.”

The foundation was established by the photographer in 1988, when he was already battling acquired immune deficiency syndrome. It supports medical research in the AIDS field as well as photography-related exhibitions and institutions. Its primary income comes from the sale of Mapplethorpe’s works.

“We’re in business to carefully turn our holdings into money that can be used to support our charitable mandates,” Mr. Stout said. But the cost of storing and maintaining its large holdings over decades prompted him to seek a prestigious museum partner that would help curate Mapplethorpe’s legacy.

The process took longer than Mr. Stout expected, though not for lack of interest on the part of museums. He said he had discussions with the Whitney Museum of American Art and the International Center for Photography, among others.

At one point, he was close to a deal with the Center for Creative Photography at the University of Arizona, Tucson. But those talks fell apart, Mr. Stout said, when Arizona officials worried about the potential controversy Mapplethorpe’s work could cause at a publicly financed school.

Mr. Stout was leaning toward the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, which has a strong photography department and facilities, when, during a business trip to Los Angeles, he paid a social call on an old friend, Michael Govan, Lacma’s director.

“I told him about our plan,” Mr. Stout recalled. “He is a big Mapplethorpe fan, and he worked at the Guggenheim when the foundation made a big gift to the Guggenheim in 1993. Michael said, ‘What about us?’ ”

Mr. Stout was skeptical that Lacma could absorb the vast archive material, so Mr. Govan had to do some fast thinking.

“We didn’t have room for archive, but the Getty did,” recalled Mr. Govan, who then floated the idea of a partnership. “We couldn’t compete with Houston alone, but with the Getty we’re better.”

As for why the Getty wouldn’t go solo, Mr. Govan made the case that Mapplethorpe’s work needed to be shown in the context of a comprehensive collection that included contemporary art, like Lacma’s, given how the photographer helped lift his medium out of its artistic ghetto.

“Mapplethorpe crossed that line,” Mr. Govan said. “For him, it was art, not just ‘photography’ in quotes.”

Once all parties were agreed in principle, Mr. Govan still had to come up with his half of the $3 million purchase. “The Getty has resources,” he said. “They knew where their money was coming from for this, but I didn’t.”

Through one of his trustees, Mr. Govan turned to the entertainment mogul and avid art collector David Geffen, whose foundation donated $1.5 million.

“I wrote him a letter, and he got back to me saying, ‘Wow, that sounds like a good investment,’ ” Mr. Govan said.

While its gift was large, Mr. Stout estimated that the foundation parted with only 10 to 20 percent of its holdings and still owns, among many other things, 8,000 silver gelatin prints.

The current shows created with that material happen to come a year after the debut of “Pacific Standard Time,” the huge exhibition spread across 60 Southern California institutions that tackled the history of art in Los Angeles — a landmark collaboration of a degree that has not been seen in other cities.

“This has further strengthened our relationship with the Getty, a process that started with ‘Pacific Standard Time,’ ” Mr. Govan said.

As for whether Mapplethorpe’s most explicit images, which have been infrequently seen in major American museum shows over the last two decades, would cause a new stir at Lacma, Mr. Govan said he doubted it.

“We live in a very different time now,” he said.
749 2012-10-28 I moved to the Bay Area one and a half years ago, and reading this article helped me understand why I’m confused by the food I encounter here. In Brooklyn, I used to buy little, deep red, sweet, ripe strawberries in the summer from the local farmers’ market. Here at Oakland farmers’ markets, the strawberries are large and not very sweet. It makes me pine for the fruit from the Northeast. When I see “heirloom tomatoes” in a plastic clamshell in the supermarket, I become sad — they don’t remotely resemble the plump, unpredictably colored, sweet and juicy heirlooms I ate back east. When will Americans accept the fact that eating seasonally and locally is the best way? REBECCA RANDEL, Oakland, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

Our family-owned “corporate farm” or “global agribusiness” was founded by my wife’s great-grandparents in 1930. Our unsustainable farming practices have resulted in our farm producing more with less year after year for the last 82 seasons. Is California’s Central Valley’s agriculture perfect? Of course not. But I have to take exception when people throw the term “unsustainable” around because of something they read or saw on television. Our tomato field produced 72 tons per acre for processing, where global average yield would be about 35 tons per acre. It’s curious that so many Americans are so antagonistic toward an industry that provides a food supply that is the cheapest, safest and most reliable in history. JIM BEECHER President, Farming D, Five Points, Calif., posted on nytimes.com

I spent the better part of Sunday trying to make brisket from one of Christopher Kimball’s recipes. Alas, the recipe called for dry white wine, but it was too early on Sunday to buy wine at the store, so I decided to substitute chicken broth and beer. I put the ingredients together, tightly wrapped the Dutch oven in aluminum foil, as instructed, and went back to the couch to continue consuming the article, which contained a discussion about the rigidity of Kimball’s recipe technique. Several hours later, I learned that I would indeed pay the price for not scrupulously following the recipe, as the meat was not nearly as tender or flavorful as advertised. Another frustrating Sunday at the stove, but the very readable profile made the meal a little more palatable. TERRY LAVIN, Chicago

Kimball’s own cooking may not be creative, but the very reason we crave Mom’s soup, Grandma’s pie or Dad’s salad dressing is that each dish is a direct expression of a person’s touch, taste and interpretation of the food they have prepared. Cooking naturally lends itself to self-expression, creativity and growth by trial and error — starting with the small child creating concoctions on her plate to the college student cooking her first spaghetti sauce. There is a place for Cook’s Illustrated for the beginning cook who finds the kitchen intimidating. But Kimball’s approach engenders more kitchen intimidation than it alleviates by creating a laboratory ethos where there could just as easily be a painter’s palette. America’s true test kitchens are in each home, apartment, campground and dorm room. ELIZABETH BOYD, Birmingham, Ala., posted on nytimes.com

Sometimes you just can’t take it with you. I remember being 16 and bringing five jars of Nutella back from Germany and then (to the dismay of my mother) not really wanting to eat any of it because the bread was different, the coffee was different, the atmosphere was different, the culture was different, etc. Even as a teenager I realized that some things just taste better in their natural habitat. So now there are some things I eat only in Europe, some only in New England, some only in the N.Y.C. area and so on. It’s one of the best reasons to travel. CLAUDIA KINGSTON CATALDO, Los Angeles, posted on nytimes.com

While you guys watched the #vpdebate, I read this @NYTimes piece about cheese & now I’m voting for Buffalo Mozzarella. @Kelseyperpetua, via Twitter.
750 2012-10-28 After a recent , I saw polling questions that asked viewers whether watching the debate “made you like Candidate X more.” In a strictly “personal” sense, wholly separate from his policies, which I continue to oppose, the debate did make me “like” X more. But since polls that establish an uptick in a candidate’s likability seem not merely to reflect, but also to promote, the strength of a candidacy, I am tempted to answer the polling question with an emphatic “no.” My question: Is it wrong to lie to a pollster if you believe that telling the truth will add momentum to a political candidate you oppose? RAND COOPER,

Assuming the poll is sincerely trying to get an accurate read on the voting populace, you should not provide false information. Consciously lying about how you feel can skew the data. Poll results can have an impact on a race, but that is not an independent pollster’s intent. If that potentiality still worries you, it’s better not to participate. But I think you might be overlooking something critical: when asked if the debate made you like Candidate X more, your true answer may be far closer to no than you realize.

What is your relationship to Candidate X? In all likelihood, it’s that he’s running for office and you are a potential voter. So when you’re asked about the degree you like Candidate X, you are not being asked if you would now feel better about having him move into your basement or serve as the best man in your wedding. You are being asked if you like him more as a potential president. In this context, liking a candidate can be seen as a synonym for supporting a candidate (and his policies). And your feelings on that have not changed at all, since you’re willing to lie to a stranger in order to perpetuate the opposite sentiment.

The context of language dictates your answer. Let’s say a professional gambler asked, “Whom do you like in the -L.S.U. game?” You probably would not respond by saying: “Oh, they all seem like great kids. I like them equally.” You’d immediately understand what the word “like” means when placed in that specific context. The self-awareness of your question suggests that you know what “like” means in this context too. You’re being asked about the likability of a specific candidate but in a political framework. Your take-away from the debate was that Candidate X seemed affable, but that changed nothing about your willingness to support him. So how much do you really “like” him? You concede he did a good job, yet you still want him to lose. As a potential president, you don’t like him anymore than you did in the past. The debate changed nothing.

I work for a community center that is financed entirely by grants and donations. Recently, it was discovered that the founder embezzled funds. Legal issues aside, is it ethical to keep this under wraps as much as possible in order to keep the much-needed center afloat? If housecleaning was done with in-depth audits, and major donors were informed, would it be ethical not to tell smaller donors and volunteers? Is there a way to do the right thing and still save the community center’s reputation and future? NAME WITHHELD

Not really. I understand your desire to keep this quiet, and I respect your deeper motive, but you can’t let donors finance a community center based on misinformation about how it operates. You can’t let people volunteer for something they might unknowingly disagree with. And even if you disregard the ethics, it’s a bad idea to hide this type of scandal. Trying to cover something up, rather than exposing it voluntarily, could well destroy your institution from within. What you should do is this: Write a letter to every donor (regardless of magnitude) explaining in the first paragraph exactly what happened. But use the rest of the letter to stress how the improper actions of one person do not erase the larger value of the center and that their support is now infinitely more important than it has ever been before. Your integrity and transparency could offset the baggage of the founder’s deceit.

I am the chairman of the English department at a small private college. I started having the students pay for a six-month subscription to magazine. We use the magazine for vocabulary, reading comprehension, writing summaries and grammar. The director of the school told me he is canceling the subscriptions because he found the cover depicting a woman a toddler to be “morally offensive” and that students should not be required to pay for something morally unacceptable. I didn’t like the cover, but I thought it would serve as a great opportunity for discussion about freedom of the press. Next year our school’s accreditation is up for renewal. Instructors are supposed to have the freedom to select their teaching materials. If I report this incident to the accrediting organization, the school could be cited. I don’t want to lose my job; we don’t have a union, and we don’t have tenure. NAME WITHHELD
751 2012-10-28 They didn’t intend to remain. “We spoke to a lot of people about, realistically, how long a boy and a girl can share a room before it gets awkward,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said.

That was a few years off. Meanwhile, the elevator kept breaking. The building harbored vermin. The block was noisy.

“We moved in there as boyfriend-girlfriend,” she said. “We weren’t thinking kids and dogs and kindergarten and washer-dryer.”

Two years ago they were at last ready to buy a place. That’s because bequests from the estates of Mr. Hilgenberg’s parents provided enough money for a down payment.

“Kate was online for two years every day,” Mr. Hilgenberg said. “She treated it like guys look at porn online, but she was looking at real estate, like late at night when everyone’s in bed.”

Their primary concern was enough space for two growing children and their dog, Smithers. They wanted three bedrooms, two bathrooms and a decent kitchen. Their preferred location was Harlem, where they loved the neighborly vibe. They sought help from R. Lela Bourne, an agent at Bond New York, planning to pay around $650,000, although their price range soon rose.

They found that a lot of buildings, especially new ones, had one large combination kitchen, living room and dining room. Mrs. Hilgenberg realized she preferred separate rooms. Otherwise, “there is no escape,” she said, adding that at some point, “Bennett is going to be here with teenage boys; I want him to have friends over, and I don’t want to have to hide in my bedroom.”

Mr. Hilgenberg fell for a large duplex condominium in a brownstone on East 126th Street, enticed by its soundproof music studio. The listing price was $850,000, the common charge $1,100 a month.

“Something about the staircase made me feel I was in a home instead of an apartment,” he said.

So dazzled were they that “we were almost ready to buy it on the spot,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said.

But Ms. Bourne reined them in. “On paper, it had all of the prioritized checklist items,” she said. “I encouraged them to go and view the house at all hours of the day and night.”

When they did, walking Smithers, they came up against the fact that the neighborhood was dominated by MetroNorth’s Harlem-125th Street station and several parking lots. They saw few of the shops and services that they would need.

“My eyes were glazed over from the music studio,” Mr. Hilgenberg said. “We would have moved there in a second if it had been anywhere else. I was very bummed to think it out and come to the conclusion no.” (It later sold for $790,000.)

Another possibility was a four-bedroom in a prewar co-op building near Central Park North, just two blocks from their rental. The price was $635,000, the maintenance fee nearly $900 a month. But the interior renovation had eradicated any prewar charm.

“Renovations, when they are done by other people,” Ms. Bourne said, “don’t always meet your standards.”

So the Hilgenbergs considered another four-bedroom in a well-located co-op on Morningside Avenue that would have required a complete renovation. The price was a low $425,000, the maintenance less than $1,100 a month.

But “I realized I couldn’t do a gut,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said. “I love the idea of doing a gut, but I couldn’t do it. I had been watching too much HGTV for my own good.”

Then, last spring, Ms. Bourne came upon a listing for a large duplex in a co-op in Morningside Heights. It had 1,600 square feet and a small patio. “I read the description and got goose bumps,” Ms. Bourne said. She knew it would sell quickly.

The asking price was $869,000, monthly maintenance $1,750. The apartment was on the high end of their budget, so Mrs. Hilgenberg was reluctant to look.

But as soon as she saw the downstairs, perfect for a play area, she knew the place was right. The couple offered $835,000, but several other interested parties bid, too. The Hilgenbergs ended up paying the full asking price.

The family arrived in early fall, and so far they are thrilled with their new home. “We have room now to get away from one another,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said. “The kids can be watching TV downstairs and we can be upstairs at the table having a drink.” Mr. Hilgenberg has plenty of practice space downstairs, too.

There are a few things he dislikes, like an eyesore of a meter near the kitchen ceiling and a squeaky spot in the floor.

Changes, some daunting, are ahead. “You buy the place, you move in, you paint and that’s only the beginning,” he said. “Just choosing window treatments, thinking these are the window treatments we are going to have to live with for the next 15 years, possibly 30, and it’s $400 to cover one window and we’ve got like 12 windows to cover — you’ve got to be kidding me. You see the dollar signs on the cash register just flying by. You hear that ‘ka-ching ka-ching,’ and it’s scary.”

Still, he said, “just the thought I have the power to change things if I am so inclined is a really comforting thought, and I like that.”

Once they had found their home, Mrs. Hilgenberg never again went online to search for apartments. “That’s how I knew this was a true fit for us,” she said. “My biggest fear was I would want to keep looking .”
752 2012-10-28 MR. HARMON “My play takes place in real time in one space, so the later I can start the action, the better. Her coming out of the bathroom is the latest possible beginning. I don’t think that first line will ever get a laugh, but it establishes that she doesn’t live there, and it hopefully sends a message about the tone, which is super important in a comedy. Also, when you see a man and a woman dressed like this, you assume they’re romantically involved. So I had to get the cousin reference in there.”

IN PREVIEWS, opens Nov. 15 at the Acorn Theater at Theater Row.

PREMISE Primping for an evening out, a young mother natters on to her baby sitter.

LARISSA I’ll never forget what else he said to me he said — and it’s a simple thing he said — he said, he said to me anyway he looks at me and he says, he looks at me and he says he goes: “Remember who you are.” ... What do you mean? Who am I? I don’t know who I am, who am I supposed to be? What am I supposed to remember? I’m a child.

MS. VOLPE “This line woke me up in the middle of the night in my freezing loft in Williamsburg. I had a phone conversation with my father that ended with: ‘One more thing: Remember who you are.’ I don’t belabor the first line of my plays. (I mean, I belabor every line I’ve ever written.) But in this play and many others the line presented itself to me. And as a writer you have to assume that something stirring within you is going to stir within others too.”

PREMISE What began as a (relatively) straightforward Halloween play has become an “olde-tyme agricultural vengeance play” written in an invented language.

MS. KEMPSON “When I began writing this, I was performing a lot and touring in foreign countries. And the idea became that experience of being in a country long enough that you start to pick up little pieces of their language but not most of it. When I’m at a play and taking it all in — the actors and the set and the world of the play — I never remember the first few lines. And so I try to undervalue them a bit. I find that they get wasted.”

THROUGH Nov. 11 at the Public Theater.

PREMISE The 40-year-old protagonist recalls an encounter from when he was 10.

GIL As a matter of fact, the last time I was in a church it was very upsetting!

MR. DOMINGO “He’s mid-conversation because he’s mid-conflict. Playwrights like August Wilson take their time settling into a conflict, whereas I think my generation dives right in. I shifted a lot around in this prologue — I’m on Draft No. 80, I believe — but I never changed the first line.”

PREMISE A hostess tries to entertain her guests while dealing with a balky patio umbrella.

MARY And the man with the birthmark looked up and slid a handwritten receipt across the table to me. He said, “Is there anything else I can help you with,” and I said no thank you and I turned and walked out onto the wooden pier and I saw a very old sea gull swoop down into the water and eat a fish.

MS. D’AMOUR “When I started writing the play, I knew the situation — I knew that Mary was telling the dream because she’s a nervous host and the umbrella isn’t working. Not only is the dream life really important in the play, but the economic anxiety that I deal with is in there too. Now was I conscious of all that when I wrote the line? No. But the first few minutes are very important to lay down the DNA of the play.”

IN PREVIEWS, opens Nov. 14 at the Longacre Theater.

PREMISE A celebrated pornographic-film star has reunited with an old classmate, now a journalist.

MANDREW What is a porn star? Good question. That’s the first good question you’ve asked all day.

MR. READ “Picking up in the middle of the action is always better. There’s a period at the beginning of any play where the audience is leaving its cares away and entering this world. It’s not instantaneous. And I thought starting with a question — and a provocative question — would sort of speed up that process.”

PREMISE Jack, a high-strung New Yorker, returns to his childhood home in Cincinnati and descends on cartons of a local brand of ice cream.

JACK This stuff is awesome. Does it still have the giant chunks in it? Like if you get lucky you can find just a, I love that, those giant chunks of, this stuff is amazing.

MS. REBECK “Most of my plays are comedies, and the fact is that audiences don’t know what to laugh at until you establish that world for them. So it’s essential to find that first laugh right off the bat. This line nails Jack’s essence, which is this hunger to fill his soul. Whereas [his sister] Lorna stayed at home, and her next line — ‘Do you want a bowl?’ — sets up the contrast and the yin-yang between them. And maybe, hopefully, we’ll get a laugh on it.”

PREMISE In the course of adapting her 2010 book about girls around the world, Ms. Ensler replaced a dialogue about body image with a new monologue that considers how to represent oneself on Facebook.

ASHLEY Oh God, ugly. Sorry. [click, new image of Ashley] Too strong. Rashida says I have to look a little lost. Boys like that. Look too sure they don’t know what to do. [click, new image] I look so stupid. Lost on me looks like stupid. [click, new image she looks hot, confident, fabulous] Wow. I look kinda good. Yes. Maybe no. Maybe too good. Rashida will say I’m showing off. She says it makes girls hate you. They think I am up here studying for my honors Chemistry exam. They would be horrified to know I have spent the last two hours taking over 300 photos for my Facebook profile shot. [click, another image] 20 seconds Rashida says, that’s all you’ve got. Then they move on. [click] OOOh, angry. Rashida says we can’t look angry. Won’t get invited places. To be honest sometimes Rashida really pisses me off. [click, really angry picture]

MS. ENSLER “There’s this internalized monologue constantly going on inside girls’ heads about who they’re told they’re supposed to be. And I think Facebook has become the land in which so many of these girls are determining their identity. So I decided to focus on one person and then bring it out.”

THROUGH Nov. 4 at the Flea Theater

PREMISE A National Guard intern prepares for the arrival of two concerned parents in this political parable.

MARK O.K. Send ’em on up. [He goes upstage to his computer and begins to tap in information. Mary and Joe enter from the hall.] Be with you momentarily, folks. Just setting up your folder. [Mary and Joe wait. Mark finishes.] There. Welcome.

MR. GURNEY “Any playwright will tell you that they spend a huge amount of time on their opening lines. Even the way you say ‘Welcome’ matters. Without giving too much away, Mark is not even looking at them as he says it. He’s just going through his shpiel. And so we see that he’s a functionary and barely even a human being.”

THROUGH Nov. 9 at the Irondale Center

PREMISE In telling three separate narratives simultaneously, Ms. Corthron also had to decide which story to begin with. She ultimately decided to begin with the third character in the title, the anonymous protagonist of the 1970s “Go Ask Alice.”

ANONYMOUS Nobody knows who I am.

MS. CORTHRON “She’s kind of the one person who could be all of us. People know what to expect from Grace Slick or Alice in Wonderland [the other two protagonists], so I wanted to start in a quieter, more contemplative place. … I really try not to put too much stock in the first line. I have enough of a perfectionist streak that I can really get stuck otherwise.”

PREMISE A man named Michael Kiriakos stands holding an envelope that links him and his family to the Armenian genocide of 1915.

MICHAEL There are sins, from which we can never be absolved. Sins, so terrible, so … unimaginable, that if, or when, we finally acknowledge the depths of our complicity, we will be changed forever. We will drift through the rest of our days on earth not as human beings, but as specters. Soulless and empty, continually muttering a single prayer. Not for forgiveness, because we know that for us, forgiveness doesn’t exist. Not to forget, because the memory of our crime is the only source of genuine emotion we will ever know again. [A beat.] What we will pray for, very simply, is death. There are – [A beat.] There are sins, from which we can never be absolved. I know this … because I have committed one.

MR. DINELARIS “This play is always straddling Michael’s personal journey as well as the Armenian genocide, and so I wanted this particular line to address both. … It’s repeated at the end, when you look at it through a different lens. We’re always looking for that surprising inevitability: I can’t believe this is happening, and yet I always knew this would happen. And so the opening of the play starts you on that path.”
753 2012-10-29 Scott Forstall, who has run software development for Apple's iPad and iPhone products, and John Browett, the head of the company's retail operations, are leaving Apple, in a rare management reshuffling at the company....
754 2012-10-29 A Denver businessman arrested on Friday on insider trading charges e-mailed his family and friends over the weekend, proclaiming his innocence and comparing his plight to challenges faced by Nelson Mandela and Steven P. Jobs....
755 2012-10-29 "To Have and Have Another: A Hemingway Cocktail Companion" reveals exactly how much the author enjoyed his cups....
756 2012-10-29 Computer scientist Peter G. Neumann talks about his research to create more secure software and hardware.
757 2012-10-29 The impacts of Hurricane Sandy are likely to revive debate over whether New York City has done enough to concretely prepare for storm surges, as opposed to commissioning studies....
758 2012-10-29 As the fight over the auto bailout intensifies, the Obama campaign fact-checks an ad by the Romney campaign....
759 2012-10-29 The New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and BATS Global Markets said in separate statements that they have agreed to close....
760 2012-10-29 Joe Cecere, president and chief creative officer at Little & Company, Minneapolis, became a minority owner in the agency, acquiring an undisclosed stake from Monica Little, chairwoman.

Context.IO, Montreal, which helps developers integrate data from e-mail into applications, was acquired by Return Path, New York. Financial terms were not disclosed. Context.IO will become the Montreal office of Return Path and the staff members will remain there.

Kimberly Easley joined the New York office of VML, part of WPP, in a new post, director for talent acquisition. She had most recently been chief talent officer at the Solomon Page Group.

Matthew Jacobson joined Digitas, part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, vice president for group director, leading design for the Chicago office and the new San Francisco office. He had been head of design at Third Man Records, the label operated by Jack White of the White Stripes.

Loyalkaspar, New York, opened an office in West Hollywood, Calif., where Richard Eng will serve as creative director and Mandy Novak as executive producer.

Amelia Miller joined the Washington office of Sensis as account executive. She had been an assistant account executive at LM&O Advertising, Arlington, Va.

Palate, New York, an agency specializing in helping marketers respond to food trends, is being opened by FKM, Houston, with Merri Lee Kingsly, who had most recently been publisher at Saveur magazine.

Papa Murphy’s International, Vancouver, Wash., a pizza chain with more than 1,300 locations, selected Wong, Doody, Crandall, Wiener, Seattle and Los Angeles, as agency of record. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled by Periscope, Minneapolis.

Phenomblue, Omaha, hired five employees and promoted a fourth. The newcomers are Julia Doria, director for client services; Deb Lammel, vice president for engagement; Tom McCauley, content strategist; Andrew Osborn, senior designer for graphic and motion; and Shannon Wallace, a director for strategy. Also, Kt McBratney, vice president for client services, was promoted to a new post, vice president and general manager for the Los Angeles office.

Craig Rice joined Cenergy, East Aurora, N.Y., as director for experiential. He succeeds Lee Robinson, who left to join Blue Flame, Norwalk, Conn. Mr. Rice had most recently been vice president for creative at Synergy Events, Ocean, N.J.

RP3 Agency, Bethesda, Md., hired four employees and promoted one. The newcomers are Claudia Caplan, chief marketing officer; Sarah Goldman, developer; Sharon Lin, interactive designer; and Tracy Rotton, developer. Also, Jay Selway, art director and user experience designer, was promoted to director for experience design.

M&C Saatchi Mobile, part of M&C Saatchi, opened an office in Sydney. The agency also has offices in Cape Town, London, Los Angeles, New York and Paris.

Howard Shimmel joined the New York office of Turner Broadcasting System, part of Time Warner, as senior vice president for advertising sales and sports research. He succeeds Gregg Liebman, who left, the company said. Mr. Shimmel had been executive vice president for Nielsen media and advertising analytics at Nielsen, New York.

Jim Silburn joined Colle & McVoy, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, as director for client services, a post that had been long vacant. He had most recently been senior director for marketing, brand communication and value proposition at the Capella Education Company, Minneapolis.

Ashley Singh joined the Los Angeles office of KSL Media in a new post, marketing supervisor. She had been senior marketing manager at Briabe Mobile, Venice, Calif.

Marc Smith joined Framestore in a new post, senior design director for the New York design department. He had been senior designer at the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe.

St. John Providence Health System, Warren, Mich., consolidated its advertising, marketing and digital accounts at Duffey Petrosky, Farmington Hills, Mich. Billings were not disclosed. The digital assignments had previously been handled by Biznet, Wixom, Mich., and Primacy, Farmington, Conn.

Tri-Cities Community Health, Pasco, Wash., chose AMI Advertising Agency, Walla Walla, Wash., as agency of record, handling duties like advertising, public relations, media planning and placement and media relations. There was no previous agency and billings for the assignment, which is to run for two years, were not disclosed.

Volkswagen was named to receive the Eurobest Advertiser of the Year Award for 2012. The honor will be presented during the Eurobest Awards in Lisbon on Nov. 30.

Wolf Ridge Environmental Learning Center, Finland, Minn., named Haberman, Minneapolis, as its agency. There had been no previous agency and billings were not disclosed.
761 2012-10-29 With the addition of the iPad Mini, Apple offers touch-screen devices in three sizes. Now its competitor Google is doing the same with the introduction of a 10-inch tablet, a new smartphone and an upgraded seven-inch tablet....
762 2012-10-29 Japanese automakers took the top seven spots. Scion was rated the highest for the second consecutive year, followed by Toyota, Lexus, Mazda, Subaru, Honda and Acura....
763 2012-10-29 "Rick & Morty," created by Dan Harmon and Justin Roiland, follows "a genius inventor grandfather and his less than genius grandson."...
764 2012-10-29 Hurricane Sandy bears down on the Northeast. | A catastrophe risk analyst on the dangers for insurance companies. | Examining the potential economic impact of the storm. | Reports from the field....
765 2012-10-29 Carl Richards (and Alice, the one from Wonderland) offer a guide to setting (and changing) your financial goals....
766 2012-10-29 In an interview with David Frost, Paul McCartney said that the Beatles were already winding down by the time John Lennon became involved with Yoko Ono....
767 2012-10-29 An election indicator, the worst password, venture capital from the Small Business Administration, and have you tried advertising on Facebook?...
768 2012-10-29 The author of an article in the magazine on Ikaria, Greece answers questions on how certain communities around the world hold the secrets to longevity....
769 2012-10-29 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
770 2012-10-29 Compiling images for his fourth book was like getting a primer in his own career, as the photographer Arthur Grace found countless pictures that he didn’t remember taking....
771 2012-10-29 “I still think Oregon is the favorite.”

Should that chain of events play out, it would surely incite fans of the Fighting Irish, who could cite a defense that has allowed seven touchdowns in eight games and a schedule loaded with teams that are very likely to play in bowl games. The games against Big Ten opposition on that schedule, Palm said, have been diminished in a down year for the conference. But that is not Notre Dame’s fault.

And Notre Dame is still Notre Dame.

“If Oregon has to watch its back for anybody, it’s Notre Dame,” Palm said. “They have a case for it. Their name may mean something.”

At this point in the season, though, Palm said he could not recall a major undefeated team leapfrogging another major undefeated team. Not in the B.C.S. era, anyway.

He pointed to Auburn in 2004. That season, Southern California and Oklahoma finished 1-2 in the polls, same as they finished the regular season. The Trojans ultimately beat the Sooners to win a championship, much to the chagrin of Auburn, which also finished the year undefeated. That was the only time Palm could recall a season that ended with two major undefeated teams since the birth of the B.C.S.

“That sort of jumping doesn’t occur,” Palm said. “No matter how bad Auburn fans wanted it. Anyway, if this wasn’t Notre Dame, we wouldn’t even be discussing it. If this was Ohio State, or U.S.C., we wouldn’t be talking about it.”

This year, each of the contenders for the title could argue a legitimate claim. Oregon’s offense has scored at a video game rate: 8 games, 59 touchdowns, at least 42 points each time. The Ducks hung 70 points on Colorado on Saturday.

For Oregon, though, the toughest part of its Pacific-12 schedule remains. Next weekend, the Ducks play at Southern California, and tough conference games against Stanford and Oregon State await down the road.

The Fighting Irish, meanwhile, held Oklahoma to 13 points, and this after the Sooners scored 41, 63 and 52 points in their three previous games. Notre Dame closes out its season against Southern California, on the road, but the rest of the schedule — Pittsburgh, Boston College, Wake Forest — looks eminently winnable.

Then there is Kansas State, the stepchild in this equation, at least in terms of pedigree. That despite the fact that the Wildcats’ quarterback, Collin Klein, is the Heisman Trophy front-runner, and their coach, Bill Snyder, is a strong contender for national coach of the year.

The Wildcats have proved they can score and defend. They rarely turn the ball over. They already toppled Oklahoma, West Virginia and Texas Tech. And the rest of their schedule — Oklahoma State, Texas Christian, Baylor and Texas — is tough but not intimidating.

And so another college football season continues to turn in unexpected directions. Remember when Louisiana State and Southern California were the trendy national championship picks in August? Remember when Alabama seemed vulnerable? Well, that was a couple of months ago.

“I feel like I’ve made more B.C.S. bowl predictions changes this year than I ever have,” Palm said. “It feels like I’m making two to three changes a week. I’m not even changing the Big Ten team anymore, because I was doing it every week.”

“Why should this year be any different?” Palm said.

Then there is Ohio State, which improved to 9-0 with a drubbing at Penn State on Saturday. The Buckeyes, because of N.C.A.A. penalties, are not eligible for the postseason. On Saturday in Pennsylvania, they talked instead about going undefeated in Coach Urban Meyer’s first season.
772 2012-10-29 NBC Universal’s three-year deal with England’s Premier League, which starts in 2013, will let the company televise up to 380 games a season on the NBC broadcast network, the NBC Sports Network and at least two other cable networks.

NBC Universal, which was to announce the agreement Sunday night, will pay the league $80 million to $85 million annually.

About 200 games will be available on the NBC networks in six time periods on Saturday, Sunday and Monday during the league’s 10-month season. The rest will be available online or in some other packages, one of them probably pay-per-view.

“There will be live, exclusive games, and we’re not going to tape delay any of them,” said Mark Lazarus, the chairman of the NBC Sports Group. “Multiple games go on at once, and we can’t carry every one on our networks. But we won’t regionalize games.”

Despite inquiries, NBC has no plans to resell any of the games to another network, as Fox Soccer now does, sublicensing about a fifth of its games to ESPN.
773 2012-10-29 As senior author of the research described in “The G.O.P.’s Feminine Mystique” (Sunday Review, Oct. 21), I’d like to describe the theoretical rationale and broader implications of analyzing the extent to which female lawmakers exhibit gender-typical facial features.

Prior research established that voters often make snap judgments when evaluating politicians. We predicted (and found) that some of these judgments rely on gendered cues. Why? Conservatives tend to value policies that bolster traditional gender roles, and they promote politicians who embody those characteristics. (Representative Todd Akin’s recent criticism of Senator Claire McCaskill’s “unladylike” debate performance illustrates this point.)

Liberals, in contrast, value policies that aim to end gender disparities (salary equity, for example) and appear not to demand that their lawmakers exhibit a particular “look.”

For the health of our democracy, it’s important to understand how voters’ judgments are formed and how they might be manipulated for political gain. Currently, we’re investigating whether party leadership plays a role in the process.

Prior research reveals that women are viewed as either feminine or competent — but rarely both. If the leadership of the G.O.P. is consciously or unconsciously putting forward and promoting only the most feminine of lawmakers, it is unwittingly undermining its political agenda. That’s no trivial matter.

The writer is an assistant professor of communication studies and psychology at U.C.L.A.
774 2012-10-29 “An ever-growing percentage of our ad buy is mobile because that’s where the consumer is,” said Chris McCann, president of 1-800-Flowers.com, which has run mobile ads urging people to call or walk into a nearby store. “It’s the future for us.”

Coming up with ads that exploit the smaller mobile screen requires inventiveness from many parties — advertisers; digital publishers like Google, Apple and Facebook that sell ad space; and mobile ad networks like Millennial Media.

“What we’re trying to do is think about the on-the-go user,” said Jason Spero, leader of global mobile sales and strategy at Google, which dominates advertising online and is far and away the leader in mobile advertising. “What does that user want when she’s sitting in a cafe or walking down the street?”

A big challenge for the tech companies is that advertisers pay less for mobile ads than for those online, largely because consumers are less likely to make a purchase on their phones. Though people click on mobile ads more than on desktop ads, advertisers wonder whether that is because of what they call the “fat finger effect” — accidental clicks on tiny touch screens.

And while users’ actions can be tracked across Web sites online, it is hard to know whether someone sees a cellphone ad for an offline business and then walks in — so it is difficult for advertisers to judge how effectively they are spending their money.

As Google sells more mobile ads, the average amount it earns from each ad has dived. Facebook’s value on Wall Street was halved on fears that it was not making enough money on its mobile users. Apple’s mobile ad network, iAd, has been slow to gain traction.

Despite the problems, though, there is evidence that mobile advertising is becoming a meaningful business, and in some cases a bigger business than online advertising.

Facebook executives said last week that in the third quarter, the company earned $150 million from mobile ads, 14 percent of its total revenue. Pandora reported that in the second quarter that ended in July 58 percent of its revenue, or $59 million, came from mobile ads. Twitter executives have said that on certain days, the social network earns a majority of its daily revenue from mobile ads.

Mobile ad networks, which show ads across mobile apps and Web sites, have created new and thriving businesses. The biggest are Millennial Media, Google’s AdMob and Apple’s iAd.

Google earns 56 percent of all mobile ad dollars and 96 percent of mobile search ad dollars, according to eMarketer. The company said it is on track to earn $8 billion in the coming year from mobile sales, which includes ads as well as apps, music and movies it sells in its Google Play store. But the vast majority of that money comes from ads, it said.

“Whoever does mobile best, they’re going to be the next Google, so people are asking, ‘Is Google going to be the next Google?’ ” said Chris Winfield, co-founder of BlueGlass Interactive, a digital advertising agency. “It still is Google’s to lose.”

Google and others have had success in taking advantage of the fact that mobile phones know a lot more about people than desktop computers do — most important, their location. And with a phone in hand, a customer is probably more likely to be ready to buy something.

People searching on a computer for jeans, for instance, most likely want to research styles and colors, while people doing the same search on a phone want the nearest place to buy a pair, said Mr. Spero at Google.

In addition, Google has benefited from the fact that one main way people use Google on phones is to search for nearby businesses, a prime source of advertising. Thirty percent of restaurant searches and 25 percent of movie searches are done on mobile devices, according to Google.

One of Google’s most successful mobile ad types is the click-to-call ad. After running these ads, Starwood Hotels’ mobile bookings grew 20 percent in a month.

Google also shows ads on the mobile version of YouTube, including video ads like movie trailers before YouTube videos. If someone watches the movie trailer, Google makes money.

The company has also hinted that it could show ads through other services like Google Now, which sends unprompted alerts to cellphones. It coaches advertisers on how to do things like build mobile Web pages.

Larry Page, Google’s chief executive, told analysts this month that thinking about mobile ads versus desktop ads is the wrong approach.

“We want a seamless experience that goes across mobile, desktop and TV, and that’s what we’re building,” he said.

Pandora, the Internet radio service, is second only to Google in mobile ad revenue, according to eMarketer, which predicts it will bring in $229 million in mobile ad revenue this year from both audio and on-screen ads.

An audio ad, for example, told Pandora listeners to tap the screen for the location of the nearest Whole Foods and a sushi lunch special. StubHub, the online ticket marketer, recently ran an ad on Pandora’s app. Those who clicked on it received reminders for coming concerts to their cellphone calendars.

Gaining traction in mobile advertising is particularly critical for Facebook; 60 percent of its users log in on phones. But making the transition to the small screen has been a challenge: most Facebook ads appeared on the right side of the Web page, so there was nowhere to show them on a mobile device.

That is one reason Facebook started running ads in the newsfeed, like sponsored stories, which are notices that a friend likes a certain brand. It is also starting a mobile ad network to show ads on other cellphone apps, based on things Facebook knows about a user, such as what they like and where they live.

Twitter has inserted ads labeled “promoted” in its newsfeed from the beginning. On advertisers’ behalf, Twitter can show ads only to people using mobile devices, like ads to download a mobile app.

Samsung showed an ad just to people using its Galaxy Note device, directing them to search and download Android apps for the phone.

Next, these companies must figure out how to persuade advertisers to spend more than 2 percent of their budgets on mobile devices.

“It’s reminiscent of the Web in 1996, ’97,” said Michael Moritz, an investor at Sequoia Capital who financed companies like Google and LinkedIn. “People weren’t interested in ads, and prices were low. But advertisers don’t have a choice. They’ve got to go where audiences are.”
775 2012-10-29 ¶SocialFlow, New York, hired executives for two top posts. Missy Godfrey joined as chief executive, assuming duties from Frank Speiser, who continues as president and also takes a new post, chief product officer. SocialFlow was started by Mr. Speiser and Mike Perrone, who is leaving, the company said, to join a start-up, SocialSignIn. Ms. Godfrey had most recently been a managing director at North Sea Partners. Also, Lee Jones joined SocialFlow as chief revenue officer, a new post; he had most recently been senior vice president for advertising at USA Today, part of the Gannett Company.

¶Omar Carrion joined Cheil Americas, part of Cheil Worldwide, as president and chief executive at Cheil Mexico, based in Mexico City. He succeeds Ana Castaneda, who is leaving, the agency said, to start an organic food company. Mr. Carrion had most recently been general manager at DDB Mexico, part of the DDB Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, and served as president of the Mexican Association of Advertising Agencies.

¶Richard Davies joined Newell Rubbermaid, Atlanta, as chief marketing and insights officer, assuming duties from Ted Woehrle, chief marketing officer, who is leaving as part of a reorganization. Mr. Davies had been senior vice president for consumer and market insight at Unilever.

¶Tender Creative, New York, was acquired and absorbed by VSA Partners, Chicago. Financial terms were not disclosed. Tender Creative becomes the New York office of VSA and Dean Di Simone, a founder of Tender Creative, becomes partner and executive director of the office.

¶Eight agencies won 10 gold medals during the presentation of the Jay Chiat Awards for Strategic Excellence at the annual Strategy Festival sponsored by the American Association of Advertising Agencies, known as the Four A’s. In all, 47 gold, silver and bronze medals were awarded. The gold medal recipients, and some of the campaigns for which they were honored, were: BBDO New York, for “The Last Text” for AT&T; Leo Burnett, for the Allstate “Mayhem” campaign; Cramer-Krasselt; DDB Brasil; the Atlanta office of JWT; McCann Erickson New York; Mindshare; the London office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide; and R/GA, which won three for the Nike+ FuelBand.

¶Brand Affinity Technologies, Irvine, Calif., which helps connect brands and athletes, acquired the fan photography business and intellectual property of Printroom, Santa Clara, Calif. Financial terms were not disclosed.

¶Cortera, Boca Raton, Fla., opened an office in Boston. The company also has offices in Bangalore, India, and Quincy, Mass.

¶Google is teaming up with The Four — an organization that is supporting efforts to legalize same-sex marriage in four states through ballot measures on Election Day — by producing a video clip in which Google employees speak out in favor of marriage equality. The states are Maine, Maryland, Minnesota and Washington. Google has previously supported gay rights issues as well as helping promote the antibullying initiative known as It Gets Better.
776 2012-10-29 This is a softer and less confrontational Mr. Akin than what most of the country has seen.

Rape and abortion are subjects he rarely brings up. (He was defending his no-exceptions opposition to abortion when he got in trouble for saying that women’s bodies could automatically prevent pregnancy in cases of “legitimate rape.”) Gone is his us-versus-the-establishment language. And while he addresses some of his more incendiary remarks head on — like his statement equating federal student loans to Stage 3 cancer — he tends to stick with more rehearsed themes that appeal to his conservative base: less government, more freedom and God.

A poll released on Saturday suggested that his strategy might be working. The survey, conducted by Mason Dixon for The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, News 4 in St. Louis and The Kansas City Star, showed the race to be essentially tied, with Ms. McCaskill holding an edge, 45 percent to 43 percent. The poll had a margin of error of 4 percentage points.

Mr. Akin fosters the “aw shucks” demeanor of the Midwest, drawing out his words like an elementary school teacher. He uses jokes to break the ice — “I’m willing to take a few questions as long as they’re not real hard,” he told one audience. He often invokes patriotic history, telling stories of George Washington, Patrick Henry and Thomas A. Edison. He relishes symbolism and told a group in Ava, Mo., about a bald eagle he saw on the drive to meet them. “Does the eagle remind you of freedom?” he cried.

Even staunch conservatives who almost certainly will vote for Mr. Akin want to meet him in person to reassure themselves of their decision.

“I thought I better look at him to see if he’s as crazy as they think he is,” said Dannie Thompson, 55, a City Council member in Salisbury, Mo., who first met Mr. Akin on Wednesday at a dinner at a country-style restaurant in nearby Moberly.

Mr. Thompson was smitten. Mr. Akin was friendly and approachable, Mr. Thompson said, took interest in what he had to say and explained himself well.

“He wasn’t trying to use college words to a hillbilly like me,” Mr. Thompson said.

Mr. Akin went from table to table to greet people. He excused himself for reaching over a woman and then turned to her and offered his hand. “Hi, Bonnie,” he said. “Nice to see ya.”

During his speech, the first noticeable reaction from the crowd came as he spoke about what he thought was the secret to America’s greatness, increasing his cadence and pointing a finger in the air.

“I believe that secret really starts with a visionary idea that there is a creator — ”

“— that blessed us with life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness.”

Mr. Akin does not speak from a script. But he has taught himself to be disciplined when he talks.

“I’m trying to be pretty careful in choosing my words, you can bet that’s true,” he said in an interview.

Mr. Akin begins almost every speech by reminding people that Ms. McCaskill was an early supporter of Mr. Obama during his first presidential run. He says she voted most of the time for legislation that Mr. Obama supported, and he highlights her support for the health care law. In a state where the president’s poll numbers have sagged, Mr. Akin’s best path to victory might be to make sure that Mitt Romney’s supporters also check his name on the ballot.

He gets crowds most riled up when he talks of the millions of dollars in federal subsidies received by housing companies tied to Ms. McCaskill’s husband, or of the sexual harassment lawsuit pending against one of her husband’s companies.

“That’s why you see the magician trick,” he told a group of mostly older people in Hannibal, twiddling his right hand next to his face while reaching down with his left. “Look over here while I put this hand in your wallet.”

Ms. McCaskill’s campaign has denied any wrongdoing and condemned the attacks. It has noted that the senator has voted against some of the spending bills involved, and that her husband’s companies were but a handful of thousands that received the financing, which was used for maintenance at affordable housing developments. The lawsuit is against an apartment complex in Springfield, Ill., where neither Ms. McCaskill nor her husband, whose company owns the complex, play a role.

Caitlin Legacki, a spokeswoman for Ms. McCaskill, said it was “unfortunate that his campaign has taken such a desperate tone and have leveled such inaccurate personal attacks.”

In turn, Mr. Akin has accused his opponent of using similar tactics. Beyond his controversial statements, he has been peppered with questions about his numerous arrests during anti-abortion protests decades ago. The McCaskill campaign’s advertising, Mr. Akin said, “is trying to make me look like some kind of a weirdo or something.”

Mr. Akin sometimes finds himself handling the delicate balance of distancing himself from the fringe views of some of his supporters without dismissing them.

In Moberly, a woman asked, “With all the unconstitutional things that Obama is doing,” like “being kind to our enemies and unkind to our friends, what’s stopping Congress from impeaching this man?”

He discussed the difficulties in impeaching a president — accusations of high crimes and misdemeanors, and at least 67 votes in the Senate — and then shifted toward a different way to drive Mr. Obama out of the Oval Office.

“Two weeks from now,” he said, referring to Election Day, “that’s the preferred solution to that problem.”
777 2012-10-29 “Companies that were having difficulty coming to the market, or who want to be more aggressive, have now gotten the opportunity to do so,” said Kingman Penniman, the founder of a junk bond research firm. “Clearly it’s a disturbing trend.”

The shift is particularly worrying to Mr. Penniman and others because so much of the money going into these bonds is coming from individual investors who may be unaware of the declining credit quality.

Over the first three quarters of the year, retail and institutional investors piled into junk bonds with equal alacrity. The record for junk bonds issued in the United States in a single year was broken on Oct. 18, and now stands at $293 billion, compared with $249 billion in all of 2011, according to Dealogic. But in recent weeks, as the bonds have grown risker, figures from the data company EPFR show that wiser institutional investors have begun to shift money out of junk bonds, as individual investors have continued to pour in. Retail investors added about $2.1 billion to their portfolios in the first three weeks of October, compared with a net outflow of $256 million from institutional investors.

The flows into junk bond mutual funds are pushing the managers of these funds to buy up whatever junk bonds are being issued — even if they worry that the bonds could eventually run into trouble.

“The inflows are forcing people to look at these things, even though they might want to hold their nose,” said Mark Hudoff, a portfolio manager at Hotchkis & Wiley, a mutual fund management company.

The most commonly cited reason for the recent surge of risky new bonds is the monetary stimulus program announced by the Federal Reserve in early September. By buying up safer mortgage-backed bonds, the Fed is trying to push investors to take on more risk. This would generally lead to big purchases of stock, but after the financial crisis, stocks still carry a stigma for many investors.

Because bonds, whether investment-grade or junk, do not lose all their value when a company goes bankrupt, they carry a greater aura of safety than a company’s stock, which can be wiped out in a Chapter 11 filing. This year, retail investors have put about $22 billion into junk bond funds, compared with the $8.3 billion that went into these funds in 2011 from all sources, according to EPFR.

Because of the minuscule interest rates being offered on other types of bonds, some analysts say junk bonds still represent a good deal. Even as the interest rates on junk bonds have fallen to their lowest levels ever, the yields on Treasury bonds have fallen even more quickly. The total return on high-yield bonds this year has been 12.8 percent, compared with 9.6 percent on investment-grade bonds and 14.1 percent on the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, according to the Royal Bank of Scotland.

But Carl P. Kaufman, who buys bonds for Osterweis Capital Management, said he is having to be much more selective in which junk bonds he buys, to avoid those that “are going for no productive purpose.”

Among the bonds that worry investors are those being used to pay for acquisitions, a riskier pursuit than the refinancing that dominated earlier this year. Some private equity companies are raising money for new leveraged buyouts, which can load the acquired company with debt. David’s Bridal, for example, borrowed $270 million, rated CCC by Standard & Poor’s, in early October to finance its sale from one private equity owner to another. The company declined to comment.

Then there are the bonds issued to pay dividends to a company’s private equity owners. The hospital company HCA borrowed $2.5 billion on Oct. 16, in part to make payments to its three private equity owners — Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Bain Capital and Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity. Mr. Penniman said that deals like this, in isolation, increase a company’s debt and make it harder to fulfill its obligations to bondholders.

A spokesman for HCA, Ed Fishbough, said: “We’re pleased with the response to our offering” from investors, and also with the company’s debt levels.

The trend that worries investors most is the rise of bonds that allow the borrower to skip cash interest payments if it hits financial trouble, removing one of the most attractive features of bonds: the guaranteed fixed income.

“It is an expression by the company that we’re not sure we’re going to be making enough money to pay the interest for the next few years,” said Adam B. Cohen, the founder of Covenant Review, a credit research firm.

There have been more of these bonds issued over the last month than there were over the first eight months of the year, according to data from the Royal Bank of Scotland.

Jo-Ann Stores and Petco incorporated that optional interest payment feature into the notes they issued to make dividend payments to their owners. Petco borrowed $550 million for five years at 8.5 percent; Jo-Ann Stores issued $325 million of notes at 9.75 percent for seven years. The private equity owners declined to comment.

Mr. Cohen said that the demand for high-yield bonds is keeping the lawyers who work on the projects busy and giving them freedom to take more and more liberties with the terms of borrowing. He says that these lawyers have told him, “We’re just writing up the contracts however we want, because people are buying everything.”

Mr. Kaufman said that the companies issuing these bonds were not likely to hit problems immediately, but at some point the riskier behavior was likely to catch up with them, and their investors.

“All the sudden you will have that surprised look on your face when it hits the fan,” Mr. Kaufman said.
778 2012-10-29 Hours later, he was released from Athens police headquarters to loud cheers from a crowd outside. He is to face a magistrate at noon on Monday, when his trial date is to be set.

On the list were a former culture minister, several employees of the Finance Ministry and a number of business leaders. Hot Doc reported that they had accounts in a Geneva branch of HSBC. The magazine said its list matched a list of 2,059 people that was handed over to the Greek government in 2010 by Christine Lagarde, then the French finance minister and now the head of the International Monetary Fund, to help Greece crack down on rampant tax evasion as it was trying to steady its economy.

A spokesman for Ms. Lagarde referred questions to the French tax authorities, who did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

Last week, as the controversy grew, two former ministers were pressed to explain why the government appeared to have taken no action on the list in the two years since Ms. Lagarde handed it over.

George Papaconstantinou, the ex-finance minister who received the list from Ms. Lagarde, told a parliamentary panel last week that he had been advised that he could not use it because a former HSBC employee obtained the names illegally. Mr. Papaconstantinou said that after receiving the names, he had passed them on a memory stick to the chief of Greece’s financial crimes unit, Ioannis Diotis, who later gave it to Mr. Papaconstantinou’s successor, Evangelos Venizelos, the current leader of the Socialists. Mr. Diotis said that Mr. Venizelos had not instructed him to investigate it.

Mr. Vaxevanis’s publication of the list raises the stakes in a heated battle over which current and former government officials had seen the original — and whether they had used it to check for possible tax evasion.

Moreover, Mr. Vaxevanis’s arrest raises questions about freedom of the press in a country that frequently reminds its European Union partners that it is the birthplace of democracy. The Greek chapter of Reporters Without Borders issued a statement on Sunday expressing concern about the speed of his arrest.

Mr. Vaxevanis “is not a dangerous criminal,” the group said. “The pressure created by the arrest of a reporter is clearly disproportionate. This procedure simply encourages an excessive cover-up, and the authorities appear to be imposing the ‘therapy’ of this sensitive issue, which is a gripping matter of public interest.”

The group added that the handling of Mr. Vaxevanis’s case “cannot be any different in a member state of the European Union.”

Mr. Vaxevanis said he was the wrong target. “Instead of arresting the tax evaders and the ministers who had the list in their hands, they are trying to arrest the truth and free journalism,” he said in a telephone interview that was uploaded on the Internet and widely circulated.

Greek blogs posted petitions calling for Mr. Vaxevanis’s release, and they had generated more than 10,000 online signatures by early afternoon.

Greeks are skeptical that political leaders will investigate the business elite, with whom they often have close ties, even as middle- and lower-class people have struggled with higher taxes and increasingly ardent tax collectors. Parliament is expected to vote on a new 13.5 billion euro austerity package (about $17.5 billion) that could further reduce standards of living.

The fallout over the publication of the list is certain to distract Greek politicians, and may raise fresh questions among Greece’s European partners during a week when European finance ministers are scheduled to discuss the release of a 31.5 billion euro loan tranche (about $41 billion) that Athens needs to avoid bankruptcy. The magazine was careful to note that having an account at HSBC was not illegal or proof of evading Greek taxes, a point underscored by a spokesman for the Finance Ministry. But the magazine suggested that Greek officials should check whether those on the list had moved money into the accounts to escape paying taxes.

The existence of the list has shaken the country, posing new challenges to the fragile three-way coalition government of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. There was no immediate comment from Mr. Samaras, who was meeting with aides to discuss the new austerity measures.
779 2012-10-29 The project, an $8.8 billion expansion of a refinery owned by the state-run behemoth Sinopec, was eagerly backed by the local government, which has been promoting a vast industrial zone outside Ningbo, a city of 3.4 million people in Zhejiang Province. Residents were particularly unnerved by one major component of the project: the production of paraxylene, a toxic petrochemical known as PX that is a crucial ingredient in the manufacture of polyester, paints and plastic bottles. Many residents contend that the concentration of polluting factories in the Ningbo Chemical Industrial Zone has led to a surge in and other illnesses.

While mass demonstrations against mining operations, copper smelters and trash incinerators have disrupted Chinese cities in recent years, the construction of paraxylene plants has been especially controversial. In 2007, protesters in the coastal city of Xiamen, in Fujian Province, successfully forced the relocation of a PX plant that had been planned just 10 miles from downtown. Last August, officials in Dalian, in northeast China, announced that they would shut down a PX plant there after thousands of residents angrily confronted the riot police. That factory is still operating.

Ma Jun, an environmental activist in Beijing, applauded the government’s sudden about-face but said he hoped the weekend of unrest would convince Chinese leaders that soliciting public opinion on industrial development is in their best interest, especially given how much money is wasted when such projects are canceled midway.

“We’ve seen the same pattern over and over again,” said Mr. Ma, the director of the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs. “Ignoring public concerns leads to confrontation. We can’t resolve all our environmental issues through street action. The cost is just too high.”

Despite the best efforts of government censors, many of the protests have been fueled by social media. In Ningbo, residents held aloft smartphones and computer tablets and flooded microblog sites with images and vivid descriptions of the running battles with the police. The Chinese news media carried no reports of the protests.

In recent days, the district government of Zhenhai, which includes Ningbo, one of China’s most affluent cities, tried to reassure residents, saying the plant would include the latest pollution-control technologies. Officials also said they had spent nearly $1 billion to relocate 9,800 households away from the refinery site.

In a brief statement posted on the government’s Web site on Sunday, officials said they decided to cancel the PX plant after consulting with investors. They also pledged to conduct “scientific verifications” on other elements of the project, although they provided no further detail.

The announcement appears to have done little to mollify popular anger. According to The Associated Press, an official who read the statement through a loudspeaker on Sunday evening was drowned out by the crowd, which then called on the mayor to resign and demanded the release of protesters who had been detained.

Later in the evening, several people posting on Sina Weibo, a popular microblog service, said the police were arresting students at Ningbo University and protesters on the street who had refused to disperse. The accounts could not be verified.
780 2012-10-30 A political statistician explains why it's hard to get our heads around the presidential polls....
781 2012-10-30 “Can you look sad?” the photographer Gregory Crewdson asks a young mother as she gazes with delight on her gurgling newborn.

For Mr. Crewdson, whose painstakingly constructed images seem to yearn for some impossible human connection, melancholy is as integral to his vision as a fog machine and the mystical caul of twilight. Frozen in a cheap motel room or a snowbound diner, his subjects pose with beaten-down expressions, encouraging us to create our own narrative. It doesn’t have a happy ending.

In “Gregory Crewdson: Brief Encounters,” the director Ben Shapiro accompanied Mr. Crewdson from 2005-9, focusing primarily on the creation of his major series “Beneath the Roses.” Originally conceived as a movie (Mr. Crewdson admits to being profoundly influenced by David Lynch’s “Blue Velvet”), the photographs have a theatrical resonance that Mr. Shapiro sees no need to embellish.

Instead, he listens as this Brooklyn-raised photographer recalls a childhood fascination with the work of his father, a psychoanalyst who saw patients in the family basement, and a stint with the band the Speedies. Their sole hit was the prophetically titled “Let Me Take Your Photo,” and it seems a long way from that bouncy ditty to the dioramas of despair that haunt this film. But though the medium has changed, the performer — whether on obsessively appointed sets or elaborately tweaked outdoor locations — remains evident.

Returning again and again to the sapped small towns of western Massachusetts, Mr. Crewdson is an artist incurably hooked on decline. “He shuts streets down and does wacky stuff,” a self-described junk picker (soon to feature prominently in the wackiness) tells us, as Mr. Crewdson, trailing an entourage of lighting and construction experts, snaps emptied-out car lots and yawning homes.

But even if, as the writer Rick Moody suggests, a swipe at capitalism is implicit in these photos, it doesn’t distract: the flotsam of a failed economy, like the imprint of long-ago family vacations, is just so much grist for the forlorn fictions their maker labors so obsessively to express.

With marvelous discipline, Mr. Shapiro crams a wealth of material into a tight 77 minutes, smoothly communicating the group effort required to achieve the perfect shot. A few intimates, like Mr. Moody and the photographer Laurie Simmons, show up to offer perspectives on the work, but Mr. Crewdson’s unsettling ability to evoke the ineluctable void between observer and observed — and between one human being and another — is beyond the reach of words. Easier to articulate, perhaps, are the layers of need that drive his efforts, resulting in images that he views as “backdrops for a more submerged psychological drama.”
782 2012-10-30 The terms of the settlement were kept secret in a case that has been closely watched in the music industry because of its potential effect on the contentious issue of digital royalties....
783 2012-10-30 Individual retirement accounts and 401(k)'s are being used increasingly to invest in start-ups or commodities, but such maneuvers can leave users penniless in retirement....
784 2012-10-30 The Romney campaign continues to attack President Obama's effort to rescue the auto industry, arguing in a new radio commercial that the federal government's $80 billion assistance plan helped China more than it did the United States....
785 2012-10-30 Digital circulation accounted for 15.3 percent of overall circulation, up from 9.8 percent over last year, helping to offset the pressure on the print product....
786 2012-10-30 The New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq will open as usual on Wednesday following flooding and power failures....
787 2012-10-30 The chief executive of Chrysler responded to a misleading suggestion in a Romney ad that jobs are moving to China....
788 2012-10-30 Images of severe flooding in Lower Manhattan were passed around social media, with many people expressing disbelief and concern....
789 2012-10-30 Stock markets will be closed Tuesday for a second day, as New York deals with the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. | Over all, the storm could cause economic losses of up to $20 billion, according to the catastrophe risk modeling firm Eqecat. | UBS a...
790 2012-10-30 Even as Hurricane Sandy pounded the East Coast, the ouster of Scott Forstall at Apple roiled the tech world....
791 2012-10-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
792 2012-10-30 The old policy, however, was not universally admired. Parents who did not already have a child in a gifted program complained that it was unfair, and in a petition backing the shift said it was “crucial to maintain the high quality of the programs and serve a child’s best interests.”

The sibling preference was particularly criticized by parents of children who scored at the 99th percentile, the highest level, but still could not win a seat in one of the five so-called citywide programs, including the Anderson School on the Upper West Side and the Brooklyn School of Inquiry, which are reserved for the highest scorers. Students with a sibling already in those schools could get in, under the old rules, by scoring in the 97th percentile, allowing them to vault past students who scored higher but had no brother or sister in the school.

“Why should a child who scored a 99 on the test be deprived of an earned seat because another child has a sibling?” wrote one parent on the petition. “This isn’t how life works and it isn’t how the N.Y.C. public school system should work either.”

The change is one of several intended to manage the ever-growing demand for the city’s gifted programs, and the ever-improving performance of students on the admissions exams, a phenomenon that has coincided with the rise of a local tutoring and test-preparation industry.

Several years ago, the city instituted the test-based admissions process, which involves two exams given in one sitting, replacing a system that had largely left each district to set its own criteria, which could include tests, grades and teacher recommendations. The change has led to a drop in the number of black and Hispanic students qualifying for the programs. This year, the city has thrown out one of the two exams, the Bracken School Readiness Assessment, and replaced it with a new 48-question test known as the Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test — Second Edition, or NNAT2. It has also reduced the weight given the other test, known as the Otis-Lennon School Ability Test, or Olsat, in the student’s final score.

The NNAT2, said Adina Lopatin, deputy chief academic officer in the Education Department, is “less impacted by things like spoken language, socioeconomic background, culture and school experience,” and should increase diversity and “improve the accuracy of our identification of gifted children.”

In another change, those students entering kindergarten or first grade who score highly enough for a gifted program will no longer be guaranteed a seat in one. The city said this would not curtail students’ options because roughly half of parents in those cases rejected their offered seats, choosing instead to send their children to neighborhood elementary schools or private schools.

Dozens of parents came to an information session in a Chelsea high school on Wednesday evening to hear what several Education Department officials had to say about the process, which some parents called overwhelming and daunting. But many said the presentation did little to relieve their sense of confusion.

“It is insanity,” said Jennifer Perrine, who attended the meeting to explore all the schooling options for her 4-year-old daughter but left the presentation “pulling my hair out.”

She added, “The average parent is left with the impression that you can’t get in anywhere, even if you’re Albert Einstein.”

Representatives of several tutoring companies, which are already trying to adapt to the NNAT2, were also there to greet the parents, and seek their business. One of them, Bige Z. Doruk, also happened to be personally affected by the new sibling policy, because she has two children in a city gifted program and a 4-year-old preparing for the coming tests. But she said education officials were doing the right thing to abolish the sibling preference.

“This is not about accommodating families,” said Ms. Doruk, the owner of Bright Kids NYC. “It is about creating a fair gifted and talented system for all families, giving every family a fair shot at being in a gifted and talented program.”
793 2012-10-30 It is a high-risk strategy: Jeep’s corporate parent, Chrysler, had already released a scathing statement calling suggestions that Jeep was moving American jobs to China “fantasies” and “extravagant”; news media outlets here and nationally have called the Romney campaign’s statements — initially based on a poorly worded quotation from Chrysler in a news article that was misinterpreted by blogs — misleading.

Mr. Obama’s campaign, seeking to maintain what it sees as its advantage in Ohio, responded on Monday by releasing a commercial calling Mr. Romney’s ad false and reiterating that Mr. Romney had opposed the bailout on the terms supported by Mr. Obama. And on Sunday it dispatched the investment banker who helped develop the bailout, Steven Rattner, here to discuss Jeep’s plans and the auto rescue with local news organizations.

Democrats are hoping that Mr. Romney’s latest move will draw a backlash in a city so dependent on Jeep, which has announced plans to add 1,100 jobs to an assembly plant here that is currently being refitted for the next iteration of what is now called the Jeep Liberty.

Bruce Baumhower, the president of the United Auto Workers local that oversees the major Jeep plant here, said Mr. Romney’s initial comments on moving production to China drew a rash of calls from members concerned about their jobs. When he informed them Chrysler was, in fact, is expanding its Jeep operation here, he said in an interview, “The response has been, ‘That’s pretty pitiful.’ ”

The fight over the auto bailout shows the enduring power of the issue but also its complexities in a campaign that is about both the strength of the economy and the size and role of government.

The auto bailout was one of the first major moves of Mr. Obama’s presidency, and gave Mr. Romney an early chance in opposing it to prove his conservative credentials.

Mr. Romney has portrayed himself as an automobile maven. As he frequently says in his stump speeches, his father was credited with keeping American Motors in business during the 1950s and early 1960s. (The company, it happens, owned Jeep from 1970 to 1987.)

Just as the incoming Obama administration was beginning to contemplate a bailout, Mr. Romney wrote an Op-Ed article in the The New York Times — given the title by the newspaper “Let Detroit Go Bankrupt.’’ In the piece Mr. Romney wrote that in the event of a bailout, “You can kiss the American automotive industry goodbye.”

The plan the administration settled on first helped Fiat buy Chrysler and then put both Chrysler and General Motors into managed bankruptcies as part of a program that brought total government assistance for Detroit to almost $80 billion between the Obama and Bush administrations. Coming as the Tea Party was beginning to form, it seemed like risky politics for Democrats being accused of taking big government to an extreme.

At the third and last debate last week in Boca Raton, Fla., Mr. Romney emphasized his position that “these companies need to go through a managed bankruptcy, and in that process they can get government help and government guarantees.”

Mr. Romney has stepped up his offense on the issue since.

So it was that he told those at the exuberant rally on Thursday in Defiance, “I saw a story today that one of the great manufacturers in this state, Jeep, now owned by the Italians, is thinking of moving all production to China.”

Mr. Romney was apparently referring to a Bloomberg News article that said Jeep would return to manufacturing in China that had been misinterpreted by several conservative blogs to mean Jeep was shifting its production to China; the company made clear in a statement that Chrysler was only resuming production in China for Chinese consumers, which it had done for years before halting in 2009 before its sale to Fiat.

Mr. Romney’s ad treads carefully, with an announcer saying Mr. Obama “sold Jeep to the Italians, who are going to build Jeeps in China” and the screen flashing, “Plans to return Jeep output to China.”

Calling it “blatant attempt to create a false impression,” former Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a Democrat, demanded Mr. Romney take it down on Monday. Stuart Stevens, a senior Romney adviser, disputed that the ad is misleading.

“Right now every Jeep built is built in America by an American and sold to the world,” he said. “Now instead of adding jobs in Toledo, they will be making Jeeps in China by the Chinese and selling them in China.”

Jeep began a joint manufacturing venture in China in 1984 and today makes some vehicles in Egypt and Venezuela. While it does produce cars for Chinese export here now, it has discussed returning some production to China since last year.
794 2012-10-30 Elsewhere, Microsoft’s machine-learning software will crawl internal corporate computer systems much the way the company’s Bing search engine crawls the Internet looking for Web sites and the links among them. The idea is to predict which software applications are most likely to fail when seemingly unrelated programs are tweaked.

If its new products work as advertised, Microsoft will find itself in a position it has not occupied for the last few years: relevant to where technology is going.

While researchers at M.S.R. helped develop Bing to compete with Google, the unit was widely viewed as a pretty playground where Bill Gates had indulged his flights of fancy. Now, it is beginning to put Microsoft close to the center of a number of new businesses, like algorithm stores and speech recognition services. “We have more data in many ways than Google,” said Qi Lu, who oversees search, online advertising and the MSN portal at Microsoft.

M.S.R. owes its increased prominence as much to the transformation of the computing industry as to its own hard work. The explosion of data from sensors, connected devices and powerful cloud computing centers has created the Big Data industry. Computers are needed to find patterns in the mountains of data produced each day.

“Everything in the world is generating data,” said David Smith, a senior analyst with Gartner, a technology research firm. “Microsoft has so many points of presence, with Windows, Internet Explorer, Skype, Bing and other things, that they could do a lot. Analyzing vast amounts of data could be a big business for them.”

Microsoft is hardly alone among old-line tech companies in injecting Big Data into its products. Later this year, Hewlett-Packard will showcase printers that connect to the Internet and store documents, which can later be searched for new information. I.B.M. has hired more than 400 mathematicians and statisticians to augment its software and consulting. Oracle and SAP, two of the largest suppliers of software to businesses, have their own machine-learning efforts.

In the long term, Microsoft hopes to combine even more machine learning with its cloud computing system, called Azure, to rent out data sets and algorithms so businesses can build their own prediction engines. The hope is that Microsoft may eventually sell services created by software, in addition to the software itself.

“Azure is a real threat to Amazon Web Services, Google and other cloud companies because of its installed base,” said Anthony Goldbloom, the founder of Kaggle, a predictive analytics company. “They have data from places like Bing and Xbox, and in Excel they have the world’s most widely used analysis software.”

Like other giants, Microsoft also has something that start-ups like Kaggle do not: immense amounts of money — $67 billion in cash and short-term investments at the end of the last quarter — and the ability to work for 10 years, or even 20, on a big project.

It has been a long trip for Microsoft researchers. M.S.R. employs 850 Ph.D.’s in 13 labs around the world. They work in more than 55 areas of computing, including algorithm theory, cryptography and computational biology.

Machine learning involves computers deriving meaning and making predictions from things like language, intentions and behavior. When search engines like Google or Bing offer “did you mean?” alternatives to a misspelled query, they are employing machine learning. Mr. Horvitz, now a distinguished scientist at M.S.R., uses machine learning to analyze 25,000 variables and predict hospital patients’ readmission risk. He has also used it to deduce the likelihood of traffic jams on a holiday when rain is expected.

Mr. Horvitz started making prototypes of the Outlook assistant about 15 years ago. He keeps digital records of every e-mail, appointment and phone call so the software can learn when his meetings might run long, or which message he should answer first.

“Major shifts depend on incremental changes,” he said.

At a retreat in March, 100 top Microsoft executives were told to think of new ways that machine learning could be used in their businesses.

“It’s exciting when the sales and marketing divisions start pulling harder than we can deliver,” Mr. Horvitz said. “Magic in the first go-round becomes expectation in the next.”
795 2012-10-30 A dollar fifty doesn’t even cover the cost of intermission chocolates at Carnegie Hall these days, but it was enough to attend the American Symphony Orchestra’s 50th-anniversary concert there on Friday evening.

All tickets were sold at the original 1962 prices, in line with the ensemble’s longstanding commitment to attracting a wide audience with affordable events. The orchestra’s founder, Leopold Stokowski, was also committed to recruiting young American musicians at a time when many American orchestras consisted predominantly of Europeans.

The ensemble has performed at other halls in recent years, but its return to Carnegie in 2010 was significant, given that the orchestra filled the gap left there when the New York Philharmonic moved to Lincoln Center in 1962.

Stokowski had an adventurous appetite for new and American works. Leon Botstein, the ensemble’s music director for the last 20 years, has expanded on that aesthetic with wide-ranging programs of rarely performed repertory.

But the orchestra’s performances have sometimes been inconsistent, as they were here. Mr. Botstein conducted a ragged interpretation of Mahler’s monumental Symphony No. 8 (“Symphony of a Thousand”), whose American premiere Stokowski led in 1916 with the Philadelphia Orchestra.

Mr. Botstein didn’t manage to marshal the huge forces — which included eight vocal soloists stationed behind the orchestra, the Brooklyn Youth Chorus and the Collegiate Chorale — into a polished or cohesive performance, let alone an uplifting one. Some singers performed from the upper balconies. After a false start at the beginning of Part 2, Mr. Botstein turned to the audience and said that the transition had been too quick, then rebooted the orchestra.
796 2012-10-30 Was Peter G. Neumann the world’s first “white hat” computer hacker? The term “hacker” was popularized in Steven Levy’s 1984 book “Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution.” It described an early generation of M.I.T. students who did not break into computers and networks — or black hats — but instead were passionate programmers and hardware tinkerers.

Beginning in the early ’60s, they would take over the then-rare mainframe computers late at night when the machines were not being used for routine tasks, and explore the limits of computing. They designed things like “Space War,” one of the first interactive computer games.

Dr. Neumann preceded that early hacker culture by more than half a decade. At Harvard, he was one of the first programmers to have solo access to his own “personal” computer — at least on weekends.

The Mark IV was one of the world’s first stored-program computers, and in 1954 Dr. Neumann earned the trust of its designer, Howard Aiken. Every Friday at 5 p.m., he would take over care of the machine from its regular operators. He would have the run of the system for the weekend and wouldn’t leave until Monday morning.

“I was the operator, maintainer and guru,” he said. His undergraduate thesis was on computing elliptic integrals, and he used the machine to generate a large number of tables.
797 2012-10-30 The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation has given a $5 million grant to a Massachusetts nonprofit group to work on a very specific problem: how to get new mothers in Ghana to hospitals.

Child mortality is very high in Ghana, but many newborns can be saved if the mother gives birth with someone trained, even rudimentarily, in Western medicine and if the baby is seen within two days by a doctor or nurse.

But in rural Ghana, explained Dr. Pierre M. Barker, vice president of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, which received the Gates grant, there are many obstacles. Besides the obvious, like rutted roads, there are prejudices against wives or newborns leaving the house.

Sending expert committees to visit village chiefs, he said, has turned many into advocates for getting women to clinics instead of giving birth with untrained local midwives who may be unable to diagnose pneumonia or who have habits that cause tetanus, like cutting umbilical cords with dirty blades.

Dr. Barker described how his agency helped set up a village meeting that produced a way to get women in labor to hospitals when they had no money. He expected villagers to donate funds. Instead, local minibus-taxi drivers proposed a deal: They would carry the women at no charge if, once they arrived, they were allowed to jump the line for paying passengers headed back home.
798 2012-10-30 Of course, some sectors will be hurt more than others. A study last year by the Global Business Travel Association estimated that a typical Category 3 hurricane on the East Coast could reduce spending on business travel by just under $700 million.

Hurricane Sandy was a Category 1 storm, which is significantly less powerful than a Category 3 hurricane, but its extended stay throughout the East Coast could actually result in higher losses than the study found, said Joseph Bates, the association’s vice president for research.

“The scenario we looked at only had an impact of one day,” he said. “This storm is going to last at least three days.”

Besides the halt in electronic and floor trading in virtually all Wall Street financial markets Monday and Tuesday, several prominent companies delayed scheduled announcements.

Pfizer, the big drug maker, put off its third-quarter earnings report until Thursday, while Thomson Reuters and NRG Energy delayed their reports until Friday.

Google canceled an event planned for Monday to introduce a new smartphone, the Nexus 4, as well as several new tablets, all aimed at the holiday shopping season. Facebook also called off an event showcasing its new Gifts platform, which had been set to take place at F.A.O. Schwarz in Manhattan on Thursday.

Saks Fifth Avenue boarded up its flagship store in Manhattan, a striking image for a retailer known for its high-fashion windows.

“We have taken the necessary precautions in each store to protect our property and limit damage,” said a spokeswoman, Julia Bentley, in an e-mail. Saks closed stores in nine other locations from Maryland to Boston.

On Monday, about 130 of the 850 Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s stores nationwide were closed, said a spokesman, Jim Sluzewski.

“We’re not selling generators or bottled water or any of those sorts of items, so given that much of what we sell is discretionary, it’s not as big of an issue for our customers,” he said.

Sears Holdings had closed 115 stores as of midday Monday, and was monitoring the storm to see where to send generators for stores in case power went out, said a spokesman, Tom Aiello. Among Sears shoppers, tools and generators were popular items, while at the company’s Kmart unit, blankets, food and water were selling well, Mr. Aiello said.

Lowe’s had closed 51 stores by midday Monday. In the Northeast, products in demand ranged from extension cords to utility pumps and snow shovels, a company spokeswoman, Stacey C. Lentz, said.

A day or two of lost sales is painful for stores in the holiday season, although many retailers and analysts expected consumers to put off holiday shopping until after the election.

Oliver Chen, an analyst for Citigroup, wrote in a research note that he estimated shopping could be down as much as 40 percent for the week in affected areas, and November comparable-store sales could be down by as much as 2 to 3 percent. However, he said, stores that sell emergency supplies, food and other staples should see an uptick in traffic and sales.

In the energy sector, the impact was also expected to be short term.

Inventories for heating oil, diesel and jet fuel in the Northeast were already low before the arrival of the storm, so there could be shortages of refined petroleum products in the wake of the hurricane.

There are five refineries in the storm path, with the Phillips 66 refinery in Linden, N.J., potentially the most at risk from flooding and storm surge, according to energy experts. The refinery, with 238,000 barrels of production capacity, was shut down as a precaution though it has never suffered a significant flood.

Most energy experts said that a gasoline price spike lasting more than a couple of days was unlikely because demand for gasoline is expected to decline significantly because of the storm.

“Every hurricane that lands on shore is a demand destroyer, but it’s the rare one that destroys supply,” said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service.

Economists do not foresee long-term impact from the storm, even if it results in billions of dollars in property damage from the high winds and lashing rain.

Powerful storms disrupt consumer spending and can cause sharp month-to-month swings in economic data, said Christopher D. Carroll, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins University, who has analyzed the impact of weather events for the Federal Reserve.

While it was hard to measure statistically, the effect of lost work hours was probably less today than in the past because of technology that allows people to work from home, he added.

Eventually, most spending or other activity is simply pushed forward, a phenomenon known in economics as intertemporal substitution. For example, because the New York Stock Exchange is closed on Monday and Tuesday, volume will probably rise on Wednesday and Thursday when trading will probably resume.

The most powerful hurricanes come along once or twice a decade — like Katrina or Andrew — and can actually increase economic activity.

“It’s a problematic aspect of how we account for economic output,” said Mr. Carroll. “Of course, it’s terrible when something is destroyed. That doesn’t show up in the calculation of gross domestic product. However, the rebuilt house does.”
799 2012-10-30 BEIJING — A former deputy chief of the army’s general staff, Lt. Gen. Wei Fenghe, has been promoted to commander of the Second Artillery Corps, home of the strategic missile force, the Defense Ministry said Monday.

The new position as head of one of China’s most important military units  is part of a major turnover in China’s armed forces and almost certainly assures General Wei a seat on the Central Military Commission, the military’s top decision-making body, currently headed by President Hu Jintao.

The new membership of the commission, which will oversee the rapid modernization of China’s military, is expected to be announced after the 18th Party Congress next month.

General Wei’s promotion had been anticipated. He served as chief of staff of the corps between 2006 and 2010, and was involved in intercontinental ballistic missile testing in 1989, said Mark Stokes, the executive director of the Project 2049 Institute, in Washington, a nongovernmental organization that studies military issues in Asia.

Bo Zhiyue, a research fellow at the East Asian Institute at the National University of Singapore, said: “He is a professional soldier who has spent his whole career in the missile troops. He is relatively young and will work for another decade. He will add to the professionalization of the Second Artillery Corps."
800 2012-10-30 Much soul-searching and public anger have focused on how Mr. Savile’s misconduct appears to have been widely known among colleagues and police officers who did little or nothing to restrain or prosecute him. Sharpening the questions about the BBC’s conduct, one of the network’s current affairs programs, “Newsnight,” began and then canceled an investigation into Mr. Savile late last year.

Bernard Hogan Howe, the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, said on Monday that though Mr. Savile was accused a number of times while he was alive, police forces in different parts of Britain never put the picture together.

Much attention has focused, too, on why successive heads of the BBC have said they were unaware of the rumors about Mr. Savile within the organization.

They include the current director general, George Entwistle, and his predecessor, Mark Thompson, the incoming president and chief executive of The New York Times Company. Mr. Thompson was the organization’s head when the “Newsnight” investigation was canceled, a time when other BBC departments were planning holiday tributes to Mr. Savile.

The extent of the mistrust surrounding Mr. Savile emerged from a BBC interview on Monday with Sir Roger Jones, a former BBC governor and the head of the Children in Need charity, who said that he had suspicions more than a decade ago, according to an article on the BBC Web site.

“I think we all recognized he was a pretty creepy sort of character,” Mr. Jones said in the article. “We took the decision that we didn’t want him anywhere near the charity, and we just stepped up our child protection policies — which again would have put him at risk if he tried anything.”

Still, he acknowledged that the charity had only suspicions against Mr. Savile. “If you’re going to go on the attack and make claims against him, then you’d need evidence, hard evidence that simply wasn’t there,” Mr. Jones was quoted as saying.

The other inquiry, led by Nick Pollard, a former head of a rival network, Sky News, is looking specifically into the circumstances surrounding the cancellation of the “Newsnight” investigation.

Compared with the public inquiries into the behavior of tabloid reporters and editors in Britain in the phone hacking scandal, which have unfolded in a glare of publicity, the inquiries into the Savile matter at the BBC seemed more opaque. A BBC spokesman and a person representing Dame Janet each said her inquiry began on Monday, but they declined to say who would go before the inquiry, where it was being conducted or whether it would operate in public.

In response to a reporter’s questions, Dame Janet’s representative, Carolyn E. Pepper of the law firm Reed Smith, released a statement saying: “Dame Janet’s view is that it is not appropriate for her to give interviews or provide comment regarding the review at this time. Press information will be issued in due course.”

Her inquiry is meant to gather testimony from people who have accused Mr. Savile of abusing them or who have raised concerns about his activities. It is also supposed to examine “the extent to which BBC personnel were or ought to have been aware of unlawful and/or inappropriate conduct by Jimmy Savile on BBC premises or on location for the BBC,” the BBC said.

She is also supposed to determine whether the BBC’s child protection and whistle-blowing policies are adequate. The BBC has also said it is looking into nine more recent cases related to a variety of sexual harassment and abuse cases, but it has not said who was involved in them.

Both her inquiry and Mr. Pollard’s investigation are supposed to be independent of BBC control, although both were appointed by BBC supervisory bodies.
801 2012-10-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
802 2012-10-31 The Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan confirmed on Wednesday that it has approached the government of Israel about increasing its stake in Israel Chemicals, another fertilizer maker....
803 2012-10-31 Carl C. Icahn announced late on Wednesday that his hedge fund, Icahn Capital, had acquired a stake of about 10 percent in Netflix....
804 2012-10-31 Some of the books I was supposed to read in high school actually turned out to be good....
805 2012-10-31 Mr. Ziporyn, a clarinetist, played as an original member of the Bang on a Can All-Stars ensemble....
806 2012-10-31 Rangers defenseman Michael Del Zotto has signed to play for Rapperswil-Jona Lakers of the Swiss National League A for the remainder of the N.H.L. lockout....
807 2012-10-31 Usually political foes, President Obama and Gov. Chris Christie had words of praise for each other after a joint view of New Jersey's battered coastline....
808 2012-10-31 Information flows at warp speed and in unlimited quantities, but the Romney campaign figures it can get away with pretty much anything....
809 2012-10-31 Markets reopen after Hurricane Sandy. | Role of government insurance program in recovery. | How wireless systems fared. | A boon for construction. | Grounded at La Guardia airport....
810 2012-10-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
811 2012-10-31 That's just one of the questions raised by Paul Downs's recent series on why his sales fell off a cliff last spring....
812 2012-10-31 The upgrade, said to be the most significant in the 11-year life of the program, was supposed to come in October. Now the plan is November, Apple says, so it can "get it right."...
813 2012-10-31 The major stock indexes ended little changed in light trading on Wednesday as the market reopened after a two-day shutdown caused by Hurricane Sandy....
814 2012-10-31 Trinity Place department store offers a collection of cutesy, unpredictable clothes and low-priced brands with and a faint international air....
815 2012-10-31 While the 47,000 runners entered have too little time to remedy any major lapses in training, there is one element that can still be tweaked, two new studies show: what to eat in the days before the race....
816 2012-10-31 Business Day Live: Markets reopen after Hurricane Sandy. | Role of government insurance program in recovery. | How wireless systems fared. | A boon for construction. | Grounded at La Guardia airport.
817 2012-10-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
818 2012-10-31 Facebook's stock fell by as much as 4 percent on Wednesday, as employees got a first chance to sell 234 million Facebook shares that had been locked up after the initial public offering....
819 2012-10-31 Wells Fargo and JPMorgan gobbled up small and weak competitors in the mortgage business, and now their biggest threats, Citigroup and Bank of America, are pulling out....
820 2012-10-31 Wall Street is coming back online after Hurricane Sandy shut it down for two days. | Walt Disney's deal for Lucasfilm follows its strategy of buying big-name franchises. | Barclays disclosed two new investigations on Wednesday. | It has been a yea...
821 2012-10-31 There is one element that can still be tweaked in the days before a marathon, two new studies show: what to eat....
822 2012-10-31 “Most of them were disappointed. They really felt they were ready to go; then the rug gets pulled out from under you,” she said. “They weren’t thrilled about it. But they’re using the time wisely.”

Kennedy Test Prep, in Flushing, Queens, had about 40 children studying for the test, mostly through a $599 course of 10 three-hour classes. “I’m probably going to get e-mails from parents who missed the Sunday S.H.S.A.T. asking me to do a little extra work,” Daniel Kennedy, the owner, said. “If we’re talking about the S.H.S.A.T., I’ve seen students learn a lot in three weeks.”

Another tutoring service, Kweller Prep, blogged that it was offering a $499 course from Nov. 5 to 16 with “new books, materials and test questions.”

For those students who took the test on Saturday and fear that its contents will leak out, giving their cohort a greater advantage, there is no cause for alarm, the Education Department assures.

“The process for administering the S.H.S.A.T. each year always spans multiple weeks,” said Erin Hughes, a spokeswoman for the Education Department, “whether it be for Sabbath observers, those requiring special accommodations during testing, or the makeup testing period. To account for the multiple days of testing, students who test at different times are provided different versions of the exam. The same will occur this year.”

Elisa Schmidt, 13, is hoping her scores will help her make the jump from Holy Child Jesus School in Richmond Hill, Queens, to Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan or the Bronx High School of Science, two of the eight schools that use the test for admission, when she starts ninth grade next year. She took the exam on Saturday and was not pleased to hear that others got a reprieve until mid-November.

“I thought it’s not very fair because they have three more weeks to study, and that can amount to a lot for some of them,” Elisa said. “It makes it a little bit harder for some people because the test is based not really on how good you are but how good everyone else is in comparison. I think it makes a difference in what school some people are going to get into.”

But if she had been offered the chance to postpone her own exam, she is not sure she would have accepted it. “It would have been more time to study,” she said, “but it would have also been more time to worry.”
823 2012-10-31 A Frenchman wanted over the 2003 suicide attacks in Casablanca that killed 33 people plus the bombers has been arrested at the Munich airport, the German police said Tuesday. The suicide bombings in the coastal city of Casablanca were the deadliest ever in Morocco. Forty-five people died including 12 suicide bombers, and dozens more were hurt. A Moroccan security source and the French police later named the suspect as Fouad Charouali.
824 2012-10-31 Even though Stoudemire is just 29, considered the prime of an N.B.A. player’s career, his knees and his coming to the pros straight from high school has made his body older than that.

In 2005, Stoudemire had microfracture surgery in his left knee. He also had arthroscopic surgery on his right knee in 2006.

Entering his 11th season, Stoudemire has appeared in every game in a season just three times in his career, all with the Phoenix Suns. The last time he played a full N.B.A. season was in 2009-10.

Stoudemire went to great lengths to not only get healthy for the season, but to also become a better player. During the summer, he went to Texas to work the Hall of Fame center Hakeem Olajuwon on low-post moves. Stoudemire’s improved post play was on display in a preseason game Oct. 19, against the Toronto Raptors. Two days later, the Knicks announced he had the ruptured cyst.

“That’s disappointing because I know how hard Amar’e has worked this summer, so I feel for him,” Tyson Chandler said. “He’s been one of the hardest workers.”

If Stoudemire is to be out for next two months, he will miss the first 30 games of the season.

“You can’t fully know when he will return until after two to three weeks after he begins his rehab,” Gladstone said. He said the Knicks, Stoudemire and the doctors involved would “have to see how the strengthening in the muscle is working.”

Both Stoudemire and Carmelo Anthony have both expressed their optimism that they might finally find a way to play in sync after not being able to for the past season and half.

“I definitely thought that we had a chance to go out there and play together in a full season,” Anthony said. “This knee thing came out of nowhere. He’s kind of been catching a bad break when it comes down to injuries.”

Now, Anthony will play a mix of small forward and power forward. Coach Mike Woodson said he would most likely make his decision on who he will start at the power forward based on the Knicks’ opponent.

Woodson said he would turn to Rasheed Wallace, who is attempting a comeback after a two-year retirement and did not play in the Knicks’ six preseason games, to help fill the void. The Knicks could particularly use Wallace’s presence on defense and his ability to stretch the floor with his long-range shooting.

“How many minutes, I don’t know that,” Woodson said of Wallace. “I have to see what kind of flow we have in the game and who is doing what. But he will play some. No doubt about that.”

Chandler, who sustained a bruised left knee, also appears to be ready for the season opener Thursday against the Brooklyn Nets. He participated in practice, but sat out of contact drills. Chandler said he did not experience pain in the knee when he was running up and down the floor, but he did wear a brace on the knee.

“Tyson looked good,” Woodson said. “He went through all the skill sessions and then we ran him some on his own. I think he’s going to be fine.”
825 2012-10-31 “I think power in New York City will be a challenge,” said Frank J. Bisignano, co-chief operating officer of JPMorgan Chase. “We’re not talking about weeks, but we are talking about more than a day.”

For many companies, as for individuals, the big question mark was when power providers and other utilities would be functioning reliably again.

More than five million households in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut were without power Tuesday afternoon, as utilities worked to repair downed lines.

Like the power companies, Verizon Communications, the largest wireline phone provider in New York, was hit hard.

On Monday night, the company posted a photo of the first floor of its office at 140 West Street in Lower Manhattan, which had been flooded with three feet of water. Bill Kula, a spokesman, said the storm surge from the hurricane flooded Verizon’s central offices in Lower Manhattan, Queens and Long Island, causing power failures.

In some cases, even its backup power systems failed, leading to the loss of voice, Internet and television services in those areas.

Mr. Kula said the company would have to work with the power companies to pump water out from underground and dry off equipment. He added that many Verizon employees were working from home or from other offices, and that many workers from elsewhere had been rushed to New York to help with the restoration efforts.

“It couldn’t have happened in a more challenging location, in the largest city where we provide wireline services, but it’s not unprecedented for us to have to undergo herculean efforts to restore service,” Mr. Kula said.

He added that a priority for Verizon was the financial district, where it is the primary wireline provider, affecting many businesses. “We have crews working around the clock to do everything we can to ensure the financial district is fully up and running,” he said.

At JPMorgan Chase, about 25,000 employees worked remotely on Monday, but that figure dropped to 15,000 to 20,000 on Tuesday as lights went out across the region.

On a typical day, about 2,000 to 3,000 employees work through the bank’s remote computer system.

Some retailers, like Ace Hardware, rushed to reopen stores and stock them with everything from extra batteries to mops and cleaning supplies, said John Venhuizen, the company’s president and chief operating officer. Of Ace’s 500 stores in the region directly affected by the storm, about 450 managed to open on Tuesday.

All told, the lost output from and overall effects of the storm could shave as much as 0.6 percentage points off annualized fourth-quarter economic growth, according to an analysis by IHS Global Insight.

Some sectors, like fuel providers, seemed to have escaped the worst of Hurricane Sandy’s wrath. As technicians returned to some idled refineries, their early reports suggested that regional gasoline and fuel supplies would not be seriously affected by the storm.

The Philadelphia Energy Solutions refinery in Philadelphia, the largest in the Northeast with a production capacity of 335,000 barrels a day, appeared to have suffered no serious damage and was expected to restart quickly. Several other regional refineries have shut down at least some operations, and it may take several days to return to full production. But with vehicle traffic down drastically because of the storm, no gasoline shortages are expected, and gasoline futures prices have generally been stable.

However, the Phillips 66 refinery in Linden, N.J., is closed, along with three regional storage terminals, and power failures may delay a return to normal operations. The company said that the refinery, which has a production capacity of 238,000 barrels a day, remained without power and that there was some flooding around the plant.

Nearby, a smaller refinery operated by Hess in Port Reading, N.J., also lost power Monday night and was not operating on Tuesday. Energy experts said it would probably take at least two days for power to return to the two New Jersey refineries.

Several ports used for delivery of a million barrels a day of imported fuels have also been shut down, along with the northern leg of the Colonial Pipeline, which brings petroleum products from the Gulf Coast in the event of power failures.

The nation’s automakers are expecting the storm to hurt sales across the affected areas of the East Coast, where many car dealerships shut down as early as Monday, and as far west as Ohio and Michigan.

Auto sales for October will be reported on Thursday. With vehicle sales up 14 percent in the United States so far this year, the industry has been a notable bright spot in the economy. But car companies are expecting many consumers to avoid their showrooms as long as the severe weather continues.

“It’s looking like October will end with a whimper,” said Jay Cooney, a spokesman for Ford Motor Company in Dearborn, Mich.

Because of the advance notice of the storm conditions, Ford dealers were able to move much of their on-site inventory to other places before the hurricane hit, Mr. Cooney said. The company also asked its suppliers to stock up on certain parts in case of weather-related shortages.

Many health insurers said there had been little or no disruption to their businesses, because employees were able to work remotely and the companies had put in place measures at their offices to minimize any potential effects.

Aetna, a large health insurance company, closed its Hartford headquarters on Monday but reopened the offices, which have their own generator, on Tuesday. Company executives had been preparing for the hurricane since late last week, said a spokeswoman, Cynthia Michener.

Even on Monday, Aetna employees were able to work by logging into the company’s network remotely, Ms. Michener said. Of the company’s 35,000 employees, 22,600 connected remotely. Those employees were able to process claims, analyze insurance risk and answer customers’ questions.

At the headquarters of Hubbell, a maker of power components, in Shelton, Conn., a skeleton crew relied on a backup electrical system for essential operations, said Timothy H. Powers, the company’s chief executive. Most managers worked from home, as did customer-support staff in Connecticut.

“You can’t work unless you have power,” he said. “I’m hoping we’re back up by Thursday.”
826 2012-10-31 After that, her own name was enough to attract readers, and in 1985 she published “Letitia Baldrige’s Complete Guide to Executive Manners,” which dealt with behavior in the workplace and outside it. In that book, she declared it acceptable to cut salad with a knife. She recommended that whoever reaches the door first — either man or woman — open it. And she suggested infrequent shampooing when staying on a yacht, to be considerate about conserving water.

Ms. Baldrige, who stood 6 feet 1 inch tall and became known for her elegant silver hair, long contended that the heart of all etiquette was consideration for other people, rather than a rigid set of rules.

“There are major C.E.O.’s who do not know how to hold a knife and fork properly, but I don’t worry about that as much as the lack of kindness,” she told The New York Times in 1992. “There are two generations of people who have not learned how important it is to take time to say, ‘I’m sorry’ and ‘please’ and ‘thank you’ and how people must relate to one another.”

In addition to her all-purpose etiquette guides, she narrowed her focus in books about weddings, social lives, job success and child-rearing. Even when she went far afield of her specialty, as with “Public Affairs, Private Relations” (1991), a novel about romance and class differences in Washington, she threw in comments about manners.

She wrote at least three books that capitalized on her brief, shining White House career: “In the Kennedy Style: Magical Evenings in the Kennedy White House” (1998, with René Verdon); “A Lady, First: My Life in the Kennedy White House and the American Embassies of Paris and Rome” (2001); and “The Kennedy Mystique” (2006, with four co-authors). Those books’ revelations tended toward menus, recipes and minor shockers, like Mrs. Kennedy’s habit of referring to Helen Thomas and another newswoman as “the harpies.”

In a 1964 oral history interview for the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library, she remembered the Kennedys as perfectionists and the president as an amazing manager.

“He was like a wonderful department store manager who goes through the store and knows everybody’s name and knows how all the departments work and knows how to wrap packages better than the wrappers in the wrapping department,” she said.

Letitia Baldrige was born on Feb. 9, 1926, in Miami and grew up in Omaha, the youngest child of Howard Malcolm Baldrige, a Republican state legislator who became a United States congressman in 1930, and the former Regina Connell. (Their son Malcolm was secretary of commerce in the Reagan administration.)

Growing up with two older brothers helped make her tough, Ms. Baldrige said. Speaking to her hometown newspaper, The Omaha World-Herald, in 1997, she recalled the time her brother Robert had swung his new baseball bat, a holiday gift, too close to her. “I was knocked unconscious for three hours,” she said. “My brothers called it the best Christmas so far.”

Like her future employer Mrs. Kennedy, Letitia attended Miss Porter’s School in Farmington, Conn., and Vassar College. She did graduate work at the University of Geneva in Switzerland but still found that she had to learn secretarial skills to find a good State Department job.

Beginning in the late 1940s, she worked in Paris as social secretary to David Bruce, the United States ambassador to France, and his wife, Evangeline; then in Rome as assistant to Clare Boothe Luce, at that time the ambassador to Italy. On that first job she made a major faux pas by unknowingly seating a Frenchman next to his wife’s lover at a dinner party. As a result, she often said, she learned the value of heartfelt, repeated apologies.

When she returned to the United States, she went to work for Walter Hoving, the chairman of Tiffany & Company. Her first book was “Roman Candle” (1956), a memoir about her European adventures, which one critic, Elizabeth Janeway, accused of managing “to invest Rome with as much color and atmosphere as if it were her native Omaha.” Her last book was “Taste: Acquiring What Money Can’t Buy” (2007).

Most of Ms. Baldrige’s career was spent as an entrepreneur, as head of her own businesses in Chicago, New York and Washington, where she had a home at the time of her death.

Yet she continued to be identified with her White House days. “That’s all right,” she told The Times in 1998. “It was a moment in history, and to be part of it is incredible.”

Ms. Baldrige married Robert Hollensteiner, a real estate developer, the year she left the White House. He survives her, along with their daughter, Clare Smyth; their son, Malcolm Baldrige Hollensteiner; and seven grandchildren.

Family, Ms. Baldrige believed, was where the patterns for manners, humanity and true civilization were set, and the American family was failing to do its job.

“We are not passing values on to our children,” she told The Toronto Star in 1999. “We are not sitting down at the dinner table talking about the tiny things that add up to caring human beings. Jackie learned from her mom, who had beautiful manners.”
827 2012-10-31 The Snapple Beverage Corporation became one of the first companies to offer a wide line of juices and carbonated drinks made with natural ingredients. Sales were buoyed by the rising tide of health-conscious consumers in the 1980s; in 1987, after Snapple introduced the first in its line of bottled iced teas, it became an undisputed leader in the New Age beverage market.

The company also became known for its offbeat advertising. An early 1990s campaign by Kirshenbaum & Bond was built around a series of television spots featuring the Snapple Lady. A motherly character played by an actual Snapple employee, Wendy Kaufman, the Snapple Lady answered customers’ letters.

By 1994, when Snapple was bought for $1.7 billion by the Quaker Oats Company, it was recording annual sales of about $700 million.

Mr. Greenberg, Snapple’s executive vice president and chief operating officer, retired after the Quaker Oats sale. Snapple is now owned by the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, based in Plano, Tex.; its product line comprises more than 50 flavors of juice, fruit punches and teas.

Arnold Shepard Greenberg was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 2, 1932, and grew up in the Brownsville neighborhood there. His father owned an appetizing store in the East Village, on First Avenue near St. Marks Place, selling staples like lox, herring and pickles; by the 1950s, Arnold Greenberg was running it.

“It was a very traditional operation,” Mr. Greenberg told the newspaper The Jewish Week in 1994. “We made our own sour pickles and wrapped them in newspapers.”

By the 1960s, with the East Village becoming decreasingly Jewish and increasingly hippie, Mr. Greenberg converted the business into a health food store. In the early ’70s he went into business with Mr. Marsh, a childhood friend with whom he had attended Samuel J. Tilden High School, and Mr. Golden, who was married to Mr. Marsh’s sister.

When the three men coined the name Snapple, they discovered it was already owned by a small company in Texas, which appeared to have little interest in using it. They bought the name for $500.

Mr. Greenberg’s first wife, the former Marilyn Parmet, died in 1993; a son, Michael, also died before him. He is survived by his second wife, the former Roberta Budoff; two daughters from his first marriage, Susan Minster and Robin Nijankin; a brother, Herbert; three stepchildren, Scott Budoff, Gary Budoff and Kim Fields; and 14 grandchildren.

As Snapple’s founders often said, one of their greatest pleasures lay in developing and naming new flavors. Not every name passed muster, however. In the 1990s, they produced a guava drink, eventually marketed as Guava Mania.

As Mr. Greenberg told “CBS This Morning” in 1994, the three partners also gave serious consideration to Guava Vavoom and Guava Nagila.
828 2012-10-31 The crisis in the auto industry has emerged as another threat to European stability because of the number of jobs at risk. The car industry employs about two million people in Europe, plus millions more who depend indirectly on automakers.

Last week, Ford announced plans to close three factories in Europe and eliminate 5,700 jobs. Analysts have predicted that other European carmakers would be compelled to follow suit. But Mr. Marchionne said that it made more sense to keep Fiat plants open.

Closing factories “would have relegated us to being a minor player in Europe because of the social delocations,” he said. “I’ve run the numbers both ways. This is the best economic choice we can make.”

Fiat reported Tuesday that its net profit globally more than doubled to €286 million, or $370 million, in the three months through September. Revenue rose 16 percent to €20.4 billion as the company sold more than a million vehicles.

But the company, based in Turin, said it would have lost €281 million in the quarter without profit from its Chrysler unit, which on Monday reported an 80 percent increase in earnings.

Mr. Marchionne’s decision to keep open the Italian plants was a surprise. As recently as September, at the Paris Motor Show, he had been lamenting Europe’s failure to do something about factories that have been operating at a fraction of their potential. The underused factories are ruinous for carmakers because companies must continue to pay fixed costs like worker salaries and maintenance.

The decision is good news for Italy, which is in recession and struggling to maintain its credibility with international bond investors. When car plants close, the damage quickly spreads to suppliers and the regional economy, costing tens of thousands of jobs and undercutting tax revenue.

Even as he expressed optimism that Fiat brands can win a share of high-end markets now dominated by BMW, Mercedes and Audi, Mr. Marchionne painted a grim picture of the European auto market.

Sales in Italy, the company’s core market, will be the lowest since 1979, Fiat said. Although Fiat closed a factory in Sicily last year, the company’s Italian plants are producing less than half as many cars as they could if they were running three shifts a day. Fiat will not break even in Europe until 2015 or 2016, Mr. Marchionne said.

In characteristically colorful terms, he acknowledged that it would be difficult for Fiat to break out of its dependence on less expensive, small cars. “It is shark-infested waters and you’re bound to lose some parts of your anatomy,” Mr. Marchionne said.

At the same time, Mr. Marchionne said, Fiat and Chrysler plants outside Europe were operating at full capacity, opening a chance for Italian factories to produce for export. He outlined plans to introduce seven new Alfa Romeo and six new Maserati models by 2016 that would be made in Italy for sale outside Europe, including the United States. In addition, he said, a new Jeep model would be produced in Italy for export beginning in 2014.

Fiat’s control of Chrysler allowed the company to return to the American market and means “we are no longer a marginal player,” Mr. Marchionne said.

“We now face the future together as a four million-plus vehicle producer,” he said. “The opportunities that are available to both of us now are opportunities that neither of us would be able to extract on our own.”
829 2012-10-31 The Federal Emergency Management Agency has a troubled history of overseeing its aid program, which has been subject to chronic fraud and abuse....
830 2012-10-31 In a news conference Tuesday afternoon, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said that he hoped the game would be played and that he planned to attend. But he noted, pointedly, “It’s going to be tough to get there.”

The lack of mass transit could present a nightmare for commuting fans, as well as those living in the surrounding neighborhood. Barclays Center sits on Brooklyn’s busiest intersection, at Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues. Parking in the area is extremely limited.

There were hints earlier Tuesday that the game would be played as scheduled. Both teams, as well as the officiating crew, were advised to plan as if it would be played. TNT, which is broadcasting the game, sent a crew to New York ahead of the hurricane.

“As far as I’ve been told, it’s still on,” Knicks Coach Mike Woodson said. “We’re preparing to play Thursday.”

A Barclays Center spokesman said the arena came through the storm without any serious damage. The only remaining concern, then, is getting fans to the building. The Nets have two more home games coming up, Saturday (against Toronto) and Monday (against Minnesota).

The N.B.A. has postponed 11 regular-season games since 2000, mostly because of severe weather and weather-related travel problems. But league officials have set a high bar for what warrants a postponement. As a general rule, they will allow a game to proceed as long as both teams and the referees can safely reach the arena, even if the game is played before only a few thousand fans.

The N.B.A. consulted with the Nets and the mayor’s office before making the final call, and Bloomberg’s public statement in favor of the game helped influence the decision. The announcement came late in the day because league officials were awaiting final confirmation from city officials.

Rescheduling the Knicks-Nets game would have been challenging, given national television and arena commitments. On the plus side, the league would not have had to factor in travel schedules.

Any delay would have been a blow to the Nets — who are set to host the first major sporting event in Brooklyn since the Dodgers left in 1957 — and to their fans. Team officials have been awaiting this moment ever since ground was broken on the new arena. The franchise has undergone a complete makeover, on and off the court, since leaving New Jersey earlier this year, and is now projected as a top playoff team in the Eastern Conference.

The season opener against the Knicks also heralds the start of a new rivalry. Although the Nets and Knicks have been nominal rivals over the years, there was never as much fascination as there is now, with the Nets playing in the same city.

“That will be a very monumental game for Brooklyn,” said the Knicks’ Carmelo Anthony, who was born in Red Hook. He added, “For us to take place in that first game in history, it’ll be a fun moment for myself, being from Brooklyn, growing up there, knowing that the energy that Brooklyn has right now as a borough. I’m looking forward to that game Thursday.”

Barclays Center did cancel two events in the wake of the hurricane: a Journey concert on Tuesday and a Smashing Pumpkins show scheduled for Wednesday night, presumably because of logistical concerns.

The Nets are already coping with the storm’s aftermath. Their training center in East Rutherford, N.J., lost electricity and was cut off to traffic by flooding and debris, prompting the team to cancel practice Tuesday. The Nets will practice at Barclays Center on Wednesday, and possibly for several more days, depending on how long it takes to restore power at the training center.

Most of the Nets’ players live in New Jersey, which experienced massive flooding and power failures. Two Nets — Josh Childress and Mirza Teletovic — had their homes flooded in Weehawken, forcing them to make alternate living arrangements. Two others — Reggie Evans and C. J. Watson — were without electricity. Tyshawn Taylor’s apartment in Hoboken was surrounded by water.

Most of the team planned to spend Tuesday night in Brooklyn hotels, to simplify their commute to practice on Wednesday.

The Knicks’ training center in Westchester County was unaffected by the storm, and the team practiced there late Tuesday afternoon. Most of their players live close to the facility. Marcus Camby was the only one who could not make it, because of fallen trees in his neighborhood.

“Thank God everything is all right with everybody on the team and their families,” the Knicks’ Tyson Chandler said. “It’s been a little crazy. My heart goes out to everybody and their families, everybody in New York who’s dealing with this.”
831 2012-10-31 LONDON (Reuters) — World shares rose modestly in subdued trading on Tuesday as investors and traders prepared for markets in the United States to reopen after a huge storm that wrought destruction across the Eastern United States.

The monster storm, Hurricane Sandy, was responsible for at least 30 deaths, left millions without power, and closed much of New York’s financial district for two days.

Major stock exchanges in the United States are scheduled to reopen for trading Wednesday and a financial industry trade group said the fixed income market would also be open for trading on Wednesday, the final day of the month, which is important for pricing investment portfolios.

Early activity could be volatile after the closing of the world’s largest financial market.

“You have earnings, a heavy economic data calendar, the election cycle — it’s a catalyst-rich market sitting idle for a few days, and there could be an unusual reaction,” said Art Hogan, managing director of Lazard Capital Markets in New York.

The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was up 0.75 percent at 1,101.75 points and, after gains earlier in Asia, the MSCI world equity index had risen 0.3 percent to 328.86 points.
832 2012-10-31 WASHINGTON (AP) — Home prices rose in August in nearly all American cities, and many of the markets hit hardest during the crisis are starting to show sustained gains. The increases were the latest evidence of a steady housing recovery.

The Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index that was released on Tuesday showed that national home prices increased 2 percent in August compared with a year earlier. This was the third straight increase and a faster pace than in July.

The report also said that prices rose in August from July in 19 of the 20 cities tracked by the index. Prices had risen in all 20 cities in the previous three months.

Cities that had experienced some of the worst price declines during the housing crisis are starting to come back. Prices in Las Vegas rose 0.9 percent, the first year-over-year gain since January 2007. Prices in Phoenix are 18.8 percent higher in August than a year earlier. Home values in Tampa and Miami have also posted solid increases over the period.

Seattle was the only city to report a monthly decline. Still, prices there fell just 0.1 percent in August from July and are 3.4 percent higher than a year earlier.
833 2012-10-31 For instance, BP said that during the three-month period it had reached deals to sell $11 billion in assets, bringing its total asset sales to $35 billion since the start of 2010. That is close to BP’s goal of $38 billion by the end of 2013. The most recent was a $2.5 billion deal to sell the Texas City, Tex., refinery, where an explosion killed 15 people in 2005, to Marathon Petroleum for $2.5 billion.

Not included in those calculations is Mr. Dudley’s boldest move: the recent agreement to sell BP’s 50 percent share of its Russian affiliate TNK-BP. In that complex transaction, BP is to receive $12.3 billion in cash and a 19.75 percent stake in Rosneft, the Russian national oil company. The transaction has been valued at about $27 billion.

In a call with reporters on Tuesday, Mr. Dudley said that BP planned to substantially increase exploration drilling, moving to 15 to 25 wells a year, from nine currently. This year BP is drilling in Brazil, Angola and Namibia. Mr. Dudley said that the changes “created a strong foundation for our future.”

Despite the moves and the rise in the stock price, there are still plenty of signs that BP is a wounded company. The improvements for the quarter were largely the results of refining and marketing operations, some of which BP is selling. Like other companies, BP probably is benefiting from discounted prices of crude oil going into its refineries. Production in the United States — where BP has high-margin oil — was down slightly.

Moreover, BP has not reached a settlement with the United States government on damages from the Gulf of Mexico spill. The company has seven drilling rigs — the most it has ever had — operating in the highly profitable gulf to restore production and bring new output online.

“We are still waiting for evidence of a turnaround in the gulf,” said Peter Hutton, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in London.

BP also responded to pressure from investors to increase its dividend. “The markets were reassured by the rise in the dividend,” Mr. Hutton said. “This was indicative of greater confidence in an improvement in cash flows.”

BP’s position in Russia is perhaps where it may have the biggest lead on rivals, despite the problems with TNK-BP.

The investment in TNK-BP was enormously profitable for BP, but an exit was perhaps unavoidable. The TNK-BP partnership was plagued by infighting with BP’s Russian partners. The sale to Rosneft was probably the only one BP could have made.

And because BP will be able to claim Rosneft’s production and reserves, it will not lose much in output from selling off TNK-BP and may actually gain in reserves. Where it will lose is in cash flow. TNK-BP has provided an annual average of $2.2 billion a year in cash dividends to BP, according to Bernstein Research. Rosneft is likely to provide only about $500 million, Bernstein says. BP is, however, gaining $12.3 billion in cash on the sale.