1 2010-06-01 Questions loom as a federal panel examining the financial crisis prepares to look at the credit rating industry....
2 2010-06-01 Giuseppe Rossi, who left his home in Clifton, N.J., at age 12 to pursue a professional career in Italy, was left off the final Italian World Cup roster....
3 2010-06-01 Bailouts in retrospect: Shareholders suffered and the economy gained....
4 2010-06-01 The campaign is indicative of how institutions of higher learning are trying to sell themselves in the marketplace with the kinds of tactics more commonly used to sell soap, soup or sedans.

In fact, academia accounts for about 30 percent of the clients at 160 Over 90, which is based in Philadelphia; others, current and former, include Loyola University Maryland, the University of Dayton and Wilkes University in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

The agency’s client in this instance, Heather Swain at Michigan State, recalls that when she joined the university in East Lansing, Mich., in 2006, Lou Anna K. Simon, the president, told her, “I want to build a brand.”

Research conducted by SimpsonScarborough — a company that works on marketing with public and private colleges and universities — found that “we had a brand,” says Ms. Swain, who is assistant vice president for university relations. “We just had to put some definition around it to convey it in a more consistent way.”

Different parts of the university were communicating different things, she adds, and all the pitching was taking place “loudly, all at once,” leaving some potential students, business partners and research partners confused about the Michigan State brand.

The research results were shared with executives at 160 Over 90 after the agency was hired in the spring of last year, Ms. Swain says, and “they did their own due diligence, interviewing about 200 people on campus” before starting to work on the campaign.

The term the agency developed to describe what is at “the core of the brand” is “hard-working excellence,” she adds, and the main message is that “Michigan State is addressing some of the world’s most challenging problems.”

Ms. Swain acknowledges the risk of centering the ads on the image of the teams that play as the Spartans.

“Many schools are reluctant to associate academic enterprise with athletic enterprise,” Ms. Swain says, but “I’m a very big fan of assessing what assets you have and leveraging them.”

“People all over the world say, ‘I’m a Spartan,’ so we have something we can take advantage of,” she adds.

Besides, “my marketing budget will never come close to the exposure athletics gives to this institution, and it’s almost all positive exposure,” Ms. Swain says.

“It’s like pole vaulting,” she adds, “using that as a springboard or departure point to talk about the messages that you want to stick with people over time.”

And, of course, bringing up the Spartans aids the campaign in resonating with “the large audience of our own alumni,” Ms. Swain says.

“The more that alumni feel proud, feel that they’re leaning into the institution, the more likely they are to be supportive,” she adds, and that can help to “plow the ground” for the next big alumni fund-raising drive, which is likely to start in 2012.

The commercial that appears on television, which can also be watched on YouTube, seeks to embody the concept of “hard-working excellence,” in Ms. Swain’s words, by showing everyday campus scenes as an announcer discusses in a low-key manner the amazing things that take place at Michigan State.

“The day we created a cancer drug that saved millions of lives began like any other day,” the announcer says, and the day “a new way” was discovered to purify water supplies “it might have been a Tuesday, or possibly a Thursday.”

“And whether it’s alternative energy or better food safety,” the announcer declares, “the next time we help create a solution one of the world’s great problems, we’ll be proud, then we’ll get back to work.”

The other ads take a similar tack, albeit in a somewhat less matter-of-fact manner.

One ad, depicting James Cameron and his wife, Suzy Amis Cameron, at the Academy Awards carries this headline: “When a Spartan designs a red carpet gown it doesn’t just turn heads, it changes minds.”

“Thanks to a Spartan’s ingenuity,” the text reads, Ms. Amis Cameron “made the red carpet on Hollywood’s biggest night a little greener” because a Michigan State design major, Jillian Granz, won Ms. Amis Cameron’s “Red Carpet Green Dress contest, and more than 30 million people saw what’s possible in sustainable fashion.”

Another ad, showing a mother and her infant, carries this headline: “What drew G.E. Healthcare to help Spartans save lives in Malawi? Something positively magnetic.”

“Malaria kills as many as three million children a year in sub-Saharan Africa,” the text begins. “That’s why Michigan State University and G.E. Healthcare brought the first-ever Magnetic Resonance Imaging (M.R.I.) unit to Malawi, helping bring life-saving treatment to patients and the possibility of finding a cure in the future.”

And a third ad, depicting parka-clad people standing before a giant ship, carries this headline: “Spartans have been known to go the extra mile. Sometimes they go the extra 7,953 miles.”

“From Antarctic expeditions to research across every continent, Michigan State University is everywhere,” the text reads. “We’re at the forefront of knowledge.”

“We’re helping to fight climate change, poverty and disease,” the text continues. “We go above and beyond. Because that’s what it means to be Spartans.”

All the ads, and the commercial, end with “Spartans will” and the Web address of the Spartan Sagas microsite, where the videos contributed by Spartans, and some produced by Michigan State, are to be available for viewing beginning in July.

“The higher education marketplace is beginning to realize the value of what a brand means,” says Darryl Cilli, chief creative officer at 160 Over 90, which also works for advertisers like American Eagle Outfitters, SoBe and Sony.

Branding a university or college is “fascinating,” he adds, likening it to “trying to create a brand for a city.”

“The story has to be honest, the story has to be simple, the story has to be direct, the story has to be engaging,” Mr. Cilli says.

And while an institution of higher learning may borrow the sales tactics of consumer products, “we’re not selling sugar water,” he adds, but rather “something that’s a transformative experience in someone’s life and the second largest purchase after a home.”

In this instance, Michigan State is “the eighth-largest higher-education campus in the country,” he adds, but “it was suffering from limited public knowledge of its achievements and their impact” outside of the realm of sports.

And what communication the university was doing suffered from “a lack of cohesiveness,” Mr. Cilli says, as a result of campaigns with different messages from departments like undergraduate admissions and research.

The campaign talks about “a community going out every day and doing amazing things,” he adds, “not just playing football and basketball.”

And it eschews a braggart’s voice to reflect the “humble Midwest sensibility” and “quiet confidence” among so many of the people at Michigan State, Mr. Cilli says.

The commercial has been running in local markets like Chicago and Orange County, Calif., on affiliates of networks like ABC, CBS and NBC. The spot has also been appearing on local cable systems in those markets, during shows on channels like Bravo, the Big Ten Network, ESPN and ESPN2.

Print versions of the ads have been running in magazines that include Newsweek, Sports Illustrated, Time and The Week. The signs have been posted in airports like Midway and O’Hare in the Chicago area; John Wayne International in Santa Ana, Calif.; and Bob Hope in Burbank, Calif.

The campaign has been present online as ad banners and video ads. It has appeared on Alloy educational Web sites like CareersandCollege.com, FindTuition.com and InsideCollege.com; Takkle.com; Web sites that are part of the 24/7 network like Answers.com, FantasyPlayers.com and JumpTV; and Web sites that are part of the YuMe network like CBS College Sports, CosmoGirl, FunnyorDie.com and Seventeen.com.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.
5 2010-06-01 Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic powered his way into the French Open semifinals with a convincing victory over Mikhail Youzhny of Russia, 6-3, 6-1, 6-2....
6 2010-06-01 BP shares nosedive in London after the "top kill" fails to halt the gulf oil leak....
7 2010-06-01 For 36 of the last 44 years, the mayoralty of New York City has been held by men whom the political consultant David Garth helped elect.
8 2010-06-01 How some businesses are battling consumers' online complaints in court, why it still may not be easier to insure your young adult and other consumer-focused items from Tuesday's Times....
9 2010-06-01 Summer demand for flights is expected to be higher, and frequent-flier programs are getting harder to cash in on....
10 2010-06-01 Can humans overcome traits that lead to well blowouts and other foreseen disasters?...
11 2010-06-01 While plenty of products that claim to protect people from cellphone and Wi-Fi radiation are bogus, some companies are trying to bring some science to this murky area....
12 2010-06-01 Creating a floor price for carbon emissions could help motivate utilities to build nuclear reactors without subsidies, but other industries would object....
13 2010-06-01 The vote by the American International Group's board will likely scrap a deal with Prudential that was meant to have provided the first major repayment of the American insurer's taxpayer-financed bailout....
14 2010-06-01 Is now the time to buy bank stocks? Some sharp hedge fund managers think so, Breakingviews writes....
15 2010-06-01 Credit Suisse has seen an unexpected rise in its mergers-and-acquisitions fortunes, emerging from the financial crisis's shake-up of the industry near the top of the leagues, The Wall Street Journal reported....
16 2010-06-01 Borrowing costs could rise as European banks compete with governments in the bond market....
17 2010-06-01 A Paris museum that last month was the site of a burglary of five paintings will reopen on June 10, Agence France-Presse reported. A lone thief broke into that city’s Museum of Modern Art, near the Eiffel Tower, before it opened for the day on May 20, shearing off a gate padlock and breaking a window. The stolen pieces included Picasso’s 1912 Cubist painting “Dove With Green Peas” and Matisse’s 1905 “Pastoral,” as well as works by Georges Braque, Amedeo Modigliani and Fernand Léger, and are believed to be valued at about $120 million. The thief was able to take advantage of a flaw in the museum’s alarm system, which had been malfunctioning for several weeks, leading to speculation that the thief may have had inside assistance. The museum said it would reopen with an exhibition spotlighting young French artists.
18 2010-06-01 Stocks in Europe were mixed on Monday, while equities advanced in Canada and Brazil in what was, over all, a quiet trading session....
19 2010-06-01 The Fitch ratings firm announced Friday that it had downgraded Spain's credit rating by one notch, sending indexes on a swift decline of more than 1 percent....
20 2010-06-01 Michael Lewis imagines how the banking industry plans to defeat -- or at least water down -- the proposed overhaul of financial regulations in a satirical imagined memo from a lobbyist to Wall Street in Sunday's New York Times....
21 2010-06-01 The Swiss government failed to act swiftly to prevent a credit and tax crisis that had endangered banking giant UBS AG in 2008-2009 and could have sunk the Swiss economy, a parliamentary report said on Monday....
22 2010-06-01 Usain Bolt has withdrawn from the Adidas Grand Prix on June 12 on Randalls Island because of an Achilles’ tendon injury. Organizers of the I.A.A.F. Diamond League said they were notified Monday by Bolt’s management team that Bolt, the Olympic gold medalist and world-record holder in the 100 meters, has inflammation of his tendon. In a statement from the event organizers, Bolt said that he developed stiffness last week and that a doctor advised him to take a two- to three-week break.
23 2010-06-01 Microsoft is creating an online database in Canada with the Telus Corporation, a large wireless carrier. The Internet-based service will be available to Canadian consumers and their health-care providers. It will be based on Microsoft’s HealthVault software. Telus did not disclose financial terms of the deal.
24 2010-06-01 As expensive as it may be for a Broadway musical to buy a national commercial during a Fox broadcast of an episode of “Glee,” wouldn’t the chance to reach so many likely potential ticket-buyers make it a worthwhile gamble?

Now that GFA Brands has introduced a product called Bob Greene’s Bestlife Buttery Spread — named after “Bob Greene, Oprah’s personal trainer,” as he is described in the ads — how long will it be before there is first-aid equipment named after Mehmet Oz, “Oprah’s doctor”; furniture named after Nate Berkus, “Oprah’s interior decorator”; or a new variety of Friendship sour cream named after Gayle King, “Oprah’s best friend”?

Are the folks at Unilever worried that Lever 2000 soap seems outdated in 2010, or are they appealing to nostalgic feelings among the consumer demographic known as millennials?

Did anyone who saw the magazine ads for chino pants from the Banana Republic division of Gap, which carried the headline “Live in Chino,” call the chamber of commerce in Chino, Calif., to inquire about housing or jobs there?

Did a coupon ad for Grande tortilla chips omit the name of the parent company because there were worries that shoppers would find the product inauthentic if they learned it came from Snyder’s of Hanover, Pa., the maker of “America’s pretzel”?

Did the e-commerce company Rue La La, which offers private sales of luxury fashion, hire Robert Hall as its new chief marketing officer because to consumers of a certain age he invokes the discount retailer of the same name?

Now that shareholders of the Omnicom Group have rejected a proposal to rein in death benefits for the heirs of senior executives, will the next remake of “Double Indemnity”take place on Madison Avenue?

Do ads for the Michelle Obama inaugural doll sold by the Danbury Mint declare that Ms. Obama has “joined Jackie Kennedy and Princess Diana in the ranks of the world’s most elegant and well-respected women” because the company also sells trinkets bearing their names, too?

Now that the TLC cable channel owned by Discovery Communications has signed Sarah Palin to appear in a documentary series, “Sarah Palin’s Alaska,” will she follow her example as governor and leave the show less than halfway through the first season?

Wouldn’t it have been interesting to have watched the reaction if Redbook magazine had switched two of the photographs used for the cover article about Heidi Klum in the June issue, replacing the photo on the cover, of Ms. Klum by herself, with the photo that appeared on Page 126 of Ms. Klum and her husband, Seal, kissing?

Will all the hipsters who drink Pabst Blue Ribbon beer to tweak the commercialism of the consumer culture remain fans of the brand if, as it appears, an investor with a penchant for deal-making, C. Dean Metropoulos, buys the Pabst Brewing Company?

When the shoemaker Sanuk promotes a new line of sandals as made from “real yoga mats,” ought not the ads let shoppers know whether the mats are new or used?

Now that the E! Entertainment cable channel and Cold Stone Creamery have teamed up for a promotion to celebrate the 20th anniversary of E! with a new ice cream flavor named E! Entertain-mint, how long will it be before consumers can drink Spike’s Hard Lemonade, a joint venture of the Spike cable channel and Mike’s Hard Lemonade, or eat a candy named AM&EM’s, a joint venture of the A&E cable channel and M&M’s?

Was a retro-looking ad in a recent issue of OK! magazine from the U. S. Career Institute — which carried the headline “Enjoy the prestige of working in advertising! Become an advertising account executive” and promised applicants they could “train at home in as little as four months!” — secretly a promotion for the coming season of “Mad Men”?

Will the executives of an oil company whose extensive, and expensive, efforts to create a greener image are drowning in a sea of black crude tell a reporter, “You ask a lot of questions for someone from Brooklyn”?
25 2010-06-01 “The financial markets remain fragile and especially the developments in recent weeks have shown the necessity of heightened alertness,” Axel A. Weber, president of the Bundesbank and a member of the European Central Bank’s governing council, said Monday during a speech in Mainz, Germany.

Lucas D. Papademos, the departing vice president of the central bank, struck a more upbeat tone at a news conference Monday to present the semiannual report, called the Financial Stability Review. While efforts by European governments to reduce debt will cut economic demand, he said, growth could improve as economies became more productive.

“It is possible that the short-term impact will not be as severe as seems to be expected at the moment,” said Mr. Papademos, whose term ended Monday.

European banks will need to set aside an estimated 123 billion euros in 2010 for bad loans, and an additional 105 billion euros in 2011, the report said. That would be in addition to the 238 billion euros they set aside from 2007 to 2009.

That projected sum for 2010, however, was lower than previous estimates. Banks also benefited from a rebound in securities markets, the report said.

While profitability of larger banks has improved, their shares are likely to fall in the near future, the central bank said, citing an analysis of options — securities that investors use to bet on the direction of stock prices.

The report also noted that some banks remained dependent on the central bank for loans.

Since the advent of the financial crisis, the central bank has granted almost unlimited credit to banks at 1 percent interest to offset a reluctance by banks to lend to one another.

“The continued reliance of some smaller or medium-sized euro area banks on central bank refinancing continues to be a cause for concern,” the report said.

Mr. Papademos said the number of banks involved was small, but he declined to give details. He also expressed concern about what he called “adverse feedback” between the government debt crisis and the banking system. The report said that higher risk premiums for government debt fed through into the private sector and raised the cost of credit for companies.

The problems would be exaggerated if growth or unemployment were worse than expected, increasing the chances that companies and individuals would be unable to repay their loans.

The report also said that some financial markets were still not functioning normally. Issuance of corporate bonds has declined since the end of last year, especially for banks and other financial institutions. In addition, the market for securitizations, in which banks package loans and resell them to investors, is “dysfunctional,” the report said.

Bond issues and securitizations are crucial ways that banks raise money to lend to companies and individuals.

The report, as well as separate statements by central bank officials on Monday, also shed light on the bank’s decision on May 10 to buy government and corporate bonds on open markets.

In the days leading to the decision, trading in some government debt had come nearly to a standstill, the report said. The lack of a market for government bonds endangered the functioning of the whole financial system, in part because banks typically use government debt as collateral in making loans to one another.

“The tensions in the sovereign bond markets spilled over to other market segments, such as the foreign exchange market and equity markets,” the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said on Monday during a speech in Vienna. “Trading volumes and liquidity became erratic, and volatility spiked.

“In view of these exceptional circumstances prevailing in the financial markets, we decided that exceptional intervention was necessary,” he said.

Mr. Weber, in his speech Monday, repeated his criticism of the bond purchases and said that they would remain limited in scope. Some economists view the bond purchases as breaking a taboo and risking inflation, since they amount to the central bank financing governments that have borrowed irresponsibly.

Mr. Trichet repeated that the central bank was “permanently alert and always prepared to act when necessary” in response to crises.

But he made clear that the bank could do only so much to restore stability to the financial system.

Euro zone governments must create a system for disciplining countries that violate treaty limits on debt and deficits, he said.

“I call on euro area governments in particular to work actively together to reach agreement on a quantum leap of the effectiveness of their collegial surveillance,” Mr. Trichet said.
26 2010-06-01 Mr. Buffett has been selling some of his Moody’s stock of late, but given his long and lucrative association with the company, the panel might want to know what he thinks about the ratings business, past, present and future.

This hearing could be one of the last opportunities to educate the public and Congress about how we might overhaul a system that failed the nation before the current financial regulatory reform bill is signed into law.

To that end, here are a few questions the panel might ask:

¶Mr. McDaniel, given the obvious failures of Moody’s and its peers, why should the major ratings companies retain the competitive advantages bestowed upon them by the Securities and Exchange Commission? Moody’s and other major agencies are designated as nationally recognized statistical ratings organizations. What advantages does this designation convey? How would business and profits be affected if this designation were revoked?

¶What specific changes have you made in your policies, procedures and personnel as a result of the financial crisis and your role in it? How should the government regularly test rating agencies to see if they should maintain their special status?

¶Defend your so-called issuer-pay model — the notion that issuers, rather investors, pay you for ratings. Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, once characterized it as “like having one of the parties in court paying the judge’s salary.” Is Senator Levin wrong? Why is an issuer-pay model better than an investor-pay model, aside from profitability for Moody’s? Given that investors rarely are willing to pay for research, what would happen to your business and the bond industry if the issuer-pay model was outlawed?

¶The F.B.I. issued a warning in 2004 of “an epidemic of mortgage fraud coursing across this country.” Were you aware of it? If so, what steps did Moody’s take to ensure that the mortgage investments it was rating were not tainted by fraud? How does Moody’s detect possible fraud?

¶Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general and candidate for governor, is investigating whether banks hoodwinked the ratings firms. Did anyone at Moody’s worry that banks might be playing fast and loose? If so, did Moody’s stop doing business with those banks, or warn regulators? If you didn’t, why not?

¶William A. Ackman, a prominent hedge fund manager, recently suggested that the ratings industry adopt a “wait to rate” policy. He wants ratings agencies to wait 60 days before rating a new security, thus compelling early buyers to do their own homework. He also suggests the agencies adopt a pay-for-performance model that would reward accurate ratings. What is so bad about that?

¶Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, has included a provision in the latest overhaul bill that would establish a government unit that would act as an intermediary between Wall Street banks and ratings agencies. The unit would assign agencies to rate new issues. Senator Franken hopes that would root out conflicts of interest and prevent rating agencies from competing for clients by offering higher ratings than the securities deserve. What do you make of the provision?

¶Last month, Moody’s disclosed that it received a “Wells notice” from the Securities and Exchange Commission in March, indicating that the commission might file a civil suit against the firm, claiming Moody’s had filed misleading descriptions about how it assigned ratings. Why did you wait almost two months before disclosing the Wells notice?

¶On the day Moody’s received the Wells notice, you sold $4.3 million of Moody’s shares through a previously scheduled plan. Did you consider not selling the shares? And did you alert Mr. Buffett, your largest shareholder, of the notice? His firm, Berkshire Hathaway, sold $30 million of shares in the next week.
27 2010-06-01 Re “Hawaii’s Race to the Bottom” (editorial, May 23):

Last year, facing an unprecedented $470 million education cut, Hawaii’s school board urged lawmakers and the governor to tap special funds, warning that schools were at a breaking point long before the islands’ tourism-driven economy hit bottom with the recession.

When education was not prioritized, the school board eliminated programs and hundreds of positions, and closed schools. That wasn’t enough to plug the financial hole, though it avoided teacher layoffs or increased class size, while reducing to 17 the 30 school furlough days that Gov. Linda Lingle originally recommended.

Failure to prioritize education has hurt students nationwide as districts are forced to fire teachers and carry out four-day weeks and furloughs.

Contrary to the editorial, Hawaii teachers did sacrifice, as furloughs amounted to a significant pay cut in a state with one of the nation’s highest living costs. In an agreement with the school board that avoids furloughs next year, teachers also gave up planning time to restore instructional days.
28 2010-06-01 It was Rodriguez’s 20th slam, lifting him past Eddie Murray (19) on the career list and leaving only Lou Gehrig (23) and Manny Ramirez (21) ahead of him.

The home run was the seventh of the season for Rodriguez, a relatively modest total for him. He drove in two other runs with two other hits to raise his R.B.I. total to 41, the most on the team.

“Look, I like home runs more than anyone,” said Rodriguez, who has hit 590 for his career but added that he was trying not to do too much with big swings and settle instead for driving in important runs.

Regarding the numbers he is accumulating at age 34, Rodriguez said, “It just means that I’m old and I’ve been playing for a long time.”

The victory — the third in four games over the Indians for the Yankees and their fifth in seven over all — had only one significant negative, a left hamstring injury to Derek Jeter. He left the game for a pinch-runner during the six-run rally in the seventh after getting his second hit.

In the second inning, Jeter was hit on the leg by a pitch from Mitch Talbot. (Talbot also hit Rodriguez in the fifth.)

Manager Joe Girardi said that Jeter’s leg “stiffened up” and that he needed ice on it. Jeter was not available for comment.

Among the other hitting stars were Brett Gardner, whose three hits included a run-scoring single that put the Yankees ahead in the fourth, and Robinson Cano, whose two hits included his 11th home run, most on the club. They were among 18 hits for the Yankees, their most of the season.

But the star of the game was Pettitte, who went seven innings and gave up one run and four hits with no walks and five strikeouts to move one victory ahead of his teammates Phil Hughes (6-1) and A. J. Burnett (6-2).

Indians Manager Manny Acta said Pettitte “basically toyed” with the inexperienced Cleveland hitters.

Pettitte will celebrate his 38th birthday on June 15 and says he is still considering retirement.

“It’s going to be time for me to go home and be Dad,” Pettitte said. “That’s just where I still am. I just can’t see myself playing a lot longer. I feel like I need to be with my family a little bit more.”

Pettitte and his wife, Laura, have four children. “I put a lot of stock in what my wife says,” Pettitte said.

Pettitte has not walked a batter in his last two starts. His earned run average of 2.48 is his lowest through the first 10 starts in any season of his career.

Reflecting on what was a 2-1 lead until the rally in the seventh, Pettitte said, “It looks like a blowout, but it wasn’t a blowout.”

Catcher Jorge Posada took batting practice, jogged around the bases and ran outfield sprints before the game. Posada, who went on the 15-day disabled list May 20 with a hairline fracture in his right foot, said he was ready to play and hoped he would not have to visit the minor leagues on a rehabilitation assignment. Posada said he was ready to go. “We’ll see how it feels tomorrow,” he said. “I’m telling them I’m available and see what they do.” Posada said he had expected to be sidelined for three weeks and was pleased that the injury would probably cost him only two. ... Catching Monday’s game (with Andy Pettitte pitching) was Francisco Cervelli, who batted eighth. The other catcher on the roster is Chad Moeller. ... The Yankees open a three-game home series with Baltimore on Tuesday and will play three at Toronto beginning on Friday night.
29 2010-06-01 Arsenic is so common in groundwater in Bangladesh, Nepal, western India, Myanmar, Cambodia and Vietnam — all heavily populated countries in the flood plains draining the Himalayas — that their drinking water has been called “the largest poisoning of a population in history.”

But a recent study in Science magazine suggests simple well-drilling techniques that could lower the risk. The arsenic comes from eroding Himalayan coal seams and rocks containing sulfides; it is released into the groundwater only under certain chemical conditions deep underground. Some of those are affected by human activities, including pumping out huge volumes of water for irrigation. Different-colored sands may indicate how likely an aquifer is to be dangerous: rusty orange sands full of iron oxides often have less dissolved arsenic in the water around them than gray-colored sands do. Any village may have many orange and gray layers at different depths underneath it, and villagers may unknowingly live near both safe and dangerous wells. But testing is usually inadequate.

Therefore, the authors — geologists from Stanford, Columbia and the University of Delaware — suggest that wells for drinking water should be drilled in deep orange sands and connected to low-pressure hand pumps, while wells connected to high-pressure pumps for crop irrigation should be kept out of those deep aquifers so they do not empty them of safe water, which would cause arsenic-laden water to migrate downward into them.
30 2010-06-01 In fact, too often pets are overindulged, with too much food and too many snacks in proportion to the exercise they get. Veterinary groups have estimated that 20 to 60 percent of American dogs and cats are overweight or obese and at risk of developing heart disease, high blood pressure and Type 2 diabetes.

And I wonder whether people who invest in high-end pet foods are getting their money’s worth. Are their pets really healthier and happier? Do they live longer? And are these foods any better than the generic versions sold in supermarkets and big-box stores?

Recognizing the high value most owners place on their companion animals, and distressed by recent recalls of contaminated pet foods, two scientists decided to examine the pet food industry and the evidence for the value of its products and the claims made for them. Marion Nestle, the Paulette Goddard professor of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University, and Malden C. Nesheim, emeritus professor of nutrition at Cornell University, have packaged their findings in “Feed Your Pet Right: The Authoritative Guide to Feeding Your Dog and Cat,” published in May by Free Press.

In an interview, Dr. Nestle (pronounced NES-sel) said: “People are willing to spend anything on their pets. The $18-billion-a-year pet food industry is considered to be recession-proof. Although during this economic downturn shelters have been overwhelmed with pets people could not afford to keep, those who have kept their pets are not stinting on what they spend to feed them.”

She noted, however, that the so-called premium pet foods cost three to four times more than supermarket brands. Within the premium brands, there is also a wide price range, yet when the ingredients lists are compared, they are strikingly similar since all have to meet certain nutritional standards. The first five ingredients of nearly every kind of dog and cat food are generally the same, representing protein, fats and carbohydrates, Dr. Nestle said, adding that “anything listed below the salt would be present in only very small amounts.” She and Dr. Nesheim compared 10 premium chicken dinners for dogs and found that all contained basically the same ingredients: All start with chicken or chicken broth, followed by grains and vegetables. The nonpremium brands use more grains and poultry, meat and fish byproducts.

Most important, Drs. Nestle and Nesheim say, is to look for products labeled “complete and balanced,” indicating that they meet the nutritional requirements of cats and dogs listed by the Association of American Feed Control Officials. This organization, in conjunction with the Food and Drug Administration, state officials and the animal feed industry, develops model regulations for pet foods, which are voluntary unless encoded in state laws.

“All pet foods are made from the byproducts of human food production,” Dr. Nestle explained. “No matter what the package says, your dog is not getting whole chicken breasts, but what remains after the breasts have been removed for human food.”

And, indeed, it is primarily human food companies — Nestlé, Purina, Mars and Procter & Gamble — that make the pet foods sold throughout the world. Of course, in much of the world, domestic dogs and cats survive on table and street scraps, not commercially produced pet foods. In seeking evidence for the added value to health and longevity of commercial pet foods, the authors found almost none with any validity.

No agency requires proof of pet food health claims, and no pet food company is willing to invest in decades of research to determine whether its products keep animals healthier and extend their lives, the authors state. Pet food companies say they do research, but it is rarely done in a scientific fashion, with comparable control and experimental groups. There is, however, ample evidence that, despite claims to the contrary, both dogs and cats “are perfectly able to digest grains if they are cooked,” Dr. Nestle said.

None of this should imply that different pet food products make no difference to individual animals. When my friends’ havanese began licking its paws incessantly, the vet suggested they try a corn-free pet food, which stopped the itching. However, they need not spend $31 for a 12.5-pound bag of premium food free of corn; Costco’s Kirkland Super Premium Dog Food, also free of corn, costs about $15 for a 40-pound bag.

Still, Dr. Nestle suggested, “if one or another brand seems to completely change the way a dog behaves or cures an allergy, when you find something that works for you, stay with it.”

While many pay good money for marketing gimmicks, Dr. Nestle also does not object to people paying for attributes they value. If characteristics like natural, organic, holistic, vegetarian or kosher are important to pet owners, it may be worth it to them to pay top dollar for pet foods that claim to provide the desired attribute, even if there is no official or enforced definition of the claim.

Although some owners insist on cooking for their pets, the authors said animals are more likely to get all the nutrients they need, and in the right amounts, from a commercial product.

“Besides, the pet food industry serves an important ecological function by using up food that would otherwise be thrown out,” Dr. Nestle said. “If everyone cooked human food for the 472 million cats and dogs in America, it would be like feeding an additional 42 million people.”
31 2010-06-01 JIDDA — Roughly two years ago, Rowdha Yousef began to notice a disturbing trend: Saudi women like herself were beginning to organize campaigns for greater personal freedoms. Suddenly, there were women asking for the right to drive, to choose whether to wear a veil, and to take a job without a male relative’s permission, all using the Internet to collect signatures and organize meetings and all becoming, she felt, more voluble by the month.

The final straw came last summer, when she read reports that a female activist in Saudi Arabia’s eastern province, Wajeha al-Huwaider, had been to the border with Bahrain, demanding to cross using only her passport, without a male chaperon or a male guardian’s written permission.

Ms. Huwaider was not allowed to leave the country unaccompanied and, like other Saudi women campaigning for new rights, has failed — so far — to change any existing laws or customs.

But Ms. Yousef is still outraged, and since August has taken on activists at their own game. With 15 other women, she started a campaign, “My Guardian Knows What’s Best for Me.” Within two months, they had collected more than 5,400 signatures on a petition “rejecting the ignorant requests of those inciting liberty” and demanding “punishments for those who call for equality between men and women, mingling between men and women in mixed environments, and other unacceptable behaviors.”

Ms. Yousef’s fight against the would-be liberalizers symbolizes a larger tussle in Saudi society over women’s rights that has suddenly made the female factor a major issue for reformers and conservatives striving to shape Saudi Arabia’s future.

Public separation of the sexes is a strongly distinctive feature of Saudi Arabia, making it perhaps a logical area for fierce debate. Since women have such a limited role in Saudi public life, however, it is somewhat surprising that it is their rights that have become a matter of open contention in a society that keeps most debate hidden.

Surprising, too, are the complexities turned up by the debate, which go far beyond what some Saudis see as the simplistic Western argument that women are simply entitled to more rights.

Take Ms. Yousef. She is a 39-year-old divorced mother of three (aged 13, 12 and 9) who volunteers as a mediator in domestic abuse cases. A tall, confident woman with a warm, effusive manner and sparkling stiletto-heeled sandals, her conversation, over Starbucks lattes, ranges from racism in the kingdom (Ms. Yousef has Somali heritage and calls herself a black Saudi) to her admiration for Hillary Rodham Clinton to the abuse she says she has suffered at the hands of Saudi liberals.

She believes firmly that most Saudis share her conservative values but insists that adherence to Shariah law and family custom need not restrict a woman seeking a say. Female campaigners in the reform camp, she says, are influenced by Westerners who do not understand the needs and beliefs of Saudi women.

“These human rights groups come, and they only listen to one side, those who are demanding liberty for women,” she said.

Every Saudi woman, regardless of age or status, must have a male relative who acts as her guardian and has responsibility for and authority over her in a host of legal and personal matters.

Ms. Yousef, whose guardian is her elder brother, said that she enjoyed a great deal of freedom while respecting the rules of her society. Guardian rules are such that she could start her campaign, for instance, without seeking her guardian’s permission.

She did not wish to speak in detail about her divorce but noted that, unusually, she had retained custody of her children through their 18th birthdays. She said she had founded her guardianship campaign unassisted, without any special connections, enlisting women in her circle of contacts as fellow founding members.

Activists like Ms. Huwaider, Ms. Yousef believes, are susceptible to foreign influences because of personal problems with men. “If she is suffering because of her guardian, she can go to a Shariah court that could remove the responsibility for her from that man and transfer it to someone who is more trustworthy.”
32 2010-06-01 Obesity increases the risk of Type 2 diabetes, heart disease and other illnesses, but a surprising new finding suggests it may not affect one’s health until after age 40.

The study compared medications taken by normal weight, overweight and obese Americans ages 25 to 70 who participated in National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys from 1988-1994 and 2003-6. The surveys included 8,880 men and 9,071 women.

While obese people of all ages took slightly more medications than those of normal weight, the differences were mainly among adults 40 and older, according to the study, published in the International Journal of Obesity.

For example, 28.7 percent of obese men and 25.2 percent of normal weight men ages 25 to 39 took medications. But among those 40 to 54, 60 percent of obese men were on medication, compared with 39.3 percent of men of average weight.

The differences in medications taken by normal weight adults and those considered merely overweight were small at all ages, the researchers found.

Brant Jarrett, a graduate student who was the study’s lead author, said one message from the paper was that body mass index, the formula used to assess weight status, is an imperfect measure. “It’s not the best measure in terms of risk factors or current health,” he said.
33 2010-06-01 India’s home minister, P. Chidamabaram, said in a news conference Monday that “the needle of suspicion points to the C.P.I. (Maoist) or a front organization of the C.P.I. (Maoist); however, the identity of the culprit can be established only in the investigation.”

A senior West Bengal police official, Raj Kanojia, said in an interview Monday, “Prima facie Maoist involvement is evident, but we are still investigating the case.”

A 17-inch section had been cut from the track on which the Gyaneshwari Express passenger train was running, and clips that held the track of the freight train together had been removed from a section of about 165 feet, Mr. Kanojia said.

Several passenger train cars jumped their track and landed on a nearby one, where they were struck by the cargo train, which was coming from the opposite direction.

Maoist rebels have been involved in earlier train kidnapping incidents in this area. The rebels, who are active in several states in east and central India that are rich in natural resources, claim to represent the poor and tribal people of the area.

A Maoist insurgency leader, Bapi Mahato, was quoted Monday in The Indian Express, a local daily newspaper, as saying: “We are sorry. We never wanted these innocent civilians to die. Trust me we targeted the goods train.”

But after the police said Mr. Mahato was the mastermind of the crash, he told the newspaper he was not involved.

The Indian Express also reported that over the weekend the police said they had intercepted some conversations of Maoist activists, which led them to conclude that a Maoist squad along with the People’s Committee Against Police Atrocities, which Mr. Mahato helps to lead, had sabotaged the rail track.

“Our biggest challenge is to break their support base,” said Vijay Raman, chief of central forces deployed to fight Maoist rebels. “We need to put them out of the ventilator. We need to choke their oxygen supply.”
34 2010-06-01 Stocks in Europe were mixed on Monday, while equities advanced in Canada and Brazil in what was, over all, a quiet trading session driven by diverse news developments.

“There was no bad news over the weekend,” said Eduardo Favrin, who oversees about $2.5 billion in stocks as head of equities for HSBC Global Asset Management’s Brazil unit in São Paulo. “The absence of the American market really dries out the liquidity in other markets.”

Stock exchanges in the United States were closed for Memorial Day, while those in Britain were off for a bank holiday.

Spanish government bonds fell after Fitch Ratings stripped the nation of its AAA rating. Shares in Spain and France fell, while the German DAX index rose as investors speculated that the global economy would withstand the debt crisis in the euro zone.

Canada’s economy grew at the fastest pace since 1999 in the first quarter, led by consumer spending and manufacturing.
35 2010-06-01 The seventh seed, Stosur controlled the match’s pace, generally kept Henin parked in neutral behind the baseline, and had more composure at the end of a taut fourth-round match.

Stosur advanced to the quarterfinals to play No. 1 Serena Williams, who swatted away No. 18 Shahar Peer, 6-2, 6-2, in 67 minutes. Immediately after that victory on Court Philippe Chatrier, Williams’s father, Richard, came to Lenglen to scout the next opponent. Like most, he probably thought it would be Henin.

No. 4 Jelena Jankovic and unseeded Yaroslava Shvedova won, too, and will meet in another quarterfinal.

Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic moved to within one victory of meeting in the semifinals. Nadal, seeded second, beat a rising Brazilian talent, No. 24 Thomaz Bellucci, 6-2, 7-5, 6-4. It was Nadal’s 200th career victory on clay.

Djokovic, seeded third, overcame a lethargic start to beat the American Robby Ginepri, 6-4, 2-6, 6-1, 6-2.

Ginepri’s career has been marked by unpredictable runs in Grand Slams (to the semifinals at the 2005 United States Open and the fourth round at Roland Garros in 2008 and 2010) sprinkled around inconsistency and injuries. Ranked 98th, he outplayed Djokovic for two sets but settled for a split.

Early in the third set, Ginepri fell while scrambling back on a ball. He found himself on his belly and did a few push-ups, delighting the fans.

“Never doing those again on-court,” he said dryly. “I think that kind of changed the momentum a little bit.”

Djokovic awakened, got a bead on Ginepri’s serve, and moved him like a metronome before putting away points. Suddenly it was Djokovic with the energy, and he eased through two sets to take the victory.

“With that kind of game I performed in the third and fourth set, I think I have a good chance against anybody on the court now,” Djokovic said.

Nadal next plays No. 19 Nicolás Almagro, who upset his fellow Spaniard, seventh-seeded Fernando Verdasco, 6-1, 4-6, 6-1, 6-4.

Djokovic will play No. 22 Jürgen Melzer, a 29-year-old Austrian experiencing a late-career renaissance. Melzer ended the run of the qualifier Teimuraz Gabashvili, who beat No. 6 Andy Roddick in the third round, with a 7-6 (6), 4-6, 6-1, 6-4 victory.

Melzer’s reward is Djokovic and, more than likely, his first top-20 ranking.

Henin will return to the top 20, too, but has far higher ambitions. Throughout the tournament, Henin displayed vestiges of her game — a sneaky fast forehand, pinpoint shots and incomparable court coverage. It was enough to get Henin to the fourth round. All the while, Henin was warning that she needed a “transition year” to return to the game’s elite.

Monday, in particular, she showed she was not the complete player who left the game two years ago ranked No. 1 in the world. Her lapses lasted entire sets, not a few points. Her backhand was balky. Her once-full reservoir of confidence needs to be refilled.

Still, when she made the final of her first tournament at Brisbane, then again at the Australian Open (where she lost to Williams), the transition seemed both complete and instant. It was as if she had never left. Those perceptions trailed her to Roland Garros.

“All the expectations are coming from the outside, you know,” Henin said. “Everyone wants to see me at the level that I was and to compete. But the confidence I got in 2007, it took many years to be at that level.”

Henin and Stosur played a nervous third set, taking turns earning breaks and then handing them back, sometimes with the indignity of double faults. Stosur double-faulted on one match point, but followed with a winning smash.

Stosur was a forgotten contender here, lost somewhere amid the talk of Henin’s return and Venus Williams’s flimsy dress.

Perhaps that is because she has been occasionally dismissed as only a doubles player, part of a top tandem with Lisa Raymond that won 22 titles, including the 2005 United States Open and the 2006 French Open. Stosur played singles, too, but could not crack the top 20.

A bout with Lyme disease forced her to miss about nine months in 2007 and 2008, and the absence “maybe scared me a little bit to think, O.K., I’ve got to go out there and play and really try and achieve what I’ve wanted to,” Stosur said.

Dividends came quickly. She reached the semifinals here in 2009 as the 30th seed, losing to the eventual champion, Svetlana Kuznetsova. She beat Serena Williams at Stanford last summer. A tour-best 18-2 record on clay this year lifted her to the No. 7 ranking.

“A lot of people have changed their idea of what kind of tennis player I am,” Stosur said. “I guess that’s a good thing.”

Henin’s loss will temper expectations for her at Wimbledon, the one Grand Slam event that she has not won. It was while watching Roger Federer complete his career Grand Slam at the French Open last year that Henin seriously considered coming back.

Regardless of what happens outside London, however, Henin will always have Paris.

“I didn’t consider myself as the favorite,” she said. “If I could win one more match or two more matches, you can start dreaming. But that is not the case anymore.”
36 2010-06-01 FEINSILVER--Mildred (Weissman), 88, of Great Neck, NY and Coconut Creek, FL, on May 31, 2010. Native of Brooklyn. BA from Hunter College, MA from Queens College. Dedicated teacher of English and Drama at Francis Lewis High School. Adored wife of t...
37 2010-06-01 MANNIX--Mary Louise (Buisson), at home, in Concord, MA, May 29. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, Nantucket, MA and Vero Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late James J. Mannix Sr., loving mother of Bernadette Louise (Mannix) Feeney and her husband Michael J....
38 2010-06-01 FENNESSY--Anne McCormack. Wife of the late Gerard, proud alumna of St. Joseph's College of Brooklyn ('32), devoted public school teacher, and New York City's greatest fan, died Thursday at age 98. She is survived by her children John, Ruth and Rev...
39 2010-06-02 Should the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission have examined the government’s role in the problems with credit rating agencies? John Carney of CNBC.com thinks this was a glaring omission....
40 2010-06-02 The billionaire investor warned that many state and local governments would soon face a “terrible problem” in refinancing their debt loads....
41 2010-06-02 The Tennis Channel and NBC will not show the French Open matches will not be on tape delay unless the first semifinal ends early....
42 2010-06-02 Serious refereeing errors -- like the one that denied Ireland a trip to South Africa -- are challenging the game's legitimacy. Technology can offer some answers....
43 2010-06-02 Back in 2005, a group of landowners in the Gulf Coast filed a case against companies in the area claiming that their greenhouse gas emissions had contributed to global warming and exacerbated the effects of Hurricane Katrina. That case has now bee...
44 2010-06-02 The former chairman of the state Republican party had extensive ties to Gov. Charlie Crist....
45 2010-06-02 The solipsism of the millennial generation....
46 2010-06-02 Rafael Nadal stroked his way to a 7-6 (2), 7-6 (3), 6-4 victory, moving him one step closer to regaining the crown he lost last year to Roger Federer....
47 2010-06-02 Laurie Anderson's 20-minute work is composed of high-frequency noises that dogs can hear but are inaudible to human ears....
48 2010-06-02 A group of 13 media companies, including NBC Universal, the Directors Guild of America, HBO and The New York Times Company, filed the brief on behalf of Joe Berlinger, who is appealing a court's ruling that the oil company can subpoena footage fro...
49 2010-06-02 Samantha Stosur prevailed, 6-2, 6-7 (2), 8-6....
50 2010-06-02 Jelena Jankovic beat Yaroslava Shvedova, 7-5, 6-4, to reach the semifinal round of the French Open....
51 2010-06-02 On Wednesday, Israel's military posted an edit of video shot from the ship that was raided on Monday by Israeli commandos who killed nine people in a flotilla that was trying to break Israel's naval blockade of Gaza....
52 2010-06-02 Daniel Alpert, managing director of Westwood Capital, looks at what the nation's financial regulatory overhaul still needs to accomplish....
53 2010-06-02 The closely ranked Melanie Oudin and Yaroslava Shvedova will face each other in the French Open quarterfinals on Wednesday....
54 2010-06-02 Heavy equipment maker Caterpillar said its railroad service unit will spend $820 million cash to acquire locomotive maker Electro-Motive Diesel, The Associated Press reported....
55 2010-06-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
56 2010-06-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
57 2010-06-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
58 2010-06-02 The wrangling over the American International Group's Asian insurance unit clarifies what the board of Prudential of Britain should have known all along: A.I.G. is beholden to the U.S. taxpayer, Reuters Breakingviews writes....
59 2010-06-02 At a technology conference, Mr. Jobs pours cold water on rumors that Apple will do away with Google's search products or that it will soon revamp its ailing Apple TV product....
60 2010-06-02 American voters are already losing patience. With Mr. Thiam on the ropes with his shareholders, the pitch would have been especially tough. Taxpayers are still irate at the help provided to Wall Street titans and could easily take umbrage with the perception of a deal alteration to save the Prudential chief’s job at their expense.

The I.P.O. of A.I.A. may now be possible. Any flotation would delay a full exit for some time and run the risk of fetching a lower valuation. The A.I.G. board probably knew full well that explaining such financial nuance wouldn’t have worked against a screaming headline of “A.I.G. gives away $5 billion of taxpayers’ money.”

At least other suitors for A.I.G. assets should now be fully aware of the considerations on the other side of the negotiating table.

No one likes revealing bad news. But lately, Wall Street has taken to sneaking out some of its less palatable developments right before the weekend. Such timing may keep to the letter of transparency rules, but hardly the spirit.

Morgan Stanley is the latest culprit. The investment bank chose Friday, the eve of a holiday weekend, to dribble out that it was more than doubling, to $2 million, the annual base salary of its chairman, John J. Mack. The figure keeps with Morgan Stanley’s plan to construct a more balanced pay package that relies less on annual bonuses.

Fine, but then why put out the news when shareholders were departing for the first long weekend of the season? Mr. Mack has been in his new role for only five months — surely not long enough to warrant such a pay increase. Banker compensation remains a hot-button issue, just as it was when his new role was announced in September. That’s why the disclosure smacks of an attempt to sweep the salary bump under the carpet.

It’s not the first time this year that Morgan Stanley has embraced a holiday weekend with zeal. After markets closed the day before Good Friday, the firm said it would write down nearly $1 billion on Revel, its casino investment in Atlantic City. Goldman Sachs has been thankful for Fridays, too. In February, it waited until most had gone home for the weekend before informing markets that its chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, was getting a $9 million bonus for last year.

These aren’t the most egregious transgressions. Morgan Stanley had the good grace to report, and explain, a $10 billion loss related to collateralized debt obligations in 2007 in the middle of a week. And the two firms hardly have an exclusive on the public relations strategy: politicians are masters of the weekend wimp-out, and companies regularly try to bury bad earnings news when fewer shareholders are watching. But the last thing Wall Street needs is another black mark from enraged and suffering taxpayers and investors.
61 2010-06-02 It also raises questions about any timetable for Afghan self-sufficiency. American officials and contractors say it will take much longer for the units to be nurtured to self-reliance and a higher level of skill. For now, the police in Marja perform limited duties. American units create the space in which they operate, and provide their logistical, medical and military support.

“They are not hopeless,” said Daniel M. Aguirre, a retired police officer from Amarillo, Tex., who works with the police. “But they are at the first or second rung on the ladder.”

Marja’s police officers, members of the Afghan National Civil Order Police, or Ancop, are from a cadre of roughly 5,000 officers who have been more thoroughly screened and trained than the rank-and-file in the 104,000-officer national police force.

The cadre, billed as superior or even elite, was created after years of Western exasperation with the Afghan police. The Pentagon hoped to develop a core of better officers who could be assigned to high-priority duties.

Marines and American law enforcement contractors said the Civil Order Police had unquestionably performed better than the regular police units assigned several years ago to Marja, where residents rebelled against the former officers’ criminality as the region slipped from government control.

A large American offensive in February returned a government presence to the region, although fighting remains frequent. American officers said that against this background, the fact that the police established a place in Marja’s public fabric — operating posts and checkpoints near their bases — marked a degree of success.

“They have not been rejected by the people, which was a fear of mine as we started out,” said Col. Randall P. Newman, who commands Western ground forces here. “And we have gotten some effective work out of them. I think these two things speak positively.”

Unlike many police units, which have local duties, Civil Order Police battalions can be deployed anywhere in the nation. This gives the Interior Ministry the flexibility to mass police units where they are needed.

The units also have higher recruiting standards and more extensive entry-level instruction than regular Afghan police formations. To be accepted, applicants must be literate. After completing basic training, they attend an eight-week course.

In return, members of the units start their careers as sergeants, and are paid roughly $260 a month instead of the $165 paid to a new patrolman in a regular police unit. They typically also receive a $75 monthly bonus as hazardous-duty pay.

More than 300 of the unit’s sergeants were assigned here after the Marines fought their way in and brought the Afghan government behind them. American commanders hoped they would augment security and serve as ambassadors to a population suspicious of the government.

The experiment began poorly. “They had a negligent discharge within about 30 minutes of getting to us,” said Staff Sgt. Joseph E. Wright, whose platoon worked alongside a Civil Order Police unit. He was describing a police sergeant who accidentally fired his weapon.

Matters grew worse. “They refused to work at night, refused to send out patrols and refused to stand post more than three hours,” he said. “We tried to establish routines, but every routine failed every time.”

Friction between the Marines and the police built until the sides came to what the staff sergeant called a standoff, with a platoon of Marines at one end of an outpost facing a platoon of Afghan officers at the other, and Marine and police supervisors meeting in the center to negotiate.

One problem had to do with the habits and attitudes of a police clique, the Marines said. Many of these police sergeants were smoking hashish.

To clean up the unit, the Marines conducted urinalysis tests. Those who tested positive were reassigned. Once these sergeants were gone, the Marines said, and after Third Battalion, Sixth Marines, the American infantry unit in northern Marja, held training classes, the remaining sergeants performed better.

They still required intensive attention, the Marines said. Sometimes they set up unofficial checkpoints and shook down motorists, taking cash or cellphones. “And at official checkpoints they were charging people for head-of-the-line privileges,” another American who works beside the police said.

In interviews, Civil Order Police sergeants said that discipline problems were in the past, and that their unit worked well under the circumstances. They complained that they were underequipped and needed more ammunition.

“Right now we have three magazines each, and we need six,” said Sgt. Hamidullah, from Faryab Province. “We don’t have enough rounds.”

The police also said that establishing connections with residents had been difficult. Part of their problem, they said, was that many sergeants are Tajik, and do not speak Pashto, southern Afghanistan’s dominant language.

“Nobody can find a lot of information about the Taliban,” said Sgt. Akhmad Fahim from Mazar-i-Sharif.

Mr. Aguirre, the retired police officer, said it was too soon to say how the police forces in Marja might fare. He urged patience — a message that has become a common theme — and said more time and resources were needed to make final judgments.

“We’ve led them by the hand to this point, and they are right on the fence,” he said. “The potential is there. But it depends on us.”
62 2010-06-02 Tax revenue for the state was $125 million short of projections for May, leaving the state with a $1.2 billion shortfall for the budget year ending June 30, the State Department of Revenue said. Through 11 months of the fiscal year, Pennsylvania has collected $24.6 billion, or 4.8 percent less than expected for that period in Gov. Edward G. Rendell’s $27.8 billion budget. Mr. Rendell has identified about $700 million of cuts and additional revenue to make up part of the gap.
63 2010-06-02 SEOUL, South Korea — Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama of Japan , who swept into power last year with bold promises to revamp the country, then faltered over broken campaign pledges to remove an American base from Okinawa, announced Wednesday that he would step down.

Mr. Hatoyama faced growing pressure to quit, eight months after taking office, amid criticism that he had squandered an electoral mandate to change Japan’s sclerotic postwar political order.

Since taking office in September, he had come to be seen as an indecisive leader. This image was reinforced by his wavering and eventual backtracking on the base issue, which set off huge demonstrations on Okinawa and drove his approval ratings below 25 percent.

Calls had been rising within his Democratic Party for him to step aside before elections on July 11 that are seen as a referendum on the party’s first year in power.

“Unfortunately, the politics of the ruling party did not find reflection in the hearts of the people,” Mr. Hatoyama told an emergency meeting of Democratic lawmakers, broadcast live on television. “It is regrettable that the people were gradually unwilling to listen to us.”

Mr. Hatoyama is the fourth Japanese prime minister to resign in four years, which is likely to renew soul-searching about Japan’s inability to produce an effective leader and to feed concerns that political paralysis is preventing Japan from reversing a nearly two-decade-long economic decline. Mr. Hatoyama, who was teary-eyed as he announced his departure, was also following the common Japanese practice of leaders’ resigning to take responsibility for failure.

His resignation will not force a change in government, because the Democrats still hold a commanding majority in Parliament’s Lower House, which chooses the prime minister. But it will be a damaging blow to a party that had taken power in a landslide election victory that ended more than a half-century of nearly unbroken one-party control.

Mr. Hatoyama took power with vows to challenge the bureaucracy’s grip on postwar governing and revive Japan’s economy. Instead, his inexperienced government appeared to become consumed by the issue of the Okinawa base and a series of investigations into the political financing of Mr. Hatoyama and his backer in the party, Ichiro Ozawa.

Mr. Hatoyama said Wednesday that Mr. Ozawa, the Democratic Party’s secretary general and its shadowy power broker, would also resign. Japan’s public broadcaster, NHK, said the party would meet Friday to choose a new prime minister. Candidates include party veterans Naoto Kan, the finance minister, and Foreign Minister Katsuya Okada.

The contention over the American base, which dragged on for months, was emblematic of Mr. Hatoyama’s inability to make up his mind, or follow through on ambitious campaign promises.

The Democrats failed to deliver on a number of pledges, from eliminating highway tolls to finding enough savings from cutting waste to finance new subsidies like cash allowances for families with children. Instead, the spending ended up raising concerns that Japan’s ballooning deficit could one day lead to a Greek-style financial collapse.

Mr. Hatoyama had been expected to be a diplomatic personality who would be able to build consensus among the members of his ideologically broad party. He had appeared to be naturally suited to the job, as a political blue blood who hailed from one of Japan’s most powerful families. His grandfather had been a founding member of the Liberal Democratic Party, whose long grip on power Mr. Hatoyama’s Democrats ended last summer.

He was critic of American-style globalization, and talked of transforming Japan’s public works-driven politics into something closer to a European-style social welfare state. During the election campaign, he had drawn attention by pledging to end Japan’s postwar dependence on the United States, and to build closer ties with China and the rest of Asia. His vow to build a more equal partnership with Washington was symbolized by his pledge to move the United States Marine Air Station Futenma and its noisy helicopters off Okinawa, or out of Japan altogether.

In the end, it was the base, and a prolonged dispute with Washington, that proved Mr. Hatoyama’s undoing.

Japan’s public did not support altering the military alliance with the United States at a time when neighboring North Korea was testing nuclear weapons, and an increasingly assertive China was sending warships on training exercises near Japanese islands.
64 2010-06-02 But if it was all about the show, the song-and-run routine would wait until the gates open. Instead, the public rarely sees the ball boys and girls doing anything but silently chasing balls, rolling them underhand along the edges of the court, and dutifully offering balls and towels to the players. Their mission is to be efficient, silent and invisible.

That does not apply in the morning. The children run the straight stretch to Lenglen, up a set of wide stairs, then curl to the left. For 10 minutes, they run laps around the outside of Roland Garros’s second-biggest show court.

Then they break into assigned groups around the pathways and sidewalks surrounding Lenglen, sorted by which court they will work that day. And they exercise.

Directed by a coach — an older, experienced ball boy or girl who supervises a particular court’s ramasseurs — they run in tight ovals, hands behind their backsides while kicking their heels high. They do side-to-side shuffles and lunging leaps. They side-step forward, again and again, practicing the underhand bowling method used to pass tennis balls around the court.

They stretch by windmilling their arms and reaching for their toes. And at the end, they lie on their backs, feet together in a circle, creating a star. And they stay that way for five minutes.

On a recent morning, the exercising came just after the gates of Roland Garros were opened to fans. The ball boys and girls weaved their way between the strolling fans, many of whom stopped to watch, smile and take pictures.

That is why Portier tries to get most of the warm-up done earlier. Not only do the grounds become crowded, but he is worried about who is taking pictures of the children, and where those pictures end up.

“I’m very sensitive, because parents give me the responsibility of their children,” he said.

The ball boys and girls, chosen from about 2,500 applicants around the country, meet at 9:30 each morning. They fill part of the upper stands at Court No. 1 to hear Portier makes announcements. When he is finished, the children answer with a “merci,” like a congregation answering with an “amen.”

Then the children are told their assignments. It is based on performance.

“It’s a very important moment for them,” Portier said. “I think ball boys know if they do a good or a bad job. But it is in the morning that they learn how they actually did.”

Once called, they exit the portal and line up out on the walkway. They have spent weeks training for these days, and it was during one of those training sessions in either 2004 or 2005 that a few of them came up with the song.

It is a melody borrowed from the football team in the film “Remember the Titans.” But the words are all original. The term “ballos” has no meaning in French, but it rhymes with Garros and seems to fit in.

We are the winners, the children call and answer in French, the latest collectors. All the day we will do our best.

The last verse uses names of some of the major players.

Down the path they go. Then the gates open, and the ramasseurs de balles, the gatherers of the balls, are rarely heard from again.
65 2010-06-02 BREWERS of barrel-aged sour beer take risks and practice patience. They wait as long as three years to see whether the cloudy liquids resting in oak ripen into shades of gold or raspberry and develop the ideal tart, tangy flavors, or become undrinkable, ravaged by aggressive yeasts. It’s an expensive gamble.

And even if they succeed, they may still have to persuade people to drink them.

“We still get customers who call to let us know a bottle of our barrel-aged beer had gone bad because it tasted sour,” said Vinnie Cilurzo, owner of Russian River Brewing Company in Santa Rosa, Calif. “Sour beers will never become the pale ales of craft brewing.”

But for the brewers of sour beer, and its fans, the wait is worth it.

"I almost regret that we call them sour beers,” said Tom Nickel, owner of O’Brien’s Pub in San Diego. “The word ‘sour’ requires a bit of a leap of faith.” The best of some sour styles, such as gueuze, he said, have flavors like champagne or fresh lemonade. “You may not like the idea you’re drinking sour beer, but your mouth will like it."

While the umbrella of “sour ales” includes many styles, traditional sour beers are most popular in Belgium, home of lambics, gueuzes and Flemish sour ales. But in the last few years American brewers have been trying their hand at imitating and riffing off those styles by fermenting with special yeasts and lactic acid bacteria. Sometimes they age the beers in wood or stainless steel and add raspberries, cherries, apricots and other fresh fruit for flavor, before blending the end results.

In 2002, when the Great American Beer Festival introduced its first sour categories, brewers entered just 15 sour beers. At last year’s festival, brewers entered 119 sour beers in four categories: Belgian-style lambic or sour ale, American-style sour ale, German-style sour ale, and wood- and barrel-aged sour beer.
66 2010-06-02 To serve with broiled shrimp....
67 2010-06-02 The performances of the period groups in “Philemon” and in “Flora,” at least on the opening nights, were not entirely distinguished. The young players, lacking the security of numbers, may also have missed the kind of detailed preparation Mr. Villaume used to supply.

“Proserpina,” on Sunday evening at the Memminger Auditorium, was another matter, with the contemporary specialist John Kennedy providing a steadying hand. Mr. Kennedy is the director of the festival’s Music in Time series, and in that capacity he offered a wonderful setup for the opera: a concert of instrumental music by Mr. Rihm from the 1980s, mainly, in the Simons Center Recital Hall at the College of Charleston on Saturday.

The program consisted of four segments from the “Chiffre-Zyklus” (“Cipher Cycle”) for chamber orchestra, pieces seemingly calculated to show how much music can be written without serious resort to melody. Rhythm, dynamics and instrumental color are everything. Melody scarcely amounts to more than fragments and, occasionally, ostinato figures. The piano appears prominently but almost entirely in its guise as a percussion instrument.

Structure is modular, with clangorous episodes separated by long moments of intense quiet or actual silence. Though unpredictable from moment to moment, the music — at times almost voluptuous, at others edgy — affords a gratifying logic with its repeating motifs, within movements and from one to another.

Mr. Kennedy’s players supplied crack performances. Lydia Brown, in particular, handled that demanding piano part, unpianistic as it was, with aplomb.

All of this (except for the high quality of the performance) was a world apart from “Proserpina” (2009), here in its American premiere. The work is a tour de force for soprano — in this case, Heather Buck — positively awash in lyricism: for at least half of its 45-minute length, limpid, flowing Straussian melody.

In this setting of a text by Goethe, Proserpina, a daughter of Jupiter, finds herself in Hades, abducted by Pluto to be his queen. (Because Jupiter is a central figure in “Philemon,” you might have been tempted to tease a theme out of the Spoleto opera program if Haydn’s trifle of a puppet opera and “Proserpina” had not been so disparate in medium and aspiration.) The Fates, represented by a chorus (women of the Westminster Choir), singing wordlessly at first, draw Proserpina inexorably into their midst, and the director here, Ken Rus Schmoll, has added a silent actor (Jason Bruffy) as a glowering and ultimately grasping Pluto.

But the evening belonged to Ms. Buck, who sang beautifully in the plush melodies at the start and adapted expertly to increasing angularity and high-flying acrobatics as Proserpina’s plight grew dire. Mr. Schmoll’s spare production, with a set and modern-dress costumes designed by Marsha Ginsberg, provided Ms. Buck with a mostly blank slate, and she was equally compelling as a sheer stage presence, whether self-absorbed or interacting with the chorus and even the orchestra.

Mr. Rihm’s music ranges widely and ingeniously through contemporary styles and includes a sort of historical framing, as he seamlessly weaves in patches of music from Goethe’s era. The “Dance of the Blessed Spirits” from Gluck’s “Orfeo ed Euridice” appears in the orchestra at Proserpina’s line, “Your peaceful wandering, blessed ones,” and a bit of the Queen of the Night’s vocalizing from Mozart’s “Zauberflöte” creeps into Proserpina’s rendering of “Through the night I will pursue him.”

As in the orchestral concert, Mr. Kennedy and the orchestra were superb advocates for Mr. Rihm’s imaginative music.
68 2010-06-02 BRASOV, ROMANIA — Surrounded by cobblestone streets and quiet gardens, Ligia Valcu’s home, here in this alpine city 100 miles north of Bucharest, miraculously escaped razing during the communist era, when many traditional buildings were torn down and replaced with drab apartment buildings.

A former judge, Ms. Valcu, 48, moved here from an apartment building in the center of the city. She had always wanted a bohemian attic, “suspended above the world, where I could imagine that I was anywhere,” Ms. Valcu said, who now refurbishes antique furniture.

She bought her one-bedroom attic apartment in 2008, at the height of the real estate market, when the Romanian economy was doing well, paying 142,000 euros at the time, or $174,476 at $1.23 to the euro.

After a long search that exasperated real estate agents, she said, she found an attic that was buried in plaster and divided into five rooms. She knocked down all the walls to create an open loft.

“Suddenly I could see old, but strong beams,” Ms. Valcu said of the renovation. “The height, the peacefulness made me think of a cathedral.”
69 2010-06-02 Schiavone will play No. 5 Elena Dementieva in the semifinals. Dementieva beat her fellow Russian Nadia Petrova, the 19th seed, 2-6, 6-2, 6-0.

Schiavone’s road to a championship is well obstructed by history. A woman not seeded in the top 10 at Roland Garros has won only once, in 1933.

But Schiavone, never a top-10 player, is peaking perfectly at her favorite event. On Court Philippe Chatrier, she used quickness, guile and spin to dictate points, then finished many of them with a torching backhand.

“She’s definitely a difficult player to play against because she plays with a lot of spin,” Wozniacki said. “She plays differently. She mixes up the balls a lot. Yeah, she didn’t play typical women’s tennis.”

Wozniacki, usually as dependable as a tennis ball machine when it comes to returning shots, camped mostly behind the baseline. Schiavone, hitting the ball deep and wide, kept Wozniacki on defense. The usually rangy Wozniacki played with one thigh wrapped and seemed slower than usual getting to balls.

“I was always one step behind, and I couldn’t dominate the way I wanted to,” Wozniacki said.

It was like watching a hummingbird fight a hawk, and Schiavone flitted to an unpredictably easy victory.

“It’s not easy for her to win points,” Schiavone said. “I run and run and run, and I push her.”

With the men’s and women’s fields each whittled to a final eight, the schedule was pushed from its usual 11 a.m. start to 2 p.m., local time. The afternoon skies were ominous, and light rain began to fall early in the two scheduled women’s quarterfinals.

Wozniacki was losing, 3-2, in the first set when she asked the chair umpire to consider halting the match. The umpire inspected the court, talked to officials and ordered play to continue. Schiavone won the next three games and the set.

But the crushed-brick surface of the courts turned a bit mushy. At Court Suzanne Lenglen, as there was some discussion about the rain, Dementieva asked to be excused for a medical break. She disappeared off the court and returned with her right upper thigh wrapped.

When she returned a few minutes later, Petrova requested a leave, too. She returned with her left thigh wrapped.

Dementieva, a finalist at the French Open in 2004 but never a Grand Slam champion, found her footing in the second set. Petrova went down meekly in a slop of unforced errors.

Dementieva and Petrova played for the 15th time, a Russian rivalry that Dementieva now leads, 8-7. Dementieva had won the previous four meetings, but the last three lasted three sets.

Their matchup ensured that Russia would have a semifinalist at Roland Garros for the eighth consecutive year.

That sort of steady success is unfathomable in Italy. Schiavone reached a career-best No. 11 ranking in 2006, but gradually faded. She did not disappear entirely, however, reviving her fortunes in the recent Fed Cup and with strong, steady play this spring.

Now headed to the top 10 for the first time in her career, Schiavone has never played so well.

Wozniacki, customarily cool on the court, grew visibly frustrated at times. Early in the second set she threw her racket to the ground. She occasionally berated herself in Polish, the native language of her parents. Her mother was a member of Poland’s national volleyball team and her father was a soccer player who signed with a team in Denmark, where Wozniacki grew up.

As Schiavone neared victory, her strokes became a bit wobbly. But serving for the match at 30-15, she followed her first serve with a volley, putting away a winner. She finished match point with an assertive smash, then bounced on the court in celebration.

“In that moment, you remember many things from when you are young,” Schiavone said. “It’s special, because it’s your time, your opportunity.”

Finally, a kiss. It was nearly 10 years in the making.
70 2010-06-02 Administration officials said they were reviewing violations of the Clean Water Act, which carries criminal and civil penalties and fines; the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, which can be used to hold parties responsible for cleanup costs; the Migratory Bird Treaty Act and the Endangered Species Act, which provide penalties for injury and death of wildlife.

“BP will cooperate with any inquiry that the Department of Justice undertakes, just as we are doing in response to the other inquiries that already are ongoing," the company said in a statement.

Having abandoned the attempt to plug the gushing well, BP and the government moved ahead on the latest plan, to contain the oil and gas as it flows from the floor of the gulf and siphon it to the surface. BP prepared to sever the pipe that once connected the well to the surface and is now snaking along the sea floor from the wellhead. That pipe, called a riser, had been attached to a blowout preventer, a stack of valves sitting on top of the well.

Removing the pipe could increase the flow of oil into the gulf until response crews can complete the next phase of the operation, affixing a cap to the remaining stub of the riser at the blowout preventer and siphoning the leaking oil into the cap through a new riser and up to a ship on the surface.

The more confrontational tone from Washington underscored concerns within the administration about the long-term effect of the oil spill, not only environmentally, economically and politically, but on the national psyche as well.

Like no other, the topic of the oil spill now dominates the national conversation. Early comparisons to Hurricane Katrina have dissolved into comparisons to the hostage crisis with Iran — an episode that spanned 444 days and beleaguered the presidency of Jimmy Carter. The spill has kept Mr. Obama from focusing attention on other issues, like creating jobs and carrying out the new health care law, at a time when polls suggest that public trust in government is declining and when his party is fighting to retain control of Congress.

“It’s an interesting disaster because it’s one that doesn’t stop — it’s as if Katrina sat on top of New Orleans for six weeks without going away,” said George Haddow, a disaster management consultant from New Orleans who was a senior Federal Emergency Management Agency official under President Bill Clinton.

Tuesday amounted to the administration’s most intensive effort yet to show that it is doing everything possible to respond and to hold BP and the other companies accountable. Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Obama has been “enraged at the time that it’s taken” to stop the leak.

“I’ve seen rage from him,” Mr. Gibbs said, describing the president’s “clenched jaw” at meetings. Mr. Gibbs added that the White House did not think BP “was forthcoming on what the impact would be of cutting the riser off.”

For Mr. Obama, part of the problem has been that the solution to the BP disaster is at its heart an engineering problem, and one the government has already acknowledged it is in no position to fix on its own. Former Attorney General William P. Barr said the administration’s move to investigate risked looking like political damage control while chilling cooperation with the company at the time it is needed most.

“The Department of Justice has to be very careful about using criminal prosecution to respond to political pressure,” Mr. Barr, who ran the department from 1991 to 1993, said in an interview. But Mr. Obama said Tuesday that “we have an obligation to determine what went wrong.” He appeared after meeting with the two men he has appointed to lead an inquiry into the spill — former Senator Bob Graham of Florida, a Democrat, and a former Environmental Protection Agency administrator, William Reilly, a Republican.

During the meeting in the Oval Office, the president was adamant that the government and the industry had to find a way to make offshore drilling safe because the nation needs the oil, and stressed to Mr. Reilly and Mr. Graham that that was part of their charge, according to people familiar with the meeting.

The decision to try to siphon off the leaking oil came after the failed “top kill” procedure, in which heavy drilling mud was pumped at up to 80 barrels a minute into the well in hopes of overcoming the pressure of surging oil and gas. But, response teams were never able to drive the mud far enough down in the well to overcome the oil, said Doug Suttles, BP’s chief operating officer for exploration and production, in an interview during a helicopter ride over coastal areas.

Officials suspect that the mud could have been escaping from the well far below the ocean floor, possibly through a rupture disk, a built-in weak point in the steel pipe that lines the well.

This concern is what led officials to decide to end attempts to plug the well, Mr. Suttles said. If the well were capped — such as by a new blowout preventer — the resulting pressure could force oil out through a flaw in the well, and another leak could sprout on the ocean floor.

Mr. Suttles said he expected the cap being readied this week would be able to siphon off the “vast majority” of the oil, though not all of it, and that subsea dispersants would be still be needed.

The challenges facing the maneuver are similar to the problems that bedeviled the 98-ton containment dome which was lowered over one of the leaks several weeks ago. That dome failed when hydrates — icelike crystals of gas and water — formed at the dome’s opening and prevented oil from escaping. The cap-and-riser system is designed to fit fairly snugly to reduce the influx of water, and methanol and heated water will be used to further reduce the chances that hydrates form.
71 2010-06-02 WHEN the good artichokes start arriving, I try to come up with something new to do with them. This year, I turned to a time-honored technique, just one I’d never applied to artichokes. It will be a permanent addition to my repertory.

I began by cutting off the prickly ends on the tops, then cut the artichokes in half, vertically. Then I used a spoon to dig out the choke, the fuzzy part above the heart. I pulled off the toughest outer leaves, and trimmed the bottom with a paring knife. Do not cut off any more of the bottom than you need to, because in a good artichoke, it’s as good as the heart.

As each half was ready, I put it, cut side down, in a large skillet filmed with butter. Oil is fine if you pick one that tastes good. When they were all in, and browned, I added stock (one time I added stock and white wine, which was just as good, and one time wine and water, which was almost as good), covered the pan, and cooked them, turning once.

When the artichokes were done, after about 20 minutes, I removed them from the pan, reduced the liquid, added some lemon and a little more butter, and used this as a sauce. The whole process was not a lot more difficult or time-consuming than steaming, but the results are fabulous.
72 2010-06-02 FEINSILVER--Mildred (Weissman), 88, of Great Neck, NY and Coconut Creek, FL, on May 31, 2010. Native of Brooklyn. BA from Hunter College, MA from Queens College. Dedicated teacher of English and Drama at Francis Lewis High School. Adored wife of t...
73 2010-06-02 TOKYO -- A strike that crippled production at Honda Motor's factories in China has come as a wake-up call to Japan's flagship exporters as they seek to remain competitive and make a push into China's burgeoning market with the help of low-wage wor...
74 2010-06-02 WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration said Tuesday that it had begun civil and criminal investigations into the massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, as the deepening crisis threatened to define President Obama's second year in office.     Att...
75 2010-06-02 MANNIX--Mary Louise (Buisson), at home, in Concord, MA, May 29. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, Nantucket, MA and Vero Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late James J. Mannix Sr., loving mother of Bernadette Louise (Mannix) Feeney and her husband Michael J....
76 2010-06-03 The prospect of the the league's top free agents convening a type of summit meeting seemed to bemuse the N.B.A.'s commissioner....
77 2010-06-03 Yelp users will be able to make reservations directly from within a Yelp.com page through OpenTable -- and win OpenTable rewards....
78 2010-06-03 Hemant Mathur will leave in a couple weeks to open Tulsi, at 211 East 46th Street, in September....
79 2010-06-03 Ben S. Bernanke said that banks needed to increase lending to small businesses to reduce unemployment and help the economic recovery....
80 2010-06-03 Responses from Arthur C. Danto to a reader's questions on art....
81 2010-06-03 The Scoop, a free New York-centric iPhone app released by The New York Times this morning, offers a list of 25 bars recommended by the Dining editor of the Times....
82 2010-06-03 Ms. McClanahan's manager said that the actress died on Thursday morning of a stroke. She was 76....
83 2010-06-03 In 1 Police Plaza: naming a new head of the F.B.I.'s New York bureau, injecting stop-and-frisk into politics, and thanking Sully's Helpers....
84 2010-06-03 In the second women's semifinal at Roland Garros, Jana Jankovic and Samantha Stosur are hoping to get one step closer to their first major singles title....
85 2010-06-03 Moving music from a Zune player to an iPod....
86 2010-06-03 Florence Fabricant dispenses advice on the roving pepper grinder problem, the mysterious "captain's tip," and how to let invited guests at a birthday party know that they'll be splitting the tab....
87 2010-06-03 Hedge funds on the hunt for their next big shorting opportunity have, at least according to the Business Insider, found their next tasty target: the for-profit educational industry....
88 2010-06-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
89 2010-06-03 Air Products & Chemicals extended by two months the expiration date of its $5.1 billion hostile takeover bid for rival Airgas, with Airgas reiterating its opposition to the offer....
90 2010-06-03 Since the idea of limiting trade for profit began to build political capital, talented traders and portfolio managers have begun to question their positions in their respective firms, and some have already left, The Wall Street Journal reported....
91 2010-06-03 U.S. officials say an American fugitive wanted for money laundering and other financial fraud through two fraudulent hedge funds that he claimed to manage has been arrested in Poland....
92 2010-06-03 Raising rates -- but hey, it's not contractionary....
93 2010-06-03 The French newspaper has put out an international tender for new investment that could result in handing over control to an outsider within weeks....
94 2010-06-03 Asian stock markets rose on Thursday, led by Japan, where the Nikkei 225 index more than recouped losses from the previous day after the Japanese prime minister, Yukio Hatoyama, resigned....
95 2010-06-03 A Swiss parliamentary committee recommended Wednesday that the full Parliament back an agreement with the United States to hand over data on clients of the bank UBS who are suspected of tax evasion....
96 2010-06-03 A congressman seeking to become Alabama’s first black governor lost Tuesday to a white Democratic primary opponent who had garnered support from the state’s four major black political groups. Ron Sparks, the agriculture commissioner, defeated Representative Artur Davis in the Democratic primary. Mr. Sparks received 62 percent of the vote. The state’s traditional civil rights organizations backed Mr. Sparks after Mr. Davis voted against President Obama’s federal health care overhaul. But Mr. Davis, who led Mr. Obama’s campaign in the state in 2008, had endorsements from Representative John Lewis of Georgia, a civil rights pioneer, and Mobile’s first black mayor, Sam Jones.
97 2010-06-03 Mr. McCartney heard praise for his songs — and some performances — from President Obama and from multiple generations of pop, jazz, country and classical musicians. He opened the concert playing the same violin-shaped bass he used with the Beatles in 1964 on “The Ed Sullivan Show.”

Stevie Wonder, who won the Gershwin Award last year, steamed through “We Can Work It Out” — insistently repeating the title before a crowd of politicians — and he later joined Mr. McCartney for an earnest duet on “Ebony and Ivory.”

The lineup also included Herbie Hancock, Elvis Costello, the Jonas Brothers, Emmylou Harris, Faith Hill, Corinne Bailey Rae, Dave Grohl of the Foo Fighters, and Jack White of the White Stripes, backed by Mr. McCartney’s touring band. The show is to be broadcast as a PBS special on July 28.

Mr. McCartney, who turns 68 on June 18, is the third winner of the Gershwin Prize, the highest American award for popular song. He is the first recipient who is not an American.

So far, the Gershwin Prize has been awarded to skillful melodists who forged their reputations in the 1960s: Paul Simon in 2007 and Mr. Wonder in 2009, the first time the award was presented at the White House.

Lang Lang, the Chinese classical pianist, performed one of Mr. McCartney’s classical compositions, “Celebration.” The rest of the concert was drawn from the Beatles and Mr. McCartney’s later career.

Mr. McCartney heard some fond imitations of himself. Mr. Grohl in “Band on the Run” matched Wings’s version scream for scream, and Mr. White carefully knocked on his guitar like the original “Mother Nature’s Son.” But there were also a few transformations, as when Mr. Hancock and Ms. Rae played “Blackbird” as a supple jazz ballad.

Mr. Costello sang “Penny Lane” after saying that Penny Lane was half a mile from where his mother grew up, and that when the song came on the radio, “Myself, my mum, my dad and the cat all stood up and took notice.” In a red dress uniform, Master Sgt. Matthew Harding, a member of the United States Marine Band, played the piccolo-trumpet solo.

Some songs were slyly chosen. The Jonas Brothers, a pop band that regularly faces high-pitched teenage squeals reminiscent of Beatlemania, sang “Drive My Car,” which insists, “Yes, I’m gonna be a star.”

Jerry Seinfeld tried music criticism in his monologue, analyzing Mr. McCartney’s lyrics and asking just what he meant when he sang, “She was just 17/You know what I mean.”

Ms. Harris sang an aching, acoustic-guitar version of “For No One,” a song she recorded for her major-label debut album in 1975. “It’s so incredibly sad,” she said before the concert. Mr. McCartney, she added, “writes lyrics that can stand on their own, but they certainly soar when paired with the melody.”

In a news conference at the Library of Congress on Monday, Mr. McCartney had called the process of songwriting a mystery. “You start with a black hole and if you’re lucky, a couple hours later there’ll be a song waiting there. That mystery, that magic is still the same for me.”

Mr. McCartney ended the concert with a song that’s ideal for an all-star singalong, “Hey Jude,” with the first family joining in.
98 2010-06-03 Mobile computers like Apple’s iPhone and iPad are among the most transformative information devices since the personal computer. So it makes sense for the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department to review Apple’s policies governing programmers’ access to its devices to see if they violate antitrust laws.

When it introduced the iPad, Apple rewrote its agreement with developers of computer applications — known as apps — that run on its devices. Before, programmers could write apps using third-party platforms like the one made by Adobe, which are compatible with different operating systems.

Apple now wants developers to write apps specifically for its gadgets, using approved computer languages. The company also changed its terms of agreement with developers to prohibit them from using software from third parties to “send Device Data to a third party for processing or analysis.”

Apple argues that these changes are legitimate efforts to offer consumers a flawless experience on its devices. This week, Apple’s Steve Jobs declared that Adobe’s widely used Flash platform “has had its day.” Apple said the ban on sharing data with other programs was a way to protect the privacy of iPhone and iPad users.

Yet regulators are concerned about Apple’s pattern of behavior. The Justice Department is also investigating whether Apple is abusing its dominance in the digital music market to punish labels that do business deals with rivals like Amazon.
99 2010-06-03 ZURICH (Reuters) — A Swiss parliamentary committee recommended Wednesday that the full Parliament back an agreement with the United States to hand over data on clients of the bank UBS who are suspected of tax evasion.

But the panel, the economic affairs and tax committee, also recommended that Parliament hold a public referendum on the deal. That would block the agreement for at least three months, a committee official said.

The Parliament will vote this month on whether to permit Switzerland to disclose to the United States the bank details of 4,450 American clients of UBS in spite of Swiss bank secrecy laws.

If parliament also supports the idea of holding a referendum, Switzerland would have to allow time to gather signatures. If enough signatures are obtained, the whole process could take up to a year.

Although the Swiss government agreed in August 2009 to share some details of secret Swiss accounts to end a dispute, a Swiss court ruling in January blocked that accord.

Support for the deal in the Swiss Parliament would end the legal deadlock and avert the risk of new tax litigation against UBS.
100 2010-06-03 “Some clothes come very dirty with clay,” Rit said. “Others come very dirty with sweat. We can see if a player has been long on the court.”

Magic Rambo has handled the Roland Garros laundry for 19 years. Built to serve Disneyland Paris — it launders everything from Mickey’s head to a ride operator’s pants — Magic Rambo has about 100 employees at its 40,000-square-foot plant.

For a couple of weeks straddling May and June, 20 employees are assigned specifically to handle the needs of the French Open. That involves more than 30,000 articles of player clothing over two weeks.

Players are always changing clothes. When they practice. When they compete. When they practice again. Justine Henin said she went through about four tennis shirts a day. Novak Djokovic said he wore at least three.

Only tennis apparel is allowed, although players occasionally mix in some jeans or dresses. And although the service is just for players, most have coaches, trainers and family members accumulating dirty laundry, too.

“I don’t want to be fined or punished by the tournament, because it’s not allowed,” Djokovic said. “I think it’s only for players. But I do sneak in sometimes.”

A couple of nights later, the manifest showed Djokovic as one of the few players sending out two bags of laundry, not one.

Many top players, including Serena Williams and Federer, wear the same ensemble for each match in a tournament. But they usually have enough copies to make it through.

That black lacy dress Venus Williams wore? She brought 8 or 10 of them, she said. Her sister Serena said she brought seven matching outfits — one for every singles round, all the way to the final. She brought another six for each potential round of doubles.

“I just wear them once, like everything else,” Williams said.

But nearly every player sends clothes to wash. The amount of laundry decreases as the tournament goes on because losing players pack and move on, maybe after having their laundry done one last time. On an average tournament night, Magic Rambo will wash 2,000 articles of player clothing. It is a lesson in logistical calisthenics.

Each evening, sometime after 7, a Magic Rambo truck pulls up on Boulevard d’Auteuil. Romain Dagonet wheels in a couple of tall, canvas-covered bins of boxed clean laundry, weaving through fans toward the far end of Court Philippe Chatrier.

In a basement corridor outside the players’ locker rooms, Dagonet changes the laundry. He shuttles the dirty clothes out the gate and down the street. A lift pulls them into the back of the truck, and Dagonet drives it to the plant about 45 minutes away.

At Magic Rambo, workers open the bags and pin labels to each article of clothing.

“It’s very manual,” Rit said. “But if we don’t handle it properly, we could be done.”

The labels carry each player’s individual code, written in special ink. Like items are placed into their own net — one for socks, one for shirts, one for shorts, and so on. The bags are marked with the code, too.

“We never have a problem with socks getting mixed up,” Rit said.

Bags mix with bags of other players. The socks go one way, shirts another. Mingling ensues.

Sometimes players make special requests, perhaps wanting a lucky shirt returned early with a special delivery. Magic Rambo tries to accommodate.

Some items need special attention, like shirts or wool socks that require dry cleaning. Some items need extra scrubbing — usually the socks, which collect the red dust of the clay courts.

“It’s all quite white and clean when you get it back,” said Djokovic, sounding impressed.

Everything is dried and pressed, and the process reverses itself. Clothes are folded, organized according to code, stacked onto small cardboard trays and wrapped in plastic.

Into the bins they go for the return trip to Roland Garros on that night’s truck. Players can pick up their clothes up the next morning at 8.

At some point in the tournament, all 256 men’s and women’s players except two will be sent packing, as the saying goes. But at least their clothes will be clean.
101 2010-06-03 In an era of generous municipal salaries and union-friendly overtime rules, it may not come as a complete shock that there are thousands of Metropolitan Transportation Authority employees — 8,074, to be precise — who made $100,000 or more last year.

The usual top-level managers are included in that list, but so are dozens of lower-level employees, including conductors, police officers and engineers, many of whom pulled in six figures in overtime and retirement benefits alone.

One of those workers, a Long Island Rail Road conductor who retired in April, made $239,148, about $4,000 more than the authority’s chief financial officer, according to payroll data released on Wednesday.

In fact, more than a quarter of the Long Island Rail Road’s 7,000 employees earned more than $100,000 last year, including the conductor, Thomas J. Redmond, and two locomotive engineers — who were among the top 25 earners in the entire transportation authority.

The authority is readying service cuts to close a budget shortfall of $400 million, and its chairman, Jay H. Walder, has said he plans to reel in runaway overtime costs, which pile up to $560 million annually.

But the authority, which employs about 70,000 workers over all, cannot significantly reduce its labor costs without concessions from its unions, which say their workers deserve their compensation for difficult and sometimes dangerous jobs.

The payroll data, compiled from records obtained by the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a research group run by the Manhattan Institute, reflect total compensation. An exact breakdown was not available for most employees, but transit officials said that overtime and retirement payouts appeared to account for most of the high salaries.

Two car repairmen at the L.I.R.R. and 12 police officers assigned to the authority’s bridges and tunnels, some of whom earned more than double their base salaries, were among the 50 employees at the authority who collected $200,000 or more, the data show.

Mr. Redmond, the retired conductor, was the eighth-highest paid employee in the entire authority, ranking 16 spots higher than his railroad’s executive vice president. He earned $67,772 in base salary and $67,000 in overtime, and collected nearly $100,000 in unused sick days and vacation time upon retirement, railroad officials said.

The second-highest paid employee at the agency’s bridge and tunnel division, after its president, was Walter Stock, a lieutenant who earned $226,383, more than twice his base pay of $90,000, according to the data.

At No. 17 was Dominick J. Masiello, an L.I.R.R. locomotive engineer, who earned about $75,000 in base salary and overtime payments of $52,000.

He also received $94,600 in “penalty payments,” which railroad officials said stemmed from a contractual rule that requires engineers who work in a storage yard to be paid extra if they are assigned to move a locomotive to a nearby maintenance facility or if they are asked to operate a train outside of the yard.

Compensation varied widely within the authority’s various divisions. About 24 percent of Metro-North Railroad workers earned more than $100,000, along with 18 percent of bridge and tunnel workers, the data show. At the authority’s biggest sub-agency, New York City Transit, only 6 percent of workers earned six figures.

The authority did not contest the figures, but officials said they were planning stricter management oversight and more aggressive vetting of overtime requests. About 3,000 workers will lose their jobs through layoffs, buyouts, or attrition this year.

For midcareer employees, the authority “is pretty much establishing a six-figure norm,” said Edmund J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center, which tracks pension costs.

The union that represents most Long Island Rail Road workers did not return a call for comment.

Helena E. Williams, the president of the L.I.R.R., was the authority’s highest-paid employee last year, earning $286,872. (Ms. Williams briefly served as chief executive of the transportation authority last year.)

Mr. Walder, who began in October, now earns $350,000 a year as chairman, as well as a $3,500 monthly housing allowance.

Over all, the authority workers’ average pay rose about 2.4 percent last year. Management salaries were frozen.

Around 60 percent of the authority’s current budget — about $7 billion — is used to pay labor costs including payroll, pensions, and overtime.
102 2010-06-03 The British Broadcasting Corporation said Wednesday that it brought in Herb Scannell, a former president of Nickelodeon, to run its growing operation in the United States.

Among his first tasks: increasing production in the United States for a channel, BBC America, that has traditionally relied on British imports.

As the new president of BBC Worldwide America, Mr. Scannell succeeds Garth Ancier, who announced last November that he was stepping down after three years at the channel. Mr. Ancier remains a nonexecutive director there.

Mr. Scannell will start immediately. He has a background in both television and the Web, having been a vice chairman at MTV Networks and a Nickelodeon president before co-founding Next New Networks, a digital media studio, in 2006. He was the chief executive at Next New Networks until 2008, and he remains on the company’s board.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Scannell said that he would push for BBC America to be fully distributed in the country’s 100-million-plus cable and satellite households. It is currently available in about 67 million households.
103 2010-06-03 OK, a design store not far from the Beverly Center in Los Angeles, has established itself in the last 10 years as a go-to destination for those interested in modernism — in every category from books and jewelry to home furnishings. Two weeks ago, a second location opened in Silver Lake.

The 500-square-foot space is filled with what Larry Schaffer, the owner, calls “things that are modern, understated, well made and very functional.” They include cloth-bound books from small publishers and galleries, glass dinnerware from France and various items from Japan, including bicycle bells, gardening tools and carved wood bowls made by developmentally disabled adults.

“I’m cheap,” said Mr. Schaffer, who has lived in Silver Lake for 20 years. “I live very modestly, and I feel it’s important that everything I sell have a lot of value.”

Prices range from $6 for Japanese turned-wood tops to $750 for a Noguchi floor lamp. The store is open Thursday to Sunday, but Mr. Schaffer plans to expand the hours.
104 2010-06-03 On June 14, Enzo Enea, a Swiss landscape architect, will open his Tree Museum on the shore of Lake Zurich, in Rapperswil-Jona, Switzerland.

The museum is a meticulously curated outdoor display set on two and a half acres, where visitors will be able to see 22 varieties of trees. Each one — like the Taxus baccata, or English yew (above center), and the Pinus sylvestris, or Scotch pine (above right) — will be framed by a 16-foot-high sandstone wall. (Both the museum and Mr. Enea’s headquarters on his 18-acre property were designed by Chad Oppenheim, an architect with offices in Miami and, soon, Basel.)

“I have collected trees over the last 17 years from gardens that I was building or houses that I was building,” Mr. Enea said. “Trees had to be moved, and instead of cutting them, I tried to remove them.” His trees range in age from 50 to 130 years, and in height from 15 to 40 feet.

The museum will be open Monday to Saturday. Admission is $15; (41-55) 225-5555 or enea.ch.
105 2010-06-03 THE jewelry designer Monique Péan, one of three designers to win the 2009 CFDA/Vogue Fashion Fund prizes for up-and-coming talent (the others were Patrik Ervell and Sophie Théallet), makes pieces that often cost upward of $5,000.

But those in the limited-edition collection that Ms. Péan has created for the Gap are less pricey (bracelet, $98; necklace, $198). Ms. Péan traveled to Colombia and worked with local artisans to find sustainable materials like naturally shed buffalo horn and organic cotton for the line, which is making its debut Thursday at the Gap Pop-Up Shop, 680 Fifth Avenue (53rd Street); (212) 977-7023.
106 2010-06-03 A group of 13 media companies has filed a friend-of-the-court brief on behalf of Joe Berlinger, below left, the documentary filmmaker who is appealing a federal district judge’s ruling that the oil company Chevron may subpoena the outtakes from his film “Crude.” The brief, filed on Tuesday in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Manhattan, by a group including NBC Universal, the Directors Guild of America, HBO and The New York Times Company, says the work of these companies “will be seriously jeopardized” by the judge’s decision and its effect on journalists’ privilege. Last month Judge Lewis A. Kaplan of Federal District Court in Manhattan ruled that Mr. Berlinger would have to turn over more than 600 hours of footage from “Crude,” his documentary about the Ecuadorians who sued Texaco (now owned by Chevron), accusing it of contaminating their water. Chevron said Mr. Berlinger’s footage could be helpful to the company as it seeks to have the suit dismissed and pursues an international treaty arbitration related to the litigation. The appellate court has ordered a hearing on Tuesday to consider the subpoena and stayed the subpoena until that hearing.
107 2010-06-03 Woof woof, woof woof woof! Arf, arf! Bark! If the preceding composition made no sense to you, then you’re probably not in the target audience for a new work by Laurie Anderson, above with her husband, Lou Reed, that is written for dogs. On Sunday the Sydney Opera House will host the debut of Ms. Anderson’s 20-minute piece composed of high-frequency noises that dogs can hear but that are inaudible to human ears, Agence France-Presse reported. (For the owners of the recital’s intended listeners, there will also be spoken word and string music elements.) The recital, called “Music for Dogs,” is being presented as part of Vivid Live arts festival in Sydney, whose curators are Ms. Anderson and Mr. Reed. Announcing the dog-friendly composition at a news conference, Ms. Anderson explained that at a previous event, she thought: “Wouldn’t it be great, if you were playing a concert, and you look out and you see all dogs? And so I said, ‘If I ever get the chance to do something like that I would do it.’ ” (A concert listing advises that all dogs in attendance must be on leashes, and all humans must be attached to those leashes.)
108 2010-06-03 “For sure, I would have liked two sets better,” Stosur said. “But to be able to come back from that point and be match point down, it just makes it, I guess, extra special in a way.”

Stosur beat Willliams much the way that Robin Soderling upset Roger Federer on the same court in the dampness of the night before: with a power game that the world’s best player seemed slow to handle.

In the women’s semifinals on Thursday, Stosur will play No. 4 Jelena Jankovic, who glided past unseeded Yaroslava Shvedova, 7-5, 6-4. Francesca Schiavone, the 17th seed, will play No. 5 Elena Dementieva.

Soderling’s victory over Federer sent him to Friday’s men’s semifinals against Tomas Berdych.

The other semifinal will feature No. 2 Rafael Nadal, zeroing in on a fifth French Open title. Nadal has not dropped a set, but he needed his serve and his nerve to get through a pair of tie breakers against his fellow Spaniard Nicolás Almagro. Nadal escaped with a 7-6 (2), 7-6 (3), 6-4 victory.

“I am very happy how I played the tie breaks,” Nadal said. “I played very aggressive, very focused, and in important moments I think I played better than the rest of the match. That’s very good news.”

For most of the afternoon, it looked certain that Nadal would face a familiar foe, Novak Djokovic, the third seed who streaked through his first two sets with Jürgen Melzer as if he had a car waiting. But Melzer, a 29-year-old Austrian, was not ready to go. He lingered for 4 hours 15 minutes and stole a 3-6, 2-6, 6-2, 7-6 (3), 6-4 win, the biggest of his career.

“The only thing I told myself, it’s my first quarterfinals in my life in a Grand Slam,” Melzer said. “Just don’t go away.”

Djokovic gained a quick break in the third, then lost six consecutive games. The two swapped games in the fourth set — Djokovic held, barely, after nine deuces in one game — but Melzer won the first six tie-breaker points on the way to a fifth.

Melzer broke Djokovic again to serve for the match at 5-4. At 0-15, a Djokovic shot seemed to tickle the line but was called out. The chair judge came from his perch to confirm the ruling, and Djokovic was nearly apoplectic at the net.

“There was no space between the line and the mark, and that means the ball is good,” Djokovic said.

He held his composure to get to a couple of break points before falling.

“I made him come back into the match with my unforced errors, and then he caught the momentum,” Djokovic said, despondently.

But the grandest champion to fall Wednesday was Williams. Her 12 Grand Slam singles titles were 12 more than the rest of the women’s quarterfinalists combined. By knocking out Williams, Stosur, a semifinalist at Roland Garros last year, guaranteed that someone will win her first Grand Slam championship this year.

For Williams, the French Open remains the only Slam event she has not won at least three times. Her sole victory came in 2002, and she has not reached the semifinals since 2003.

She will have to find solace in reaching the doubles final with her sister Venus. The two beat Liezel Huber and Anabel Medina Garrigues later on Wednesday, and will go for their second French Open title. The other came in 1999, when both were teenagers.

Stosur led, 5-3, in the second set with a chance to serve for the match. She sent one of her torpedo-like forehands into the net. On break point, Williams pushed Stosur back, then rushed the net to put the game away and reverse the momentum.

Williams seemed grounded again, and the players could not shake loose of each other. Stosur fended off a match point when Williams’s arching forehand landed just past the baseline. Stosur used a steady forehand and an ace to win the game, tying the set at 5-5.

“Had I played better for two minutes, maybe the result could have been different,” Williams said.

Stosur broke Williams to take a match-changing 7-6 lead thanks to two remarkably struck passing shots. At 15-30, with Williams on the run, Stosur dropped a soft backhand that Williams managed to reach. With the crowd gasping, Stosur threaded a cross-court forehand to win the point.

Stosur’s running backhand past Williams at 15-40 allowed her to serve for the victory. Given a second chance, Stosur dismissed Williams and probably set off a few middle-of-the-night celebrations at home in Gold Coast, Australia.

Jankovic, the former No. 1 from Serbia, won with far less drama. She was playing her first quarterfinal since the 2008 United States Open, when she reached the final and lost to Serena Williams.

Shvedova upset Jankovic at the 2009 United States Open, and their three previous matches had all stretched to three sets.

Jankovic dropped her serve in the match’s first game, but stormed back by running Shvedova back and forth and finishing her with forehand winners.

Shvedova came back stronger in the second set, but came undone after a whiffed overhead. A double fault on match point put Jankovic into the semifinals.

There she will find an aggressive, hard-hitting player with her eyes on the French Open title. And, somewhat unpredictably, it will not be Serena Williams.
109 2010-06-03 Some women with skin prone to allergic reactions seek out preservative-free skin care. Odacité, which makes a moisturizer, a night serum and a cleanser in the $40 to $120 range, does not add preservatives; its products are made to order, marked with a use-by date and mailed to the customer, so they never sit on store shelves.

Another brand, Eau Thermale Avène, also has an innovative line aimed at sensitive skin; it says it can forgo preservatives because of a new top that keeps two of its products “100 percent sterile.” Its Tolérance Extrême line is available at aveneusa.com.
110 2010-06-03 Mercury joins a sizable list of venerable Detroit brands that have disappeared in recent years. In 2009, General Motors said that it would eliminate Saturn, Hummer and Pontiac as it streamlined after its bankruptcy filing, and it did away with Oldsmobile in 2004. Saab was also discontinued as a G.M. brand, though it will have new owners.

Chrysler dropped the Plymouth brand in 2001, and the Chrysler brand itself is considered by some analysts to be in doubt, now that the company is under the management control of the Italian automaker Fiat.

“This decade is for sure going to be remembered in the auto industry as a decade of consolidation, a renewed focus on profitability instead of going blindly after market share, and shedding dead weight in terms of dealerships,” said Jesse Toprak, vice president of industry trends and insights for TrueCar, a new-car pricing Web site.

Before Mercury, the two ends of Ford’s spectrum were its inexpensive cars and trucks, which the founder, Henry Ford, encouraged buyers to buy in the color black, and the sleek Lincoln models, which were known for their streamlined appearance.

But G.M. picked up customers by offering “a car for every purse and purpose,” a phrase coined by its president, Alfred P. Sloan Jr.

So, Mr. Ford’s son Edsel commissioned the development of the Mercury Eight, which went on sale in 1939. The car had a 95-horsepower V-8 engine that was 10 horsepower stronger than the Ford V-8, but it cost less than a Lincoln.

Sales were strong until World War II interrupted production. They prospered again in 1949, when the first all-new postwar Mercury models reached showrooms.

By the 1960s, Mercury had become a place for slightly different and generally more expensive versions of the cars sold by the Ford division.

“Mercury products have been nothing more than modestly restyled Fords for decades, and that’s not how you build or maintain a brand,” said Karl Brauer, a senior analyst with Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice.

Mercurys of the 1960s included the Comet, a stretched version of the Ford Falcon, and the Cougar, originally a muscle-car variation on the Mustang but which was three inches longer and boasted a gutsy front grill that some likened to an electric shaver.

In the 1970s, because of the energy crisis and new fuel economy standards, Mercury made smaller cars, including the Capri, initially built in Europe. When Ford developed the Taurus sedan in the 1980s, it gave Mercury a version called the Sable.

More recently, Mercury’s lineup has included the Milan, its best-selling model, which is based on the Ford Fusion, as well as the Grand Marquis, a rear-wheel drive car that has been sold by Ford in some fashion since the 1970s.

Mercury sales peaked at 580,000 in 1978, also a year of record hourly employment for the Detroit auto companies. In 2009, Ford sold fewer than 93,000 Mercury models.

So far in 2010, Mercury sales are 41,680, up 11.6 percent from last year, but they make up only 0.8 percent of the American car market.

Mr. Fields said Ford has no stand-alone Mercury dealers, which should simplify shutting the division. He declined to say how much closing Mercury would cost Ford. Mercury models are sold by 1,700 dealers, which also have a franchise with Ford, Lincoln or another brand.

Bob Tasca Jr., a Rhode Island dealer who heads Ford’s national Lincoln-Mercury dealer council, said dealers had pressed Ford for years to tell them the fate of the division and finally learned this year that a decision was at hand.

Although expected, Mr. Tasca said, the step was fraught with emotion. For dealers, he said, “there’s going to be some cases where a lot of them are going to make it and prosper and some are going to go out of business.”
111 2010-06-03 “Anything that indicates more of a stabilization — and not rapid declines — in housing is probably a good thing,” said Jason D. Pride, director of investment strategy at Glenmede in Philadelphia.

A rise in the euro from a four-year low Tuesday also drew buyers. Movements in the euro, which is used by 16 European countries, have often steered trading in the last month. The currency is seen as a reading on confidence in Europe’s ability to contain a debt crisis that began in Greece, but has spread to other parts of Europe, including Spain and Portugal.

The Dow rose 225.52 points, or 2.3 percent, to 10,249.54. The advance came after a two-day slide. It was the biggest point and percentage climb for the Dow since Thursday, when the index advanced 285 points, or 2.9 percent.

The Dow is still down 8.5 percent from its high this year on April 26.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 27.67 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,098.38, while the Nasdaq composite index climbed 58.74 points, or 2.6 percent, to 2,281.07.

Bond prices dropped. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 21/32, to 101 11/32, and the yield rose to 3.34 percent from 3.26 percent late Tuesday.

Crude oil rose 28 cents to $72.86 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Gold fell.

Investors are now awaiting the Labor Department’s monthly employment report, which is due Friday.

Economists predict the unemployment rate dipped to 9.8 percent in May from 9.9 percent in April and that employers added 513,000 jobs. Weekly reports on initial claims have hovered close to 450,000 throughout the year, which is considered above the level that would indicate strong growth.

Among stocks, Schlumberger rose $4.56, or 8.8 percent, to $56.31. Baker Hughes advanced $3.76, or 10.5 percent, to $39.63. BP PLC rose $1.14, or 3.1 percent, to $37.66 after dropping nearly 15 percent Tuesday.

The builder KB Home rose 28 cents, or 2 percent, to $14.01, while Hovnanian Enterprises advanced 18 cents, or 3 percent, to $6.15.

Airlines rose after upbeat comments from analysts. Continental Airlines climbed $2.25, or 11.1 percent, to $22.54, while US Airways Group advanced 80 cents, or 9.3 percent, to $9.44.

Ford Motor rose 44 cents, or 3.9 percent, to $11.85 after reporting that its United States sales rose 22 percent in May.
112 2010-06-03 2. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Brush a 2-quart baking or gratin dish with olive oil.

3. Trim both ends off the chard stalks, then dice them. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large, heavy nonstick skillet over medium heat, and add the onion. Cook, stirring, until tender, about five minutes. Add the diced chard stalks, thyme, rosemary and a generous pinch of salt. Cook, stirring often, for about five minutes until the vegetables are tender. Add the garlic and stir for a minute or so until fragrant. Add the chard and spinach. Stir together for 30 seconds to a minute, just to blend the mixture. Season with salt and pepper, and remove from the heat.

4. Beat the eggs in a bowl. Stir in the chard mixture, cheese and rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Transfer to the baking dish, and drizzle on the remaining oil.

5. Bake 40 minutes until firm and brown on the top. Remove from the heat, and cool for at least 10 minutes before serving. You can serve this warm, at room temperature or cold.

Advance preparation: The blanched greens will keep for three or four days in the refrigerator in a covered bowl. The recipe can be prepared through step 3 up to two days ahead. The finished recipe will keep for three or four days in the refrigerator.

Nutritional information per serving (based on four servings): 260 calories; 16 grams fat; 5 grams saturated fat; 174 milligrams cholesterol; 19 grams carbohydrates; 4 grams dietary fiber; 389 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 14 grams protein

Nutritional information per serving (based on six servings): 173 calories; 11 grams fat; 3 grams saturated fat; 116 milligrams cholesterol; 13 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 259 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 9 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com.
113 2010-06-04 Congress may change the rules, but should it?...
114 2010-06-04 The Rangers bad boy Sean Avery, who had 11 goals and 20 assists this season, took a crack at handicapping the Belmont Stakes on The Rail....
115 2010-06-04 A host of former Lehman Brothers executives sought on Friday to dismiss a lawsuit over the defunct investment bank's use of the Repo 105 accounting technique....
116 2010-06-04 Volkswagen, which will offer its in-house magazine on the iPad, is the latest automaker to embrace Apple's latest mobile device....
117 2010-06-04 Sunday's summer kickoff party at Bklyn Yard was also its swan song....
118 2010-06-04 In Friday's Patient Money column, Lesley Alderman writes about getting audited. But it's not a tax audit. This one comes from your health insurance plan....
119 2010-06-04 Live analysis of the men's semifinal between Rafael Nadal and Jurgen Melzer at the French Open....
120 2010-06-04 Since the downturn began in December 2007, the economy has shed, on net, about 5.4 percent of its nonfarm payroll jobs....
121 2010-06-04 Live analysis of the men's French Open semifinal between Tomas Berdych and Robin Soderling....
122 2010-06-04 Over the years, we've dedicated quite a bit of time and energy to cultivating new clients, but we'd never really taken a strategic approach....
123 2010-06-04 A Swiss-U.S. deal to end a tax dispute that nearly crippled UBS and undermined Swiss bank secrecy inched closer to approval in the full Parliament as the upper house gave it its backing Thursday....
124 2010-06-04 Investors withdrew $3.5 billion from hedge funds in April, according to TrimTabs Investment Research and BarclayHedge estimates....
125 2010-06-04 Isolated for decades behind Asia's bamboo curtain, communist Laos will soon take a great leap into the global capitalist marketplace with the launch of a stock exchange to fuel a quiet mining and hydro-power boom, Reuters reports....
126 2010-06-04 On Thursday evening, Yelp.com, the user-generated review Web site, and OpenTable.com, the restaurant reservations site, announced an integration that will allow Yelp users to make a restaurant reservation directly from a Yelp.com review page....
127 2010-06-04 Student Opinion | Who makes your school into a community?...
128 2010-06-04 The British oil giant BP conceded another setback Thursday in its struggle to recover hundreds of millions of dollars in investments from a venture to sell Russian natural gas to China....
129 2010-06-04 Three enterprising high schoolers blaze a path to the holy grail of science contests in “Whiz Kids,” an unabashed celebration of geekitude, idealism and the will to win.

Their goal is to be among the 40 finalists at the prestigious Science Talent Search (formerly sponsored by Westinghouse, now by Intel) and to claim a first-place prize of $100,000. Opening 12 months before the deadline for submissions, Tom Shepard’s quietly observant documentary tracks its stressed-out subjects through an array of personal and scholarly challenges.

Ana Cisneros, a petite botany enthusiast from Long Island, hopes to complete the research for her contest submission during an internship with an eminent plant ecologist at Colorado State University.

“She will work Saturday and Sunday too,” her father, who is Ecuadorean, tells her amused mentor, whose goals for the internship are more modest and less narrowly focused.

Equally driven is Harmain Khan, a lanky fossil lover who travels four hours by bus every day from his home on Staten Island to examine ancient crocodile teeth. “He’s a 40-year-old man in a 17-year-old body,” says his single mother, whose financial struggles haunt her son’s eyes and power his determination to succeed.

More interested in present-day pollution than ancient dentition, Kelydra Welcker, an environmental firebrand from West Virginia, has developed a method of identifying and removing a chemical contaminant from the Ohio River. Like the others, she exhibits a preternatural assurance that belies her youth. Watching them, we see plenty of whiz, but kids? Not so much.
130 2010-06-04 Florida state officials restored the civil rights of the former Florida State and Miami Dolphins running back Sammie Smith, who spent seven years in prison on a drug conviction. Gov. Charlie Crist and the independently elected cabinet, sitting as the state clemency board, voted after testimony from Smith, the former Florida State coach, Bobby Bowden, several assistants and family members. All characterized Smith’s involvement in the drug activity as uncharacteristic. People lose their civil rights in Florida after a felony conviction and cannot own a weapon or vote without a full or conditional pardon from the clemency board.
131 2010-06-04 GALLATIN, N.Y. (AP) — Four days after he disappeared, a 22-year-old Manhattan man was found on Thursday afternoon — thirsty and weak — beside his BMW deep in swampy woods along an upstate parkway, the state police said.

The man, Thomas Wopat-Moreau, who had last been seen at a party in East Fishkill, was found by searchers in a secluded area near the Taconic State Parkway about 45 miles south of Albany. His car had swerved off the road early Sunday and flew 480 feet into the woods, leaving no trace behind. Mr. Wopat-Moreau, who lives in the East Village, had been on his way to Copake, in Columbia County.

Troopers said they were able to focus their search by a signal from Mr. Wopat-Moreau’s cellphone before it lost power. While searching along a section of the Taconic near Gallatin on Thursday afternoon, a state trooper noticed a patch of brush that appeared to have been disturbed. He found the car about 500 feet from the road. Lt. James Murphy said Mr. Wopat-Moreau was conscious and asking for water when they found him about 150 feet away from his silver BMW station wagon, which was upside-down. He could not walk and was suffering from dehydration and exposure.

Mr. Wopat-Moreau was airlifted to Albany Medical Center, where he was under evaluation Thursday. Family members and friends, some of whom had participated in a manhunt for him over the past four days, expressed relief on a Facebook page they had set up for him, which had been made private on Thursday evening.

The State Police said he probably would not be charged with any offense.
132 2010-06-04 Mary Ellen Bowden, a senior research fellow at the Chemical Heritage Foundation who worked with Mr. McNeil on an essay about his contribution to the pharmaceutical industry, said she wondered how he had taken the news of the recall by the Johnson & Johnson unit that still bears his family’s name.

“You could count on McNeil because they could make the preparations correctly,” she said. “That’s what the company had prided itself on for generations.”

Robert Lincoln McNeil Jr. was born on July 13, 1915, in Bethel, Conn., to Robert Lincoln McNeil and Grace Slack McNeil. He grew up in the Germantown area of Philadelphia.

Mr. McNeil graduated from Yale in 1936 with a bachelor of science degree in physiological chemistry and bacteriology. Two years later he completed a second bachelor’s degree at the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science, now called the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia. He began his career with a part-time job in 1936 at his family’s firm, and became a full-time employee in 1938.

Mr. McNeil set about turning the family drug business into a modern pharmaceutical company. He re-evaluated the product line, reorganized the company’s structure and established a research division to develop prescription drugs that would comply with the safety requirements of the newly enacted Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938, according to the essay about Mr. McNeil, which appeared in the book “Pharmaceutical Achievers,” published by the Chemical Heritage Foundation.

Although the active ingredient in Tylenol was discovered in the 19th century, it was not until the mid-20th century that scientists deemed the drug safe and effective. Even then, many drug companies did not pursue the medicine lest it compete with their existing aspirin products.

Mr. McNeil, who had heard about the drug at a pharmaceutical conference, urged his company to pursue the medicine because McNeil did not sell its own aspirin products.

He told doubters at McNeil that though the new drug would be more expensive, it had an advantage over aspirin in that it did not cause stomach irritation. Mr. McNeil gave Tylenol its generic name, acetaminophen.

Approved by the Food and Drug Administration, Tylenol went on the market as a prescription medication in 1955. It became an over-the-counter drug in 1960.

Mr. McNeil was named chairman of McNeil in 1956. That year, he also married Nancy McKinney Jones. She survives him, as do his sons, Collin and Robert L. McNeil III; his daughters, Victoria McNeil Le Vine and Joanna McNeil Lewis; and 11 grandchildren, all of the Philadelphia area.

After his retirement, Mr. McNeil pursued philanthropic causes, including the Philadelphia Museum of Art and the Philadelphia Zoo, where he paid to renovate the birdhouse, now known as the McNeil Avian Center. Two science centers at the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia also bear his name.
133 2010-06-04 United Nations officials called Thursday for an investigation into the death of a leading human rights activist who was found dead in Kinshasa on Wednesday. The activist, Floribert Chebeya, director of the national network of human rights organizations, was found dead in his car in a Kinshasa suburb after being called to an appointment with the police inspector general, Gen. John Numbi, on Tuesday evening. Mr. Chebeya, who campaigned to uphold constitutional rights and improve prison conditions, had been harassed by the authorities in the past and had been described as at risk by Amnesty International.
134 2010-06-04 When I was 19 and a rookie student reporter, I asked out Elena Kagan. Harvard deans don’t usually respond to e-mails from overzealous freshmen looking for scoops, but she did, and within seven minutes we had a date: breakfast, the Charles Hotel, 8:30 a.m.

I arrived at the Charles that morning, a Sunday in 2005, and was immediately taken aback by the dean’s informality. She showed up in jeans. She nagged me about getting more sleep. She bragged about her refusal to carry a cellphone (“My one defense against the world,” she said).

At our dozen or so meetings over the next three years, we talked about everything from the disintegrating presidency of Lawrence H. Summers to the poker bashes she threw at her home for professors.

I walked away each time wondering why the dean of Harvard Law School was breaking bread with a lowly beat reporter for The Harvard Crimson. Was she nostalgic about her days as a student journalist? (She was a top editor at The Daily Princetonian as an undergraduate.) Or was it a strategic choice? There was no time, after all, to jot down each bit of gossip between bites of granola and hash browns. And the dean did not appreciate tape recorders at the breakfast table.

Whatever her motives, it was clear she was protective of her image as Harvard’s dream dean. While many administrators ignored the student paper, Dean Kagan was a scrupulous reader, dashing off e-mail messages — sometimes flattering, sometimes scornful — about the tiniest of stories involving the law school.
135 2010-06-04 In repeating the charges in the audiotapes, Mr. Vann described the letter further, saying “it showed how innocent citizens were victimized; innocent people were arrested for no cause at all; how some of their complaints had been suppressed.”

“I mean,” he continued, “the whole array of inappropriate and perhaps, even, illegal action. So we reiterated that which was on the tapes and then we asked for him to take appropriate action.”

The issue popped up suddenly at a budget hearing on Thursday. It pierced an otherwise dry recitation of spending projections as Mr. Vann used his five minutes of speaking time to let Mr. Kelly know he was awaiting a response to or acknowledgment of the letter.

Mr. Kelly said he received it only on Tuesday.

The ensuing verbal sparring between the men moved fast. At one point, Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr., the chairman of the Public Safety Committee, tried to tamp things down, only to be overrun.

“Before I respond to your letter, I need to find out the facts,” Mr. Kelly said to Mr. Vann. “You make allegations in that letter, and I need to find those facts before I respond.”

Mr. Vann shot back that the audiotapes stood on their own.

“We didn’t make allegations,” Mr. Vann said. “We responded to what was on the tapes; this is not hearsay.” He added: “You know what happened over there; we only responded to what is on the tapes, that cannot be denied.” He said he owed his constituents an update.

Mr. Kelly said it was not unusual, in the course of governmental give-and-take, for responses to take more than two days. Mr. Vann protested.

They traded a few more barbs before dropping the issue.

Afterward, Mr. Vann said he believed that the charges were so corrosive that they were damaging effective policing in the area. He said he would leave to others the job of discerning whether the conduct reported in the 81st Precinct was systemic in the Police Department. He said he had not called for an outside inquiry, though he was in touch with state lawmakers, as well as Representative Edolphus Towns.

Questions about conduct by some officers in the 81st Precinct go back four months, when The Daily News reported that an officer there, Adrian Schoolcraft, had come forward claiming that crime reporting was manipulated to improve the precinct’s statistics.

Deputy Commissioner Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman, confirmed then and again on Thursday that there was an internal inquiry on the matter. On Thursday, he said no one at the precinct, which is headed by Deputy Inspector Steven Mauriello, had been disciplined in connection with Officer Schoolcraft’s accusations.

The department’s Office of Management Analysis and Planning’s quality-assurance division “is looking into charges by a police officer there that complaints were discouraged or not properly recorded,” Mr. Browne said.

When pressed, he acknowledged that the audiotape recordings disclosed in The Voice were part of that review. The Office of Management Analysis and Planning “is looking at this whole issue, and has been for some time,” Mr. Browne said.

Roy T. Richter, the president of the Captains’ Endowment Association, said he believed there was a “reasonable explanation,” for each of Officer Schoolcraft’s claims. He said Inspector Mauriello “has the overwhelming support of his community.”

Mr. Richter said he was confident that the department would investigate anyone whose voices were heard on the tapes. He said the recordings struck him as a kind of clipped station house “banter,” that was meant to be motivational but that might have veered into the inappropriate at times.

“It’s more meant as an informal approach versus a formal training,” he said. “It’s someone telling you in 30 seconds your function, and what you need to get done, when that explanation really requires all day.”
136 2010-06-04 BEIJING (Reuters) — Beijing will increase the city’s minimum wage by 20 percent, state media reported on Thursday, the latest sign of rising labor costs in the world’s third-largest economy.

Minimum wage in the Chinese capital will be increased to 960 renminbi ($140) a month from 800 renminbi on July 1, the official Xinhua news agency said.

Provinces and cities throughout the country have raised their minimum wage this year as companies have reported growing labor shortages with migrant workers from the interior choosing to seek jobs in small cities closer to their homes.

A strike at a Honda Motor car parts factory that began month was resolved Wednesday after the company offered its workers a 24 percent pay raise, showing how the balance of power in the country’s factories is gradually tipping toward workers.

Stung by labor shortages and a rash of suicides at its factories in southern China, Foxconn Technology has raised the salaries of many of its Chinese workers by a third.
137 2010-06-04 In one episode, Rose, a rather dense Pollyanna, wonders if it’s possible to love two men at the same time.

“Set the scene,” Blanche replies. “Have we been drinking?”

Some critics saw “The Golden Girls” as a progenitor of shows like “Sex and the City” (about four young women given smart, funny lines).

Ms. McClanahan had appeared in the sitcom “All in the Family,” which broke ground with topical humor, and its spinoff “Maude,” in which she played the best friend of the liberated, middle-aged title character (Ms. Arthur).

She also acted in movies as well as on and off Broadway. In 1970 she won an Obie for her role in the Off Broadway show “Who’s Happy Now?,” a family drama by Oliver Hailey in which she played the father’s mistress. She reprised the role on PBS in 1975.

In her autobiography, “My First Five Husbands ... and the Ones Who Got Away” (2007), Ms. McClanahan wrote that one of her proudest moments was getting a letter from Tennessee Williams about her performance as Caitlin Thomas, the poet’s wife, in “Dylan,” Sidney Michaels’s play about Dylan Thomas.

“Your work is that rare combination of earthiness and lapidary polish,” Williams wrote, “that quality being utterly common and utterly noble. Frippery combined with fierceness.”

But it was Ms. McClanahan’s part in “The Golden Girls” that stands out in popular memory.

To Ms. McClanahan, “The Golden Girls” was special for allowing its women to be funny and many-sided, not stock figures, recognizing “that when people mature, they add layers,” as she told The New York Times in 1985.

“They don’t turn into other creatures,” she added. “The truth is, we all still have our child, our adolescent and our young woman living in us.”

Eddi-Rue McClanahan was born in Healdton, Okla., on Feb. 21, 1934. Her first name was a contraction of her parents’ middle names. She dropped the Eddi when, mistaken for a man, she was drafted into military service after high school. She grew up in towns in Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana as her father, a building contractor, moved around.

She made her stage debut at age 4 in a local production of “The Three Little Kittens.” “A character actor even then,” she told People magazine.

She was offered dance scholarships to college but chose to major in drama at the University of Tulsa. She graduated with honors in 1956.

Moving to New York to study ballet and drama, Ms. McClanahan made her professional debut in 1957 at the Erie Playhouse in Erie, Pa. On a scholarship she took a four-week acting course at the Pasadena Playhouse in California, where one of her roles was Blanche DuBois in Williams’s “Streetcar Named Desire.” She later said that her Blanche on “Girls” was inspired by both Blanche DuBois and Scarlett O’Hara of “Gone With the Wind.”

For most of the next decade she appeared onstage in New York. She originated the role of Lady MacBird in “MacBird!,” Barbara Garson’s comic melding of President Lyndon B. Johnson’s ascent to power and “Macbeth.” Ms. McClanahan’s Broadway debut was as a prostitute in Murray Schisgal’s “Jimmy Shine,” which starred Dustin Hoffman as an unsuccessful abstract painter.

Reviewing “Who’s Happy Now?” in 1969, Edith Oliver wrote in The New Yorker that Ms. McClanahan’s portrayal of an innocent, sunny waitress was a “first-rate comedy performance that is always legitimate — no hokum, nothing but truth.”

Ms. McClanahan had been appearing sporadically on television and in low-budget movies when Norman Lear tapped her for a spot on “All in the Family” in 1972. She played half of a married couple who, after being invited to dinner, reveal that they are swingers.

Mr. Lear also cast her for a guest appearance on “Maude,” a part that grew into a regular role as Vivian Harmon, Maude’s fluttery, unliberated friend.

Brandon Tartikoff, the president of NBC Entertainment, got the idea for “Girls” after seeing statistics showing that about 37 percent of Americans were at least 45 years old. He passed the concept on to Susan Harris, a television writer who had created series like “Benson” and “Soap.” She was inspired by her grandmother, who had remained active until her death at 93.

“A gift from the gods,” Ms. McClanahan called her placement in the series. NBC decided to cast her against the unworldly type she had played on “Maude” and give her the sex-charged role. Betty White, who had played the man-hungry Sue Ann Nivens on the “The Mary Tyler Moore Show,” was the ditsy Rose.

After “The Golden Girls” ended in 1992, Ms. McClanahan appeared in a spinoff, “The Golden Palace.” She also had roles in movies like “Out to Sea,” a comedy starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau, and on Broadway in “Wicked.” Away from acting, she delivered a lecture titled “Aging Gracefully” and campaigned for animal rights.

Ms. McClanahan is survived by her sixth husband, Morrow Wilson; her son, Mark T. Bish; and her sister, Dr. Melinda Lou McClanahan.

Ms. McClanahan, who never tired of talking about Blanche, was wise to her. Though Sophia, the dotty mother of the witty, dominant Dorothy, could be pointed, calling Blanche “Sheena, Queen of the Slut People,” Ms. McClanahan saw the character differently — as a woman who mainly just talked about sex.

As for Ms. McClanahan herself, she wasn’t a vamp, she told People magazine; she liked to grow tomatoes and make quilts.

Still, in her book, she offered “fun in bed quotients” for married and unmarried lovers. And she had a pat answer when asked if she was like Blanche: “Well, Blanche was an oversexed, self-involved, man-crazy, vain Southern belle from Atlanta — and I’m not from Atlanta.”
138 2010-06-04 MOSCOW — The British oil giant BP conceded another setback Thursday in its struggle to recover hundreds of millions of dollars in investments from a venture to sell Russian natural gas to China.

Long before its fortunes dimmed with the oil spill gushing into the Gulf of Mexico, BP was embattled in Russia as the Kremlin wanted more control and a larger share of the profit from oil and natural gas extraction on its territory. The result was a major project mothballed — and now bankrupted.

Through its Russian joint venture TNK-BP, the British oil giant is a partial owner and a creditor in the company developing the Kovykta natural gas field in eastern Siberia, near China.

The venture embodied a long envisioned goal of Western investors to connect Russia’s energy riches with China’s insatiable demand; instead, that is a business that now appears will be dominated and closely controlled by Russian state companies.

BP’s purchase of the field in early 1990s looked prescient, before the project became bogged down in Russian energy politics. In 2003, BP combined its assets in Russia into a joint venture with local partners to form TNK-BP, and four years later they agreed to sell the Kovykta field to Gazprom.
139 2010-06-04 The 200-pound Great Dane who lumbers through “Marmaduke” just can’t help himself. When his owners, Phil and Debbie Winslow (Lee Pace and Judy Greer), are snuggling in bed, that darned dog (voiced by Owen Wilson) has a habit of noisily releasing gas that is noxious enough to erase any immediate prospects of romance.

There you have the conceptual bottom line of this live-action movie based on a long-running newspaper cartoon and directed by Tom Dey (“Failure to Launch”). Like most movies aimed at the kindergarten set, “Marmaduke” balances its giggly, gross-out gags with a stern moral agenda.

When Phil takes a job for an organic pet food company and moves his family to Orange County, Calif., from Kansas, Marmaduke has to fit in with the local pups he encounters in a dog park. He soon becomes top dog through a sneaky ruse he concocts with his best friend, Carlos (George Lopez), the Winslows’ cat, whom he pretends to menace in front of the other dogs. When his fake bravery is discovered, he is persona non grata.

The local pooches are like any elementary school hierarchy, with pedigreed dogs setting themselves apart from the mutts. Bosco (a sneering, raspy-voiced Kiefer Sutherland) and Jezebel (a coy Fergie) are the ruling alphas. Marmaduke is introduced to the group by Mazie (Emma Stone), a kindly, tomboyish rescue dog who fancies him but whom he ignores to pursue Jezebel.

But before Marmaduke and Phil (who has become so work-obsessed that he ignores his family) redeem themselves with the help of a YouTube video, the movie trots out set pieces of doggie surfing and doggie break dancing, and of a wild all-dog party that trashes the Winslows’ living room. These cinematic feats are accomplished with meat-cleaver editing and awkward, jittery computer-generated imagery. The well-cast voices for the expressionless animals are at least good for a few smirks.
140 2010-06-04 Re “Speaking Up to Stay Silent” (editorial, June 2): I’d like to clarify the American Civil Liberties Union’s position on the recent Miranda decision by the Supreme Court, to which you refer in your editorial.

Our position is that a suspect’s constitutional right to remain silent, which Miranda was designed to protect, must be respected unless it is clearly waived, either orally or in writing.

Unlike a majority of the Supreme Court, moreover, we do not believe that a suspect waives his right to remain silent by remaining silent while he is questioned by the police for nearly three hours.
141 2010-06-04 Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has denied any systematic discrimination and asserts that any claims should be tried individually, not as a class action that would sweep in more than a million current and former employees.

The lower courts have ruled that the case could proceed as a class action, but this summer, Wal-Mart plans to ask the Supreme Court to overturn the class certification.

Akin Gump’s report, which has never been made public, foreshadowed the claims made by the plaintiffs in the lawsuit, known as Dukes v. Wal-Mart. Outside legal experts say the report is likely to be protected by attorney-client privilege, and thus probably could not be introduced as evidence to support the sex discrimination claims.

But Brad Seligman, the lead lawyer for the women suing Wal-Mart, says he intends to subpoena the report, which he had not known about, in hopes of using it in the case.

Wal-Mart said on Wednesday that the Akin Gump document was “deeply flawed” and “stale.”

“This memo is 15 years old and has no bearing or relevance to the Dukes case or our strong employment practices and diversity programs,” said David Tovar, a Wal-Mart spokesman. “We are proud of our work to promote diversity at Wal-Mart and are continually recognized for our efforts.”

The report, which the company asserted was “confidential and privileged,” was made available to The New York Times by someone not involved in the lawsuit who said that Wal-Mart had not done enough to address the issues it raised.

Akin Gump estimated that for 1993 alone, Wal-Mart’s potential legal exposure in a class-action sex discrimination suit was $185 million to $740 million. Mr. Seligman said the women suing Wal-Mart were seeking damages for every year since 1997, meaning the company could be on the hook for billions of dollars.

The report examined employment patterns at all Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club stores. It found that men employed by Wal-Mart as department managers, an hourly position, earned 5.8 percent more than women in those positions in 1993 ($236.80 versus $223.70). Men in salaried jobs earned $644.20 a week compared with $540.50 for women.

Akin Gump also found large disparities in job assignments. Fifty-five percent of women were initially hired as cashiers compared with 12 percent of men. Twenty-nine percent of men were initially hired in receiving jobs like unloading, which generally pay at least 20 percent more than cashier jobs, compared with 7 percent of women.

The law firm found smaller, but still significant, disparities in the company’s employment of black employees.

The report warned that the overall disparities it found were “statistically significant and sufficient to warrant a finding of discrimination unless the company can demonstrate at trial that the statistical disparities are caused by legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors.”

Wal-Mart criticized Akin Gump’s methodology, saying it had deliberately mimicked the type of statistical analysis done by plaintiffs’ lawyers in class-action cases. Even using that methodology, the retailer said, Akin Gump did not find significant disparities between the hourly wages of men and women.

Mr. Tovar, the Wal-Mart spokesman, also said that in the last five years, Wal-Mart has told its 50,000 managers to promote more women and minorities, with 15 percent of managers’ bonuses tied to achieving diversity goals. Women now hold 45.8 percent of assistant store manager positions — a pipeline to higher-level jobs — up from 39.7 percent five years ago.

Employment experts say there can be innocent reasons for the types of disparities found by Akin Gump. For example, women might apply disproportionately to be cashiers and men disproportionately to work in receiving. But there could be improper discriminatory reasons for the differences, like managers believing that cashier jobs are for women.

Akin Gump recommended that Wal-Mart document applicants’ job preferences, post notice of all openings and training opportunities, establish promotion goals and timetables for women and minorities, and monitor progress. It also suggested that the company set up a mandatory arbitration system for employment claims to reduce the risks of court cases.

Company documents and depositions in the lawsuit suggest that Wal-Mart’s initial adoption of the report’s recommendations was fitful and incomplete.

Wal-Mart began posting more, but not all, job openings and adopted numerical goals for promoting women. But in a February 2000 memorandum to Wal-Mart board members, Coleman H. Peterson, executive vice president for human resources at the time, bemoaned the lack of progress toward diversity goals.

“Female management representation at Wal-Mart super centers, Sam’s and logistics and, therefore, total company are worse than prior year,” he wrote in the memorandum, which was turned over to the plaintiffs.

And in June 2002, Wal-Mart’s senior vice president for human resources sent a memorandum voicing alarm that “we do not have a poster, brochure” that explained “how to get promoted into the management training program,” according to documents in the case.

Mr. Seligman, the plaintiffs’ lawyer, says the Akin Gump report, which he has not seen, would seem to confirm that “top managers were fully aware that women were not getting promoted in proper numbers.”

George Fisher, a Stanford University law professor who specializes in evidence, said he doubted that a judge would allow the plaintiffs’ lawyers to subpoena the report because it was protected by attorney-client privilege. Another legal expert concurred.

Akin Gump’s findings parallel those of the plaintiffs’ main expert, Richard Drogin, an emeritus statistics professor at California State University, East Bay, who examined payroll data from 1996 to 2002 that Wal-Mart provided in the case.

Mr. Drogin found that among hourly workers in 2001, the year the lawsuit was brought, women earned about $1,100, or 6 percent, less a year than men, while among salaried employees, women earned $14,500, or 26 percent, less.

Mr. Drogin also found that 65 percent of Wal-Mart’s overall work force was female in 2001, compared with 33 percent of its managers.

A study by Joan Haworth, an expert hired by Wal-Mart, disputed that analysis, finding that more than 90 percent of the stores had no statistically significant pay differences between men and women.

Mr. Tovar, the Wal-Mart spokesman, said groups representing women and minorities had repeatedly recognized the company’s performance on diversity in recent years.

“We use state-of-the-art hiring and promotional systems to make sure that every applicant has the opportunity to apply and be considered for any position they’re qualified for and interested in,” he said.

Akin Gump has long worked for Wal-Mart, although it does not represent the company in the sex discrimination suit. Jose H. Villarreal was a partner at the firm when he served on Wal-Mart’s board from 1998 to 2006.
142 2010-06-04 Judging by its silly title, not to mention the feathered hair and police station banter, “Buddy Cop 2” seems as if it could be a joke-filled love letter to Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. But don’t be fooled. Set in the 1980s, this downtown gem, full of minor-key revelations and offhand epiphanies, roots its quirky charm in an earnest and surprising realism.

At times the chilling mood warms unexpectedly. Romantic tension sits like a forgotten prop. Secret histories turn out to be rather ordinary. This charming, offbeat play from the Debate Society of Brooklyn is sneakily funny, but not at the expense of its characters, mumbling sweeties who play bingo, collect beer cans and take pride in their work. Hannah Bos and Paul Thureen, the playwrights who also star as law-enforcement officers working in one of the less dangerous small towns of Indiana, have a lived-in chemistry. She’s new to the job, and he’s testing her, but their gentle, slightly uneasy attraction to each other draws you in.

The director, Oliver Butler, stages the play with patience, allowing the actors room to fill in their characters with quiet, illuminating moments. In between their scenes, which sometimes include a lovably gruff turn by Michael Cyril Creighton as a fellow police officer with a troubled past, a strange story emerges about a girl named Skylar (Monique Vukovic), who is dying of cancer. Her health has become big local news, and the town has rallied around her. The name of this girl is on hats, T-shirts and everyone’s lips. She has given purpose to many people, and when the governor and his daughter arrive to pay tribute, the officers are thrilled when they are asked to work security.

The play explores lives and places in transition. The station was destroyed in a flood, so the police moved into a recreation center, splendidly evoked in naturalistic detail by Laura Jellinek, who packs three distinct rooms onto the cluttered Ontological Theater’s stage, home to so many Richard Foreman plays. The office sits in front of a glass-paned hallway and a racquetball court where the officers blow off steam.

The broken-up components of the set make it look like a kind of maze, and it’s interesting how, despite such an intimate theater, it can take characters a long time to go a short distance. The same is true of the buddy cops in this play. They flirt and joke and gossip a little, and before you realize it, they seem to know what the other is thinking. And while the plot about the dying girl does move faster, this gradually unfolding romance will be what really fires your imagination.
143 2010-06-04 “I would call the whole festival essentially an art party,” said Laura Braslow, an organizer. “What people are producing is rarely just an open studio or just a gallery opening. In a lot of cases it will include music and video. We’ve stopped distinguishing between open studios and events because there’s so much overlap.”

For people whose art forays rarely extend beyond Chelsea’s Thursday-night gallery openings, the festival in Bushwick, Brooklyn, held mostly in alternative spaces, offers entrée into a more underground scene. “It’s very, very easy to plug into our events,” said Chloe Bass, another organizer. “A lot of times in a gallery setting you feel like you have to know somebody in order to really be engaged, and here that’s really not the case. The goal is that each thing links to the next thing, so it’s not just about showing the work of these particular artists, but getting people to recognize Bushwick as a community.”

Equally accessible — and more centrally located — are the salons hosted by Gilles Larrain, a photographer, in his studio in SoHo. Like Mr. Scharf, Mr. Larrain, 71, came of age artistically in 1970s and ’80s New York. In 1974 he bought a six-story building on Grand Street for — wait for it — $95,000. He set up an apartment for his family on the top floor and turned the basement into his workspace; everyone from Mikhail Baryshnikov to Robert Mapplethorpe, Miles Davis to Billy Joel, passed through. Now the area where they posed serves as the stage.

“That place, it has a special energy,” Mr. Larrain said. “Something of them is left after the photograph. It’s kind of voodoolike, but that’s what I feel.”

His salons, held on the last Thursday of each month, include life drawing with models, mostly unclothed, then music, dance or spoken word. Mr. Larrain is the curator with this wife, Louda, a textile and fashion designer, and Thomas J. Shelford, a painter who serves as the M.C. Jules Cazedessus, 43, a producer, is a regular. “I like to think of it as the Factory without the ego,” Ms. Cazedessus said.

Or as Mr. Larrain put it: “This is a moment to be creative. What else can you do? Nobody is buying anything.”

At last month’s salon a few dozen people — the space holds about 120 — gathered around a table laden with wine, cheese, sausage, sweets and an Asian pork dish of Mr. Larrain’s invention. (He was born in Indonesia.) His wife tended the snacks — unlimited food and drink are included in the $30 ticket price — while he dumped bottles of peach brandy and tequila in the punch. The crowd was international and chatty. (“So, tell me more about you,” an accented guy said to a comely brunette. “Do you play an instrument?”) And at regular intervals Mr. Shelford, addressing the crowd as Salonistas, announced an act or a changing of models (equal opportunity, men and women).

Among the people there to draw was Elizabeth Sollazo, who teaches art in a medium-security prison on Staten Island. She said she views the salon time as a way to de-stress. “It’s beautiful,” she said, sketching. “It helps.”

Gary Abatelli, 60, a photographer, added: “It reminds me of the old days where artists would just get together, as opposed to everything being business. This is a place where artists get together and do what we like to do, exchange ideas.”

“Plus,” said Matthew Rossi, 24, who works in real estate, “there’s nudity.”

Yes, that does tend to draw a crowd. Many of the current crop of art events are clothing-optional. For the last year the photographer Sarah Small has been organizing tableaux vivants in unusual spaces, photographing performers in lively and frozen states of undress. The Gallery Bar on the Lower East Side of Manhattan is home to “naked painting” parties. On Saturday the Cosmic Cavern will host the artist Michael Allen’s Living Installation, in which volunteers are welcome to strip down and join the models.

But all this revelry - dancing, drinks, exuberant youth - can be hard to manage. One solution is to go invitation-only, as the Manhattan artist Ryan McGinness, has. Since last July he has been staging a series of 50 weekly parties with different themes, like "Sunshine," "Prom" and, Friday night, "Search" in and around his studio. If you can't get invited to those, Mr. McGinley, the photographer, helps organize a regular Thursday night open-to-the public party at B.East, a bar near Chinatown.

Getting a glimpse of this scene gives a quick sense of the city’s artistic temperament. Kathy Grayson, 29, the outgoing director of the Deitch Gallery and a regular at the Cavern, praised it for bringing together different generations of artists. “This really captures what you hope was awesome about the ’80s,” she said. “Did you see that guy last month who had Muppets on his hands? I don’t know how he held a drink.”

But there’s always a comedown: Mr. Scharf said he was considering making his next party, on July 2, his last, so he could work on a forthcoming exhibition.

“As much as I love deviants and the party, and even though it’s only once a month, it’s a lot of energy and focus,” he said, in an interview while riding his bike home to Brooklyn from Manhattan. “We’re calling it the last one,” he added. “But maybe it’ll be like Cher,” on perpetual return engagement.

If he stops having the party, where will he go to dance?

Mr. Scharf was silent for a minute, thinking and pedaling.

“That’s the problem,” he said.
144 2010-06-04 DETROIT — Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said Thursday that banks needed to increase lending to small businesses to reduce unemployment and help the economic recovery.

Outstanding loans to small businesses declined to $660 billion in the first quarter of 2010, from almost $700 billion two years ago, Mr. Bernanke said, adding that it was difficult to tell whether the decrease was a result of reduced demand or tightened credit standards. In any case, he said, increasing the flow of capital to small companies was crucial to the recovery.

“While maintaining appropriate prudence, lenders should do all they can to meet the needs of legitimate, creditworthy borrowers,” Mr. Bernanke said at a meeting at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago’s branch in Detroit. “Encouraging lending to small businesses that are well positioned to pay is a positive, not a negative, for the safety and soundness of our banking system.”

Healthy small businesses are critical to job growth but have a harder time expanding payrolls than large companies without sufficient access to credit, Mr. Bernanke said. He said only 40 percent of small businesses that tried to borrow in 2009 had all of their needs satisfied.

In response to complaints from small-business owners, the Obama administration has proposed a $30 billion fund that would encourage community banks to increase lending.

Thursday’s event was one of 40 being sponsored by the Federal Reserve across the country. Findings from the meetings will be discussed at a conference this summer.
145 2010-06-04 TOKYO — Hoping for a second chance to fulfill a historic election mandate for change, Japan’s governing Democratic Party on Friday chose a plain-spoken finance minister with activist roots to be the party’s next leader.

The internal party vote virtually assures that the finance minister, Naoto Kan, 63, will become the nation’s next prime minister, replacing Yukio Hatoyama, who resigned Wednesday over broken campaign pledges.

Mr. Kan faces an uphill task in trying to win back the public support that Mr. Hatoyama had squandered in months of indecision over the fate of an American military base. He must also help the party regain the momentum it had in August after winning a landslide election victory that ended a half-century of virtual one-party rule.

The cabinet resigned en masse Friday morning to clear the way for the new prime minister to appoint a new cabinet.

Before Friday’s party vote, Mr. Kan vowed to refocus the party on its original goal of ending Japan’s two-decade stagnation. He said he would do this by tackling two of Japan’s most daunting problems, its anemic growth rates and ballooning public debt.
146 2010-06-05 Despite the Mets' dominance at Citi Field, attendance is down more than 15 percent this year....
147 2010-06-05 Seeking your questions (and comments) about taking Fido along to college....
148 2010-06-05 In the season premiere of "Bethenny Getting Married?," Bethenny tells her fiance, Jason, that she is seeing a therapist. The show airs on June 10.
149 2010-06-05 A video blogger suggests that a top cyclist might have been riding a bike with a secret motor in two races he won this year....
150 2010-06-05 Live analysis of the women's final at the French Open....
151 2010-06-05 Richard Fuld, the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers Holdings, asked a judge on Friday to toss out an investor lawsuit that accused him and other Lehman officials of failing to disclose a controversial accounting technique known as repo 105. In court papers filed in United States District Court, lawyers for Mr. Fuld and other Lehman officials argued that the investor class-action lawsuit did not have a basis for trying to turn claims that Lehman’s use of the accounting technique hid its true financial picture into securities law violations. The suit claims Lehman’s securities were artificially inflated by using the repo technique. In seeking to dismiss the lawsuit, the executives defended Lehman’s accounting and said that, while the bankruptcy court-appointed examiner found Lehman may have actionable claims against executives and auditors for undisclosed use of the repo 105 technique, the report did not conclude those claims also existed under securities laws.
152 2010-06-05 The Securities and Exchange Commission delayed trading curbs for Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index listings when they rise or fall 10 percent in five minutes, saying they will be implemented within two weeks. The announcement was made in an e-mail statement. NYSE Euronext said earlier Friday that it would not start its trial of the system on June 7 because it had not received S.E.C. authorization. The Nasdaq OMX Group is prepared to introduce circuit breakers on the S.& P. 500 companies it lists on June 14, pending S.E.C. approval, a spokesman, Robert Madden, said.
153 2010-06-05 “That’s not true,” Minaya said. “I don’t know anything about that. That was never presented to me.”

Perez was in the clubhouse Friday but did not speak with reporters.

Perez has a record of 0-3 and an earned run average of 6.28. He has been relegated to mop-up relief appearances despite being in the middle year of a three-year contract worth $36 million.

In other moves Friday, the Mets brought up infielder Ruben Tejada from Class AAA Buffalo and catcher Omir Santos from Class AA Binghamton.

They put Luis Castillo on the disabled list and cut outfielder Gary Matthews Jr.

Tejada replaced Castillo, the regular second baseman, who went on the 15-day disabled list with a bruised right heel. Tejada was in the starting lineup Friday, playing second base and batting eighth.

Castillo has been playing with soreness and Manager Jerry Manuel said he needed full rest. “We definitely don’t want a setback,” Manuel said. “The rest will give him an ample amount of time.”

Santos was called up because Henry Blanco, the backup catcher, has a sore neck. Manuel said the Mets would keep three catchers for a few days.

“Henry is a little banged up,” Manuel said. After two or three days, Manuel said, “We’ll see what’s going on.”

Matthews has $23 million left on a contract that runs through 2011, but $21 million is being paid by the Los Angeles Angels, the team that traded him to the Mets for pitcher Brian Stokes before the season. Matthews was batting .190, mostly as a pinch-hitter and backup center fielder.

In the absence of the injured Carlos Beltran, Angel Pagan has been the Mets’ regular center fielder. Going into Friday night’s game, Pagan was batting .293.

“Angel has proven he can be an everyday player,” Manuel said. “He gives us a switch-hitter with some power, a guy that has enough speed that he can play in the top of the order. He’s been a big, big positive.”

Beltran batted six times on Friday in Port St. Lucie, Fla., in his first simulated game against minor leaguers. His return is expected in four to six weeks.

If the Mets need a backup to Pagan before Beltran returns, Manuel said Jason Bay would move from left field to center field and Chris Carter would play in left.

Niese last pitched for the Mets on May 16 and left with a minor hamstring injury. He underwent major surgery on the hamstring last season.

“All that happened this time was just scar tissue breaking up,” Niese said. “It was more of a scare than anything.”

Niese worked a minor-league rehabilitation start May 31 at Buffalo and reported no problems, only normal soreness, after throwing 80 pitches.

Another starting pitcher, John Maine, has been on the disabled list since May 21 with weakness in his right shoulder. He threw before Friday’s game and said he felt “fine, other than a migraine. My arm feels good. That’s all that matters.”
154 2010-06-05 Lowden has been savaging Angle with wildly overblown ads that claim she once introduced a bill to provide massage therapy to prison inmates. The squabbles are so fierce that they are at least temporarily overshadowing anti-Reid commercials that feature his unfortunate choice of words about visitors to our nation’s halls of government. (“You can literally smell the tourists coming into the Capitol.”)

Over in , voters are deciding whether the $81 million spent by , the ex- chief, on her campaign will be enough to win the Republican gubernatorial nomination. Really, for somebody who made her fortune creating bargain-hunting opportunities, this seems wrong. You could buy entire states for $80 million. Whitman could probably have snapped up for half that amount, and it doesn’t even have a deficit.

The winner of the primary will take on Jerry Brown, who has already been governor twice but is running as an outsider because all that happened before most Californians were born.

Yet everything else pales next to South Carolina, where State Representative Nikki Haley and Lt. Gov. Andre Bauer are fighting over who is the true Tea Party candidate. Recently, two political consultants came forward and claimed that they had had sexual encounters with Haley, whose campaign puts quite a bit of stress on God and her happy marriage. Haley says she smells a Bauer plot.

Indeed, one of the consultants, Larry Marchant Jr., was working for Bauer until this week when he announced that he and Haley had hooked up during a school choice conference in in 2008.

Marchant spun his saga of vouchers and lust. (“We’d gone to dinner. I had some drinks. Things happened.”) Much harder to believe was the part where he kept the story secret until the last week of the gubernatorial primary when he suddenly felt compelled to confess to his pregnant wife, his employer and the world.

I am a very credulous person. There was a minute there when I believed that ’s married gofer was the father of the lusty videographer’s love child. But this one is a reach.

One of Bauer’s other supporters, State Senator Jake Knotts, managed to unite the state in a moment of mass revulsion when he went on the radio to say he opposed Haley, who is Indian-American, because “we already got one raghead in the White House. We don’t need another in the governor’s mansion.”

Knotts seemed to feel as if it was unfair for anyone to quote him since he made his remarks on “a freewheeling, anything-goes Internet radio show that is broadcast from a pub. It’s like local political version of ‘ .’ ” He is possibly the only person in America who is unaware that 1) “Saturday Night Live” has a script, and 2) it is never a good plan to appear on a talk show that takes place inside a saloon.

When Bauer was last heard from, he was demanding that Haley take a lie detector test about her sex life, while Haley was vowing that if elected, she would resign from office if it was ever proved that she had had extracurricular sex. This seems like a terrible idea. South Carolina has big economic problems, and you do not want the next governor fending off adultery challenges 24-7. Been there. Done that.
155 2010-06-05 “While I am disappointed at the outcome, I feel it was a privilege to wear the Orioles uniform each day,” Trembley said.

As far as finding a permanent replacement, MacPhail said he would “talk to other people” in the weeks ahead about taking over the job. “We need to find the right fit here,” he said.

RANGERS RALLY TO BEAT RAYS The rookie Justin Smoak and Josh Hamilton each homered, and the host Texas Rangers rallied from a four-run deficit to defeat the Tampa Bay Rays, 9-6. The Rays lost for only the seventh time in 28 road games. ... Jason Kendall had three hits and three runs batted in to help Bruce Chen and the Kansas City Royals beat the visiting Detroit Tigers, 7-3.

SIZEMORE HAS SURGERY Cleveland Indians center fielder Grady Sizemore will be out six to nine months after having microfracture surgery on his left knee. In Chicago, Sizemore’s teammates rolled to an easy victory, 10-1, against the White Sox as Justin Masterson ended an 11-decision losing streak. ... Doug Fister of the Seattle Mariners, who is second in the American League in earned run average, will miss his scheduled start Saturday because of tightness in his shoulder.

YANKEES’ SERIES RING STOLEN A pitching coach for the Staten Island Yankees, Patrick Daneker, 34, told the police that his $10,000 World Series ring was stolen after a night of partying in Tampa, Fla.

HALLADAY IS GOOD ENOUGH Roy Halladay pitched seven innings in his first start since his perfect game, working out of trouble to help the Philadelphia Phillies beat the visiting San Diego Padres, 3-2. Halladay (8-3) allowed 10 hits and walked one, but got all the run support he needed when Shane Victorino, who homered earlier, scored on a two-out, bases-loaded walk in the fifth. ... Ian Desmond hit a run-scoring single to break a seventh-inning tie as the host Washington Nationals beat the Cincinnati Reds, 4-2.

SHUTOUT FOR WAINWRIGHT Adam Wainwright pitched a shutout and Colby Rasmus had a two-run homer to lead the host St. Louis Cardinals to an 8-0 win over the Milwaukee Brewers. Wainwright (8-3), in his 98th career start, gave up two hits in the first shutout of his career. The Cardinals ended a four-game home losing streak to the Brewers.

ASTROS WIN 4TH IN A ROW Felipe Paulino struck out seven in eight innings, outpitching Carlos Zambrano and helping the host Houston Astros beat the Chicago Cubs, 3-1, for their fourth straight win. Zambrano (1-4) allowed three runs and six hits over four and a third innings in his first start since April 20. The Cubs have lost four in a row.

SUBPOENA FOR SEGUI The former major leaguer David Segui told ESPN.com that he had been subpoenaed to appear before the federal grand jury investigating possible perjury charges against Roger Clemens.

U.S. TRUSTEE PICKS RODRIGUEZ The United States Trustee, an arm of the Justice Department, has selected the Yankees’ Alex Rodriguez to be on a three-member committee representing the Texas Rangers’ unsecured creditors during the team’s bankruptcy. Rodriguez, who used to play for the Rangers, holds the largest unsecured claim against the club — $24.9 million in deferred compensation, according to documents. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
156 2010-06-05 David Einhorn argues in “Easy Money, Hard Truths” (Op-Ed, May 27) that we should “get rid of official credit ratings,” that it would be better to have investors rather than rating agencies assess credit-seeking entities and that the creditworthiness of governments should not be determined by rating agencies.

On some points, we agree with Mr. Einhorn. At Standard & Poor’s we have strongly supported efforts to remove from regulations the mandate that ratings be required for certain securities. We want to compete on the value we bring to investors, not because it’s mandated by the government.

And while he is correct that investors should have a choice about the benchmarks that they use in evaluating investments, we would argue that choice should include credit ratings. Our ratings have performed as expected across most sectors even during the credit crisis, with the notable exception of United States residential mortgage-backed securities. Outside the United States, our ratings on mortgage securities performed in line with expectations.

From our standpoint, credit ratings are a starting point — not the ending point — of sound investment research. The market benefits from competing views on credit risk, whether from ratings firms or others.

Finally, rating agencies have provided an independent view of sovereign risk, and the ratings have generally performed well. Since 1975, on average only 1.1 percent of Standard & Poor’s investment-grade sovereigns have defaulted on their foreign-currency debt within 15 years. That’s a strong track record.

The writer is senior vice president for marketing and communications for Standard & Poor’s. She was formerly senior vice president for corporate communications at The New York Times Company.
157 2010-06-05 PARIS — Venus and Serena Williams remember the first time they played doubles together, more than 20 years ago, when they were “superyoung,” Serena said. And when they thought about it Friday, they could not stop laughing.

“Oh, it was so funny,” Serena said. She could hardly get the story out.

Their buoyant mood was lightened by another doubles title — this one over Kveta Peschke and Katarina Srebotnik in two sets, 6-2, 6-3.

It was their 12th Grand Slam doubles championship. Their first came at the French Open in 1999, when both were teenagers, and it boggles the mind to consider how many more they might have had they not opted out of doubles for about five years in the middle of their careers.

The sisters have won the past four Grand Slam tournaments — what they called the Williams Slam on Friday — and six of the past eight since renewing their commitment to doubles leading up to the 2008 Summer Olympics. They won that, too, in Beijing.

“We just realize what it’s like to have that major title next to your name,” Venus said. “And it’s pretty addictive.”
158 2010-06-05 Jane King, president of Fairfield Financial Advisers in Wellesley, Mass., relates her own experience to clients. Her husband had two children from his first marriage and then they had a child together.

“If we were worth $3, he thought all three children should get $1, including the one we were expecting,” she said. “The other two were 15 to 20 years older. I said the older children should get 50 cents and our child should get $2. That didn’t go over well.”

Her point was that his children had largely been educated by that time and they also had their mother to help them out. Their daughter would need more financial help to be reared should anything happen to them while she was still a child.

Such a conversation may cause parents to cringe and fights to break out among spouses. But Ms. King said being open with spouses and children is essential to managing expectations, if not keeping harmony, in any blended family.

She counsels clients not to dismiss the feelings of older children who feel the child from a second marriage has a better childhood. That may be the reality, if the couple is now earning more and happier in their new marriage.

“The older children think the younger children have a better life, and they’re kind of right,” she said. “You can’t apologize for that. You’ve got to deal with it.”

THE DOCUMENTS However you decide to divide your holdings, it is important to put your wishes in writing. The big debate is fair versus equal, said Ken Kilday, wealth manager at USAA. Fair would be to support children or leave money to them based on their need.

“If it’s not written down, it didn’t happen,” he said. “We don’t want to try to prove daddy meant to leave the money to the second wife, not the kids.”

Ms. Smiley said that in her home state, Kentucky, she would end up with part of her stepfather’s house if her mother died without a will. (So, too, would her brother and stepbrother.) The reason, she said, is that Kentucky law gives the surviving spouse the first $15,000 of personal property and then half of the real estate and other property. The other half, if there is no will, goes to the children.

“In a blended family, you need to sit down and say this is how your money is being distributed, and is this what you really want?” she said. This is where family meetings are helpful.

THE REALITY There is no simple solution, particularly when money and memories are involved. But planning and openness are the best hope for blended family harmony.

Ms. Avery said something as simple as separate checkbooks — divided his, hers and ours — can keep tensions down. “That does two things,” she said. “It gives each person a sense of contribution to the household and the family union. And it takes the stress level off of whatever expenses come up.”

In some cases, a prenuptial agreement helps, particularly when there are much older children from an earlier marriage, said William Forsyth Jr., senior fiduciary counsel at Bessemer Trust. “The concern that stepchildren have is the stepmother or father will be getting his or her money,” he said. “There is a natural antipathy — who is this person taking my money?”

Alpa Panchal, a wealth strategist at Credit Suisse Private Bank, said she advises clients whose spouses are significantly younger to buy life insurance and name the children as beneficiaries, so they will not have to wait for a stepparent to die for their inheritance.

In many cases, though, it is the treasured objects that cause the biggest fights. “Typically you say personal property is to be divided as children deem proper, but that doesn’t work out as well when you have personal property that might have some sentimental value or you want to keep it in the family,” Ms. Panchal said. “So it might be better to give it away in your lifetime or have a list saying this goes to her and that goes to him.”

That may not eliminate family tensions, but it could reduce them.
159 2010-06-05 TOKYO — Naoto Kan, a plain-spoken finance minister with activist roots, was elected prime minister on Friday, making him the fifth Japanese leader in four years.

Mr. Kan, 63, won a vote in the lower house of Parliament and will now go through the formality of being appointed by Emperor Akihito.

Earlier Friday, hoping for a second chance to fulfill a historic election mandate for change, the governing Democratic Party selected Mr. Kan to succeed Yukio Hatoyama, who resigned on Wednesday over broken campaign pledges.

Mr. Kan faces an uphill task in trying to win back the public support that Mr. Hatoyama had squandered in months of indecision over the fate of an American military base. He must also help the party regain the momentum it had in August after winning a landslide election victory that ended a half-century of virtual one-party rule.

Known for his quick temper, Mr. Kan gained national attention in the mid-1990s when, as health minister, he exposed his own ministry’s use of blood tainted with H.I.V. In the Hatoyama administration, he also served as deputy prime minister and was a point man in the party’s push to rein in the secretive central ministries that have run Japan since World War II.
160 2010-06-05 Officials reported tentative signs of progress in their latest efforts to contain the spill, which has pumped millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. Mr. Obama, however, cautioned that “it is way too early to be optimistic.”

The failure to stop the leak has fed concern about the administration’s powerlessness in the face of this crisis, and the White House, hoping to keep an environmental disaster from turning into a political one, has been determined to show that it is fully engaged.

Federal officials have been assigned to look over the claims process to make sure that BP pays valid claims, the president said. “They say they want to make it right  that’s part of their advertising campaign  well we want them to make it right,” he said.

“The fact that BP could pay a $10.5 billion dividend payment is indicative of how much money these folks have been making,” he said. “Given the fact that they didn’t fully account for the risks, I don’t want somebody else bearing the costs of those risks that they took.”

Many local officials have expressed concern that the moratorium on some drilling operations that the president declared could end up harming the Gulf Coast economy as it reels from the oil spill. President Obama said that if a commission he has appointed to study the safety of offshore drilling is able to reach conclusions about how such drilling can be done safely, he would be open to allowing drilling to resume sooner.

“We discovered that companies like BP, who had provided assurances that they had failsafe, back-up, redundant systems, in fact not only didn’t have failsafe systems but had no idea what to do when those failsafe systems broke down,” he said.

In response to the president’s comments, BP said later on Friday that it would be sending another payment this month to people and businesses who lost income due to the oil spill. With the second payment, it said, it will have spent $84 million reimbursing people for their loss of income.

“We deeply regret the impact the oil spill has had on individuals and businesses, and understand the need for quick and reasonable compensation,” Doug Suttles, its chief operating officer, said in a statement.

As for efforts to stanch the flow of oil from the leaking well, Adm. Thad W. Allen of the Coast Guard, who is commanding the federal response to the disaster, said earlier in the day that some oil had been collected in a cap that was placed over the well and that it was beginning to be funneled up to a ship on the surface. But he noted that a great deal of oil was still escaping, by design, through vents in the cap. The vents were intended to let some oil out in order to keep cold Gulf water from rushing in and forming icy hydrates that could block the flow of captured oil to the surface.

Until those vents are closed, it will not be clear whether the cap is seated tightly enough on the cut end of the well’s riser pipe to prevent large amounts of oil from continuing to pour into the Gulf of Mexico, Admiral Allen said. He said that current plans call for closing those vents on Friday.

He said that a rough estimate of the rate at which leaking oil was being captured by the cap was 1,000 barrels a day, a small fraction of the estimated 12,000 to 19,000 barrels of oil a day that is gushing into the Gulf. But he said that as the vents on the cap are progressively closed, more oil should be captured, as long as the seal continues to hold.

The president traveled here to assess the situation and meet with officials responding to the crisis on Friday, after the White House announced late Thursday night that he would be cancelling a trip he had planned to Australia, Indonesia and Guam.

President Obama made the decision to postpone his trip to Indonesia and Australia, Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, told pool reporters traveling here with the president. "The president made the decision that with all that’s going on, particularly on the response right now, it would be difficult to go,” he said.

Mr. Obama has called the spill his “highest priority” and the White House understands it will absorb a considerable portion of the president’s time this summer.

The president arrived at the New Orleans airport in Kenner, La., at 1:07 p.m., and went into a field house at the airport for a briefing from local, state and federal officials. He was greeted at the airport by Admiral Allen and Gulf Coast officials, including Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama and Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida.

From here, the president planned to travel on to Grand Isle, La., officials said.

BP’s chief executive, Tony Hayward, told investors on Friday that “the financial consequences of this incident will undoubtedly be severe,” but that BP’s current finances give it “significant flexibility in dealing with the costs of this incident.” He declined to estimate how much it would cost to stop the leak and clean up the spill.

In his first address to BP investors since the April accident, Mr. Hayward apologized for the damage the company caused to American citizens, to the gulf region, and to the company’s employees, investors and other stakeholders.

“Everyone at BP is heartbroken by this event, by the loss of life and by the damage to the environment and to the livelihoods of the people of the Gulf Coast,” Mr. Hayward said on a call with investors. “It should not have happened, and we are bound and determined to learn every lesson to try and ensure it never happens again.”

BP plans to set up a separate organization to manage the response once the well is no longer leaking oil. That would allow some BP employees to focus exclusively on the situation in the Gulf rather than being sidetracked to run the daily operation of the company, Mr. Hayward said. The unit will be led by Robert Dudley, the former chief executive of BP’s Russian venture.

Mr. Obama’s decision to cancel his Asia trip underscored the way the oil spill is forcing the White House to recalibrate plans for this summer. BP and the government have given up trying to plug the leak and are focusing now on siphoning or containing it until relief wells can be completed, perhaps by August. As a result, the president faces another two months in crisis management before he can even turn his focus exclusively to cleanup and recovery.

On Thursday, the White House announced that it had sent a $69 million bill to BP for the first installment of clean up costs. The White House has made a point of criticizing BP lately and the Justice Department has opened criminal investigation into what caused the April 20 explosion that ultimately sank the Deepwater Horizon rig, killed 11 workers and touched off the leak.

Mr. Obama, who has also been confronted by questions about his cool public reaction, said Thursday night that he is “furious at this entire situation” but does not show it because it does not accomplish anything.

“I would love to just spend a lot of my time venting and yelling at people,” he said on “Larry King Live” on CNN. “But that’s not the job I was hired to do. My job is to solve this problem and ultimately this isn’t about me and how angry I am. Ultimately, this is about the people down in the Gulf who are being impacted and what am I doing to make sure that they’re able to salvage their way of life.”
161 2010-06-05 APPLEMAN--Mark. I see the trace of rose petals fallen and beautiful on the earth, and I think of you. With my love forever, Marguerite....
162 2010-06-05 In the latest back-and-forth over the legality of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's layoffs of hundreds of subway station agents, a judge ruled Friday that the authority violated the law when it closed booths and laid off about 260 agent...
163 2010-06-06 Live analysis of Game 2 of the N.B.A. finals between the Lakers and the Celtics....
164 2010-06-06 The Securities and Exchange Commission delayed trading curbs for Standard & Poor's 500-stock index listings when they rise or fall 10 percent in five minutes, saying they will be implemented within two weeks....
165 2010-06-06 Live analysis of the men's singles final at the French Open....
166 2010-06-06 John W. Douglas, a lawyer who championed civil rights and human rights as an assistant United States attorney general in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations and later in private practice, died on June 2 at his home in Washington. He was 88.

The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Peter.

Mr. Douglas led the Justice Department’s Civil Division from 1963 to 1966. In 1963, he was designated by Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy to represent the government in planning for the Aug. 28 March on Washington, during which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his historic “I Have a Dream” speech.

For five weeks that summer, Mr. Douglas worked with planners of the march and with government agencies like the Washington Police Department, coordinating logistics and security for the event. Attended by approximately 250,000 people, it was one of the largest demonstrations ever held in the capital.

Mr. Douglas left the Justice Department in 1966 to help manage the fourth and last Senate campaign of his father, Paul H. Douglas, Democrat of Illinois, who was defeated that year by Charles H. Percy, a Republican.

In the fall of 1970, Mr. Douglas was co-chairman of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law when it sent dozens of volunteers into the South to take legal action against “in school” segregation of black children in newly integrated school systems.

Mr. Douglas cited testimony before a Senate committee indicating that many black students had been placed in separate classes and barred from extracurricular activities.
167 2010-06-06 Nick Price shot a 65 to pull into a tie with Tommy Armour III after the second round at the Principal Charity Classic in West Des Moines, Iowa. Price will enter Sunday’s final round of the Champions Tour event with at least a share of the lead for the third straight year.
168 2010-06-06 The egregious call at first base by the umpire Jim Joyce that cost a Detroit Tigers pitcher, Armando Galarraga, the chance to be only the 21st major-league pitcher to have tossed a perfect game has unleashed consternation on the land. History is denied! Incompetence reigns! Something must be done! Expand instant replay!

First of all, history wasn’t denied; it was made. Galarraga’s magnificent performance last Wednesday will always be the perfect game with the asterisk, the one every commentator mentions whenever perfect games are mentioned, the tainted perfect game and thus the most famous perfect game of all time.

Second, Joyce’s bungle — and oh, man, it was a beaut! — has hardly reigned. A sturdy baseball citizen who has served in the big leagues with distinction (which for umpires is to say without) since 1989, he was reduced to tears by the fact of his ill-timed mistake and its being trumpeted on front pages and television broadcasts around the world. You think that’s not being held accountable?

And something must be done? Why? Umpires have been ingrained in major-league baseball since the inception of the National League in 1876, somewhere approaching 200,000 games ago, and it’s likely that the umps have botched a call or two in every one of them since then. Somehow this has not eroded the fan base or undermined the integrity of the competition, which is something that the players and the owners have periodically done.

That reality, in fact, should tell us something about the nature of baseball, which is the least programmatic, the least technological of games. It doesn’t even have a clock. The fields have widely varying shapes and sizes, and the primary battleground between offense and defense — i.e., the strike zone — is a box of air with dimensions that have proven impossible to specify. There is a lot less science in baseball, a lot more art, than in any other sport you can name. (Golf and soccer nuts, just pipe down.) It’s an irony that only in baseball do there exist perfect games.

This is the main reason that so many baseball fans are so gaga over statistics, because the game’s ambiguities create a hunger for measurement, for exactitude where it doesn’t exist, and it’s the main reason that baseball is the most written about, most discussed, most intellectually parsed game there is.
169 2010-06-06 Emily Brenna Hecht and Sharon Marie McGowan were married Saturday evening in Boston at Artists for Humanity’s EpiCenter, an event space. Judge Norman H. Stahl of the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit in Boston officiated.

Ms. Hecht, 35, who will change her name to Ms. Hecht-McGowan, is the senior legislative counsel for the Family Equality Council in Washington. She is the organization’s federal lobbyist on gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender family issues. She graduated from American University and received a law degree from Catholic University.

She is the daughter of Joan Hecht of Bridgewater, N.J. Her mother is the director of the Somerset Children’s Treatment Center, a nonprofit agency in Bridgewater that provides rehabilitation therapy for children and young adults.

Ms. McGowan, 36, is a lawyer in the appellate section of the civil rights division of the Justice Department in Washington. She graduated from the University of Virginia and received a law degree from Harvard.

She is a daughter of Marie P. McGowan and Hugh M. McGowan of Flushing, Queens. Her father retired as a lieutenant from the New York Police Department, where he was the commanding officer of the hostage negotiation team. Her mother retired as a secretary at St. Kevin’s Roman Catholic Church in Flushing.
170 2010-06-06 Holly Michelle Weiss and Michael Benjamin Schechter were married Sunday at the Barney Estate in Springfield, Mass. Rabbi Herbert N. Schwartz officiated, and Cantor Morton Shames took part in the ceremony.

Mrs. Schechter, 28, is an English teacher at Stuyvesant High School in New York. She graduated from McGill University and received a master’s in the teaching of English from Columbia.

She is a daughter of Abbie M. Weiss and Meyer M. Weiss of Longmeadow, Mass. Her father was, until last year, the vice president for digital imaging at Intelicoat Technologies of South Hadley, Mass., a manufacturer of film and coated paper for imaging equipment. Her mother is the director of membership at the Springfield Jewish Community Center.

The bridegroom, 29, is a vice president in the credit sales division of Citigroup in New York, where he focuses on sales of loans and bonds. He graduated from Lehigh.

He is the son of Rayna R. Schechter of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., and Michael G. Schechter of Brewster, Mass.

His father, who is retired, had his own sports trademark and image licensing business in Tampa, Fla.
171 2010-06-06 Schiavone, her nose smudged with the red crushed-brick powder that tops the courts at Roland Garros, clambered into the stands. She immersed herself into a section of Italian family and friends, some of whom drove to Paris overnight, wearing black T-shirts that read “Nothing is Impossible.”

“This means that everybody has a chance,” Schiavone said as the Suzanne-Lenglen Cup sat next to her. “To be who you really want to be, and to do everything in your life. This is what’s happened to me.”

Schiavone, who turns 30 on June 23, became the oldest first-time female Grand Slam champion in the Open era. She will make her debut in the top 10 when the rankings are released Monday.

“I have to say congratulations to Sam, because she is a great, great person and a great athlete,” Schiavone told the crowd during the award ceremony, and Stosur, 26, smiled through the tears of a missed opportunity. “You deserve to be here next time. You’re young. You can do it.”

Stosur had beaten Schiavone four of the previous five times they played, including in the first round of the 2009 French Open. Back then, Stosur was seeded 30th and Schiavone was not seeded at all.

Each arrived at Roland Garros with two career victories and late-blooming games, but they barnstormed the bracket in much different ways. Stosur used her powerful right arm, unleashing serves and precise, spinning forehands to overwhelm the four-time French Open champion Justine Henin, the current No. 1 Serena Williams, and No. 4 Jelena Jankovic.

But the booming shots that Stosur sent skittering past previous opponents often were flipped back across the net by the quick-moving Schiavone.

Unlike Stosur’s previous opponents, Schiavone wanted no part of a baseline war. She seized every chance to rush to the net, winning 14 of 15 points when she got there.

“It was so clear for me what to do,” Schiavone said. “When I tried to play short, the ball after was long. When she was running to the backhand, the second ball was shot to the other side.”

Schiavone took control of the match-winning tie breaker when, at 2-2, she returned Stosur’s serve with a wickedly spun backhand drop shot. Stosur got to it and flipped it back, but Schiavone charged and punched it back for an easy point.

She kept Stosur buried in a back corner again on the next point, then rushed the net and knocked the ball into the opposite, empty corner. The crowd cheered mostly for the underdog — a sentiment interrupted occasionally by the familiar “Aussie! Aussie! Aussie!” chant from the smattering of Stosur fans — and sensed that one of the tournament’s biggest upsets was at hand.

Schiavone’s career rode a long plateau before taking slow rise over the past year. She made the French Open quarterfinals in 2001 but left most Grand Slam events in the first week. She said she always dreamed of winning the French Open more than anything else.

“Maybe it was far away in the reality,” she said, moving her hand to her heart, “but, here, never far away.”

Stosur, by contrast, seems like a player with staying power. It was about three years ago, after Stosur had spent 61 consecutive weeks ranked No. 1 in doubles and was in the 20s in singles, that she contracted Lyme disease. Her energy sapped, she missed about 10 months in 2007 and 2008.

At the time, she had won 22 doubles titles, including the United States Open in 2005 and the French Open in 2006, and mixed doubles titles at Wimbledon and the Australian Open. But she had no singles titles.

“I got this label of a doubles specialist and a doubles player because I had good success,” Stosur said the day before the final. “But that whole time, my goal was to do those kinds of things in singles.”

With a heightened sense of her career mortality, Stosur focused on singles. Her breakthrough came last year at the French Open, when she wound her way to the semifinals.

Stosur had found an unexpected niche on clay. She was 39-37 on the surface before her illness, but 28-8 after it before Saturday’s match. She was a tour-best 20-2 on clay this spring, showing a rare ability to power past opponents on what is considered a slower surface that requires more nuance.

After beating Jankovic in 60 minutes in the semifinals, Stosur’s parents and two brothers flew in from Australia to watch the final in person. Stosur acknowledged that she was the favorite, given the names she had beaten and the opponent remaining.

Schiavone, however, proved a steady foil to Stosur’s serious, ball-bashing ways.

“It’s just been a big journey and a great two weeks,” Stosur said. “I guess you wanted the full fairy tale, but it didn’t quite happen.”

No, the happily-ever-after ending belonged to Schiavone. After beating No. 3 Caroline Wozniacki in the quarterfinals and No. 5 Elena Dementieva in the semifinals, Schiavone kissed the crushed-brick court.

Asked on the day before the final what she would do if she won the final, she smiled and scooped her hands together.

“I take all the clay like this, and I bring home,” she said.

In the end, she did not need her hands to take home the clay. She wore much of it on her back, and a little smudge on her nose, just above her smile.
172 2010-06-06 The houses are largely the work of a single architect, Warren C. Dickerson, who festooned them with bay windows, arched windows, peaked roofs and ornamental iron gates. The buildings are set back from the tree-lined street and separated by side driveways. The strip next to Mr. Garcia’s house is fringed with cheerful geraniums and yellow pansies. When he looks out of his windows this time of year, he can see a cloud of ivy and foliage.

Mr. Garcia and his neighbors like to boast that Time Out New York voted their block No. 7 in a 2006 survey of the city’s 50 best residential blocks. “Turning onto Beck Street from Longwood Avenue is like entering a New York of yesteryear,” the magazine wrote, adding, “It’s one of the warmest, most inviting places in the city.”

In praising the block, the magazine underscored the vitality of its street life, and in his seven years on Beck Street, Mr. Garcia has contributed mightily to that vitality.

When heading to and from his apartment, he stops to chat with everyone he meets, especially the children. Nor does he just make small talk; he asks specific questions about school and waits patiently for answers. He likes to think that he is setting an example for the block’s younger residents.

“They see me, wearing a suit and carrying a briefcase,” he said, “and I hope they think, maybe someday I can grow up to be like Roberto.”

Mr. Garcia’s second-floor apartment, which he rents for $1,200, was in excellent condition when he arrived, complete with a skylight, pebbly glass transoms, an exposed brick wall and evidence that French doors once separated the living room from the spacious eat-in kitchen. Mr. Garcia, who developed his mechanical skills when he was a student at Automotive High School in Brooklyn, sometimes thinks about replacing the doors.

On weekends he is joined by his 4-year-old son, Evan Gerard Garcia. Evan sleeps in the second bedroom, which is equipped with a 40-inch flat-screen television set and a brown leather sofa that opens into a futon. (During the week, Evan lives in Parkchester with his mother, who is separated from Mr. Garcia.)

The kitchen is in many respects the heart of the apartment, not surprisingly because Mr. Garcia is an enthusiastic cook. His specialties include a traditional Puerto Rican dish called arroz con gandules (rice with pigeon peas) and what he describes as “an incredible zuppa di pesce.”

“The cupboard is always filled,” Mr. Garcia said, swinging open cabinet doors to display well-stocked shelves. “The spice rack is full.” Snacks like Girl Scout cookies — “for nibbling,” he explains — can invariably be found heaped on the dining table. Bottles of condiments blanket an entire tabletop.

The influence of Mr. Garcia’s mother, Maria Garcia Cintron, who is 75 and lives in her native Puerto Rico, is evident throughout the apartment.

“She is an incredible soul,” Mr. Garcia said. “A beautiful lady. And her tutelage, her guidance, it was so important to me.”

She also imparted to her three sons an array of useful skills.

“My mother taught us all to sew, to clean and to cook so we could always be independent, whether or not we were married,” Mr. Garcia said. “Who sews these days? Well, I can sew. I can hem my own pants.” His skills with a needle and thread also enabled him to create the decorative swags of rust and green fabric that hang on the wall over his bed.

“And cooking relaxes me,” he added. “I come home at the end of a long day, after back-to-back meetings all over the city. I cook, I have a glass of wine. It’s very soothing.”

His makeshift wine cellar, heavy on the cabernets and merlots that are his favorites, sits in a corner of the living room. Next to it stands the rack that holds his CDs, mostly jazz.

Along with prints by Picasso, Erté and Paul Klee, the décor includes Mr. Garcia’s prized collection of ceramics. He has dinner plates from England, Indonesia, Yugoslavia and Russia, many of which were found at flea markets. And displayed on shelves in the living room are examples of Hull and Hagen-Renaker pottery, a rainbow assortment of pinks, dark blues and rich oranges. Some pieces are painted with delicate images of flowers. A pair of white china water creatures, a swan and a duck, face each other on the coffee table.

The ceramics share pride of place with many objects that Mr. Garcia has retrieved from the city’s streets and lovingly coaxed back to life. A carved chest with little legs, found nearby on Kelly Street, now houses his linens. An old mahogany radio cabinet, bought for $15 at the old Chelsea flea market, has been retrofitted into a drinks cabinet, complete with a light and railings to hold wineglasses upside down.

His trove includes a leather armchair studded with rivets, found outside a Harlem karaoke bar, and an old telephone table that had been abandoned in Sunnyside, Queens, where Mr. Garcia lived before moving to the Bronx.

“It was just sitting there,” he explained. “I couldn’t just leave it in the street.”
173 2010-06-06 In Raquel Welch’s new book there’s a photograph of her and some other actress going at it hammer and tong in the 1972 movie “Kansas City Bomber.” In Pam Grier’s new book there’s a photograph of her and some other actress going at it tooth and nail in the 1971 movie “The Big Doll House.”
174 2010-06-06 It is one of the most famous psychological demos ever. Subjects are shown a video, about a minute long, of two teams, one in white shirts, the other in black shirts, moving around and passing basketballs to one another. They are asked to count the number of aerial and bounce passes made by the team wearing white, a seemingly simple task. Halfway through the video, a woman wearing a full-body gorilla suit walks slowly to the middle of the screen, pounds her chest, and then walks out of the frame. If you are just watching the video, it’s the most obvious thing in the world. But when asked to count the passes, about half the people miss it.

This experiment, published in 1999 by Christopher Chabris and Daniel Simons, is a striking demonstration of the zero-sum nature of attention. When you direct your mental spotlight to the basketball passes, it leaves the rest of the world in darkness. Even when you are looking straight at the gorilla (and other experiments find that people who miss it often have their eyes fully on it) you frequently don’t see it, because it’s not what you’re looking for.

In “The Invisible Gorilla,” Chabris and Simons begin by talking about their study and its implications for everyday life. It is a mistake, they argue, to see it as revealing a bug in our software, rather than an inherent limitation. Our brains are physical systems and hence have finite ­resources. The real problem here — what Chabris and Simons call “the illusion of attention” ­— is that we are often unaware of these limitations; we think that we see the world as it really is, but “our vivid visual experience belies a striking mental blindness.” They go on to explore a series of related illusions having to do with perception, memory, knowledge and ability, providing vivid examples of the real-world problems these illusions cause.

Take memory. It fades over time and is distorted by our beliefs, desires and interests. Events that occur long after the original experience can distort your recall. Simply talking about something that happened distorts your memory; you come to remember not the event itself, but the story you told. This is why memories of significant events — where were you on 9/11? — are hardly ever accurate in the long run, and why people sometimes come to sincerely believe that their spouse’s anecdotes really happened to them. But we tend to think that memory is objectively truthful, on analogy with a digital recording. This illusion explains why we take eyewitness testimony way too seriously, particularly if the person is confident (studies show that even highly confident witnesses give incorrect identifications a surprisingly high proportion of the time), and we are often unforgiving when memories turn out to be wrong.

Chabris and Simons give the example of Hillary Clinton’s description, repeated in the 2008 presidential campaign, of a 1996 visit to Tuzla, Bosnia, where she recalled landing under sniper fire and running head-down to get to cover. But reporters for The Washington Post soon dug up a photograph showing a calm greeting ceremony, where Clinton kissed a Bosnian child who had just read her a poem. Her tale of sniper fire generated considerable ridicule, with Christopher Hitchens (a longstanding critic of Clinton and her husband) concluding that she either “lies without conscience or reflection” or “is subject to fantasies of an illusory past” or both. Even Bill Clinton, in an attempt to defend his wife, noted that these remarks were made late at night (though this was not actually true) and that she was, after all, 60 years old.
175 2010-06-06 Anthony Julius’s fawning review of Paul Berman’s “Flight of the Intellectuals” (May 16) uncritically reproduces Berman’s savaging of Tariq Ramadan, the Swiss Muslim intellectual whom detractors of radical Islam love to hate. Julius ends his exercise in flattery by comparing Berman to Julien Benda (“The Treason of the Intellectuals”), once a symbol of liberalism’s rectitude in the face of overweening power. Julius is more crusader than liberal, however, pushing the righteous sword home by endorsing Berman’s view that Ramadan’s “commitment to ethical thinking turns out to be worthless.” By contrast, he tells us, Berman “has a fair claim to being regarded as the Benda of our time.”

No he doesn’t. Berman is no Benda, standing up to over­weening power and establishment bias. Rather, Berman embraces them on the way to trying to denigrate an embattled European intellectual who, in a sure sign of his moderation, has made enemies in both the Western and the Muslim worlds. Berman has been stalking Ramadan for some time now in a spirit of fury and resentment, as anyone reading his unbalanced “profile” of Ramadan for The New Republic will remember. Nor is there anything liberal about Berman’s attack on Islam through his misappropriation of Hannah Arendt in his “Terror and Liberalism.” There, after referring to Saddam Hussein as a “totalitarian menace” and to the “entire situation” in the Middle East as having “the look of Europe in 1939,” Berman calls for an “anti-totalitarian war.” He concludes the virulently ideological book by asserting that “right now we are beset with terrorists from the Muslim totalitarian movements.”

Such anti-Muslim screeds, posturing as liberal anti-Islamist critiques, tell us little about the radical Salafist threat (“totalitarianism” has nothing to do with it) and nothing about the crucial difference between Islam and the perversions of a few of its radical zealots. In the tradition of Samuel P. Huntington’s polarizing “Clash of Civilizations,” Berman’s work is all bias and invective encased in pseudo-­social-science jargon. It is liberal-universalist only because he says it is.

I often disagree with Tariq Ramadan, but far from being an anti-Semite, he is a true mediator between the three Abrahamic religions and the quarrelsome civilizations they have engendered.

BENJAMIN R. BARBER

New York

The writer is a distinguished senior fellow at Demos and the Walt Whitman professor emeritus at Rutgers University.
176 2010-06-06 Gradually the character takes shape, they stop talking, the movie gets made, and they don’t see each other for a couple of years. “Then I’ll call him and say, ‘Let’s make another movie,’ and the process starts all over again.”

In the meantime Mr. Mikkelsen, who still lives in Copenhagen, assumes his myriad characterizations, building a career in which indie productions like “Valhalla” balance out big-budget extravaganzas like “Clash of the Titans.”

“I think every actor in the world would like that situation,” he said. “Once you do one bad guy, usually all you get offered is bad guys. But I’ve been able to do different things. I’m not looking for a challenge, necessarily. I’m looking to make a really great film.”

At the moment his dance card includes “The Three Musketeers,” in which he plays Cardinal Richelieu’s henchman Rochefort, and “The Nazi Officer’s Wife,” adapted from the Edith Hahn Beer memoir, “about a Jewish girl hiding in Berlin during the war who marries a Nazi.”

Presumably each role will involve dialogue, although he has no lines in “Valhalla Rising,” which opens here next month. (“I don’t think he ever imagined anything so demanding,” Mr. Refn said. “I took away the actor’s main tool. It was a metaphor for our relationship, in a way.”)

Stravinsky, by comparison, is a chatterbox, but as the film’s director, Mr. Kounen, admitted his movie is about aesthetics and mood, egos and beauty, and two actors who are meant to embody artistic creation.

“Of course they are more beautiful than the originals,” he said of Mr. Mikkelsen and Ms. Mouglalis, the French actress who plays Chanel. “Neither of them are classically beautiful people, but they’re very special. And I wanted to make those characters into icons.”

Sexually charged ones: based on the Chris Greenhalgh novel “Coco and Igor,” the film includes scenes that many will find torrid, but which Ms. Mouglalis called boring to shoot. “There’s nothing less exciting,” she said of filming sex scenes. “And they can be a disaster if you’re with someone who’s not respectful. Mads was the opposite of that. We both just wanted it to be over.”

Audiences may feel differently. Mr. Mikkelsen has attracted a certain avid fan base thanks in part to his face, and to what Ms. Mouglalis called his grace. He danced professionally for eight years before entering Denmark’s state-sponsored theater academy, at one point studying in New York at the Martha Graham School of Contemporary Dance.

“I was living in a basement in the Village with a bunch of other people,” he said. “It was one of these places with bars in the windows, wires hanging, a basic firetrap. We had six or eight square feet to a room, and there were at least 12 of us down there. Dancers, artists, an ex-’Nam guy. It was difficult to find a place. Some people knew about this place. It was a scene.” He later moved to Spanish Harlem. “I loved it,” he said. “It was my first time away from home. I played basketball all day, played pool at night and occasionally did some dancing.”

Now, when not on the road making movies, Mr. Mikkelsen is a homebody: he and his wife, Hanne Jacobsen, have two children, 18 and 13. “A solid family, as they say,” he said. “They join me on location if they have a chance, but I can also be home three or four months doing nothing, so I probably see my kids more than people who work constantly all year long. If that changes, we’ll have to have a family meeting.”

Enter Mr. Refn, who is directing Ryan Gosling in “Drive” and has a deal for a heist film in which he plans to cast his favorite actor. “My whole mission has been: ‘How will I bring Mads Mikkelsen to Hollywood?’ ” he said. “And if no one else will give him the lead in a Hollywood movie, I will.”
177 2010-06-06 Then came a question about H.P. and . And then anotherquestion about H.P. and . Fiorina stated emphatically that H.P. had never, at her direction, acted unlawfully, but her response didn’t stop there. She chided the reporters, fuming that it would be nice “if you would report on the big issues that matter.

“You have a huge story happening behind you,” she snapped, referring to the rally and the voter it signaled. “That’s what you ought to be reporting on.” Her smile was gone. And a second later — poof! — so was she, in a surrender of cool fascinating for several reasons. It served as both a reminder of how new she is to the political arena and a suggestion, echoed by the occasionally odd tone of her campaign, that she is still finding her way. And the trigger of her ire spoke volumes about why she got into the race and what she may hope, even need, to get out of it.

Back in 1999, when Cara Carleton S. Fiorina took the helm of H.P., all the exhilarating talk was of trails blazed and ceilings shattered. That ended fast. She was soon pilloried for sweeping work-force cuts, unmet earnings projections and tumbling stock prices; disparaged by the Hewlett and Packard families, who staged a narrowly defeated proxy battle against her merger of H.P. with Compaq; and fired in February 2005, the climax of an exhaustively chronicled corporate melodrama. She still has her place in business history, but it is an entry with an asterisk. While she rose higher than any woman before her, she also fell harder and louder, and what she wanted to regard as a triumph was forever being turned into a taunt, with H.P. thrown at her — as it was after the Pleasanton rally — in ways meant to put her on the defensive.

“It’s heartbreaking,” says Deborah Bowker, a close friend who lived through the experience with Fiorina and now works as her chief of staff. Fiorina has seemingly had a hard time shaking it off: she tends to bring up H.P. at odd moments, apropos of nothing. I got the sense that her time there is always playing on a tape loop in her mind, like the high-school championship game that didn’t turn out quite the way everyone on the team dreamed it would.

For Fiorina, who is 55, a Senate seat would be more than a fresh challenge. It would be a new loop, a more upbeat ending, even a validation of her business know-how, because she would be winning election at a time when the economy is issue No. 1, in a state with an unemployment rate above 12 percent.

“Now, in politics, she can prove she was right all along,” says Tom Perkins, a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who was on the H.P. board when Fiorina led the company and who pushed for her ouster. He says that it was necessary at the time, but that on balance and in retrospect, she deserves for revivifying a logy leviathan. “If she can go into a similar situation in Washington and bring order and make progress,” he says, “it’s another opportunity for her to prove that she’s got what it takes.”

In a twist that makes California an especially intriguing story during this election cycle, Fiorina isn’t the only well-known wealthy businesswoman from Silicon Valley running for statewide office. The favorite for the Republican nomination to succeed as governor is , the former C.E.O. of . Whitman and Fiorina make essentially the same promise: to do in government what they sought to do in business, which is create wealth. And they wear the same mantle: that of the political outsider with the kind of practical, no-nonsense perspective needed to root out waste, balance budgets and cut through government sclerosis.

Fiorina is no shoo-in for the nomination. Until mid-May, polls showed her slightly behind Tom Campbell, a former California congressman, who is running to her left: he supports rights and gay marriage and hasn’t made an unequivocal pledge against new taxes. But as the contest draws to a close, she is using her more formidable war chest — at least $5.5 million of it her own money — to outspend him, and two polls in late May showed her far ahead. A third contender, Assemblyman Chuck DeVore, brands himself as the one true conservative in the race, but primary voters may make their decision based less on ideology than on which candidate they feel matches up best against Boxer, deemed to be more vulnerable than ever right now.

The Senate Republican leader, , along with and a roll call of other prominent Republican senators, are backing Fiorina, who has widespread name recognition, a Rolodex of affluent friends (and potential donors) and polish at the microphone. Campbell has already lost one Senate race, against in 2000, and often speaks like the brainy law professor he is. DeVore would be hard-pressed to win over moderates, though that attribute has only endeared him to Tea Party groups, who have ebulliently (and effectively) bucked the establishment in their embrace of Republican candidates like in and in . Like Rubio and Paul, DeVore has been endorsed by Senator of , the eager spoiler of his Washington colleagues’ wishes.

Fiorina entered the race without voters in California or Republicans in Washington knowing all that much about her politics, and the widespread assumption was that she was a moderate. After all, as a campaign surrogate for John McCain in 2008, she was used to woo independents and women who tended to vote Democratic, and she lambasted health insurers who covered but not , creating an embarrassment for McCain, who voted against legislation that would have changed that. She also told voters — erroneously — that McCain had never called for the reversal of Roe v. Wade.

But during this campaign, she has assiduously courted the right, calling for the repeal of , taking a pledge to oppose new taxes of any kind and pointing to recent endorsements by and by former Senator of , a longtime darling of abortion opponents. Palin reminded California voters that beating Boxer was goal No. 1 and told them that Fiorina would give them the best chance “of putting an end to the Pelosi-Reid big-government agenda.”

As the campaign has progressed, Fiorina has sounded ever more conservative. Months ago, she said she probably would have voted to confirm ’s appointment to the Supreme Court; in more recent comments about , she has come across as doubtful and wary. When the passage of the law first made headlines, she deflected questions about it, trying to steer the conversation to what she said was the Obama administration’s failure to patrol the border. It was a prudent dodge, given the high percentage of Hispanic voters in California. But as the days went by and the questions kept coming, she said that she supported what Arizona had done, though she wasn’t recommending a similar measure in California.

And during a Republican debate in on May 6, when the three candidates were asked if people on the no-fly list should be allowed to purchase a gun, only Campbell said no. Along with DeVore, Fiorina gave an instant, unequivocal yes.

“That’s why Tom Campbell has kind of a poor rating from the right there,” Fiorina shot back. She told reporters after the debate that the no-fly list is overpopulated with individuals who are on it because of bureaucratic or clerical blunders. Their rights shouldn’t be abridged because of that, she said.

She has won endorsements from both the National Right to Life Committee and the California Pro Life Council, who see her as a trustworthy opponent of abortion, even though she says she would have no litmus test for a Supreme Court justice and believes abortion should be permitted in cases of incest, and danger to a mother’s life. She is opposed to publicly financed abortions of any kind.

Many of these positions could hinder her in the general election, her stance on abortion being a prime example. The last time a pro-life candidate won a majority of the votes in an election for president, senator or governor in California was in the 1988 presidential race, when outpolled Michael Dukakis. But that contest was part of a national landslide, and Bush’s commitment to the pro-life cause was widely considered to be a shaky one.

“Barbara Boxer is good at a lot of things, but her single greatest talent is running against pro-life opponents,” says Dan Schnur, who served as an aide to former Gov. , a Republican, and now teaches political science at the . “She’s run against three of them so far, and in each of those campaigns she’s used this particular issue to great effect. On some things, she’s shrill. On this one, she’s not.”

Fiorina, for her part, is ready with a poignant explanation for her position that goes beyond religious conviction — she’s an irregular churchgoer, not devoted to any denomination — though she says that religion is part of it. She told me that painful years of unsuccessful efforts by her and her husband, Frank Fiorina, to add a child of their own to his two daughters from a previous marriage served as “a reminder that life is a precious gift and not everyone is given that gift.” In addition, she said, her husband’s mother, when pregnant with him, was told that her health was in jeopardy and was encouraged to have an abortion. She chose not to, and survived. “Frank turned out to be the joy of her life, and of my life,” Fiorina said. “When that’s put into such vivid and personal terms, it makes you think.”

Fiorina is deft at transforming personal experience into political revelation and at pressing her story into the service of her quest. She does this to especially rousing effect with yet another compelling dimension of this campaign: just 15 months ago, she found out she had . She says that after surgery, radiation and months of , she was pronounced -free; although she and her primary opponents have sniped at one another over almost everything imaginable, her health has at no point been an issue in this race.

But in many speeches, she digresses to explain that her short hair is a vestige of the chemo. “Having gotten through that experience,” she went on to say onstage in Pleasanton, “let me tell you this: a sharp-tongued senator with an invisible legislative record does not intimidate me one bit. I say: ‘Bring it on. Bring it on, Barbara Boxer.’ ”

The Pleasanton speech wasn’t the first, or last, time I heard her talk about intimidation and fear: what used to frighten her; what doesn’t scare her; the importance of being intrepid. Fiorina seems almost obsessed with the topic, and with making clear how very dauntless she is.

At a women’s leadership banquet in San Jose just hours after the Pleasanton speech, she told her audience that she had had “many fears in life,” started out “as a scared, shy child” and learned that “if you conquer your fears, you come out stronger and better on the other side.” When the banquet’s organizer asked her for her one best piece of advice for young businesswomen, Fiorina said: “First, don’t panic if you’re a little scared. Everybody’s scared at some point.”

And during one of my interviews with her, when I pressed her to single out a favorite among the many oil paintings that her mother, an amateur artist, gave her, she picked a portrait of a transvestite whom her mother had once approached on the subway in and invited back to her house to pose. Fiorina explained that the painting “says a lot about my mother.” Like what? “That she was unafraid.”

Fiorina’s father, Joseph Sneed, was a law professor and a judge who served as a deputy attorney general in the Nixon administration and later on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco. She was the middle of three children and, from the start, the family’s diligent, obedient overachiever. In speeches, interviews and her best-selling 2006 memoir, “Tough Choices,” a chronicle principally of her business career, she says that one of the most difficult episodes of her early life was quitting law school at after one semester and having her father say, “I’m not sure you’ll ever amount to anything.”

Around that time she married Todd Bartlem, a college sweetheart, and followed him to , , where he did graduate work and she gave English lessons to Italian businessmen. When they subsequently moved to the Washington area, she got a graduate business degree at the , took a job with AT&T and threw herself into her work. For Bartlem, whom she divorced after a half-dozen years of marriage, the metaphor for that devotion was a beloved childhood piano of hers that he told me her parents sent cross-country, at great expense, and that sat unused in their home for years. “She never sat down and played it,” Bartlem said. “Because at that point, her whole life and all of her passion had gone into her career.”

As recounted in “Tough Choices,” she was forever turning situations that terrified her to her advantage, like a sales meeting with a bunch of arrogant men whom she disarmed by showing up with socks stuffed into her pants and crowing that her equipment matched theirs. The year after her divorce from Bartlem was final, she married Frank, a high-ranking colleague at AT&T. She went from AT&T to a spinoff, Lucent Technologies, where her spectacular success got her the cover of Fortune magazine and, less than a year later, the offer to lead H.P. That job brought her back to where her father, at this point a widower, lived. She told me, “He was enormously proud.”

Fiorina was hired to restore sparkle and edge to a staid institution that had lost both, and the cornerstone of her effort was the Compaq merger­, designed to shake up H.P.’s culture and make the company a bigger player in the personal-computer market. But many critics deemed it unwieldy and unwise, and it didn’t pay off as lucratively, in the short term, as she at times predicted it would. Her critics assailed her for that, and for pettier matters, like the expensive clothing she wore, the amount of flying in the company jet she did and the way she put her face and name front and center in advertising and promotional efforts. Not long after she was fired, there was an enormous scandal over the methods with which investigators operating under her successors tried to identify the board members and journalists behind news-media leaks that she had first set out to stop.

H.P. today is robust, one of the largest technology companies in the world. But does the credit go to her or to the company’s current C.E.O., , who finished what she started, completing the Compaq merger? That question has been hashed out for years, in boardrooms and in books, with no real consensus on the job she did. Her Senate candidacy, predictably, has resurrected the debate.

On April 4, Craig Barrett, the former chairman of the board of Intel, published an opinion piece in The San Jose Mercury News that stated that Fiorina brought “exactly the right approach to a company that would have faced a more uncertain future otherwise.”

On April 22, David W. Packard, the son of one of the company’s founders, published a retort, using the same space in the same newspaper to note how low H.P.’s earnings per share fell on Fiorina’s watch and how many employees were laid off. He said that personal glory, not good sense, had driven her “relentless pursuit of size and market share.”

After leaving H.P., Fiorina took high-paid speaking gigs around the world, started a charitable foundation, took seats on corporate boards and gave off glimmers of interest in government and politics. She and Frank bought a condominium in the Ritz Carlton in Georgetown and began spending more time in the Washington area, where Frank’s daughter and two granddaughters, ages 13 and 5, live. Frank had another daughter who died, at age 35, last year. The obituaries don’t mention the cause of death, and the Fiorinas and their friends decline to answer questions about it.

But Fiorina’s political ambitions became utterly clear only when she offered to campaign for McCain and stumped wide and far and hard for him, helping him to shore up his economic credentials. Her stumbles in the role included answering no to an interviewer’s question about whether Palin could run a big corporation. Trying to do damage control, Fiorina compounded her mistake by clarifying that she didn’t think McCain could run one either. McCain’s aides made scarce use of her for a while thereafter.

That didn’t sour her on politics, and she seemed to be tilting heavily toward the 2010 Senate race when she found a lump under her arm in February of last year, putting the future in limbo for a while. Once all the tests were run, her prognosis for recovery was good, and she never really worried she would die, she says. But at times she doubted that she would ever get her former level of energy back. As her treatments ended and she did, the campaign commenced right away, just as Frank Fiorina always suspected it would.

“Carly’s going to do what she wants to do,” says Frank, who is five years older than she and took an early in 1998 as her star rose, so he could advise her, travel with her and help out more at home. He conceded mixed feelings about the Senate race. The two of them could otherwise be enjoying a leisurely life, one that spared his wife the kind of withering scrutiny she has often endured. He’s also not sure where or how he fits into this. He knows business, and when he accompanied his wife on business trips during the H.P. days, “people were pleased to be able to talk to me,” he says.

“So I felt useful,” he added. “I worry, frankly, that I’ll be involved, but I won’t be able to be as involved as I was.”

Their dynamic is tender but prickly. On a May morning in Bakersfield, as I idled with them after a campaign event, he held out his phone to show me an e-mail message he had just received from a supporter who questioned the wisdom and attractiveness of her close-cropped hair, presumed to be a matter of choice. He told me that they had received many such missives, including one that complained that she looked, he said, “like a punk rocker.”

“Left-wing radical is what it said,” Carly interjected.

“Thank you,” Frank said. “Thank you for correcting me on that.”

She has a way of flaunting her recall, knowledge and accomplishments, quickly volunteering or clarifying information that a less assertive person might not. On that same morning, Frank happened to mention something about her fluent Italian, and I asked her how she’d come by it, given that her own ancestry is German.

“Well, I took Italian in college,” she answered, adding, a beat later, “on top of the high-school Greek and the high-school French.”

An aide picked up a heavy bag filled with bottles of water for a two-hour drive to Fresno, the next campaign stop.

“Stress is dehydrating,” Fiorina instructed us, and then, all of a sudden, she was talking about H.P., saying, “In the height of the proxy battle, I would insist that we take water breaks.”

In the back seat of the black sport utility vehicle ferrying us north, she kicked off her shoes and curled her feet under her, accentuating how little space she actually takes up. But she is small in physical stature only — like the Yorkshire terriers she and Frank have long raised.

“They’re little but they’re not sissies,” she told me, explaining what she loves about them. “They’re real dogs in little bodies. They think they’re really big and really tough.”

A contest between Boxer and Fiorina would be a doozy, watched coast to coast. Fiorina has made it clear that she’s a brawler, beginning with her campaign’s release, on the Web, of two attack videos so menacing, even apocalyptic that they could be taken for parodies of negative advertising. One posits the fraudulence of Campbell’s proclaimed fiscal conservatism by introducing “a wolf in sheep’s clothing,” its demonic eyes glowing red and the fleecy innocents around it bolting in terror. The other, aimed at Boxer, portrays her head as a monstrous balloon — inflated by egotism, unrestrained liberalism and hot air — that busts through the U.S. Capitol dome and then darkens the California landscape, upon which (you will notice a theme here) innocent citizens bolt in terror. (Fiorina’s first television ads, in contrast, have been tame: voters expressing anxiety and Fiorina allaying it.)

On the stump, her manner is never more animated than when she’s bashing Boxer. In many speeches she mentions an incident last year when Boxer chastised an Army brigadier general for calling her “Ma’am,” saying she preferred “Senator.” Fiorina told one group of Republicans that if she is elected, “You may call me ‘Ma’am.’ You may call me ‘Senator.’ You may call me ‘Carly.’ You may call me, ‘Hey, you, remember, you work for me.’ ”

In a Fiorina-Boxer matchup, Boxer would have ample ammunition of her own. Democrats have noticed a fondness Fiorina has for talking about her “real world” perspective, and they have noticed too that in addition to the Georgetown condo, she and her husband own a 14-room estate in the wealthy enclave of Los Altos, Calif., and dock a 70-foot yacht in . She left H.P. with a severance package of $21 million, and in required Senate ethics committee filings, she estimated the couple’s net worth at somewhere between $30 million and $120 million.

Boxer would no doubt draw attention to Fiorina’s most conservative statements — and to something else too. Fiorina didn’t bother to vote for the 10 years she lived in and voted in fewer than half of the last 18 elections in California in which she could participate.

I asked Fiorina about that, and she said instantly, “It was a mistake.” But then, as if her lapse mattered only in the context of her current ambition, she added: “I felt disconnected from the process. I wasn’t running my life to seek political office someday. Well, I’m all in now.”

Fiorina was up before dawn on a recent Saturday in , where she lined up with about 30 campaign compatriots under a “Carly for California” sign at the Race for the Cure, a breast cancer fund-raiser. Like many of the thousands of participants, the Carly team planned to walk, not run, the three miles, and just before they began, a few of them learned they were in the wrong spot. They had to thrash their way through a thick row of bushes to get to the right one.

“You didn’t know you’d be going through the jungle,” I said to Carly.

“We go through the jungle every day,” she responded, then informed me that Oleander flowers are poisonous.

The signs identifying other teams said “Walking for Knockers,” “Jogging for Jugs” and “Fond Mammaries.”

“You can do that on this walk,” she said to me. “You know the way Italians can tell Italian jokes? Girls can tell boob jokes.”

She mentioned that last July, in San Jose, she went to a similar cancer fund-raiser, led by , but was too weak to participate. “I was literally in the middle of chemo,” she said. But she blew the starting horn and watched more than 3,000 people go by.

To be back in the stew of things just 10 months later, she said, “is surprisingly emotional, I have to say: I didn’t know what to expect.” Her eyes welled with tears.

For most of the walk she held Frank’s hand, but then became antsy and let go. She couldn’t reconcile herself to the sluggish pace in the thick crowd. When her team slowed down too much and the walkers ahead pulled away, she shouted: “We’re straggling! We’re straggling!”

At the end she looked relieved, even joyful. She jumped up and down, arms raised high; she doled out hugs. This wasn’t the finish line foremost in her thoughts. But for now it would do.
178 2010-06-06 On the other hand, when an unlikely event is all too easy to imagine, we often go in the opposite direction and overestimate the odds. After the 9/11 attacks, Americans canceled plane trips and took to the road. There were no terrorist attacks in this country in 2002, yet the additional driving apparently led to an increase in traffic fatalities.

When the stakes are high enough, it falls to government to help its citizens avoid these entirely human errors. The market, left to its own devices, often cannot do so. Yet in the case of Deepwater Horizon, government policy actually went the other way. It encouraged BP to underestimate the odds of a catastrophe.

In a little-noticed provision in a 1990 law passed after the spill, Congress capped a spiller’s liability over and above cleanup costs at $75 million for a rig spill. Even if the economic damages — to tourism, and the like — stretch into the billions, the responsible party is on the hook for only $75 million. (In this instance, BP has agreed to waive the cap for claims it deems legitimate.) Michael Greenstone, an economist who runs the Hamilton Project in Washington, says the law fundamentally distorts a company’s decision making. Without the cap, executives would have to weigh the possible revenue from a well against the cost of drilling there and the risk of damage. With the cap, they can largely ignore the potential damage beyond cleanup costs. So they end up drilling wells even in places where the damage can be horrific, like close to a shoreline. To put it another way, human frailty helped BP’s executives underestimate the chance of a low-probability, high-cost event. Federal law helped them underestimate the costs.

In the wake of Deepwater Horizon, Congress and the Obama administration will no doubt be tempted to pass laws meant to reduce the risks of another deep-water disaster. Certainly there are some sensible steps they can take, like lifting the liability cap and freeing regulators from the sway of industry. But it would be foolish to think that the only risks we are still underestimating are the ones that have suddenly become salient.

The big financial risk is no longer a housing bubble. Instead, it may be the huge deficits that the growth of , and will cause in coming years — and the possibility that lenders will eventually become nervous about extending to Washington. True, some economists and policy makers insist the country should not get worked up about this possibility, because lenders have never soured on the government before and show no signs of doing so now. But isn’t that reminiscent of the old Bernanke-Greenspan tune about the housing market?

Then, of course, there are the greenhouse gases that oil wells (among other things) send into the atmosphere even when the wells function properly. Scientists say the buildup of these gases is already likely to warm the planet by at least three degrees over the next century and cause droughts, storms and more ice-cap melting. The researchers’ estimates have risen recently, too, and it is also possible the planet could get around 12 degrees hotter. That kind of warming could flood major cities and cause parts of to collapse.

Nothing like that has ever happened before. Even imagining it is difficult. It is much easier to hope that the odds of such an outcome are vanishingly small. In fact, it’s only natural to have this hope. But that doesn’t make it wise.
179 2010-06-06 MONROVIA, Liberia -- How much money did Charles G. Taylor, the deposed president of Liberia, siphon out of his destitute, war-shattered country, and where is it?     For almost seven years, since an international warrant was issued for his arrest,...
180 2010-06-06 WEISS--Jeanette. Our hearts are broken over the loss of our dear friend. She waged a valiant battle. We mourn with you dear Gene, Gary, Mark and Paul. Joyce and Ivan...
181 2010-06-06 The State Department has issued a Travel Alert for South Africa, pegged to the coming World Cup, which takes place June 11 to July 11.     The May 25 alert is broad. It includes mentions of a heightened risk for terrorist activity (American citize...
182 2010-06-06 MORRIS--Effie Lee Celebrate the Life of Librarian and Children's Advocate Effie Lee Morris Monday, June 14, 2010 10:30 a.m. San Francisco Public Library Koret Auditorium 100 Larkin Street San Francisco, CA 94102-4705 A reception will follow in the...
183 2010-06-07 The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission issued a subpoena to Goldman Sachs on Monday for “failing to comply with a request for documents and interviews in a timely manner.”...
184 2010-06-07 Is England ready for World Cup competition? Its match against South Africa's Platinum Stars gave only a few clues....
185 2010-06-07 Apple's advances in the e-book market are not as impressive as they sound, but could prove trouble for Amazon down the road....
186 2010-06-07 The first time Harlan Geiser tried open-book management, it failed....
187 2010-06-07 The focus on growth is intended to appeal to the primary target audience for the campaign, which is mothers of children ages 6 and under. They are big buyers of apple juice, a staple in households with youngsters.

The campaign includes, in addition to the microsite, print advertisements, ads online and a prominent presence in social media outlets like Facebook and Twitter.

Elements of the campaign like the print ads are being concentrated in markets where the Tree Top co-op is best known, which include California, Nevada, Oregon and Washington.

The campaign is planned to appear through October, step aside during the holiday season and return after the new year begins.

As for the budget, “on a nationalized, annualized basis,” it would be “a few million dollars,” says Dan Hagerty, senior vice president for sales and marketing the Tree Top co-op in Selah, Wash.

By comparison, the co-op spent about $585,000 on advertising last year, he says, which included ads aimed at encouraging food makers to use its apples in producing their products.

According to Kantar Media, a division of WPP that tracks ad spending, the Tree Top co-op spent even less on ads before that: $203,000 in 2007 and $184,000 in 2008.

“We have been on a bit of an advertising hiatus for the last few years,” Mr. Hagerty says, and “we had to concentrate more on trade and consumer incentives to keep our business moving forward.”

But “we now have the money to reinvest in the brand,” he adds, and help consumers learn about the co-op origins of Tree Top products.

“We’re a sleepy little co-op in Selah, Wash., that’s been around for 50 years,” Mr. Hagerty says, “and when people find that out, that it’s owned by the growers, they think it’s cool.”

“The more they know about it, the more engaged they are with the brand,” he adds, particularly among shoppers for whom buying American-made products is important.

That is why Tree Top ads carry the theme “Real fruit from real people” and the new campaign seeks to point out the similarities between the co-op’s growers and mothers.

“The whole campaign proposition is that it’s great to do a job you love,” Mr. Hagerty says, and that applies to moms as much as to apple farmers and vice versa.

“Raising a family is obviously a difficult job, but you wouldn’t trade it in for anything,” he says in summarizing the beliefs of mothers. That echoes “the way our growers described their jobs: hard, but they couldn’t imagine doing anything else,” he adds.

And just as mothers tell anyone who asks that hard times are not an excuse for bailing out on their families, Mr. Hagerty says, growers would say “just because there’s a bad crop, you don’t rip out the trees.”

The roots of Tree Top in a growers’ cooperative are clearly an inspiration for the home-grown, homespun look of the campaign. The print ads and treetopwordstogrowby.com use a folksy type of art known as paper cuttings, in this instance created by Jayme McGowan, who writes a journal about her work at roadsideprojects.blogspot.com.

Ms. McGowan, who will herself "be a mom pretty soon," Mr. Hagerty says, was found by Cole & Weber on the craft marketplace Web site Etsy.

“Today, building brands is about shared values, values consumers can relate to,” says Mike Doherty, president at Cole & Weber, like the “passion” and “common sense values” of the Tree Top growers.

Here, the intent is “connecting moms with the values of these authentic people,” he adds, who come from “a real place, not a fake, made-up place” like, say, Nature Valley, the brand name for products sold by General Mills.

One print ad, bearing the headline “Cultivate Happy,” shows a farmer on a tractor, followed by a dog, with apple trees in the background.

“Meet grower John, one of our many apple growers here at Tree Top,” the text begins, then continues: “You see, to John this is the best darn job in the world. He gets to play in the dirt, drive a big ol’ tractor and hang out with his dog.”

“Oh, and he also gets to grow and harvest some of the world’s finest apples that make some pretty amazing juice,” the text declares.

A 15-second video version of the print ad, which brings Ms. McGowan’s cut-paper artwork to life, can be watched on YouTube.

In a second print ad, bearing the headline “Sample Joy,” a woman in a lab coat, holding a clipboard, stands next to a picnic table where a man, boy and girl are trying Tree Top apple juice and apples. A sign nearby reads, “Free Tasting.”

“Meet Sonia,” the text starts, then goes on: “She’s a quality control expert for Tree Top. That’s really just a fancy way of saying that she gets to talk with juice lovers, offer them samples and listen to their opinions. All to make sure each glass of our juice is just as good as the last.”

“Her job is all about bringing smiles to people’s faces — and we wouldn’t have it any other way,” the ad says.

A third print ad, with the headline “Harvest Good,” is planned.

All the print ads will encourage readers to visit treetopwordstogrowby.com and describe what the phrases like “Cultivate Happy” and “Sample Joy” mean to them. The comments contributed by visitors to the microsite, along with content created by Tree Top employees, will be combined to form an online version of a quilt.

Once on the microsite, visitors will also be able to do things like vote for their favorite content, sort the material by categories (among them, quotations and stories), share content with friends and download material.

“The modern mom is plugged in,” Mr. Hagerty says, “engaged in the Internet and heavy users of social networking.”

During the research for the campaign, he adds, when mothers were asked to share photo journals “every other picture was sent on an iPhone or from a laptop.”

“There’s no way in the world we could outspend” the juice giants like Mott’s, Mr. Hagerty says. “It’s not in the cards.”

But “if we can get moms engaged and understanding who we are and wanting to talk to other moms about that,” he adds, they can serve as brand advocates and evangelists for Tree Top.

Mr. Doherty says that because mothers are “active in all these places” online, “it makes them crave grounding even more in the things that are real and authentic.”

That benefits Tree Top, as a grower-owned co-op, he adds, along with “something to apple juice, pure and simple.”

The print ads will run in magazines like American Baby, Baby Talk, Family Fun, Parenting, Parents and Working Mother.

The digital ads will appear on Web sites and so-called mommy blogs like about.com, Baby Center, Café Mom, Circle of Moms, Facebook, ivillage.com and Moms Like Me along with sites that are part of the Walt Disney Company online network.

During the years that the Tree Top co-op was not running consumer advertising, Cole & Weber remained its creative agency.

“There were two or three years when all I did was pick up the phone and say, ‘We’re still here,’ ” Mr. Hagerty says, and at one point, he even sent “a letter of termination.”

The agency replied that it would refuse the letter, he adds, “and said, ‘When you’re ready to advertise again, we want to be your guys.’ ”

Mr. Doherty recalls how Cole & Weber remained stalwart while its client “retrenched.”

“We told them we would not take a retainer and ‘we’ll be here for you on a project basis,’ ” he says. “They came back at the end of last year and said they were ready to roll again.”

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.
188 2010-06-07 Richard X. Bove, the banking analyst at Rochdale Securities, cut his price target for Bank of America's stock, saying the bank faced "serious challenges" from multiple sources. But he kept his "buy" rating for the stock....
189 2010-06-07 A fictional admissions essay for the University of Chicago yields far more than what an applicant did last summer....
190 2010-06-07 There is a six-month waiting period to join the new high-risk insurance pools, but there will be no waiting period to purchase policies on the insurance exchanges starting in 2014....
191 2010-06-07 Employers are increasingly requiring proof to continue coverage of dependents. Here are some resources on the topic....
192 2010-06-07 Steven P. Jobs unveiled a new iPhone with better battery life and a crisper display. Here's our recap of the event....
193 2010-06-07 In so far as no one was bitten and nearly everyone stayed where he or she was supposed to, Saturday's concert was deemed a success....
194 2010-06-07 David M. Rubenstein, the co-founder of the Carlyle Group, is apparently feeling pretty optimistic about the private equity industry these days....
195 2010-06-07 This year's annual auction for a lunch with Warren E. Buffett kicked off Sunday, and the billionaire investor said he hopes it will again draw multimillion-dollar bids to benefit the Glide Foundation, which provides social services to the poor and...
196 2010-06-07 Stocks plummeted across the Asia-Pacific region on Monday and the euro plumbed fresh multiyear lows against the dollar and yen, amid disappointing American jobs data and renewed fears that the European sovereign debt crisis could spread to other v...
197 2010-06-07 The Italian Matteo Carrara won the Tour of Luxembourg, and Lance Armstrong finished third. The fourth and last stage of the race was won by Gorka Izaguirre of Spain in a sprint shortened by torrential rain. Carrara claimed his first major win, beating the 2009 winner, Frank Schleck of Luxembourg. Armstrong, 38, was competing as part of his preparations for the Tour de France. Armstrong, who crashed last month at the Tour of California, next races at the Tour of Switzerland from June 12 to 20. (AP)

¶Alberto Contador of Spain, a twotime Tour de France champion, won the prologue of the Criterium du Dauphine. Contador completed the 4.2-mile time trial around Evian-les-Bains, France, in 8 minutes 34 seconds. The American rider Tejay Van Garderen took second place, two seconds behind Contador. Contador has already won three races this season: the Tour of Algarve; the Vuelta de Castilla and Leon; and the Paris- Nice.
198 2010-06-07 SYDNEY (AP) — The Australian authorities announced an investigation Sunday into whether Google had illegally collected private information from wireless networks, becoming at least the second country to examine the Internet giant’s Street View mapping service.

The criminal investigation comes as more regulators and consumer watchdogs complain that Google does not take privacy seriously enough. Google says users’ privacy is one of its highest priorities.

Last month, Google acknowledged that it had mistakenly collected fragments of data over public Wi-Fi networks in more than 30 countries while taking pictures of neighborhoods for the Street View feature. Google said it had discovered the problem after German regulators started an inquiry.

“This was a mistake,” Google said in a statement on the Australian case. “We are talking to the appropriate authorities to answer any questions they have.”

Also last month, the head of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, wrote to Google and Facebook, urging them to cooperate with any government privacy inquiries. Mr. Conyers also asked Google to retain the data until any inquiries were complete.

The Australian investigation follows questions over whether Google employees taking photographs for the mapping service had violated the country’s privacy laws.
199 2010-06-07 Boeing’s involvement is likely to help heighten the competition and could help keep down the cost. The bidding process will probably start next year.

Still, in the insular world of military contracting, where there are only a few major manufacturers, the government is likely to end up choosing between two helicopters similar to those in the original contest in 2005, industry officials say.

Sikorsky, which lost that competition, recently teamed up with AgustaWestland’s old partner, Lockheed Martin, for the new round of bidding. They plan to offer a helicopter based on Sikorsky’s H-92 medium-lift craft.

Under the licensing deal, Boeing will offer its version of AgustaWestland’s AW101, which is similar to the helicopter that won the earlier contest.

No one should expect to see the new helicopters alighting on the White House lawn anytime soon.

Given the embarrassment over how poorly it managed the previous contract, the Navy, which is in charge because the Marines fly the helicopters, is taking its time in putting together the new competition. And President Obama has said he can make do with the older helicopters, which Sikorsky built in the 1970s and 1980s.

So industry officials say they would be surprised if a contract was awarded before the presidential election in late 2012. The Navy does not expect to field any of the new craft before 2017 to 2023.

In striking the licensing deal with AgustaWestland, a unit of Finmeccanica of Italy, Boeing will be starting with a larger helicopter than Sikorsky, and one that was selected in 2005 partly because it could seat more people with fewer modifications.

Richard L. Aboulafia, an aviation analyst for the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va., said the larger helicopter remained in “kind of a sweet spot” and would retain an advantage if the Navy continued to insist that the new craft seat 14 people, as it did in the previous round.

But if it reduces that requirement, the Sikorsky craft could become “a less expensive solution,” he said.

Boeing said the licensing deal would give it all the intellectual property, data and production rights for the helicopter, enabling it to build the craft, to be called the Boeing 101, in the United States.

“We will have the capability to modify the aircraft any way we want without going back to AgustaWestland,” Mr. Dunford, the Boeing executive, said.

Like Sikorsky, Boeing builds other helicopters that are widely used by the military, and it has built the president’s passenger jets, known as Air Force One. Mr. Dunford said the licensing deal was only for the presidential helicopter contest.

Government auditors have said that most of the overruns on the earlier contract came not from the basic helicopter but from the modifications that the Bush administration required to make the craft more secure from terrorist attacks.

It is not yet clear how many of those requirements — which called for protection against chemical and biological attacks as well as the electromagnetic effects of a nuclear blast — will change.

But the Navy seems to be pulling back in one area in its request for information: it is reducing the maximum distance that the helicopter needs to travel without refueling to 275 nautical miles, from 315.

Industry officials say it is hard to build a helicopter that could travel more than 300 miles — presumably to take the president to a bunker — and still be small enough to land without tearing up the White House lawn.

The Navy has also asked the manufacturers for information about larger models or combinations of helicopters that could split the day-to-day and emergency missions.

But industry officials believe the Navy would prefer to buy just one midsize model. It spent nearly $4 billion on the earlier failed effort. And given the delay, it will have to spend tens of millions to extend the lives of some of the older helicopters until the new ones are ready.

Sikorsky, a unit of United Technologies, would be the prime contractor in its bid with Lockheed Martin, which had previously played that lead role when it worked with AgustaWestland.
200 2010-06-07 In a study to be published in the journal Cyberpsychology, Behavior and Social Networking, researchers from the University of Melbourne in Australia subjected 173 college students to tests measuring risk for problematic Internet and gambling behaviors. About 5 percent of the students showed signs of gambling problems, but 10 percent of the students posted scores high enough to put them in the at-risk category for Internet “addiction.”

Technology use was clearly interfering with the students’ daily lives, but it may be going too far to call it an addiction, says Nicki Dowling, a clinical psychologist who led the study. Ms. Dowling prefers to call it “Internet dependence.”

Typically, the concern about our dependence on technology is that it detracts from our time with family and friends in the real world. But psychologists have become intrigued by a more subtle and insidious effect of our online interactions. It may be that the immediacy of the Internet, the efficiency of the iPhone and the anonymity of the chat room change the core of who we are, issues that Dr. Aboujaoude explores in a book, “Virtually You: The Internet and the Fracturing of the Self,” to be released next year.

Dr. Aboujaoude also asks whether the vast storage available in e-mail and on the Internet is preventing many of us from letting go, causing us to retain many old and unnecessary memories at the expense of making new ones. Everything is saved these days, he notes, from the meaningless e-mail sent after a work lunch to the angry online exchange with a spouse.

“If you can’t forget because all this stuff is staring at you, what does that do to your ability to lay down new memories and remember things that you should be remembering?” Dr. Aboujaoude said. “When you have 500 pictures from your vacation in your Flickr account, as opposed to five pictures that are really meaningful, does that change your ability to recall the moments that you really want to recall?”

There is also no easy way to conquer a dependence on technology. Nicholas Carr, author of the new book “The Shallows: What the Internet Is Doing to Our Brains,” says that social and family responsibilities, work and other pressures influence our use of technology. “The deeper a technology is woven into the patterns of everyday life, the less choice we have about whether and how we use that technology,” Mr. Carr wrote in a recent blog post on the topic.

Some experts suggest simply trying to curtail the amount of time you spend online. Set limits for how often you check e-mail or force yourself to leave your cellphone at home occasionally.

The problem is similar to an eating disorder, says Dr. Kimberly Young, a professor at St. Bonaventure University in New York who has led research on the addictive nature of online technology. Technology, like food, is an essential part of daily life, and those suffering from disordered online behavior cannot give it up entirely and instead have to learn moderation and controlled use. She suggests therapy to determine the underlying issues that set off a person’s need to use the Internet “as a way of escape.”

The International Center for Media and the Public Agenda at the University of Maryland asked 200 students to refrain from using electronic media for a day. The reports from students after the study suggest that giving up technology cold turkey not only makes life logistically difficult, but also changes our ability to connect with others.

“Texting and I.M.’ing my friends gives me a constant feeling of comfort,” wrote one student. “When I did not have those two luxuries, I felt quite alone and secluded from my life. Although I go to a school with thousands of students, the fact that I was not able to communicate with anyone via technology was almost unbearable.”
201 2010-06-07 His wife, Brenda, complains, “It seems like he can no longer be fully in the moment.”

This is your brain on computers.

Scientists say juggling e-mail, phone calls and other incoming information can change how people think and behave. They say our ability to focus is being undermined by bursts of information.

These play to a primitive impulse to respond to immediate opportunities and threats. The stimulation provokes excitement — a squirt — that researchers say can be addictive. In its absence, people feel bored.

The resulting distractions can have deadly consequences, as when cellphone-wielding drivers and train engineers cause wrecks. And for millions of people like Mr. Campbell, these urges can inflict nicks and cuts on creativity and deep thought, interrupting work and family life.

While many people say multitasking makes them more productive, research shows otherwise. Heavy multitaskers actually have more trouble focusing and shutting out irrelevant information, scientists say, and they experience more stress.

And scientists are discovering that even after the multitasking ends, fractured thinking and lack of focus persist. In other words, this is also your brain off computers.

“The technology is rewiring our brains,” said Nora Volkow, director of the National Institute of Drug Abuse and one of the world’s leading brain scientists. She and other researchers compare the lure of digital stimulation less to that of drugs and alcohol than to food and sex, which are essential but counterproductive in excess.

Technology use can benefit the brain in some ways, researchers say. Imaging studies show the brains of Internet users become more efficient at finding information. And players of some video games develop better visual acuity.

More broadly, cellphones and computers have transformed life. They let people escape their cubicles and work anywhere. They shrink distances and handle countless mundane tasks, freeing up time for more exciting pursuits.

For better or worse, the consumption of media, as varied as e-mail and TV, has exploded. In 2008, people consumed three times as much information each day as they did in 1960. And they are constantly shifting their attention. Computer users at work change windows or check e-mail or other programs nearly 37 times an hour, new research shows.

The nonstop interactivity is one of the most significant shifts ever in the human environment, said Adam Gazzaley, a neuroscientist at the .

“We are exposing our brains to an environment and asking them to do things we weren’t necessarily evolved to do,” he said. “We know already there are consequences.”

Mr. Campbell, 43, came of age with the personal computer, and he is a heavier user of technology than most. But researchers say the habits and struggles of Mr. Campbell and his family typify what many experience — and what many more will, if trends continue.

For him, the tensions feel increasingly acute, and the effects harder to shake.

The Campbells recently moved to from to start a software venture. Mr. Campbell’s life revolves around computers. (View a slide show on how the Campbells interact with technology.)

He goes to sleep with a laptop or on his chest, and when he wakes, he goes online. He and Mrs. Campbell, 39, head to the tidy kitchen in their four-bedroom hillside rental in Orinda, an affluent suburb of , where she makes breakfast and watches a TV news feed in the corner of the computer screen while he uses the rest of the monitor to check his e-mail.

Major spats have arisen because Mr. Campbell escapes into video games during tough emotional stretches. On family vacations, he has trouble putting down his devices. When he rides the subway to San Francisco, he knows he will be offline 221 seconds as the train goes through a tunnel.

Their 16-year-old son, Connor, tall and polite like his father, recently received his first C’s, which his family blames on distraction from his gadgets. Their 8-year-old daughter, Lily, like her mother, playfully tells her father that he favors technology over family.

“I would love for him to totally unplug, to be totally engaged,” says Mrs. Campbell, who adds that he becomes “crotchety until he gets his fix.” But she would not try to force a change.

“He loves it. Technology is part of the fabric of who he is,” she says. “If I hated technology, I’d be hating him, and a part of who my son is too.”

Mr. Campbell, whose given name is Thomas, had an early start with technology in . When he was in third grade, his parents bought him Pong, a video game. Then came a string of game consoles and PCs, which he learned to program.

In high school, he balanced computers, basketball and a romance with Brenda, a cheerleader with a gorgeous singing voice. He studied too, with focus, uninterrupted by e-mail. “I did my homework because I needed to get it done,” he said. “I didn’t have anything else to do.”

He left college to help with a family business, then set up a lawn mowing service. At night he would read, play video games, hang out with Brenda and, as she remembers it, “talk a lot more.”

In 1996, he started a successful Internet provider. Then he built the start-up that he sold for $1.3 million in 2003 to , a search engine.

Mr. Campbell loves the rush of modern life and keeping up with the latest information. “I want to be the first to hear when the aliens land,” he said, laughing. But other times, he fantasizes about living in pioneer days when things moved more slowly: “I can’t keep everything in my head.”

No wonder. As he came of age, so did a new era of data and communication.

At home, people consume 12 hours of media a day on average, when an hour spent with, say, the Internet and TV simultaneously counts as two hours. That compares with five hours in 1960, say researchers at the . Computer users visit an average of 40 Web sites a day, according to research by RescueTime, which offers time-management tools.

As computers have changed, so has the understanding of the human brain. Until 15 years ago, scientists thought the brain stopped developing after childhood. Now they understand that its neural networks continue to develop, influenced by things like learning skills.

So not long after Eyal Ophir arrived at Stanford in 2004, he wondered whether heavy multitasking might be leading to changes in a characteristic of the brain long thought immutable: that humans can process only a single stream of information at a time.

Going back a half-century, tests had shown that the brain could barely process two streams, and could not simultaneously make decisions about them. But Mr. Ophir, a student-turned-researcher, thought multitaskers might be rewiring themselves to handle the load.

His passion was personal. He had spent seven years in Israeli intelligence after being weeded out of the air force — partly, he felt, because he was not a good multitasker. Could his brain be retrained?

Mr. Ophir, like others around the country studying how technology bent the brain, was startled by what he discovered.

The test subjects were divided into two groups: those classified as heavy multitaskers based on their answers to questions about how they used technology, and those who were not.

In a test created by Mr. Ophir and his colleagues, subjects at a computer were briefly shown an image of red rectangles. Then they saw a similar image and were asked whether any of the rectangles had moved. It was a simple task until the addition of a twist: blue rectangles were added, and the subjects were told to ignore them. (Play a game testing how well you filter out distractions.)

The multitaskers then did a significantly worse job than the non-multitaskers at recognizing whether red rectangles had changed position. In other words, they had trouble filtering out the blue ones — the irrelevant information.

So, too, the multitaskers took longer than non-multitaskers to switch among tasks, like differentiating vowels from consonants and then odd from even numbers. The multitaskers were shown to be less efficient at juggling problems. (Play a game testing how well you switch between tasks.)

Other tests at Stanford, an important center for research in this fast-growing field, showed multitaskers tended to search for new information rather than accept a reward for putting older, more valuable information to work.

Researchers say these findings point to an interesting dynamic: multitaskers seem more sensitive than non-multitaskers to incoming information.

The results also illustrate an age-old conflict in the brain, one that technology may be intensifying. A portion of the brain acts as a control tower, helping a person focus and set priorities. More primitive parts of the brain, like those that process sight and sound, demand that it pay attention to new information, bombarding the control tower when they are stimulated.

Researchers say there is an evolutionary rationale for the pressure this barrage puts on the brain. The lower-brain functions alert humans to danger, like a nearby lion, overriding goals like building a hut. In the modern world, the chime of incoming e-mail can override the goal of writing a business plan or playing catch with the children.

“Throughout evolutionary history, a big surprise would get everyone’s brain thinking,” said Clifford Nass, a communications professor at Stanford. “But we’ve got a large and growing group of people who think the slightest hint that something interesting might be going on is like catnip. They can’t ignore it.”

Mr. Nass says the Stanford studies are important because they show multitasking’s lingering effects: “The scary part for guys like Kord is, they can’t shut off their multitasking tendencies when they’re not multitasking.”

Melina Uncapher, a neurobiologist on the Stanford team, said she and other researchers were unsure whether the muddied multitaskers were simply prone to distraction and would have had trouble focusing in any era. But she added that the idea that information overload causes distraction was supported by more and more research.

A study at the , found that people interrupted by e-mail reported significantly increased stress compared with those left to focus. Stress hormones have been shown to reduce short-term memory, said Gary Small, a psychiatrist at the , .

Preliminary research shows some people can more easily juggle multiple information streams. These “supertaskers” represent less than 3 percent of the population, according to scientists at the .

Other research shows computer use has neurological advantages. In imaging studies, Dr. Small observed that Internet users showed greater brain activity than nonusers, suggesting they were growing their neural circuitry.

At the , researchers found that players of some fast-paced video games can track the movement of a third more objects on a screen than nonplayers. They say the games can improve reaction and the ability to pick out details amid clutter.

“In a sense, those games have a very strong both rehabilitative and educational power,” said the lead researcher, Daphne Bavelier, who is working with others in the field to channel these changes into real-world benefits like safer driving.

There is a vibrant debate among scientists over whether technology’s influence on behavior and the brain is good or bad, and how significant it is.

“The bottom line is, the brain is wired to adapt,” said Steven Yantis, a professor of brain sciences at . “There’s no question that rewiring goes on all the time,” he added. But he said it was too early to say whether the changes caused by technology were materially different from others in the past.

Mr. Ophir is loath to call the cognitive changes bad or good, though the impact on analysis and creativity worries him.

He is not just worried about other people. Shortly after he came to Stanford, a professor thanked him for being the one student in class paying full attention and not using a computer or phone. But he recently began using an iPhone and noticed a change; he felt its pull, even when playing with his daughter.

“The media is changing me,” he said. “I hear this internal ping that says: check e-mail and voice mail.”

“I have to work to suppress it.”

Kord Campbell does not bother to suppress it, or no longer can.

It is a Wednesday in April, and in 10 minutes, Mr. Campbell has an online conference call that could determine the fate of his new venture, called Loggly. It makes software that helps companies understand the clicking and buying patterns of their online customers.

Mr. Campbell and his colleagues, each working from a home office, are frantically trying to set up a program that will let them share images with executives at their prospective partner.

But at the moment when Mr. Campbell most needs to focus on that urgent task, something else competes for his attention: “Man Found Dead Inside His Business.”

That is the tweet that appears on the left-most of Mr. Campbell’s array of monitors, which he has expanded to three screens, at times adding a laptop and an .

On the left screen, Mr. Campbell follows the tweets of 1,100 people, along with instant messages and group chats. The middle monitor displays a dark field filled with computer code, along with , a service that allows Mr. Campbell to talk to his colleagues, sometimes using video. The monitor on the right keeps e-mail, a calendar, a Web browser and a player.

Even with the meeting fast approaching, Mr. Campbell cannot resist the tweet about the corpse. He clicks on the link in it, glances at the article and dismisses it. “It’s some article about something somewhere,” he says, annoyed by the ads for jeans popping up.

The program gets fixed, and the meeting turns out to be fruitful: the partners are ready to do business. A colleague says via instant message:

Other times, Mr. Campbell’s information juggling has taken a more serious toll. A few weeks earlier, he once again overlooked an e-mail message from a prospective investor. Another time, Mr. Campbell signed the company up for the wrong type of business account on , costing $300 a month for six months before he got around to correcting it. He has burned hamburgers on the grill, forgotten to pick up the children and lingered in the bathroom playing video games on an iPhone.

Mr. Campbell can be unaware of his own habits. In a two-and-a-half hour stretch one recent morning, he switched rapidly between e-mail and several other programs, according to data from RescueTime, which monitored his computer use with his permission. But when asked later what he was doing in that period, Mr. Campbell said he had been on a long Skype call, and “may have pulled up an e-mail or two.”

The kind of disconnection Mr. Campbell experiences is not an entirely new problem, of course. As they did in earlier eras, people can become so lost in work, hobbies or TV that they fail to pay attention to family.

Mr. Campbell concedes that, even without technology, he may work or play obsessively, just as his father immersed himself in crossword puzzles. But he says this era is different because he can multitask anyplace, anytime.

“It’s a mixed blessing,” he said. “If you’re not careful, your marriage can fall apart or your kids can be ready to play and you’ll get distracted.”

Father and son sit in armchairs. Controllers in hand, they engage in a fierce video game battle, displayed on the nearby flat-panel TV, as Lily watches.

They are playing Super Smash Bros. Brawl, a cartoonish animated fight between characters that battle using anvils, explosives and other weapons.

“Kill him, Dad,” Lily screams. To no avail. Connor regularly beats his father, prompting expletives and, once, a thrown pillow. But there is bonding and mutual respect.

“He’s a lot more tactical,” says Connor. “But I’m really good at quick reflexes.”

Screens big and small are central to the Campbell family’s leisure time. Connor and his mother relax while watching TV shows like Lily has an Touch, a portable DVD player and her own laptop, which she uses to watch videos, listen to music and play games.

Lily, a second-grader, is allowed only an hour a day of unstructured time, which she often spends with her devices. The laptop can consume her.

“When she’s on it, you can holler her name all day and she won’t hear,” Mrs. Campbell said.

Researchers worry that constant digital stimulation like this creates attention problems for children with brains that are still developing, who already struggle to set priorities and resist impulses.

Connor’s troubles started late last year. He could not focus on homework. No wonder, perhaps. On his bedroom desk sit two monitors, one with his music collection, one with and Reddit, a social site with news links that he and his father love. His iPhone availed him to relentless texting with his girlfriend.

When he studied, “a little voice would be saying, ‘Look up’ at the computer, and I’d look up,” Connor said. “Normally, I’d say I want to only read for a few minutes, but I’d search every corner of Reddit and then check Facebook.”

His Web browsing informs him. “He’s a fact hound,” Mr. Campbell brags. “Connor is, other than programming, extremely technical. He’s 100 percent Internet savvy.”

But the parents worry too. “Connor is obsessed,” his mother said. “Kord says we have to teach him balance.”

So in January, they held a family meeting. Study time now takes place in a group setting at the dinner table after everyone has finished eating. It feels, Mr. Campbell says, like togetherness.

For spring break, the family rented a cottage in Carmel, Calif. Mrs. Campbell hoped everyone would unplug.

But the day before they left, the iPad from came out, and Mr. Campbell snapped one up. The next night, their first on vacation, “We didn’t go out to dinner,” Mrs. Campbell mourned. “We just sat there on our devices.”

She rallied the troops the next day to the aquarium. Her husband joined them for a bit but then begged out to do e-mail on his phone.

Later she found him playing video games.

The trip came as Mr. Campbell was trying to raise several million dollars for his new venture, a goal that he achieved. Brenda said she understood that his pursuit required intensity but was less understanding of the accompanying surge in video game.

His behavior brought about a discussion between them. Mrs. Campbell said he told her that he was capable of logging off, citing a trip to several years ago that they called their second honeymoon.

“What trip are you thinking about?” she said she asked him. She recalled that he had spent two hours a day online in the hotel’s business center.

On Thursday, their fourth day in Carmel, Mr. Campbell spent the day at the beach with his family. They flew a kite and played whiffle ball.

Connor unplugged too. “It changes the mood of everything when everybody is present,” Mrs. Campbell said.

The next day, the family drove home, and Mr. Campbell disappeared into his office.

Technology use is growing for Mrs. Campbell as well. She divides her time between keeping the books of her husband’s company, homemaking and working at the school library. She checks e-mail 25 times a day, sends texts and uses Facebook.

Recently, she was baking peanut butter for Teacher Appreciation Day when her phone chimed in the living room. She answered a text, then became lost in Facebook, forgot about the cookies and burned them. She started a new batch, but heard the phone again, got lost in messaging, and burned those too. Out of ingredients and shamed, she bought cookies at the store.

She feels less focused and has trouble completing projects. Some days, she promises herself she will ignore her device. “It’s like a diet — you have good intentions in the morning and then you’re like, ‘There went that,’ ” she said.

Mr. Nass at Stanford thinks the ultimate risk of heavy technology use is that it diminishes empathy by limiting how much people engage with one another, even in the same room.

“The way we become more human is by paying attention to each other,” he said. “It shows how much you care.”

That empathy, Mr. Nass said, is essential to the human condition. “We are at an inflection point,” he said. “A significant fraction of people’s experiences are now fragmented.”
202 2010-06-07 Nick Price shot a four-under 67 to hold off Tommy Armour III and win the Principal Charity Classic by four strokes Sunday in West Des Moines, Iowa. Price had a 14-under 199 total to grab his second Champions Tour win this season and the third of his career.

He led heading into the final round in each of the last two years in Iowa before falling short. But Price grabbed the lead after four holes Sunday and stayed comfortably in front the rest of the way.

Armour, the co-leader with Price after two rounds, shot a par 71 and finished second for the third time this year with a 10-under 203.

Augusta State won its first N.C.A.A. Division I men’s golf national championship after Oklahoma State’s Kevin Tway missed a 3-foot putt on a playoff hole to hand Mitch Krywulycz the match and the Jaguars a 3-1-1 victory in Chattanooga. (AP)
203 2010-06-07 “We have seen an increasing number of individuals here in the United States become captivated by extremist ideologies or causes,” John O. Brennan, President Obama’s counterterrorism chief, said last month.

American counterterrorism officials have been putting more focus on safe havens in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia functioning as militant incubators. The United States has observed many ad hoc training camps in southern Somalia, intelligence officials said.

For several years, an intense civil war has raged in Somalia between a weak American-backed government and radical Islamist groups that are trying to overthrow it.

The insurgents include fighters from Al Shabab, which has sent hundreds of young recruits to the Somali capital, Mogadishu, and a rival group, Hizbul Islam.

The two groups used to be close, and their hard-line Islamist ideologies, which called for amputations and public stonings for violations of Islamic law, were virtually identical. American and Somali security officials said that the leaders of both groups have worked closely with wanted terrorists of Al Qaeda in Yemen and Pakistan. Yet in the past few months, as the government geared up for a major offensive, the two groups openly clashed with each other. And in recent days there have been reports that dozens of civilians have been wounded in areas held by insurgents and areas held by the government.

Moreover, the insurgents’ harsh rules prohibiting music, television and even bras, as well as the unrelenting fighting, have steadily alienated much of Somali society, making it harder for the militants to raise money and find recruits.

That did not seem to deter the two suspects arrested Saturday, Mohamed Mahmood Alessa, and Carlos Eduardo Almonte, who, according to the criminal complaint, discussed which of the rival groups to join. “Shabab is the main one,” Mr. Almonte told Mr. Alessa and an unidentified federal informer. “The main thing.”

Mr. Le Sage said that Al Shabab relied on mobilizing several thousand militia fighters from Somali clans, but that the foreigners could play important roles as commandos, intelligence agents or suicide bombers.

While Al Shabab have threatened to attack East African neighbors as well as Australia, the United States and Scandinavian countries, Mr. Le Sage said the organization had not yet carried out any strikes outside of Somalia. “That’s always a cause for concern,” he added.

The two suspects may have been misled in thinking that they were going to kill Americans in Somalia; there are actually very few in that country.

After 1993, when American forces were humiliated by clan militiamen in the episode that has come to be called Black Hawk Down, the United States has shown little appetite to send conventional forces back into Somalia.

But Al Shabab have been telling followers, for propaganda purposes, that the United States might get involved again.

There are American contractors working in Somalia managing logistics for the African Union peacekeepers there. Somali officials have also said that American intelligence agents frequently visit Somalia in an effort to improve the capacity of Somalia’s fledgling security services.
204 2010-06-07 New York State has the chance to lead the nation in extending basic workplace protections to domestic workers — the nannies, housekeepers and caregivers for the elderly who are as essential to the economy as they are overlooked and unprotected.

The State Senate has just passed a domestic workers’ bill of rights, with an array of guarantees that most workers take for granted, like paid holidays, sick days, vacation days and the right to overtime pay and collective bargaining. The Assembly passed its version last year. The Legislature should swiftly reconcile the bills and send a measure to Gov. David Paterson for his signature.

Domestic workers, like farm workers, have long struggled for equality in the workplace. Labor protections drafted in the New Deal specifically excluded both groups of workers, who remain highly vulnerable to exploitation. The problem is especially acute for domestic workers, a largely immigrant and female work force that toils out of public sight in private homes.

The bill in Albany gives employers and workers a baseline of fairness about pay, hours and benefits. It also gives the State Labor Department and attorney general the power to enforce its provisions.

There is little doubt that these women are vital — an estimated 200,000 of them toil in the metropolitan area, where entire industries and neighborhoods are dependent on paid domestic help. The cruel injustice is that while nannies and caregivers make it possible for professional couples to balance the demands of family and work, they often cannot take time to be with their own families when sickness or injury strikes.

The bill’s success in Albany comes at a time when low-wage workers are suffering in a dismal economy, and losing battles to extend their rights. Home health aides, for example, still lack the right to a minimum wage and overtime pay, their pleas for justice having been soundly rejected by the Labor Department and the Supreme Court.
205 2010-06-07 This one came with the most compelling back story. A year ago, Soderling was a mere 23rd seed who pulled one of the great tennis upsets, beating Nadal in four sets in the fourth round. It ended Nadal’s 31-match winning streak in the French Open.

In a broader sense, it discombobulated men’s tennis. Federer beat Soderling in the final to secure his career Grand Slam. Soderling ripped away his label as a talented underachiever and surged up the rankings, arriving back at Roland Garros as a fifth seed.

And Nadal, weakened by sore knees and burdened by family struggles, stepped away before he could defend his title at Wimbledon. He lost the No. 1 ranking he held for most of a year.

The sequel between Nadal and Soderling seemed to put tennis back in order.

“After this tournament last year was a difficult year, and I worked a lot to be here,” Nadal said Sunday. “I was very nervous during all the tournament, because I know before that I was ready to try to win another time. And I saw the chances there.”

On a breezy and humid day, with thunderstorms circling, the conditions may have favored Soderling, 25, whose strength allows him to power balls past opponents even when the clay courts are moist and slow.

Soderling wanted to overwhelm Nadal with his serve, unleashed above his rangy 6-foot-4 frame. That, along with a flat bludgeon of a forehand, is how Soderling beat other opponents during the tournament, including Federer in the quarterfinals and Tomas Berdych in the semifinals.

With the subtlety of a hammer, Soderling managed to do it in bursts against Nadal, getting some wobbly returns and putting away winners.

That was the strategy: serve, return, smash. Repeat.

Soderling’s first serves reached 143 miles per hour. His second ones were faster than some of Nadal’s first. But playing Nadal can be like playing a wall. Soderling managed just seven aces — the same number Nadal had.

Nadal won the first set after breaking Soderling in the fifth game. He ended Soderling’s foray toward the net with a crosscourt backhand that left Soderling shaking his head.

Soderling’s first serve soon went wayward, finding its target just 40 percent of the time in the second set and 56 percent for the match.

And with the court slowly drying under occasional bursts of bright sun, Soderling found himself in uncomfortably long rallies, the type that Nadal has built a career of controlling. Of all of Nadal’s strengths, his biggest might be his ability to outlast opponents.

Nadal seized control early in the second set after fighting back four break points in the second game. The most impressive came when Nadal sprinted forward to reach a soft shot near the net. The crowd gasped, thinking the point would end, but Nadal stretched to flick the ball back across. It sent Soderling backward in pursuit, and his impressive return shot was volleyed with a forehand back by Nadal.

Soderling, his confidence flagging, finished 0 for 8 on break-point chances against Nadal’s serve.

“The players, we have the statistics, and I am the No. 1 on break points saved for the year,” Nadal said with a smile. “So, ‘specialist.’ ”

Soderling opened the third by being broken again. Nadal, unbreakable, cruised to the victory in a match far different from the stunner on the same court last year.

“Every match is different, and the margins are really small,” Soderling said. “Maybe he played a little bit better. I didn’t play as good as I did last year. I didn’t serve so well. I wasn’t hitting the ball as clean. You know, I had some chances in the beginning, but I didn’t take them.”

No player hits with as much spin as Nadal, and his fast-moving forehands take a fast, high bounce that often drives opponents backward. Soderling, with his height, handles those better than most.

Unlike Soderling’s previous opponents, Nadal showed the strength and patience to rally with Soderling, and the athleticism to chase balls that Soderling sent sharply into the corners.

Nadal’s game, as strong as it is, is still evolving. This year, he has taken a more aggressive approach, trying to shorten points and save his joints.

His uncle and coach, Toni Nadal, said that they continued to tinker with Nadal’s inconsistent serve, too. Nadal is right-handed but wields a racket with his left, which makes his motion a bit unnatural. They have watched YouTube videos of Andy Murray for tutorials, Toni Nadal said. And they have watched video of Federer to examine his footwork.

Yet Nadal looks as good as ever. He was 22-0 on clay this spring, and he is now 38-1 at the French Open.

“Apparently my game is perfectly suited to this surface,” Nadal said. “I love it with all my heart, because it gave me so much joy. Winning here in Paris is ever so special.”

The tears that Nadal shed into his towel showed how special this one was.

“This time I’m back,” Nadal said. “I’m back and I win. Maybe this is the tournament I most wanted to win.”
206 2010-06-07 WEISS--Jeanette. On behalf of our entire organization, the Principles and Partners of Newmark Knight Frank wish to express our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to our esteemed partner Mark and his entire family for the untimely loss of...
207 2010-06-07 WEISS--Jeanette. Mark, our hearts ache for you and your family. May her memory be a blessing. Natasha and Billy...
208 2010-06-07 Steven P. Jobs predicted earlier this week that the personal computer was going to go the way of the farm truck: It won't disappear but it will be relegated to a niche role by popular mobile devices like smartphones and tablets.     On Thursday, M...
209 2010-06-07 SAN FRANCISCO -- When one of the most important e-mail messages of his life landed in his in-box a few years ago, Kord Campbell overlooked it.     Not just for a day or two, but 12 days. He finally saw it while sifting through old messages: a big ...
210 2010-06-07 About 20 minutes into his on-stage interview at the D8 conference, Mark Zuckerberg had to take off his hoodie, the black sweatshirt that has become his trademark and that he said he never took off.     Mr. Zuckerberg was being grilled about Facebo...
211 2010-06-08 John O'Brien, who played for the United States in the 2002 and 2006 World Cups, writes about injuries in this installment....
212 2010-06-08 Live analysis of Game 3 of the N.B.A. finals between the Celtics and the Lakers....
213 2010-06-08 Senator Claire McCaskill reflected on the influence her children have had on her political choices and the struggle to balance career and family....
214 2010-06-08 A three-judge panel ruled that Joe Berlinger will not have to turn over unused footage from his documentary "Crude," pending his appeal of a subpoena for the footage....
215 2010-06-08 According to Seatgeek.com, the resale prices for N.B.A. finals tickets are going up....
216 2010-06-08 So far, 133 nations have decided to "associate" with the Copenhagen accord, which sets some rather ill-defined goals for reducing greenhouse emissions and helping poorer nations adapt to anticipated changes in the global climate....
217 2010-06-08 Online dispatches from the color wars, then and now....
218 2010-06-08 A handful of lobbying firms have dominated the business of representing financial services firms in their efforts to battle an overhaul of regulations governing the industry, according to an analysis by the Center for Public Integrity....
219 2010-06-08 For the first time in a year, unemployed workers outnumbered job openings in America by a ratio smaller than 5 to 1 in April, according to new government data....
220 2010-06-08 Two companies are reviving efforts to shorten security checks after previous programs failed....
221 2010-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
222 2010-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
223 2010-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
224 2010-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
225 2010-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
226 2010-06-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
227 2010-06-08 Federal regulators have approved plans for a second natural gas pipeline project in Alaska to begin seeking shipping commitments. Monday’s decision by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission sets the stage for overlapping open seasons by the competing projects. The TransCanada Corporation began its 90-day open season April 30; it holds an exclusive license with the state that provides up to $500 million to advance a pipeline. The competing Denali project is a joint effort between ConocoPhillips and BP. It is proceeding without the special state incentives and plans to begin its open season July 6.
228 2010-06-08 Kirsan Ilyumzhinov, the incumbent president of the World Chess Federation, has announced who is on his re-election ticket, as well as some of the federations that are endorsing him....
229 2010-06-08 A former Central Intelligence Agency station chief in Algeria pleaded guilty Monday to sexual abuse stemming from a 2008 episode in Algiers and to cocaine use, the Justice Department said. It said Andrew Warren, 42, admitted having illegal sexual contact with a woman after rendering her unconscious on Feb. 17, 2008, while on American Embassy property in Algiers. Mr. Warren was charged a year ago with sexually assaulting the woman. The C.I.A. fired him last year before he was charged. Mr. Warren also admitted that on April 26 he used cocaine while possessing a semiautomatic pistol in Norfolk, Va. He could be sentenced to up to 10 years in prison and fined $250,000.
230 2010-06-08 Manuel was not the only one to speak. Several veteran players, including the highly respected Johan Santana, spoke as well. But it was Manuel who convened the gathering and set a positive tone.

“It wasn’t just him,” left fielder Jason Bay said. “Certain things come up and people start to get divided, and it was one of those things where, ‘If you’ve got something to say to somebody, say it to them. We’re a family.’ No one outed anybody, but a lot of people had a lot of things to say.”

Gary Matthews Jr., before he was designated for assignment, said he had never been involved in a meeting like that before, with all the players and coaches squeezing into the manager’s office a little over an hour before first pitch.

It was May 21, and the Mets had just finished a 3-10 stretch to fall two games under .500. Cracks were appearing almost everywhere. Things had gotten so bad on the field that a few days earlier the chief operating officer, Jeff Wilpon, had flown to Atlanta to see first-hand what was going on, raising questions about Manuel’s job security.

During that trip, both Jeff Francoeur and David Wright expressed displeasure at being left out of games to rest; some players were said to be annoyed by a motivational visit from Darryl Strawberry in Washington; and on the plane ride home, both John Maine and Francisco Rodriguez had confrontations with the pitching coach Dan Warthen.

Maine was upset about being removed from a game after only five pitches, and Rodriguez was upset at being warmed up in the eighth inning and not pitching.

By the time the Mets returned to Citi Field, Manuel had a lot to contemplate, so shortly after batting practice, he called every player and coach into his office and told them to stick together. He reminded them to enjoy baseball and then opened the floor to anyone else who wanted to speak.

“To Jerry’s credit, he is very good at taking the temperature of his team,” Minaya said. “He’s not a big meetings guy, but he felt the time was right. There were issues that he felt needed to be addressed. As a manager, you have to have a feel for your team, to be able to take the temperature and respond. I think Jerry has a good feel for that.”

A day after the meeting, Manuel played it down and said it was just a chance to relax the players and get them to have fun playing baseball again. But he clearly sensed mounting tension and the potential for things to get a lot worse.

“Any time you’re losing, things can get divided sometimes,” Bay said. “I think we all just wanted to make sure things didn’t spiral out of control, which obviously they didn’t.”

The bullpen is still in flux, and many of the hitters are showing a tendency toward streakiness. Just two days after the meeting, Rodriguez and the bullpen coach Randy Niemann had a heated argument in the bullpen and had to be separated. But the Mets feel that situation has been resolved.

More important, going into Tuesday’s game against the Padres, the Mets are dominant at home (22-9), have a respectable 30-27 overall record and are three games out of first place in the National League East.

The meeting may not necessarily have turned the Mets into winners. But at the very least, it probably saved the season from devolving into a state of disarray.

The Mets promoted outfielder Jesus Feliciano from Class AAA Buffalo. A career minor leaguer with 13 years in professional baseball, Feliciano, 31, was batting .385 with a .426 on-base percentage in 53 games and had scored 38 runs for the Bisons. He has only 18 career home runs.
231 2010-06-08 DES MOINES — When Iowa became the first Midwestern state to legalize same-sex marriage a year ago, opponents said the issue would drive future political races, and some even pledged to work to remove the State Supreme Court justices behind the decision.

With Iowans going to polls on Tuesday, same-sex marriage has been a matter of debate among the Republican candidates for governor, but the issue appears to have been overtaken by voters’ worries about jobs, the economy and the state’s budget misery.

“Too many other things are upsetting people,” said David A. Yepsen, director of the Paul Simon Public Policy Institute at Southern Illinois University and a former political reporter for The Des Moines Register.

Mr. Yepsen said the race for governor had essentially been transformed into a referendum on the performance of Gov. Chet Culver, a Democrat seeking his second term.

At least 2,020 same-sex couples have married in Iowa since the State Supreme Court unanimously ruled in April 2009 that a state law barring such unions was unconstitutional. The ruling set off a flurry of efforts to take the matter to voters, but any such referendum on a constitutional amendment requires the approval of two consecutive General Assemblies, and the Democratic-led legislature has resisted the notion.
232 2010-06-08 Foxconn, based in Taiwan and employing more than 800,000 workers in China, said the salary increases were meant to improve the lives of its workers.

Last week the Japanese automaker Honda said it had agreed to give about 1,900 workers at one of its plants in southern China raises of 24 to 32 percent, in hopes of ending a two-week strike, according to people briefed on the agreement. The new monthly average would be about $300, not counting overtime.

And last Thursday, Beijing announced that it would raise the city’s minimum monthly wage by 20 percent, to 960 renminbi, or about $140. Many other cities are expected to follow suit.

Analysts say the changes result from the growing clout of workers in China’s economy, and are also a response to the soaring food and housing prices that have eroded the spending power of workers from rural provinces. These workers, without factoring in the recent wage increases by some employers, typically earn $200 a month, working six or seven days a week.

But there are other reasons. Analysts say Beijing is supporting wage increases as a way to stimulate domestic consumption and make the country less dependent on low-priced exports. The government hopes the move will force some export-oriented companies to invest in more innovative or higher-value goods.

But Chinese policy makers also favor higher wages because they could help ease a widening income gap between the rich and the poor.

Big manufacturers are moving to raise salaries because they are desperate to attract new workers at a time when many coastal factory cities are struggling with labor shortages.

A Foxconn executive said last week that the turnover rate at its two Shenzhen campuses — which employ over 400,000 people — was about 5 percent a month, meaning that as many as 20,000 workers were leaving every month and needed to be replaced.

Marshall W. Meyer, a China specialist at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, says that demographic changes in China are reducing the supply of young workers entering the labor force and that this is behind some of the wage pressure.

“Demography will do what the Strategic and Economic Dialogue hasn’t: raise the cost of Chinese goods,” he said, referring to United States-China talks on Chinese currency reform and other economic issues. “There is no way out.”

Economists say many of the same forces that were at work in 2007 and 2008, when China’s economy was overheating, have returned and even intensified this year.

Local governments have stepped up enforcement of labor and environmental regulations, driving up production costs.

And perhaps most troubling for companies here is the prospect of an appreciating Chinese currency, which would make their exports more expensive overseas.

Beijing has long promised to allow its currency to fluctuate more freely. But when the global financial crisis shuttered many Chinese factories, the government effectively repegged the renminbi to the dollar to protect exporters.

Pietra Rivoli, a professor of international business at Georgetown University and the author of “The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy,” says the effects of rising labor costs will vary by industry, perhaps with lower-valued goods like garments being forced to move to western China or even to Vietnam and Bangladesh.

But she says high-end electronics like smartphones are likely to remain, because they command high profit margins and because China has built a sophisticated infrastructure and quality-control system.

“Labor is such a small piece of the pie for them,” Professor Rivoli says of the electronics brands. “The money’s all in the design, the marketing and the complicated distribution system, including retail outlets. Like with Apple, they have those rents in the shopping malls, fancy stores and all those hip people working there. That costs a lot.”

Still, salary increases are expected to affect many stages of the supply chain and force some companies to raise prices. For many exporters who simply produce on contract for global brands, profit margins are already razor-thin, and raising prices could hurt business.

“They’re going to have to find a way to pass this on to the end user,” says Mr. Tao at Credit Suisse.

Economists say a necessary restructuring is under way, one that should allow the nation’s huge “floating population” of migrant workers to better share in the benefits of growth and stimulate domestic consumption.

United States and European Union officials have been pressing China to help improve the global economy by consuming more and reducing the country’s huge trade surpluses.

Rising labor costs here are not the end of cheap production in China, analysts say, but they are likely to help change the country’s manufacturing mix.

“China isn’t going to lose its manufacturing base because it’s got a huge domestic market,” said Mary Gallagher, director of the Center for Chinese Studies at the University of Michigan. “But it will move them toward higher-end goods. And that matches the Chinese government’s ambition. They don’t just want to be the workshop of the world. They want to produce high-tech goods.”
233 2010-06-08 Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo will not be playing in the United States Open at Pebble Beach. After carding a one-under-par 71 in his first 18 holes to put himself in contention for one of two spots at a 36-hole sectional qualifier in The Woodlands, Tex., outside Houston, Romo withdrew when inclement weather caused the second round to be suspended until Tuesday.

If Romo had stayed to finish his second round, he would have missed Tuesday’s organized team activities at the Cowboys’ practice facility. He was seven over par through four holes of the second round when play was stopped, a quadruple bogey on the first hole dousing his Open aspirations as much as the thunderstorms that struck the area.

“He gave it a good run,” Romo’s caddie, Bob Swanson, said by telephone. “We had a good time and he made a very respectable showing.”

Casey Clendenon, a former United States Amateur semifinalist, carded a five-under 67 at The Club at Carlton Woods to take the 18-hole lead. Romo was among a dozen players, along with the multiple PGA Tour winners Bob Estes and Steve Elkington, to break par in the first round.

In failing to qualify, Romo found himself in distinguished company; Lee Janzen, a two-time Open champion, finished tied for 68th at a qualifier in Memphis where more than 100 golfers were vying for 12 berths.

At a sectional in Canoe Brook Country Club in Summit, N.J., the nonqualifiers included Andrew Giuliani, a former Big Break contestant and the son of the former New York City Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Giuliani posted rounds of 76 and 83 for a 36-hole total of 15-over, well behind the pace set by Blaine Peffley, who completed the 36 holes in six-under 138.
234 2010-06-08 The twist here is that until this race, Mr. Poizner represented the pragmatic wing of the California Republican Party — one that is largely focused on state government issues like the public-employee pension time bomb, heavy business regulations, the state’s woeful lack of job creation and the government’s inability to fix the schools.

But when Ms. Whitman, ultrapragmatic business czar, snatched that ground away from Mr. Poizner, he tacked right. And it was then that the race started to mimic the familiar Republican struggle between those who want the party focused on economic issues like high taxes, and those who want it focused on social issues like immigration.

Mr. Poizner could still eke out a victory, but his moderate baggage as a Silicon Valley Republican makes it hard to imagine the far right rushing to the polls to save his hide, and most state voters polled have said they would not select candidates based solely on the immigration brawl.

Against the backdrop of Republican mudslinging, Jerry Brown is looking like a genius for refusing to spend any serious time or money — a paltry $540,000 — running for the Democratic nomination, which he is virtually certain to win today.

Mr. Brown was helped by Mr. Poizner, who ran lots and lots of ads making clear that Ms. Whitman had not been nearly enough of an immigration hardliner and reminding voters of her ties to Goldman Sachs. Polls now show Mr. Brown running slightly ahead of Ms. Whitman.

What’s next? Democrats will try to portray Ms. Whitman as a raging conservative, an effort that will intensify this week when Latino elected leaders, the rough-and-tumble California Nurses Association and other Democratic groups pump up their anti-Whitman campaigns. Whether she can withstand such an assault led by Mr. Brown, a politician far more nimble and camera-friendly than Mr. Poizner, is an open question.

Still, despite a $21 million campaign chest and generous support from Sacramento’s hard-charging government employee unions, Mr. Brown does not have the easiest of roads ahead. To win, he needs an energized left, and that might be tough given that Latino elected leaders in California are deeply suspicious of him. As the mayor of Oakland, Mr. Brown frequently refused to play interest-group politics and repeatedly angered black leaders on that count — a history that has left urban Latino politicians uneasy and wondering if he will be willing to embrace their agenda. If he has to move left to satisfy these constituencies, will he then be forced to give up his moderate bona fides?

California is about to see what happens when a not particularly rock-ribbed conservative Republican meets a not very hardcore liberal Democrat. In contrast to the campaigns in much of the nation, this will be a race to the center, as the nominees for both parties attempt to tar the other as the fringe candidate. Meg Whitman and Jerry Brown will both try to convince Californians — who for many years have elected as governor the candidate, regardless of party, best able to portray himself as a pragmatic centrist — that they are the real deal.
235 2010-06-08 The owner of Kroll, one of the best-known providers of corporate investigative services, agreed on Monday to sell the firm to Altegrity, another security specialist, for $1.13 billion in cash.

The deal will bring together two big players in the segment. The new firm would have 11,000 employees worldwide and big presences in operations as varied as government background consulting and the corporate intelligence services that Kroll pioneered nearly 40 years ago.

It also is the latest deal for private equity firms, which have benefited from the resurgence of the debt market that has made the cheap debt needed to finance transactions available again.

Altegrity and its owner, the private equity firm Providence Equity Partners, are paying more than eight times Kroll’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization over the last 12 months, a relatively high figure by today’s standards. Altegrity and Providence executives said the price was manageable because of expected cost savings from the deal, which is scheduled to close by late September.

Founded in 1972, Kroll made its name during the takeover mania of the 1980s, becoming known as the private eye of Wall Street. It subsequently expanded into other risk consulting businesses before selling itself to Marsh & McLennan in 2004 for $1.9 billion.

Since then, Marsh has sold pieces of Kroll, finally putting the bulk of the unit for sale in February. Altegrity and Providence quickly expressed interest — in part because several executives knew Kroll extremely well.

“I’ve always thought that because of its reputation and marketplace, Kroll would be a terrific partner,” Michael G. Cherkasky, Altegrity’s chief executive and a former head of Kroll, said in an interview.
236 2010-06-08 “It’s captured everyone’s imagination,” Stan Kasten, the president of the Nationals, said of Strasburg. “This is the biggest thing since the inauguration.”

Because of the volume of interview requests, the Nationals limited access to Strasburg, fueling his mystique further, Kasten said. Sales of Strasburg’s jersey at Nationals Park have been brisk throughout the year, he added.

Strasburg, of course, is not the first new arrival to make a splash. About 150 members of the news media, 4 Japanese television crews and 50,000 fans came to see Jim Abbott, who was born with no right hand, start his first game at Anaheim Stadium in 1989. Four years later, he threw a no-hitter for the Yankees.

About 36,000 fans came to see David Clyde make his debut for the Texas Rangers in 1973. Clyde ended up winning the game, but he earned only 18 career victories in five seasons because of arm trouble.

In the Washington area, the excitement about Strasburg has caught many Nationals fans off guard. Tickets are often so plentiful and cheap that fans often buy their seats at the stadium on game day. This season, the Nationals have averaged 21,600 fans, half their stadium’s capacity and 24th in the league.

Like many Nationals fans, R. J. Robinson, who lives in Reston, Va., has eagerly awaited Strasburg’s arrival. He says he sees the Nationals play at home about 10 times a year and usually decides whether to go based on the opponent and the weather on the day of the game.

When tickets to Strasburg’s debut sold out in advance, Robinson bought a package that included two $34 tickets to the game, seats to two other games of his choice and vouchers for tickets to a fourth game.

He will also receive a Nationals cap, part of a sponsor’s promotion.

“I thought it was a pretty brilliant idea on their part to make sure that real fans were in the seats instead of scalpers buying up all the tickets,” Robinson said.

Robinson ended up spending $204, more than he expected. He thought about reselling his tickets to the Strasburg game on the hunch that the profit would be enough to cover the cost of the entire ticket plan.

But when he went online to resell his tickets, he discovered that many fans had the same idea. Indeed, the average price of second-hand tickets to Tuesday’s game hit a peak of $109.73, according to FanSnap, a Web site that surveys more than 50 online ticket resellers. But because so many tickets flooded the market, the average price has since fallen to $68.73.

Ticket holders might have also felt burned. Some fans bought tickets to the Nationals game on Wednesday believing Strasburg would pitch then. As a result, the average ticket price jumped to $132.72, according to FanSnap.com. After it was announced that Strasburg would start Tuesday, the average price of tickets to Wednesday’s game plunged, to $22.52.

Still, Strasburg’s addition to the roster, and the team’s improved record (27-31), is likely to buoy prices for a while.
237 2010-06-08 Bank Melli, one of Iran’s biggest retail banks, opened the country’s first women-only bank branch on Monday in Mashhad, allowing women to manage their finances without dealing with unrelated men — something likely to appeal to religious families who oppose mingling between the sexes. Under the Islamic legal system imposed after Iran’s 1979 revolution, unrelated men and women are forbidden to have intimate contact.

However, this is not generally taken to include activities like banking or shopping, and women do commonly use banks where they may be served by someone of either sex.
238 2010-06-08 For car buffs of a certain age — say, 68 — the demise of Mercury is another knife in the heart. First Plymouth, then Pontiac and now Mercury. The mind spins at the loss of history when cars were great and certain brands had an indefinable something that set them apart.

For Plymouth it was 1958, when its incredibly low-slung body was accented with the most stylish fins on the road. Mercury in 1957 reached a styling threshold with its Turnpike Cruiser, which has never been surpassed. But no brand managed to do what Pontiac did. It brought an excitement into the marketplace that propelled it into Olympian heights of glory that thrill car buffs still. How the heart aches at the loss.
239 2010-06-08 “The goal of getting your genome done is not to tell you what you will die from,” he said, “but it’s how to learn how to take action to prevent disease.”

So far, the science of predicting a person’s health future using genetic markers has not produced much useful information for common diseases, although Dr. Church believes that this will change. “We need full genome sequences to understand what is really going on genetically,” he said. “Until recently, this wasn’t feasible.”

The project is becoming possible as the speed and efficiency of sequencing increase dramatically, and the once-prohibitive costs drop from millions of dollars for a genome two years ago to under $10,000 today.

Ultra-low sequencing costs will also allow researchers to study interactions between genes and environmental components — microbes, allergens, viruses, toxins, autoimmunity.

Typically, Dr. Church has been at the center of the development of the technologies that are making this possible. He advises or has licensed technology to most of the companies active in this field. This makes his potential conflicts of interests almost byzantine, since many are rivals, particularly in the hotly competitive field of genetic sequencing.

But he is undisturbed and open about his various commercial and scientific involvements — and seems to be like Teflon in avoiding the sort of criticism that other scientists often face for such entanglements. Indeed, he starts his frequent lectures with a disclosure slide packed with the logos of companies he is involved with — among them LS9 (biofuels), Knome (personal genomes), Alacris Pharmaceuticals (cancer) and Joule Unlimited (photosynthesis).

“I want to move the science into application,” Dr. Church explains, “and I’ll support anything that gets it there. I won’t support one over the other. If they tell me something secret, I can’t tell anyone until it comes into the public domain.”

Dr. Edward R. B. McCabe, a geneticist and physician at the University of California, Los Angeles, said: “George has been an important figure in molecular genetics and its evolution, including genomics and bioinformatics. If we are to understand the complexity of biological systems, then integration on the scale George recommends will be essential.”

A leader in the Human Genome Project during the 1980s and ’90s, Dr. Church first came to prominence while still a graduate student, for developing some of the earliest genetic sequencers. These machines and processes combined a love of computers, engineering and science that began in high school.

“I always loved computers — it’s something inside you,” he said in an interview. But as a boy growing up in Clearwater, Fla., Dr. Church did not have access to computers. “So I made one myself,” he said. Later, when his mother married a physician, he became interested in biology.

As an undergraduate at Duke University, he majored in zoology and chemistry and worked in a lab that used sophisticated X-rays to identify the shapes of crystallized proteins. “I got to use math, physics, chemistry and computers,” he said. “This was also one of the few areas of biology at the time that used robots.”

As scientists go, Dr. Church is an active public figure who gets more than his share of news media attention, which he clearly enjoys and takes in stride. In fact, little seems to disrupt his equilibrium. “I’m pathologically calm,” he said — which may be one reason he has ruffled so few feathers in the hypercompetitive world of high-stakes science.

His lab includes cold rooms filled with tissue samples, machine shops with clamps and drills, and benches overflowing with electronics equipment. He points out where teams are studying antibiotic drug resistance, microbial fuels, metabolic engineering and epigenetics (the turning on and off of genes, usually by environmental influences).

He presides over his bio-empire with a tiny Sony laptop that he carries like someone else might cradle a baby, or a poodle. Shuffling from bench to meeting to lecture, he mostly listens to students and colleagues, asking a few pointed questions while multitasking on his computer.

Sometimes, Dr. Church seems to veer into science fiction. At a dinner a few months ago, he sat with colleagues discussing a project that involves “mirror biology” — the creation of DNA, cells and organisms that are exact opposites of the natural versions. He explained that this was like building a replica of an old-fashioned clock by looking only at its reflection. “The copy will predictably tell time, but the numerals will be flipped and the hands will rotate counterclockwise,” he said.

“While mirror life may look identical to current life,” he said, “it is radically different in terms of resistance to viruses, pathogens and enzyme digestion, among other things, because molecular interactions of life are very sensitive to the mirror arrangement of the atoms.”

Dr. Church expects to have a proof of concept — a functioning mirror cell that serves some useful purpose — in two years. “The mirror project is challenging because it requires building an entire cell from parts,” he said.

He added that this was more complicated than creating, say, the entire genome of a microbial organism and inserting it into a living cell — a feat recently announced by the geneticist J. Craig Venter.

When a student stopped by his small office to chat about a just-published study in Science about the genetic sequencing of a Neanderthal, he said playfully, “Maybe one day we’ll make Neanderthals.”

Maybe so. He prizes imagination in his students and associates.

“I like to keep the median age in my lab low because they will indulge me in my dreams,” Dr. Church said. “They don’t yet think things are impossible.”
240 2010-06-08 When “Roaratorio” was young, it seemed that for Cunningham (whose father was of Irish stock) and Cage, all roads led to Ireland. Cage’s interest in Irish music infused several of his scores. In 2002 Cunningham was delighted that his company was appearing in Dublin at the Abbey Theater, once home to Yeats. When asked if he had researched Irish jigs for “Roaratorio,” he replied, with rueful amusement, “Two whole books.”

Irish dance ideas apart, the choreography of “Roaratorio” is Joycean in its neologisms (you couldn’t put a Cunningham jig straight into “Riverdance”), its structural looseness, its sense of omnium-gatherum inclusiveness, its intensely learned references to tradition and its light references to folk culture.

This revival is among the first fruits of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company’s 2010-11 “Legacy Tour”; it opened here on Friday at the Walt Disney Concert Hall. A recording of the score, including Cage’s voice, is used. Cunningham’s role is played by Robert Swinston, now the director of the Cunningham company’s choreography. (Mr. Swinston’s own 1983-87 role is danced by the young Dylan Crossman, whose jumps sail the highest and evoke less Mr. Swinston than photos of the young Cunningham.)

One of the first virtues “Roaratorio” demonstrates is multiplicity. While the opening couple, Emma Desjardins and John Hinrichs, head toward the back of the stage, addressing their dance outward in several directions, Mr. Crossman starts to dance a solo in a second tempo downstage on one side, and then Jennifer Goggans begins another solo in a third tempo on the other side. From then on, we become used to several things happening at once, and to multi-directionality.

One later ensemble has six couples, spread across the stage, moving energetically, so that at first the slow trio (Andrea Weber, Jamie Scott, Mr. Swinston) at the very back is hardly noticeable. Gradually, however, their adagio (two of them are kneeling much of the time) becomes more and more absorbingly beautiful; it’s like seeing a clearing through trees. One septet is so ambiguously arranged that it’s hard to see whether there are seven, four or three different actions, or — since they’re all in one tempo — just one.

Classical elements are given new emphases, as when successive dancers do a standard large jump (grand jeté) forward, then (less standard) sideways, then (unusual) backward, all, amazingly, in a single phrase. One sequence asks both men and women to cross the stage in sideways jumps where one foot is placed beside the other leg’s knee. While this happens, a man will occasionally lift a woman, so that this jump becomes amplified into a large-sailing arc, still with one foot raised. Though it happens again and again, it always seems to come out of the blue, and the connection between the larger lift and the smaller jump is like a rhyme.

The dance that looks as if it could be practiced in the living room is first seen with Daniel Madoff and Melissa Toogood. Both facing the same way, with their arms latticed in a standard Irish pattern, they just step forward, sideways, backward, forward, all on flat foot but with a slight bounce at the knee, tracing a circle as they walk.

What’s so lovely is the way their heads and eyes lift and turn during the phrase, as if following the line of a huge rainbow. Mr. Swinston and Ms. Scott later do a variant of this, with ballroom accentuations of great charm. These moments of simplicity are wonderfully threaded through this great spread of dance, as if to say that dance, though it can certainly include virtuosity, is also something for you and me.
241 2010-06-08 The new plans place a heavy emphasis on in-orbit refueling stations, which would reduce the size of rockets needed. For propulsion to Mars, the road map envisions a nuclear-powered ion engine.

Some aspects remain fuzzy. Cristina Guidi, deputy director for NASA’s Constellation systems division, who talked about future heavy-lift rockets, said NASA had not figured out how powerful a heavy lifter it needs for human missions beyond Earth orbit, much less a specific design.

NASA is also looking at a series of robotic missions, to the Moon, to asteroids, to Mars, that would gather data needed to set the stage for future astronauts.

Developing technology before deciding on a specific mission, however, leaves some worried that programs could fall victim to the type of budget cuts that have historically affected NASA’s technology programs. For example, NASA’s last effort to develop a nuclear reactor for spacecraft was canceled after only three years.

Indeed, the proposed technology programs being considered are already facing cutbacks.

The administration has proposed continuing development of the Orion crew capsule, which was slated for cancellation with the rest of Constellation, as a lifeboat for the International Space Station.

The slimmed-down Orion would still cost $4.5 billion to complete, and that money would come at the expense of other items in the human spaceflight program. None of the cuts would come from the $6 billion proposed for the space agency’s commercial crew initiative over the next five years, so much of the money is likely to come out of the technology programs.

The plans presented at the Galveston conference did not take Orion into account.

“We’ll just have to rebalance the whole portfolio,” said Michael G. Conley, the study leader for NASA’s so-called flagship demonstration projects, which include a prototype fueling station. “I’m still optimistic we can do some things.”

A presentation on NASA’s commercial crew plans suggested that the agency would give companies wide leeway, but would also require the work to be done at a fixed cost rather than the “cost-plus” contracts that govern most of NASA’s current work.

James S. Voss, vice president of space exploration systems at Sierra Nevada Corporation, which is developing a small spaceplane called Dreamchaser that would ride atop an Atlas V rocket, said that what he heard at the workshop “was exactly what we were hoping for and working for.”
242 2010-06-08 In so far as no one was bitten and nearly everyone stayed where he or she was supposed to, the debut of Laurie Anderson’s “Music for Dogs” was deemed a howling success by its audience and their owners, The Associated Press reported. The concert was performed for the first time outside the Sydney Opera House on Saturday as part of the Vivid Live arts festival that Ms. Anderson is organizing with her husband, Lou Reed. The 20-minute work consists of thumping beats, whistles and high-pitched electronic sounds that cannot be heard by human ears, The A.P. said, as well as whale sounds that worked some four-legged concertgoers “into a frenzy.” (Others, The A.P. said, simply “stared at the stage with glazed eyes,” which in our experience is not necessarily an indication of a bad show.) A Jack Russell terrier named Oliver made a break for the stage, The A.P. reported, dragging his owner along with him. But all in all, Ms. Anderson said: “That was the most amazing concert I’ve ever, ever gotten to give! It’s really a dream.” Above, a fan at the event.
243 2010-06-08 But in his work with the Indian Health Service, Dr. Johnston noticed some things that seemed worth following up. Injuries seemed to cluster chronologically in families: someone would get hurt, then another family member would show up soon after with an apparently unrelated injury.

Dr. Johnston and his colleagues studied large populations of children and found that if a child was injured seriously enough to be hospitalized, all the children in that family were at higher risk of injury for the next three months. After three months, the families’ risk returned to normal. In a follow-up prospective study published earlier this year, almost 20 percent of the families had a child injured or re-injured badly enough to need medical attention. The new accidents weren’t necessarily similar to the initial ones — it wasn’t one burn after another.

Thinking about those vulnerable periods might help us give parents some helpful advice at particularly critical moments. Dr. Johnston told me that a condition called post-traumatic arousal — a component of post-traumatic stress disorder that leaves children on edge, jittery and likely to overreact — was predictive of a repeat injury, not only in a child but also in siblings. Can a serious injury to one child unsettle the whole family, changing behavior patterns in a way that puts all the children at increased risk?

Dr. Flaura Koplin Winston, scientific director of the Center for Injury Research and Prevention at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, has studied post-traumatic stress in families who have been in car accidents. She told me that after accidents, families often go on living with stress and get little or no treatment for it.

“The symptoms happen after you’re out of traditional trauma care,” she said. “You maybe were in the E.R. and you were sent home, and now the child is having nightmares.” The research center’s Web site, aftertheinjury.org, offers parents tools to assess how a child is doing and to judge when more help is needed.

It’s also important to ask how the parent is doing after the accident and to make sure he or she is functioning well enough to help the child.

“In airplanes,” Dr. Winston said, “they tell you to put on your oxygen mask before your child’s.”

The injuries that kill children often have to do with motor vehicles or with drowning. On the other hand, the nonfatal injuries that bring children under 9 into the emergency room are most often from falls, from getting hit with (or against) an object, and from encounters with animals and insects. (A Web site of the C.D.C.’s Injury Center, cdc.gov/injury/podcast.html#hrs, offers podcasts on keeping your family safe.)

Injury experts say that if some virus were leaving this many children dead and severely hurt, parents would be lying awake nights thinking of prevention strategies, or demanding an all-out campaign to take care of the problem.

And in fact, the greatest successes in injury prevention have come from across-the-board safeguards like seat belts, bike helmets and fences around pools.

So no, you don’t want to keep everyone inside for the summer, but you do want to protect every child from the dangerous injuries. And you want to make that protection as routine and as available as possible. At the health center where I used to work, an agency once filled one of our closets with bike helmets; after the standard checkup questions — do you ride a bike, do you have a helmet? — we could measure a child’s head circumference, fit a helmet and send the child out into a slightly safer world.

Last month, the American Academy of Pediatrics released its new statement on drowning prevention, reiterating the importance of fences that completely surround swimming pools and warning of the dangers of large inflatable pools, which may be less likely to be fenced.

The academy recommends swimming lessons for children 4 and older, and is now more open than in the past to the idea of lessons for 1-to-4-year-olds: previously, it had recommended against, but now there are some small studies that suggest little children may be at less risk of drowning if they’ve had formal swimming instruction.

After all, the reason we were so happy to give out those bike helmets is that the whole point of the exercise is not to keep the children locked indoors, or to crank up the parental supervision index to the point where everyone’s anxious and no one’s having fun. Exactly the opposite: you want to keep children safe so that they can enjoy being children, and enjoy the summer as completely as possible. It’s our job to make sure that active and daring do not mean accident-prone.

“Before we start pinning it on the kid, let’s look,” Dr. Winston told me. “Are we creating environments that allow kids to explore?”
244 2010-06-08 Meanwhile, continuing alarm about debt levels, exacerbated by fresh concerns about the Hungarian economy, have sent the euro falling against the dollar, even though Hungary, an E.U. member, does not use the euro.

Arriving at their meeting in Luxembourg, several finance ministers appeared relaxed on Monday about the depreciation of the euro, a development that could help European exporters.

Jean-Claude Juncker of Luxembourg, chairman of the euro-zone finance ministers, said he was “not concerned about the level of the exchange rate” although he conceded that the abruptness of the decline was of concern.

The rescue package for the euro was assembled only after months of delay, with Germany resisting earlier efforts to shore up the single currency after alarm spread over the sovereign debt crisis in Greece.

The new fund would be a separate entity based in Luxembourg with the 16 euro-zone governments as its shareholders.

The new facility, to last for three years, is a central element of the 750 billion-euro aid package that euro-area finance ministers agreed to last month. Under the deal that created the package, a further 60 billion euros will come from the European Commission, with 250 billion euros from the International Monetary Fund.

Dominique Strauss Kahn, managing director of the I.M.F., described the mechanism as “very important for the stabilization of the euro zone.”

The European Investment Bank will provide “treasury management services and administrative support to the E.F.S.F. through a service contract,” the bank’s president, Philippe Maystadt, said, adding that there would be no European Investment Bank involvement in lending.

E.U. ministers hope that rating agencies will give the fund a AAA rating, thereby allowing it to offer less expensive financing to struggling nations than the market will offer. Though governments will endorse the 440 billion-euro total, the granting of a specific loan will be triggered by agreement of all 16 euro-zone nations, said one official speaking on condition of anonymity in advance of a formal announcement.

The European Commission, the European Union’s executive body, had wanted to run the new fund, but that idea was blocked by several nations, including Germany, which wanted to keep control of the new facility among national governments.

“The incorporation of the E.F.S.F. under Luxembourg law,” said Mr. Maystadt, “and the reaching of final consensus on the framework agreement covering its operations, constitutes evidence that, when the stakes are high, member states — together with the European Commission and the E.I.B. — can sit down together and work for the common interest, within a tight deadline.”
245 2010-06-08 The amount of oil being collected as a result of a containment cap placed on the ruptured well last week has increased, he said, and is now up to 11,000 barrels a day. Federal studies have put the amount of oil spewing out of the stricken well at an estimated 12,000 barrels to 25,000 barrels, but had to cut a riser pipe on the stricken well last week to accommodate the capping device, which administration officials have said could have increased the flow rate by as much as 20 percent.

Admiral Allen also said that BP, the owner of the well, was preparing an additional rig to process recovered oil.

But the big problem the Coast Guard is facing is the intricacy of cleaning up oil that has broken into so many patches across the surface of the sea and spreading out in so many different directions. That will require many more vessels armed with skimmers and more booms to block the oil from reaching the shore.

“We’re no longer dealing with a monolithic spill,” Admiral Allen said.

“We’re dealing with an aggregation of hundreds of thousands of patches of oil,” he added. “And we need to adapt to meet that threat.”

At another point, Admiral Allen resorted to military metaphors to capture the nature of his challenge.

“We’re adapting to an enemy that changes,” he said. “As the spill changes, we need to change.”

He was heartened, he said, by the fact that 1,500 vessels, most of them private boats, have been recruited into the fight to clean up the spill and many of those will be fitted with skimmers to sweep up the oil before it reaches the delicate marshes on the shore.

The admiral met with and cabinet members to review the latest containment and clean-up efforts necessitated by what federal officials have called the worst environmental disaster in American history.

"The economic impact of this disaster is going to be substantial and it is going to be ongoing," President Obama told reporters following the meeting with Admiral Allen. But Mr. Obama added that he is confident that the crisis will pass and the affected region will come back "even stronger than ever."

The president took several opportunities to fault BP for its response to the impact of the spill, saying at one point that “I do not want to see BP nickel-and-diming” fishermen and small-business owners hurt by the spill and now seeking compensation from BP. Federal officials, he said, would “ride herd on BP” to make sure BP is “quick and responsive to needs of these local communities.”

“They’re going to need constant, vigilant attention from this administration,” he said. “That’s what they’re going to get.”

The admiral said that a few years ago he led a training exercise on dealing with a major spill of oil resulting from a blown out well. But that exercise was held in far shallower waters and the simulation prepared for an oil slick that was more compact in character.

“No one anticipated that this would spread out across such an area” and involve “hundreds of thousands” of patches, he said. As a result, the Coast Guard has had to recruit a flotilla of volunteers, hundreds of boats that will be equipped with booms and skimming devices, to clean up the scattered oil. But even skimming operations have to be adapted to the depth of ocean and matched to the kinds of vessels available.

The operation, Admiral Allen said, was “taxing our resources.”

In a statement on its Web site, BP said one of four vents on its containment cap had been closed. When the cap was first lowered last week, the company said it hoped to close all four vents gradually to increase the collection rate.

But a technician involved in the effort said Monday that it was unlikely that the other three vents would be closed — both because the surface ship, the Discoverer Enterprise, was near the 15,000-barrel limit of the amount of oil it could process, and because of concern that closing more vents would create more pressure that would force the cap off.

Officials say it is not yet possible to gauge what fraction of the total flow is being captured and what fraction is still escaping.

A second system is being prepared that would use the pipes and other equipment installed for the failed “top kill” effort two weeks ago to collect oil from the well. That oil would be siphoned up to a rig, the Q4000, that is at the site. The Q4000 is not equipped to separate gas and oil, however, so crews are hurriedly modifying it to do so.

BP officials have said the system using the Q4000 could be ready by next weekend.

At a technical briefing in on Monday, Kent Wells, a senior BP executive, said that next month engineers would replace the cap with alarger device that will make a better seal. The device, which is currently being designed, would be a "sealing valve," he said. It would be connected to a new, floating riser pipe and subsea buoy that would allow collection ships to disconnect and disconnect faster in the event of a hurricane.

The struggle to fully deploy the new containment device has raised renewed questions about just how much oil is spewing from the well. Official government and BP estimates began at 1,000 barrels a day, then increased to 5,000 barrels a day.

In recent days, government scientists estimated the leak at 12,000 barrels to 19,000 barrels, and Admiral Allen on Sunday put the upper end of the range at 25,000 barrels. Some independent scientists say the number could be far higher, and they question why BP has not made an active effort to estimate the size of the leak.

Some questioned whether BP knew or even wanted to know how much oil was escaping.

“BP still does not appear to know precisely how much oil is actually escaping, which is discouraging,” Representative , Democrat of , said in a letter to BP on Sunday.

Government officials and BP executives say the containment efforts should help them come up with a more solid number.
246 2010-06-08 Mr. Angelides and Mr. Thomas both said that Goldman had inundated the panel with data — about five terabytes, equivalent to several billion printed pages — and dragged its feet on answering detailed questions about derivatives, securitization and other business activities.

In particular, the commission sought records on collateralized debt obligations based on mortgage-backed securities, and the names of Goldman’s customers in transactions of derivatives. In a chronology it provided, the commission also indicated that it was interested in Goldman’s dealings with the American International Group, the insurance giant that collapsed in 2008, and in the bank’s so-called Abacus transactions, which are at the heart of a civil fraud suit brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The commission’s unusual public criticism — it has issued 12 subpoenas, none accompanied by stinging accusations of obstruction — underscored the anger in Washington at the outsize profits and influence of Goldman, which had emerged nearly unscathed from the financial crisis. It also reflected the fallout from Goldman’s unyielding strategy of standing its ground in the face of inquiries and attacks.

A spokesman for Goldman, Michael DuVally, said, “We have been and continue to be committed to providing the F.C.I.C. with the information they have requested.”

The lashing by the commission further complicated Goldman’s public image. In April, the bank was accused of securities fraud in a civil suit filed by the S.E.C., which contended that it created and sold a mortgage investment that was secretly devised to fail.

That investment and others like it were the subject of a Senate investigation that also exposed Goldman to withering criticism. And federal prosecutors in Manhattan have begun looking into the mortgage practices of banks, including Goldman.

The commission, created by Congress, is required to deliver a report by December, but with only $8 million and some 50 employees to draw on, it has at times seemed outmatched by the targets of its inquiries.

“I suspect they’re spending more on their lawyers than our whole budget,” Mr. Thomas conceded.

Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman’s chairman and chief executive, testified at the commission’s first public hearing in January, with the top bankers Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, John J. Mack of Morgan Stanley and Brian T. Moynihan of Bank of America.

After the hearing, the commission sent written questions for Mr. Blankfein and made requests for records in April and May.

Mr. Thomas, a California Republican who served 28 years in the House, said the requests to Goldman were “not inordinate” compared with similar queries sent to a half-dozen other banks. All of the other institutions complied, he said.

In contrast, Mr. Thomas said, Goldman gave a “basically incomplete” response, even as it deluged the commission with so much irrelevant information that it amounted to “mischief-making” that was both “deliberate and disruptive.”

Mr. Angelides, a former California treasurer and candidate for governor, said, “We did not ask them to pull up a dump truck to our offices and dump a bunch of rubbish.” He added, “This has been a very deliberate effort over time to run out the clock.”

The two men also seemed to acknowledge that the sheer volume of data was beyond the commission’s capacity to analyze. “We should not be forced to play Where’s Waldo? on behalf of the American people,” Mr. Angelides said. “This is not right.”

Mr. Thomas, turning to the proverb about looking for a needle in a haystack, said, “We expect them to provide us with the needle.”

The two men said that after the subpoena was issued on Friday, Goldman had moved to schedule interviews with several executives, including Mr. Blankfein; David A. Viniar, the chief financial officer; Gary D. Cohn, the president and chief operating officer; and Craig W. Broderick, the chief risk officer.

The 10-member commission was slow to get started. It recently replaced its executive director, B. Thomas Greene, with Wendy M. Edelberg, an economist on loan from the Federal Reserve, who had been the research director. Mr. Greene, a former chief assistant attorney general for California, remains on the commission’s staff as senior counsel.
247 2010-06-08 NEW DELHI — More than 25 years after a plume of fatal toxic gas from an American-owned chemical plant wafted over the slumbering city of Bhopal, eight former executives of the company’s Indian subsidiary — including one who has since died — were convicted Monday of negligence. The seven surviving defendants were sentenced to two years in prison and fined 100,000 rupees, or $2,100.

They were the first criminal convictions from the leak at the Union Carbide chemical plant in Bhopal, a central Indian city. The leak killed 3,000 people almost instantly, and thousands more died later from the aftereffects of the toxic gas, an ingredient in pesticides the plant produced.

Victims groups and activists, who had sought more serious charges, criticized the verdict. Death by negligence is most frequently used in deaths involving car accidents, they said. It carries a maximum two-year sentence.

Satinath Sarangi, an advocate for the victims, characterized the verdict as “the world’s worst industrial disaster reduced to a traffic accident.”

The defendants, all Indian citizens, were senior officials of the company at the time of the leak, India’s deadliest industrial disaster. The accident took place in December 1984 when a poisonous gas called methyl isocyanate leaked in the plant and spread over nearby slums.

The eight convictions were announced after a bitter quarter-century-long court battle. Initially the defendants were charged with culpable homicide, which carries a maximum sentence of 10 years, but India’s Supreme Court reduced the charges.
248 2010-06-08 PEARSON--Emily Feder Was born in Cluj, Transylvania/Hungary on July 4, 1914. She immigrated in 1928 with her family and was married to Samuel Pearson on December 31, 1936. In 1940 Emily lived in Brooklyn and was a neighbor of Estee Lauder, and bec...
249 2010-06-08 NEW DELHI -- More than 25 years after a plume of fatal toxic gas from an American-owned chemical plant wafted over the slumbering city of Bhopal, eight former executives of the company's Indian subsidiary -- including one who has since died -- wer...
250 2010-06-09 Credit: Photograph by Charlotte Dumas/Julie Saul Gallery. All Photographs originally commissioned for the “Dutch Seen” Exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York in 2009, in collaboration with Foam Museum Amsterdam.
251 2010-06-09 Thankfully, this is a question with which future historians will not have to grapple. When “The Real Housewives of New York City” is running in continual loop at the Smithsonian, they will see that Ms. Frankel was a mouth, a friend, an enemy, a baker, a chef, an almost-brand — an ambulatory energy drink of a woman. They will know that her feud with the deranged nudnik Kelly Bensimon put her on the side of right and good. They will convene at the Society for the Study of Reality Television With Fewer Than 10 Million Viewers and say, “Thank you, Bravo, for giving Bethenny a spinoff.”

That spinoff, “Bethenny Getting Married?” (beginning on Thursday night on Bravo), chronicles its star’s transition from the matron she never was to the wife and mother she is becoming. Ms. Frankel, now 39, appeared on “Real Housewives” even though she was single and dating. This technicality irked people initially, but the fact that she was quicker and funnier than the women around her and that she seemed to be in on the joke lent the impression that she existed in a universe apart from the genre’s dingbats and phonies.

Ms. Frankel had been engaged three times before she met her present fiancé, Jason Hoppy — hence the question mark of the show’s title. She bolted at each turn. Five years ago, before she became a basic-cable celebrity, I met her at the Kentucky Derby and she was wearing a T-shirt that read, “I Recycle Men.” When she explained that she had another at home that said, “Tell Your Boyfriend to Stop Calling Me,” I realized I was in the presence of a kind of greatness that could not be contained by the dairy-free cookie business Ms. Frankel was building. Since then she has developed a “Sex and the City”-like health-food and diet-book mini-empire that tells you how to lose weight by drinking margaritas.

The new series begins with her showcasing her entrepreneurial drive while six months pregnant. She is also living with her fiancé in Lower Manhattan. The apartment looks too staid and corporate to suit its owner, a woman who, in the middle of a blizzard, soldiers on with a housewarming party, wearing a tutu and heels. The party is problematic because Mr. Hoppy is stuck out of town working. What is his work? This being reality TV, it is vague but seems to have something to do with pharmaceutical sales and real estate.

Ms. Frankel’s choice to marry someone who is not a private-equity zillionaire with property deeds to half of Nevis is endearing enough that it gets in the way of any effort to discredit her. The “Real Housewives” franchise suggests an exploration of the American gold digger when its real anthropological genius is that it delivers a whole bunch of sisters doing it for themselves. Ms. Frankel seems to be bankrolling much of her own good time. Looking at her — the shoes, the jewelry, the tan, the bust line — you would imagine a scenario different from the one that she is actually living.

This is a person who seems to be in love even as she complains about her fiancé’s frat-boy ways. He likes having people over all the time. She doesn’t. He has slob tendencies; she is a freak for order. Invoking the title character of the Sapphire novel, she puts it to him: “Precious wouldn’t live in your old apartment.”

Given her history, Ms. Frankel, during the series premiere, goes to a therapist to pre-empt any trouble. (The clinician’s name is Xavier Amador, should you ever find yourself in need of a mental health professional amenable to camera crews.) During her session she gets emotional, and it’s hard not to be moved by her childhood misfortunes. Ms. Frankel’s early life was unsupervised, chaotic and awful. The daughter of the horse trainer Bobby Frankel, who died last year, she was hanging out at the track and drinking and gambling by the time she was seven.

“Given the way I grew up, I should have been, like, in a crack den,” she tells Mr. Amador.

Instead she lives in a postwar condominium in TriBeCa. She has published recipes and a book called “A Place of Yes: 10 Rules for Getting Everything You Want Out of Life.” Clearly Ms. Frankel has followed every one of them.
252 2010-06-09 McCartney's flirty and flowery cocktail dresses helped turn the rooftop at Gavin Brown's Enterprise into a little garden oasis....
253 2010-06-09 The Church of Latter-day Saints failed to report staff work during the final days of the push to get approval of the proposition outlawing same-sex marriage in California....
254 2010-06-09 Sevigny offered a core collection of five dresses in five prints to anchor Opening Ceremony's kitschy accessories and cool cropped knits....
255 2010-06-09 Joseph E. Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, wants the financial regulatory bill to bar financial firms that give up their bank charters from ever being able to seek government assistance again....
256 2010-06-09 The cocktail bar in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, expands its daytime reach....
257 2010-06-09 An East Village label moves to New England....
258 2010-06-09 New York could become the first state in the country to require new rights for nannies, housekeepers and other caregivers....
259 2010-06-09 The Fox Business Network is replacing its consumer finance call-in show with a new show called "Money Rocks."...
260 2010-06-09 Considering a reader's comment that the absence of a multiple-accounts feature on the iPhone and iPad is a "major flaw."...
261 2010-06-09 After Sept. 23, insurers will be permitted to rescind individual policies only if the beneficiary has committed fraud. Those in group plans should be protected now....
262 2010-06-09 Some of the world's top hedge fund managers of the baby-boom generation are grooming potential successors to reassure investors in the event they one day step down, Bloomberg News writes....
263 2010-06-09 Microsoft is planning to raise $1.15 billion by selling convertible debt to institutional investors. Proceeds will be used to repay debt....
264 2010-06-09 The US needs to be thinking about how to insulate itself from European masochism....
265 2010-06-09 In May, Moore Global Investments, the largest hedge fund of star investor Louis Bacon, suffered losses of 9.2 percent, the weakest one-month showing in the fund's history, The Wall Street Journal reported....
266 2010-06-09 Asian stock markets were mostly lower Wednesday as investors shrugged off overnight gains on Wall Street amid lingering worries about Europe's debt crisis....
267 2010-06-09 Stocks were mostly higher on Tuesday, partly in response to encouraging comments late Monday by Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke, as increases in energy and material shares helped to offset a down day for technology....
268 2010-06-09 Three former executives at Chicago-based hedge fund Citadel are launching a computer-driven fund, The Wall Street Journal reported on Tuesday....
269 2010-06-09 The least interesting thing about Mr. Williams, unfortunately, is his actual dance making; instead, there he’s at his most prolix and imprecise. Though he makes his dancers look imaginatively involved, in terms of execution they’re better at the idiosyncratic gestures with which he characterizes each dance than at its more purely dance material. Just as one dancer does that turn on flat foot, you notice that her neighbor is now doing it on half-toe. This dancer is taking pains to keep her leg turned out, that one isn’t. And so on, again and again.

Are both versions meant to be correct? Does Mr. Williams care about the difference? His dances lack rigor, and they meander. Even the idiosyncratic gestures aren’t well focused. Each section overstays its welcome.

In “Gobbledygook,” a naked young man (Adam H. Weinert) is trapped in a confined space on the left: he turns convulsively, stretches up the walls and folds over. Meanwhile, from the darkness on the right, an older man (Eikazu Nakamura), bare-chested, wearing saronglike attire, with his back to the audience, slowly sidles across the stage. Theirs seem two separate stories — until we realize that the older man means to reach the younger naked man. But to what end? No sooner does he finally arrive than he places a hand on the young man’s throat as if to choke the life out of him.

The solo for Mr. Weinert is too long, but it’s the evening’s most startling and successfully expressive dance. There are images of alarm — claustrophobic turns, clutches at the walls, collapses — that make a real impression, and we can’t miss the exposure or vulnerability with which Mr. Weinert bends right over to show us his naked buttocks and groin from behind. But what follows, for both characters, is rambling, tedious, opaque.

In “Hen’s Teeth” a flock of six young women in winged and feathered tunics performs what might be a new-look idea of a dance for a 19th-century corps de ballet. Next they begin peeling off the top halves of their tunics — with their teeth. They become, above the waist, naked and human. Now a naive young man in medieval attire (Mr. Weinert again) stumbles upon them. They respond with hoarse yelps and avian alarm calls.

Mr. Williams seems the latest modern-dance choreographer to offer his version of “Swan Lake” until his tale veers elsewhere. After many transitions, we end up with three mammoth crustaceans, like sea lions or walruses in gray armor. Why is this a dance?

It’s evident how closely Mr. Williams has worked with his costume designers, Carol Binion (“Gobbledygook”) and Andy Jordan (“Hen’s Teeth”). In “Hen’s Teeth” he’s also collaborated with the composer Gregory Spears, whose score — a requiem Mass sung in Breton, Middle French and Latin, performed live (by musicians including Mr. Williams and Mr. Spears) — is the most distinguished component of the evening. It summons up a shimmering medieval aura — positively High-Elven — of voices, harps, chimes, recorders and viola and harps.

But Mr. Williams’s stage worlds are private, full of internal meanings we can’t share. His idiosyncrasies — the crooked-back arms with which his swan-maidens depart from ballet convention, for example, or the scrolling arm movements for the three crustaceans — don’t enrich the experience. I wouldn’t mind if Mr. Williams told us that “Hen’s Teeth” was about Hiawatha studying the Kama Sutra from the Valkyries, if only he made one decent dance. He doesn’t.
270 2010-06-09 Two people were killed and three others were injured Tuesday in a natural gas pipeline explosion in a remote part of the Panhandle. The five men were moving clay from a pit near the pipeline when a bulldozer struck it, causing the explosion. Lipscomb County Sheriff James Robertson said one of the injured people was taken by helicopter to a hospital in Oklahoma City. Two others working near the explosion had injuries not considered life-threatening. The blast near the small town of Darrouzett, a few miles from the Oklahoma border, is the second natural gas line explosion in Texas in two days. A line exploded near Cleburne, southwest of Dallas, on Monday as utility workers were digging in the area. One worker was killed.
271 2010-06-09 “I am particularly interested in his views on the powers of the D.N.I., the appropriate role of the D.N.I. with respect to agencies within the Department of Defense, and his views on the importance and appropriate role of Congressional oversight of intelligence,” Mrs. Feinstein said.

“I believe that any D.N.I. will be effective only if he has the authority — both on paper and in practice — to oversee and have strategic direction over the 16 agencies that make up the intelligence community,” she said.

Mr. Bond voiced much sharper criticism of General Clapper’s selection. “The president has made clear he expects Clapper to be little more than a figurehead when it comes to our nation’s terror-fighting policies, choosing a man who has actively worked to undermine the authority of the D.N.I. is just one example,” Mr. Bond said in a statement.

Mr. Bond, in a conversation with General Clapper on Tuesday, raised his concerns about the memorandum that argued against provisions to strengthen the intelligence director’s office included in a bipartisan intelligence authorization bill, according to a Congressional official who had been briefed on the conversation.

General Clapper, 69, who retired from active duty in 1995 after 32 years in the Air Force, wrote the memorandum in his capacity as under secretary of defense for intelligence, overseeing all military spy operations.

The memo was written at the request of the House Armed Services Committee, and was eventually shared with both House and Senate armed forces panels, which oversee military matters, a senior administration official said.

Empowering the national intelligence director’s office would be likely to cut into the budgetary and personnel authorities of the intelligence agencies now largely controlled by the Pentagon.

General Clapper’s critics say he is too close to the military and would not institute necessary changes to the overall intelligence community, an accusation his proponents say is unfounded.

One of General Clapper’s biggest supporters in the Obama administration is Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, a former C.I.A. director who brought the general back into government after he was forced out after clashing with former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld.

“He’s very independent minded,” Mr. Gates said Sunday. “But he is the consummate intelligence professional who has the respect of virtually everybody in the community.”

The contents of General Clapper’s memorandum were reported Tuesday afternoon on the Web site Foreignpolicy.com.

A senior administration official on Tuesday played down the significance of General Clapper’s memorandum in terms of his ability to lead the intelligence community and work collaboratively with its senior leaders, and pointed to Mr. Obama’s praise for the nominee.
272 2010-06-09 Golden Tate, a rookie wide receiver with the Seattle Seahawks, apologized after the police in suburban Seattle gave him a warning for trespassing into a gourmet doughnut shop last weekend. Tate, a former Notre Dame star, said a friend took a couple of maple bars from the shop early in the morning. He said “they are irresistible.” Seahawks Coach Pete Carroll said he talked to Tate and agreed that maple bars can be irresistible. ¶The All-Pro cornerback Darrelle Revis returned to practice with the Jets despite not having a new contract in place. Revis was back for the voluntary session after sitting out last Thursday amid a contract dispute. He has missed only that practice this off-season, and was not fined because the session was voluntary.

Jets quarterback Mark Sanchez, recovering from knee surgery, was a full participant in practice for the first time. jets ¶The police say six rings reported stolen by the former University of Wisconsin and N.F.L. running back Ron Dayne have been returned. Madison (Wis.) police said Dayne had reported the rings stolen from his home in Waunakee, but that they were returned anonymously in a plastic bag Tuesday to Dayne’s apartment in Madison. dayne (AP)
273 2010-06-09 Bob Estes earned another trip to Pebble Beach by claiming one of the two final spots Tuesday in a rain-delayed qualifier for the United States Open. Estes had rounds of 69-67 at the Club at Carlton Woods in The Woodlands, Tex., and joined Robert Gates in getting the final two spots among 13 sectional qualifiers throughout the country. . This will be the third Open at Pebble Beach for Estes.¶Turning 50 certainly has not slowed down Bill McGuinness in his quest for a third New Jersey State Amateur Golf Association Amateur championship. The funeral director from Haddonfield shot the only under-par round and took a one-stroke lead over the teenager Pat Wilson after the opening round of the tournament at Montclair Golf Club in Upper Montclair. njgolf (AP)
274 2010-06-09 JOHANNESBURG — A monitor for the United Nations-backed body charged with halting the illegal trade in diamonds that finance conflict has recommended that Zimbabwe be allowed to export the stones, prompting condemnations from human rights groups that say the country’s military is still deeply involved in smuggling and violence against local miners.

In an internal report provided to The New York Times on Tuesday, the monitor, Abbey Chikane, a South African businessman and management consultant, said that the government of Zimbabwe had met the minimum required standards to trade in rough diamonds and that he was “ready to supervise export arrangements.”

Mr. Chikane advocated that the army continue guarding the vast diamond fields in the eastern part of the country to prevent an influx of illegal miners, until the police could be trained for the task. Investigators for the same body sponsoring Mr. Chikane — known as the Kimberley Process — found last year that the military had raped, assaulted and unleashed dogs on illegal miners.

Beyond challenging Mr. Chikane’s recent findings, campaigners against so-called blood diamonds or conflict diamonds contend that he endangered the leader of a Zimbabwean civic group investigating human rights abuses in the diamond fields, effectively causing the man’s arrest. The civic group leader, Farai Maguwu, has been detained since Thursday, days after meeting Mr. Chikane at a Holiday Inn in Zimbabwe, Mr. Maguwu’s lawyers said.

Mr. Chikane contends, however, that it was Mr. Maguwu who put him at risk of imprisonment by handing over a top secret document in the presence of government intelligence agents. Whatever the merits of Mr. Chikane’s findings, his handling of the meeting with Mr. Maguwu could become a major issue when the Kimberley Process meets later this month and considers the monitor’s recommendations.
275 2010-06-09 After struggling on Sunday in the wind at the Memorial Tournament, Erik Compton, a two-time heart-transplant recipient from Miami, admitted he was thinking about withdrawing from the United States Open qualifier in Springfield, Ohio. He was worn out, and 36 holes of grinding it out on Monday was a little more than he felt he could do.

“I’d had a pretty good week at Jack’s tournament,” he said Tuesday in reference to Jack Nicklaus during a telephone interview. “But after the bad round Sunday, I was tired and was thinking maybe I didn’t want to qualify. I didn’t want to overdo it.”

Then he thought better of it. He had come too far to give up without taking a shot at making the field in what would be his first major championship. And so Compton, 30, who was 12 when he received his first heart transplant and 27 when he had his second, went out and shot rounds of 69 and 66 and emerged from a three-way playoff for one of two remaining spots in the field of 156 players next week at Pebble Beach.

“I’ve never played at Pebble before,” Compton said. “I’ve tried, but I was never able to get a tee time. It’s surreal, almost, to think about playing there in my first major championship. It’s a complete turnaround. It definitely wasn’t easy.

“Somehow, through the grace of God, I was just praying that I got a chance. I did, and now, thinking about where I was two years ago, just laying there in bed watching it on TV and to have to learn how to walk again, and do all that and people always asking me about am I going to use a cart. Then the whole thing is, I qualify walking 36 holes.”
276 2010-06-09 Three people were injured Tuesday afternoon and others were missing after a natural gas pipeline exploded in a remote part of the Panhandle. Vickie Nelson of the Lipscomb County Sheriff’s Office said the blast occurred about 4 p.m. near the small town of Darrouzett, a few miles from the Oklahoma border. Ms. Nelson did not have details on the number of people missing or the seriousness of the injuries. The blast was the second natural gas line explosion in Texas in as many days. A line exploded near Cleburne, southwest of Dallas, on Monday as utility workers were digging in the area. One of the workers was killed.
277 2010-06-09 Though you can get a great steak in Brooklyn, until now if you lived in Park Slope, that steak might as well have been in Timbuktu.

With the opening of the Benchmark Restaurant, that long commute to the “other Brooklyn” can come to an end.

In fact, if you’re seeking steak for two, Benchmark beats a place like Peter Luger by a mile for a date.

Its pretty brick dining room is set back from the street, fronted by a long charming garden filled with tables and plantings.

When ordering, avoid the overwrought appetizers — dishes like veal sweetbreads ($9) on a roasted eggplant-and-vanilla purée with bacon broth and pickled red onions clash with themselves and will clash with your palate.

Cut straight to the 24-ounce bone-in rib-eye ($30). Pasture-raised, corn-finished and wet-aged, it is charred just so; it’s crusty, juicy and just plain delicious.
278 2010-06-09 The director Joe Berlinger will not have to turn over more than 600 hours of unused footage from his documentary “Crude” to the Chevron oil company pending his appeal of a subpoena for the footage. A three-judge panel for the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York decided on Tuesday to stay a subpoena order made last month by a lower court, pending its ruling on the appeal. In the documentary Mr. Berlinger, above, chronicles a group of Ecuadorians who are suing Chevron (which now owns Texaco, the original target of the suit), saying that the company’s oil-field operations polluted their drinking and bathing water. A federal district court sided on May 6 with Chevron, which said Mr. Berlinger’s raw footage could be helpful as it seeks to have the lawsuit dismissed and pursues arbitration. The panel on Tuesday also granted a request by both sides for an expedited appeal. A date for arguments was not immediately set, but arguments were expected to take place by mid-July.
279 2010-06-09 Erykah Badu took her time on Monday night, much as she always does. On the Roseland Ballroom stage, her band was already in place, working over and around a warm keyboard passage, as the minutes ticked by: one, two, four, eight. The effect was that of amniotic calm, everyone suspended in time but nourished.

Eventually, Ms. Badu made it to the stage, steering her band into “20 Feet Tall,” the opening song from her latest album, “New Amerykah Pt. 2: Return of the Ankh” (Universal Motown), released in March. Calm and dense, it’s a record that at times feels enamored of its own languor. This has become Ms. Badu’s mode in recent years: her releases, infrequent and increasingly insular, have felt stranded in a single mood.

On Monday, though, she revealed just how many shades she’s still capable of, how much work goes into that suspended animation. In an unhurried, sometimes magical, performance, she sang determinedly and ferociously, elevating lyrics that can read as sentimental and flat on record. She tapped out her own beats on a drum machine. Her backup troupe — a seven-piece band, including a flutist, and four backup singers — was arrestingly precise, capable of squeezing endless detail out of Ms. Badu’s haze.

And it was very much still a haze, though an articulate one: most of the songs from her last two albums oozed at a slow clip. The only times the pace quickened was when she dipped back into her catalog, especially to her 1997 debut album, “Baduizm,” which betrayed more of an affinity for hip-hop than her later albums would. (Though on Monday, she happily rapped bits from Whodini’s “Friends” and N.W.A.’s “Gangsta Gangsta.”) She has also adjusted lyrically, moving from themes of affirmation and empowerment to mystical abstractions.

She hasn’t lost her attitude, though. Midshow, the screen above her began playing the video for “Window Seat,” in which she strips naked while walking the streets of Dallas, and which caused a minor stir this spring. At first, she winkingly sang the hook to Zapp’s “More Bounce to the Ounce” while the clip played, but then she stopped the music, turned to face the screen and watched along with everyone else. It was a tease — the video stopped midway through — but it showed that Ms. Badu hadn’t gone so far down her psychedelic wormhole that she had forgotten how to be a provocateur.
280 2010-06-09 IN days of yore, American men were expected to have opinions about drink. A signature cocktail, and how to mix it, mattered. It was part of the male identity, like the ability to grill meat or change a carburetor.

It was in this spirit that the literary critic Bernard DeVoto wrote a curious book, “The Hour: A Cocktail Manifesto.” First published in 1948, it has long been regarded as a classic, one of the first attempts to formulate a philosophy of the cocktail. It has been out of print for decades, but Tin House Books has just reissued it, and now, modern readers can recapture that moment from the middle of last century, when calibrating a martini was theology, not mixology.

Mr. DeVoto, a Mark Twain scholar and the longtime resident of the “Easy Chair” column in Harper’s, lays down the law in words of fire, banishing all manner of mixed drinks to outer darkness, lamenting the perversion of national taste during Prohibition and flailing away indiscriminately at just about any target crossing his sightlines.

Strait is the gate and narrow is the way to Mr. DeVoto’s magic cocktail kingdom. He abhors rum, because rum drinks require fruit juice, pure poison to any cocktail. Public enemy number one, in this regard, is the Bronx, a mixture of gin, vermouth and orange juice that, for Mr. DeVoto, ushered in the Orange Blossom and its ilk, so prominent during Prohibition.

So the Bronx is out. And so, astonishingly, is the Manhattan — “an offense against piety” because it has vermouth. “With dry vermouth it is disreputable, with sweet vermouth disgusting.” The daiquiri he dismisses as “a regressive fantasy.” Hot drinks are verboten. Scotch is an abomination. The list goes on and on.

In fact, Mr. DeVoto shrinks the cocktail universe to two drinks: “a slug of whiskey” and the martini. The first, of course, is not even a mixed drink. The second he surrounds with more caveats and fine-print instructions than a car-repair manual.
281 2010-06-09 “It’s still astounding to me what happens when you cut or bite into an onion or a garlic clove,” Dr. Block told me in a telephone conversation last month. “These plants originated in a very tough neighborhood, in Central Asia north of Afghanistan, and they evolved some serious chemical weapons to defend themselves.”

Their sulfur-based defense systems give the alliums their distinctive flavors. The plants deploy them when their tissues are breached by biting, crushing or cutting. The chemicals are highly irritating, and discourage most creatures from coming back for seconds. They kill microbes and repel insects, and they damage the red blood cells of dogs and cats. Never feed a pet onions or garlic in any form.

Any cook knows that chopping alliums releases chemicals that sting. Garlic can get into the eyes and mouth even if a clove is just rubbed on the foot, a body length away. Its active ingredient passes right through the skin and into the blood. Prolonged contact with garlic will blister and burn the skin, as some of the book’s less pleasant photos document.

Dr. Block explains that different alliums stockpile different sulfur chemicals to make their weapons, and this accounts for their varying flavors. The stockpiles themselves are inert, but when the plant’s tissues are damaged, enzymes in the tissues quickly convert the sulfur compounds into reactive, stinging molecules.

Garlic cloves produce a chemical called allicin, which is responsible for their strong pungency and aroma. It’s a relatively large molecule and acts mainly on direct contact with the eater, the plant world’s version of hand-to-hand combat.

The flat-leafed allium known as Chinese or garlic chives produces a small amount of garlicky allicin, but much more of a different weapon that has a milder, cabbage-like aroma.

Onions, shallots, scallions and leeks share a special stockpiled chemical and a second defensive enzyme. They produce a sulfur molecule that’s small and light enough to launch itself from the damaged tissue, fly through the air and attack our eyes and nasal passages. This long-distance weapon is called the lachrymatory factor because it makes people’s eyes water.

“The lachrymatory factor is extremely potent,” Dr. Block said. “Only tiny amounts get anywhere near your face when you cut onions, but it’s still enough to make you tear up. When I smelled the pure compound it was overwhelmingly painful, like being punched in the eye socket.”

Other familiar alliums, like elephant garlic, ordinary chives, wild ramps and ramson, generate variable mixtures of the garlic, Chinese chive and onion weapons, and have a blend of their flavors.

The same reactivity that makes the allium sulfur compounds such potent weapons also makes them short-lived. They immediately begin to react with other molecules in the plant tissue and gradually generate a flavor that is less pungent but also less fresh-smelling, more harshly sulfurous. The heat of cooking speeds these and other reactions, largely eliminates the pungency, and allows the sweetness of the alliums to emerge and blend with the sulfurous aromas. Heat also knocks out the tissue enzymes, so they can’t produce any more pungency.

This basic chemistry leads to some general guidelines for cooking.

If you’re using onions or garlic or chives raw, in a dressing or salsa, either chop them just before serving or rinse the chopped pieces thoroughly. Water removes the harsh aging sulfur compounds from the cut surfaces, so you’ll taste only the fresh ones.

If you’re heating garlic or onions or their relatives, then cooking whole or coarsely chopped bulbs will moderate their flavor. Crushing or grating will intensify it.

Crushing can also diversify the flavors that alliums contribute to cooked dishes. They’re valuable ingredients in part because their sulfur chemistry suggests and reinforces savory meat flavors. Last year a German study of meat stews found that by far the strongest contributor to the overall “gravy” aroma was an unusual sulfur compound that came not from the meat, but from the onions and leeks. And that compound appears only after these vegetables have been cut up.

So if you’re counting on alliums to give depth to stews or braises or stocks, then chop them finely or crush or purée them. Heat will eliminate the bite and develop the aroma.

Dr. Block’s book may be the definitive word on the alliums for the moment, but as it and he make clear, there are new flavors to look forward to.

Researchers in New Zealand and Japan recently developed an experimental onion that lacks the lachrymatory-factor enzyme. So it’s tear-free, but unlike very mild onions like Vidalias, it still has its full stockpile of sulfur materials. It ends up boosting the levels of trace compounds that Dr. Block discovered and named zwiebelanes. He describes them as having “a wonderful, fresh, sweet onion aroma.” So this tear-free onion promises to be intensely oniony, but in a new way.

Dr. Block and some of his colleagues are also beginning to study the several hundred allium species that still grow wild in Central and Southwest Asia, a number of which are harvested locally and eaten in large amounts, and have very different defensive chemistries. “I want to see what other surprises nature has in store for us,” he said.

But flavor exploration begins at home. “There’s a lot going on under your nose while you chop and cook,” he told me. “Use your nose, follow the changes, and you’ll discover new and delicious things.”
282 2010-06-09 WASHINGTON — Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas survived a tough challenge from her party’s left wing on Tuesday to capture the Democratic nomination in a runoff primary election, resisting the anti-incumbent wave that has defined the midterm election year.

Mrs. Lincoln withstood a multi-million-dollar campaign against her from organized labor, environmental groups and liberal advocacy organizations from outside Arkansas as she prevailed over Lt. Gov. Bill Halter. She faces a difficult contest in the fall, but her victory challenges the suggestion that voters are poised to oust all officeholders.

“We proved that this senator’s vote is not for sale and neither is yours,” Mrs. Lincoln said. “We took on the outside groups seeking to manipulate our votes.”

In California, Republican primary voters chose female business executives to run for Senate and for governor after both crushed their opponents.

Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, beat Tom Campbell, a former congressman, and Chuck DeVore, whose candidacy drew the backing of many Tea Party activists. She will face the incumbent senator, Barbara Boxer, a Democrat, in the fall.

Meg Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay and a billionaire, had invested a small share of her personal fortune to prevail in the governor’s race over Steve Poizner, the state insurance commissioner, who put $24 million of his own money into his primary campaign. She will challenge Jerry Brown, the state’s Democratic attorney general, who was first elected governor of California three decades ago.

In Nevada, Sharron Angle, a candidate backed by the Tea Party, defeated two establishment Republicans — including Sue Lowden, a former state party chairwoman — to win the nomination to challenge Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, this fall. Mr. Reid is widely viewed as one of the most endangered Democrats, facing a strong tide of disapproval from Nevada voters.

The nomination of Ms. Angle could provide a boost to Mr. Reid’s hopes, and Mr. Reid’s aides said they were preparing to seize on positions she has taken to try to portray her as out of touch with most Nevada voters. For example, she has called for the privatization of Social Security, the elimination of the Department of Energy, and cutting back regulation on Wall Street, all positions that could give Mr. Reid’s well-financed campaign ammunition to use in television advertisements against her. She also does not have the organization or financial resources that Mr. Reid is bringing to the race.

In South Carolina, Nikki Haley moved closer to becoming the first female governor of South Carolina as she strongly outpaced three Republican primary rivals in one of the most divisive contests in a series of primaries in 11 states across the country that will further shape the contours of the midterm election season.

It was the busiest primary day so far this year, a coast-to-coast series of contests that amplified many of the existing themes that have crystallized as the parties select their nominees for governor, the House and the Senate against a backdrop of high unemployment and a sullen economy. But the results also underscored the individuality of the midterm campaign and the unpredictability of the next five months.

California voters approved a proposition revamping the way local, state and some federal candidates are chosen in primaries, effectively eliminating closed one-party nominating contests in favor of open primaries. Under the system, primaries — not including presidential ones — are open to all candidates, regardless of party. The two top vote-drawers go on to face each other in a general election

The proposal, its backers said, is intended to try to break a pattern where candidates are encouraged to appeal to the most partisan members of their party in order to win primaries.

The victory by Mrs. Lincoln produced the biggest surprise — even to some of her supporters — and a significant blow to a coalition of left-leaning groups, which had spent the day arranging interviews to explain how they had toppled a two-term senator.

Her triumph may have been seen by some incumbents, who have been viewing the coming general election with growing fear, as a glimmer of hope on an otherwise bleak horizon. But she won after a personal intervention by one of Arkansas’ favorite sons — former President Bill Clinton, who campaigned aggressively on her behalf.

And for all the support that Mr. Halter drew, he was still in a position where he was trying to win an election in a relatively conservative state while running with the backing of some of the most liberal groups in the country, including MoveOn.org and labor unions.

In South Carolina, Ms. Haley overcame accusations of infidelity and benefited from the endorsement of Sarah Palin in a contest that lived up to the state’s reputation for anything-goes politics. But she fell short of claiming an outright majority, setting up a runoff against Representative J. Gresham Barrett, a four-term congressman. They were part of a four-way Republican field seeking to succeed Gov. Mark Sanford, a Republican, who confessed to an affair with an Argentine woman last year and was restricted from seeking re-election by term limits.

“We had the kitchen sink thrown at us,” Ms. Haley said in an interview on Tuesday. “We are a state of great people. We are a state of dirty politics.”

In recent weeks, Ms. Haley, 38, had been twice accused of infidelity, which she fiercely denied. She rose in the polls by promising to break an entrenched network that has dominated state politics in South Carolina for decades and she portrayed the unsubstantiated charges of sexual affairs as retaliation for taking on special interests.

Ms. Haley, an Indian-American, would also become the first racial minority to be elected governor of South Carolina. Democrats nominated Vincent Sheheen on Tuesday, but Republican candidates in South Carolina hold a considerable advantage in the fall.

Last month, Ms. Haley took a sharp leap in the polls after endorsements and campaign visits from Ms. Palin and Jenny Sanford, the popular former first lady. Ms. Haley had trailed far behind her three Republican rivals in fund-raising and visibility. After she voted Tuesday, she was asked whether she wanted to be seen as a barrier-breaker politician.

“These stereotypes of South Carolina are very different from what South Carolina actually is,” she said. “If I win, I want it to be historic in the nature that South Carolina is moving forward for reform.”

In Nevada, Jim Gibbons, the state’s embattled Republican governor, lost a nomination for a second term to Brian Sandoval, a former state assemblyman. Mr. Gibbons, whose term has been marked by a series of scandals, a very public divorce and a financial crisis, became the first governor in the history of Nevada to lose his seat in a party primary.

In Iowa, Republicans nominated Terry Branstad, who served as the state’s governor from 1983 to 1999, to run again. He prevailed in a three-way primary and will face Gov. Chet Culver, a Democrat, in the fall.

In another South Carolina race, Representative Bob Inglis, a Republican who has occasionally broken with his party on national security and social issues, was forced into a runoff against Trey Gowdy.

In the only contest of the night that will send a new lawmaker to Congress, voters in the northwest corner of Georgia elected a former State House member, Tom Graves, to fill a House vacancy created when Representative Nathan Deal left to run for governor. It was a low-turnout election and is expected to be the last special Congressional election before November, meaning that any new vacancies will be filled on Nov. 2.

In Virginia, Robert Hurt, a state senator, easily won a contested Republican primary to challenge Representative Tom Perriello, a freshman Democrat, in November. Mr. Perriello is considered one of the most vulnerable Democratic incumbents because of his votes for both the Democratic health care bill and climate change measures.
283 2010-06-09 Stocks were mostly higher on Tuesday as increases in energy and material shares helped to offset a down day for technology.

Partly in response to encouraging comments late Monday by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, stocks started the day higher.

Mr. Bernanke said in Washington that the recovery would continue, “but it won’t feel terrific.” He also said that he did not expect the economy to see a double-dip recession.

The technology sector declined after an analyst at the Susquehanna Financial Group downgraded the shares of Intel and Broadcom.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 123.49 points, or 1.26 percent, to close at 9,939.98. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 11.53 points, or 1.10 percent, to 1,062.00, while the Nasdaq composite index fell 3.33 points, or 0.15 percent, to 2,170.57.
284 2010-06-09 Mr. Kan, a veteran of Japan’s political opposition, kept largely the same lineup as the Hatoyama government, signaling that he would continue the party’s efforts to shake up Japan’s unresponsive political system. But he also added several younger members as he strives to win back voters ahead of parliamentary elections next month.

“This cabinet is youthful and fresh, and filled with people who love to work,” said Yoshito Sengoku, the newly appointed chief cabinet secretary.

One new face is Renho Murata, a 42-year-old half-Japanese, half-Taiwanese former television announcer who won attention last year when she grilled bureaucrats during an inquiry into wasteful spending. Ms. Murata, who usually goes by Renho, was named minister in charge of administrative reform, giving her a leading role in the Democrats’ pledge to rein in the nation’s powerful bureaucracy.

Yoshihiko Noda, 53, a fiscal hawk, was named finance minister, in a sign that the new government will seek to restrain Japan’s ballooning government debt, already twice the size of the nation’s $5 trillion economy.

Mr. Kan kept the previous cabinet’s foreign and defense ministers, who helped negotiate a deal last month to relocate a United States air base on Okinawa. On Tuesday, Mr. Kan reiterated his intention to honor that agreement, while trying to find other ways to reduce the American military burden on the southern island.

Mr. Kan said he would seek to meet with President Obama during a Group of 8 summit meeting later this month in Canada. He appears keen to keep smoother ties with Washington than did his predecessor, at a time when the region also faces increased tensions from the sinking of a South Korean warship in March, apparently by a North Korean torpedo.

Domestic news media attention was also focused on the omission from the new lineup of one face in particular, Ichiro Ozawa, the governing party’s shadowy power broker and its secretary general under Mr. Hatoyama.

A gifted political tactician, Mr. Ozawa is credited with engineering last summer’s landslide election victory, which ended a half-century of virtual one-party rule here. But his backroom deal-making became the focus of a series of financing scandals that undermined Mr. Hatoyama, who was also investigated for misreported political contributions from his mother.

Since his election by Parliament on Friday, Mr. Kan has reshuffled top party posts in an apparent effort to distance himself from Mr. Ozawa. He replaced Mr. Ozawa as secretary general, the party’s No. 2 post, with Yukio Edano, 46, a prominent bureaucracy fighter in the Hatoyama government who has been a critic of Mr. Ozawa’s influence.

“From today, we will no longer accept contributions from corporations and groups,” Mr. Edano told reporters. “We must regain public trust in the Democratic Party.”

Over the weekend, public opinion polls by major newspapers found a larger-than-expected bounce for the Democrats’ approval ratings, which jumped to the mid-30s from around 20 percent after Mr. Kan took over.
285 2010-06-09 PEARSON--Emily Feder Was born in Cluj, Transylvania/Hungary on July 4, 1914. She immigrated in 1928 with her family and was married to Samuel Pearson on December 31, 1936. In 1940 Emily lived in Brooklyn and was a neighbor of Estee Lauder, and bec...
286 2010-06-10 The billionaire investor George Soros said Thursday that the financial crisis was entering “Act II” as Europe’s fiscal problems worsen and governments are pressured to cut spending to curb budget deficits....
287 2010-06-10 Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman and an economic adviser to President Obama, said on Wednesday that sweeping financial reform legislation before Congress would make the United States a model for the world....
288 2010-06-10 Moe Stein, 82, the owner of Frank's Sport Shop, is as much an institution as is his store....
289 2010-06-10 One provision could have a big impact on owners of Subchapter S corporations....
290 2010-06-10 Is it possible to botch spending stimulus dollars on renewable energy projects? Florida and the federal Department of Energy have found a way, according to the Energy Department's inspector general....
291 2010-06-10 The Arizona Republican says sanctions aren't tough enough....
292 2010-06-10 A building dating from 1935 might not be the venue you'd expect for a "green" hotel, but that's exactly what you'll find at the Mosaic House, opening Thursday in Prague....
293 2010-06-10 Speaker Nancy Pelosi urged the company to first take care of small businesses hurt by the oil spill....
294 2010-06-10 Business leaders urged the British government to defend BP against political pressure from Washington, where lawmakers have called on the oil company to suspend its dividend....
295 2010-06-10 What to do if you want to put the video shot on your iPod Nano on your computer....
296 2010-06-10 How hard the president is willing to fight for stronger financial regulation will become apparent as the House and Senate try to reconcile their bills, an economist writes....
297 2010-06-10 Lakeland Financial on Wednesday said it bought back all of the 56,004 shares of preferred stock issued to the Treasury Department in exchange for federal bailout aid....
298 2010-06-10 China's stock regulator has approved Agricultural Bank of China's plans for an initial public offering in Shanghai and Hong Kong worth well over $20 billion that may be the world's biggest ever, despite current market doldrums....
299 2010-06-10 The Congressional Oversight Panel on Thursday lambasted the U.S. government's decision to rescue American International Group in September 2008, saying the bailout continues to have "a poisonous effect on the marketplace."...
300 2010-06-10 Investors were shaken Wednesday by the prospect that BP might cut its dividend, pulling down the broader market. In the last hour of trading, the major indexes on Wall Street -- led by energy shares -- turned lower, erasing gains of more than 120 ...
301 2010-06-10 Hamper oil drilling and motorists will pay, industry groupies warn. But the drop in crude prices since BP’s Gulf of Mexico blowup suggests deepwater wells have a picayune impact on the market for oil. It’s a reminder that America relies on imports anyway and it won’t make any real difference to ban difficult drilling until oil companies prove it is safe.

Crude prices actually fell slightly in the days after President Obama called a six-month time-out on deepwater drilling. Prices even slid soon after the failure of BP’s top-kill method to stem the leak, an event that pushed a final resolution out toward August at the earliest and increased the risk of more lasting restrictions on drilling.

True, the leak has coincided with a financial crisis in Europe that threatens to undercut energy demand. Even so, if drilling in the United States were as central to oil prices as Congressional cheerleaders for Big Oil imply, events off the Louisiana coast should have sent oil prices higher. Americans should be skeptical the next time a lawmaker claims that curbs on the industry will lead to higher world prices for crude — and at the pump.

In fact little the United States does in terms of oil supply has much effect at all on oil prices. Deepwater wells in the Gulf produce around 1.3 million barrels a day, against total global output of roughly 85 million.

A two-year moratorium on new drilling would reduce potential output by only 300,000 barrels a day in 2015, the International Energy Agency calculates — a piffling 0.4 percent of current world production. Oil titans in the Middle East could easily pick up the slack. Saudi Arabia alone has four million barrels a day of spare capacity, PFC Energy reckons.

The fate of deepwater drilling in the United States does, of course, matter much more to the likes of BP and Exxon Mobil, which are shut out of many of the world’s biggest oil fields by national oil companies. But the United States government can afford to wait until oil majors show they know how to plug a deepwater well. America’s army of auto-crazy drivers won’t suffer.
302 2010-06-10 MONTREAL — Paul A. Volcker, the former Fed chairman and an economic adviser to President Obama, said on Wednesday that sweeping financial reform legislation now before Congress would make the United States a model for the world.

“The United States will go from laggard to the head of the parade if we get this legislation passed,” Mr. Volcker told a conference of financial market regulators. “I’m really hopeful for the first time there is a chance of getting international acceptance for the basic principles.”

Mr. Volcker said he expected Congressional negotiations to produce a “reasonably coherent” legislative package within about two weeks.

“I have the impression that it’s on a pretty good glide path,” he said at a meeting of the International Organization of Securities Commissions. “This American legislation will be a kind of launching point for other countries.”

The Congressional effort is the most sweeping revision of financial regulation in the United States since the Great Depression. On Thursday lawmakers from the House and Senate will meet to reconcile significant differences between their bills.
303 2010-06-10 Viacom Inc., the media giant, declared its first quarterly dividend on Wednesday and reinstated a stock repurchase program, addressing questions about how it would invest its extra cash.

Viacom, the only major American media company that had not been paying a dividend, set a quarterly payment of 15 cents a share. The company owns the film studio Paramount Pictures along with cable TV networks such as MTV and Comedy Central.

It also announced plans to buy back up to $4 billion of its stock after suspending its repurchase program in early 2009.

The moves return some of its cash to shareholders after several quarters of improving results.

Alan Gould, an analyst with Soleil-Gould Research Corp, said the size of the repurchase program came as a surprise — representing almost 20 percent of the company’s stock market value. The dividend was also more generous than he expected.

The dividend is the first Viacom has paid as a standalone company after its split with the CBS Corporation in 2006. At the time, Sumner M. Redstone, who still controls both companies, wanted to separate Viacom’s faster-growing cable networks and films division from the slower-growing CBS Television Network and CBS Radio operations.

The idea was that CBS would appeal to investors seeking dividends who are attracted to higher cash flows. The company has regularly paid a dividend ever since, though it was forced to cut it back sharply in early 2009 amid concerns about the company’s financial position.

Analysts and investors have recently said Viacom could also start paying a dividend, citing its improving results, strong balance sheet and lack of suitable acquisition targets.
304 2010-06-10 She declined to comment specifically on the merger, but said that for any merger deal, “If it’s anticompetitive, we will go to court and block it.” She added that if the division had concerns about a proposed merger, “it will not be addressed in promises” but rather by specific actions of the merging companies prior to the deal’s being concluded.

In the U-Haul case, the trade commission said that although U-Haul had not reached an agreement to fix prices with the competitor, the Avis Budget Group, the two companies could have imposed higher prices on consumers had the competitor accepted the offer to collude.

Together, the two companies control 70 percent of the one-way, do-it-yourself truck rental market, the agency said.

U-Haul made the invitation to its competitor in public and private communications, the agency said, including during a conference call with financial analysts, and in two companywide memorandums that encouraged U-Haul managers to contact their rivals and tell them that U-Haul had raised its rates and invite them to do the same.

“It’s a bedrock principle that you can’t conspire with your competitors to fix prices, and shouldn’t even try,” Mr. Leibowitz said. “Consumers deserve better. The order announced today will ensure that U-Haul will not try it again.”

U-Haul and its parent company, Amerco, agreed to a settlement order that bars them from colluding or inviting collusion for 20 years. The agreement also includes monitoring and compliance provisions to ensure that the firms comply with the order.

Jennifer Flachman, a spokeswoman for Amerco, said that the settlement was not an admission that the company had violated the law. “The commission has not alleged that the company entered into an agreement with Budget or any other competitors,” she said, and the complaint “does not allege that U-Haul and Budget reached an agreement.”

The settlement order, which was unanimously approved by the five-member commission, is now subject to public comment for 30 days, after which the commission will decide whether to make it final.

The F.T.C. brought the charges under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, which gives the agency the authority to go beyond federal antitrust laws in stopping firms from engaging in unfair methods of competition.

The trade commission has sought to use that power in other enforcement actions, including its pending case against Intel. The agency charged Intel last year with using its position at the top of the computer chip business to stifle competition and raise prices. The case is scheduled to go to trial in September.

Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican from Utah, said during a hearing by a Senate antitrust subcommittee on Wednesday that he was concerned whether the “unfair and deceptive” standard was too vague for companies to know whether their conduct was illegal. By contrast, he said, a large body of case law exists around the antitrust statutes, giving companies clear guidelines of when their conduct is problematic.

Mr. Leibowitz said that for the commission to apply Section 5 of the act, a company’s action had to be unfair, deceptive and possibly causing harm to the competitive process.

“I don’t think any company would be surprised by our application of unfair methods of competition to the conduct we believe violates the Federal Trade Commission Act,” Mr. Leibowitz said.

Noting that Congress had charged the commission with stopping anticompetitive conduct, “That is what we trying to do, particularly in areas where antitrust laws do not apply.”
305 2010-06-10 The suspended Oregon quarterback Jeremiah Masoli was kicked off the team Wednesday, two days after a police officer cited him for marijuana possession and driving infractions. In a statement, the university said Masoli was dropped because he did not “adhere to obligations” outlined by Coach Chip Kelly.

Kelly suspended Masoli in March for the 2010 season after Masoli pleaded guilty to burglary for his role in the theft of laptops and a guitar from a fraternity. Masoli remained on scholarship and practiced with the team this spring in hopes of returning for the 2011 season.

Masoli threw for 2,147 yards and 15 touchdowns last year in a season that ended with a Rose Bowl loss to Ohio State.
306 2010-06-10 One expert on branding said G.M.’s effort ran counter to a trend in which corporate names had become more casual. The consultant, Paul Worthington, head of strategy for Wolff Olins, a brand consulting company, noted that FedEx had replaced Federal Express, KFC had supplanted Kentucky Fried Chicken and “even RadioShack has evolved into the Shack.”

Regardless, if Chevrolet plans to put the Chevy genie back in the bottle, the task could prove harder than climbing out of bankruptcy.

As of Wednesday night, the word Chevy appeared dozens of times on Chevrolet’s Web site, chevrolet.com, including a banner on the home page that said, “Over 1,000 people a day switch to Chevy.” One of the dropdown menus was “Experience Chevy.” On Facebook, brand pages include Chevy Camaro, Chevy Silverado and Team Chevy.

If taken to its logical conclusion, Chevrolet would presumably need to ask Jeff Gordon, the four-time Nascar Sprint Cup champion who currently races a Chevrolet Impala, to change the Web site address — jeffgordonchevy.com — for his dealership in Wilmington, N.C.

And what about rolling back the popular culture references to Chevy? Elton John, Bob Seger, Mötley Crüe and the Beastie Boys have all sung about Chevy, and hip-hop artists rap about “Chevy Ridin’ High” or “Ridin’ in My Chevy.”

There are also a good many auto enthusiasts who have "Chevy" tattooed onto various body parts. Some probably have a Chevy II or two tucked in their garages.

“It’s a ’Vette, it’s a Caddy, it’s a Chevy,” said Dick Guldstrand, a long-time racer who has been inducted into the Corvette Hall of Fame. He noted that the brand was named for Louis Chevrolet, a race driver of the early 20th century.

“Once it became an American icon, America took it away from G.M.,” said Mr. Guldstrand, 83. “They made it a Chevy. You’re doing a disservice to all the people by telling them not to call it a Chevy.”

In 2006, Chevrolet updated a series of popular commercials with the tagline “Baseball, hot dogs, apple pie and Chevrolet," which noted how the brand was woven into the fabric of American culture.

The commercial juxtaposed imagery of past baseball greats with modern ones. And at the end, the narrator says, “Apparently, baseball’s changed a little over the years, but not America’s love of the game — or love for Chevy.”

So why make the change now? G.M. wasn't saying, but the memo came after several major marketing moves. The memo was provided to The Times by the disbelieving recipient of a copy.

In April, Chevrolet dismissed its long-time ad agency, Campbell-Ewald, which over several decades had created such memorable slogans as "See the U.S.A. in your Chevrolet," "Like a rock" and "The heartbeat of America." The account went to Publicis USA, but only for a month. In May, Joel Ewanick was hired from Nissan to head United States marketing for G.M. Shortly after settling into his position, Mr. Ewanick switched the Chevrolet advertising account again, this time to Goodby, Silverstein & Partners.

Klaus-Peter Martin, a G.M. spokesman, confirmed the memo. "We're going to use Chevrolet instead of Chevy going forward in our communications," he said in a telephone interview, and linked the change to the move to Goodby.

Mr. Worthington, the branding expert, said Chevrolet seemed unclear what the brand stood for. "So what it would appear they are trying to do, by centralizing to a single formal name, is to try to get some focus as to what that brand stands for, and get that out into the marketplace, which makes a lot of sense."

Ultimately, he said, consumers "will call you whatever they want to call you."

But not Chevrolet staff members. A postscript to the memo says a sort of cuss jar - a plastic "Chevy" can - has been placed in the hallway. "Every time someone uses ‘Chevy' rather than Chevrolet," the note said, the employee is expected to put a quarter in the can.

The proceeds are to be spent on "a team building activity."

Presumably, that would not include nachos for the staff at Chevy's.
307 2010-06-10 The announcement came with short notice, on Sunday, a week after the commando raid that turned violent and left nine activists from Turkey dead.

“The decision was not reached easily,” the band said in a statement. “We’d like to extend our deepest apologies to the fans, but events beyond all our control have conspired against us.”

Two lesser known bands billed to play at the same festival, the Klaxons and the Gorillaz Sound System, also dropped out.

A British band that did play at the festival, Placebo, subsequently faced boycott calls from activists in Lebanon who wanted the band’s Beirut concert, scheduled for Wednesday night, called off. The activists were particularly incensed over an interview the lead singer, Brian Molko, gave in Tel Aviv, in which he said that Israel had the group’s endorsement because he found the people “very attractive,” and that Israel’s endorsement was important “if you decide to go sailing.”

Shuki Weiss, one of Israel’s premier promoters and production managers, said he had been working to bring the Pixies to Israel for more than 10 years.

Music is a force that usually combats violence and hatred, he said. He calls the boycott movement “cultural terrorism.”

Like many here, Mr. Weiss argued that music and politics should not mix. “But if we do want to get into politics, I have a long list of countries that could be boycotted,” he said.

If the Pixies had something to say to Israel’s leaders, he and others noted, they could have come and said it here.

When Mr. Weiss brought Roger Waters to Israel in 2006, Mr. Waters performed in an Arab-Jewish village called the Oasis of Peace and sprayed graffiti on a section of the wall making up part of Israel’s security barrier near Bethlehem in the West Bank.

A loose coalition of pro-Palestinian activists around the globe has been lobbying artists not to come to Israel in recent years, inspired by the nongovernmental Palestinian Campaign for the Academic and Cultural Boycott of Israel, based in the West Bank city of Ramallah.

A small group of Israeli activists also wrote an open letter to the Pixies in March, saying that despite being huge fans, they would “not cross the international picket line.”

“Are you prepared to perform in Tel Aviv,” they wrote, “while just under your nose millions of human beings are suffocating under a cruel Israeli military regime, denying them elementary human rights?”

In April, pro-Palestinian activists picketed Mr. Scott-Heron’s concert at the London Royal Festival Hall and disrupted part of the performance. He then told the audience that he disliked wars and that his tour would “end in Athens, not Tel Aviv.”

Two weeks before Mr. Costello canceled his performances, scheduled for June 30 and July 1 at the ancient Roman amphitheater in Caesaria, he told The Jerusalem Post in an interview that the people calling for a boycott “own the narrow view that thinks performing there must be about profit and endorsing the hawkish policy of the government. It’s like never appearing in the U.S. because you didn’t like Bush’s policies or boycotting England because of Margaret Thatcher,” he said.

Explaining his reversal in a letter on his Web site, Mr. Costello wrote that it was “a matter of instinct and conscience.”

“One lives in hope that music is more than mere noise, filling up idle time, whether intending to elate or lament,” he added. “Then there are occasions when merely having your name added to a concert schedule may be interpreted as a political act that resonates more than anything that might be sung and it may be assumed that one has no mind for the suffering of the innocent.”

In what some saw as a bizarre confluence, around the same time in mid-May, the Israeli authorities refused to allow Noam Chomsky, the renowned linguist and harsh critic of Israel, to enter the West Bank from Jordan. An Israeli official explained that as “a mishap.”

The American guitarist Carlos Santana also canceled a June performance in Israel, but it was never clear whether it was for political reasons or because of problems with his schedule.

Surprisingly, given the cancellations, 2010 has been a bumper year in Israel for international acts. Joan Armatrading, Rihanna and Metallica have appeared in recent weeks; Elton John, Rod Stewart and Diana Krall, the jazz singer and pianist married to Mr. Costello, are still slated to perform.

For many here, though, such concerts were never just about the music. The more high-profile the artist, the more Israel felt like a normal country, less defined by conflict; each performance was taken as a sign of global acceptance that Israelis so crave.

Perhaps that is why the Pixies’ cancellation, while appearing to prompt little introspection, caused such an outpouring of indignation and distress.

The newspaper Yediot Aharonot devoted a full page of news and commentary to the unhappy event. One columnist, Raanan Shaked, sarcastically credited the Israeli government with “restoring our famous deterrence and preventing Weiss’s countless artists from trying to reach Israel’s shores.”

“Life was pleasant enough without the Pixies, and it will continue to be so,” he wrote. Israelis have to stop “turning these concerts into a barometer of our national resilience,” he continued, adding: “You don’t want to come? As you wish. Don’t come.”
308 2010-06-10 SLINGBOX SOLO Travelers who prefer more choice in their on-the-road entertainment can turn their laptops or mobile phones into remote receivers for their own television sets using the Slingbox.

David Wilfert, a lawyer from Connecticut, bought a Slingbox when his daughter Kate was in college. “She used it in lieu of a TV set,” Mr. Wilfert said. “Basically, she became a free rider on our cable.”

Jay Tannenbaum, a spokesman for Sling Media, said many customers bought the product because they wanted to watch hometown sports or news when they were away from their local viewing area. When Mr. Tannenbaum’s son, Harry, was studying in Hong Kong, he logged on one night to join the family in watching a movie, creating a virtual family gathering.

“If the TV is the hearth and home, the hearth is now portable,” Mr. Tannenbaum said. “You can bring that with you wherever you go.” The simplest Slingbox, the Solo, is $180. Features like high definition and the ability to handle multiple streams are available in the Pro-HD model at $300.

I-GLASSES Travelers who want to watch videos in private can use head-mounted displays that put the video screen directly in front of the wearers’ eyes with futuristic goggles, priced at $299.

“It does look odd,” Ross Rainville of I-Glasses said of his company’s 920HR model. The goggles plug in to the composite TV video outputs of any portable player, and the display is the equivalent of an 80-inch screen, the company said. Earplugs offer stereo sound.

“I take the 920HR and the iPod and watch a movie in the airport, but I never made it through an entire movie without someone coming up and asking me what I’m doing.”

VIEWGUARD PRIVACY SCREENS For $40 to $75, privacy screens that restrict the viewing angle of a screen make up in affordability what they lack in space-age technology. As described by ViewGuard, which sells a variety of these screens online, only people directly in front of the filtered monitor — that includes people standing behind the user — can see the display.

CAMERA MASK BY LIQUID IMAGE When travelers put away their movies and laptops and start checking out where they are, the $99 Camera Mask by Liquid Image is a good choice for water destinations. A small camera positioned in the center of a dive mask makes it possible to shoot stills and video practically hands-free. The original product was for divers, though demand has expanded to include people who want a waterproof camera.

“In the pool, it sounds like a cool idea,” said John Green, a father of four and a buyer for Adorama.com, a consumer electronics store in Manhattan. “It might be parents, it might be friends or people who post videos of themselves or of their vacation.”

Similar masks are in the works for skiing and other activities.

“The Internet also lets people show how different the reefs are in locations around the world,” said Melanie Pearson, a company vice president, in an e-mail message. “All of this information from photos and videos can help a traveler decide what locations they wish to visit.”

IGO CHARGE ANYWHERE Before packing electronic essentials, the wise traveler might consider the iGo Charge Anywhere battery charger. This device, about the size of a deck of cards, works internationally, on airplanes and in autos without a voltage converter. It also stores power so it can charge a device even when it is not plugged in.

The Charge Anywhere costs $50, and 3,000 tips make it compatible with a variety of electronic devices. The tips are sold separately, for about $7 to $12 each. In an e-mail message, a spokeswoman for iGo, based in Scottsdale, Ariz., said the charger was “compatible with nearly every mobile device on the market.”

Considering the number of new travel gadgets available, the challenge for iGo will be keeping up.
309 2010-06-10 The intelligence service questioned a former spy on Wednesday who is accused of violating defense secrecy rules in his recently released memoir, the police said. Pierre Siramy, a former deputy director of D.G.S.E., the former foreign intelligence service, was detained Tuesday and remained in custody overnight. Defense Minister Hervé Morin had filed a complaint against Mr. Siramy, whose real name is Maurice Dufresne, accusing him of violating secrecy rules and divulging the identities of operatives.
310 2010-06-10 In her studies, Dr. Turkle said, “Over and over, kids raised the same three examples of feeling hurt and not wanting to show it when their mom or dad would be on their devices instead of paying attention to them: at meals, during pickup after either school or an extracurricular activity, and during sports events.”

Dr. Turkle said that she recognizes the pressure adults feel to make themselves constantly available for work, but added that she believes there is a greater force compelling them to keep checking the screen.

“There’s something that’s so engrossing about the kind of interactions people do with screens that they wall out the world,” she said. “I’ve talked to children who try to get their parents to stop texting while driving and they get resistance, ‘Oh, just one, just one more quick one, honey.’ It’s like ‘one more drink.’ ”

Laura Scott Wade, the director of ethics for a national medical organization in , said that six months ago her son, Lincoln, then 3 1/2, got so tired of her promises to get off the computer in “just one more minute” that he resorted to the kind of tactic parents typically use.

“He makes me set the timer on the microwave,” Ms. Wade said. “And when it dings he’ll say, ‘Come on,’ and he’ll say, ‘Don’t bring your phone.’ ”

Not all child-development experts think smartphone and laptop use by parents is necessarily a bad thing, of course. Parents have always had to divide their attention, and researchers point out that there’s a difference between quantity and quality when it comes to conversations between parents and children.

“It sort of comes back to quality time, and distracted time is not high-quality time, whether parents are checking the newspaper or their BlackBerry,” said Frederick J. Zimmerman, a professor at the , , School of Public Health who has studied how television can distract parents. He also noted that smartphones and laptops may enable some parents to spend more time at home, which may, in turn, result in more, rather than less, quality time overall.

There is little research on how parents’ constant use of such technology affects children, but experts say there is no question that engaged parenting — talking and explaining things to children, and responding to their questions — remains the bedrock of early childhood learning.

Betty Hart and Todd R. Risley’s landmark 1995 book, “Meaningful Differences in the Everyday Experience of Young American Children,” shows that parents who supply a language-rich environment for their children help them develop a wide vocabulary, and that helps them learn to read.

The book connects language use at home with socioeconomic status. According to its findings, children in higher socioeconomic homes hear an average of 2,153 words an hour, whereas those in working-class households hear only about 1,251; children in the study whose parents were on welfare heard an average of 616 words an hour.

The question is: Will devices like smartphones change that? Smartphone users tend to have higher incomes; research from the Nielsen Company shows that they are twice as likely to make more than $100,000 a year than the average mobile subscriber. If increased use of technology encroaches on the time that well-to-do families spend communicating with their children, some could become the victims of successes originally thought to help them.

Dr. Hart, who is now professor emeritus at the Life Span Institute, said that more research is needed to find out whether the constant use of smartphones and other technology is interfering with parent-child communications. But she expressed hope that more parents would consider how their use of electronic devices might be limiting their ability to meet their children’s needs.

Part of the reason the children in affluent homes she studied developed larger vocabularies by the time they were 3 is that “parents are holding kids, the kids are on their lap while the parent is reading a book,” Dr. Hart said. “It is important for parents to know when they’re talking to kids, they’re transferring affection as well as words. When you talk to people, there’s always an implicit message, ‘I like you,’ or ‘I don’t like you.’ ”

Meredith Sinclair, a mother and blogger in Wilmette, Ill., said she had no idea how what she calls her “addiction to e-mail and social media Web sites” was bothering her children until she established an e-mail and Internet ban between 4 and 8 p.m., and her children responded with glee. “When I told them, my 12-year-old, Maxwell, was like, ‘Yes!’ ” Ms. Sinclair said.

“You can’t really do both,” she added. “If I’m at all connected, it’s too tempting. I need to make a distinct choice.”
311 2010-06-10 David Brooks may be pleased to hear that liberal arts and accounting are no longer mutually exclusive. Students choosing to study business, a top major for decades, need to understand all of the disciplines that are important in the business world. Yes, accounting. But employers are in pursuit of even more: creative, critical and conceptual abilities; a clear understanding of technology; and comprehension of the world around us.

Employers have made it clear to us. This is the winning combination.

The writers are, respectively, the dean of arts and sciences and the provost at Bentley University.
312 2010-06-10 It is no longer likely that the investments from the $1 billion her nine-year marriage to Mr. Kluge netted for his ex-wife still throw off an interest income once reported to be $1.6 million a week. Yet back in the ’90s when the cash river was in full spate, Ms. Kluge spent freely, first snapping up thousands of acres of countryside just down the road from Thomas Jefferson’s Monticello, then building her 8-bedroom, 13-bathroom house, along with a neoclassical pool house, a log cabin, stables and private chapel, and then, assisted by the decorator David Easton, embarking on a global buying spree to fill up all that newly created emptiness.

“People have no idea how hard it is to find so many really good things,” Jane Stewart Humiston, a horse breeder from Keswick, Va., said on Tuesday. A friend of Mrs. Kluge’s, Ms. Humiston had driven to Albemarle House that morning hoping to find some things to fill a historic farmhouse she recently bought down the road.

Whether it is true that quality goods are hard to come by, some in this bucolic and socially conservative part of the world had trouble comprehending what might compel someone first to expend the Herculean effort required to erect an elaborate backdrop for a pageant of gentrification, stock it with the stuff of English country house fantasy — Roman statuary, Georgian mirrors, chinoiserie doodads — and then in under 20 years offload the whole lot in one go.

“She is regarded as having spent too much money and made too much effort to achieve exactly the wrong effect,” said Robert Goolrick, a writer and native Virginian. “It is the custom here to wear the richest garments rather loosely, as though they had been picked up at the Episcopal Church white elephant sale,” he went on, “and not to try to recreate the seventh floor at Bergdorf Goodman” in one’s house. Ms. Kluge’s mansion may be “startling in its wrongness,” Mr. Goolrick said. But as the writer of the best-selling novel “A Reliable Wife,” he is surely aware that fiction is replete with compelling characters like Ms. Kluge, the Woman of Mysterious Origin.

Her mystery was partly what drew more than 2,000 people to a viewing last weekend, each paying $65 for a three-pound, 617-page catalog that was the price of admission. In a statement released by Sotheby’s, Ms. Kluge explained her reasons for selling. “For the past three decades, building and maintaining this collection have been among my greatest joys,” she said. Now it was time to move on and to “share this very extraordinary collection” with fellow collectors, people who presumably have some place to hang a 40-inch stuffed head of a bison (presale estimate: $2,000 to $3,000) and someplace to wear a bittersweet orange Givenchy haute couture caftan (presale estimate: $100 to $300) in size 14.

Certain collectors, like Evie Gay, had only to make a short drive from nearby Keswick to check out the more approachably estimated items in the sale, like the majolica plates lining a cabinet in Ms. Kluge’s “country style” kitchen. Certain of them, like Virginia Donelson, a Charlottesville native and playwright who lives with her husband, the novelist James Collins, on a farm in adjacent Orange County, came to view Mrs. Kluge’s 18th-century drawings and to see whether it was true, as some suggested, that “even if you didn’t know a vulgar person lived in the house, you’d know a vulgar person lived in the house,” once you had visited it.

Decorating professionals, like the White House designer Michael Smith, and a posse of antiques dealers from Europe and Australia either tuned into the sale by phone or swooped into Charlottesville to bid in person on choice English antiques long removed from the market and to score the odd bargain.

Certain specialty buyers, like Martin Fleming, a seasoned bird hunter, showed up expressly to check out the custom-made Holland & Holland shotguns (estimated before the sale at $330,000 to $500,000, they fetched $290,000) that were one of the reasons the sale was held in Virginia, where guns can be sold at public auction.

There was a time, when Ms. Kluge was still enacting her own elaborate version of “Brideshead Revisited,” when shooting parties were staged on the grounds of Albemarle House, with beaters in front, a staff at the rear and guests in custom tweeds bearing down through the fields on hapless, unsuspecting pheasants. An image of those days came to mind last weekend as Mr. Fleming fluidly brought a shotgun up to his shoulder and, sighting down the barrel, took imaginary aim at a hunting picture with the title “A Good Day’s Bag.”

By early Wednesday afternoon, as this article went to press, the Kluge auction had netted $14 million. In a manner of speaking, it was a good day’s bag.

“Maybe some of the big, big pieces didn’t go for what they had hoped, but people are more cautious now than in the days when there was so much optimism,” said Mrs. Humiston, the horse breeder, after bidding successfully on a number of lots. “Money was rolling” in the bad old ‘80s, she added. “It was a time I don’t think is going to be happening again.”
313 2010-06-10 TEHRAN — A factory in Iran has been closed down after trying to mass-produce statuettes of people who were killed in the protests that followed last year’s disputed presidential election, among them Neda Agha-Soltan, the 26-year-old who became an icon of the opposition when a video of her shooting was broadcast around the world.

The pro-government Aty News Web site reported on Wednesday that the factory, in the northern province of Semnan, was closed after just one month, though officials denied the closure.

The Web site reported that the managing director, identified only by his initials, H. M., had intended to produce figurines of Ms. Agha-Soltan and had campaigned for one of the defeated candidates in last year’s presidential election.

It also states that the factory’s 40 female employees were discovered working without the head coverings and loose-fitting clothes required by Iranian law, and that they were mixing freely with male staff members.

Ms. Agha-Soltan became a martyr for Iran’s opposition, after her death from a gunshot wound was captured on a video that circulated widely on the Internet. Government security forces killed around 70 people in their effort to suppress the protests last year, according to human rights groups.

Neda Agha-Soltan’s memory was revived in a 70-minute HBO documentary, which was broadcast last week over the Voice of America’s satellite news channel, days before the June 12 anniversary of the presidential election, which the opposition says was stolen. Opposition leaders have called for mass rallies to observe the anniversary, though the government is assembling an enormous security force to prevent them.
314 2010-06-10 The uncertainty surrounding BP reverberated in the markets. Exxon Mobil dropped 2 percent, and Anadarko Petroleum, which has a 25 percent stake in the disabled well, dropped 18.6 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed down 0.59 percent.

“The market reaction is fear of the unknown,” Tim Guinness, chief investment officer at Guinness Atkinson Funds in London, said. “I am dismayed by how political this has become, and I don’t think the bringing in of politics helps.”

The members of Congress were echoing comments by President Obama last week, when he criticized BP for spending $50 million on TV advertising while people whose livelihoods were wrecked by oil spill were reporting difficulties in getting their claims paid.

Thomas J. Perrelli, the associate attorney general, testified before a House committee on Wednesday that “we are looking very closely at this, and we are planning to take action.” And the Coast Guard is pressing BP to come up with a better plan for capturing the thousands of barrels of oil spilling into the gulf.

Of course, with the tremors in Europe over recent months and other uncertainty, investors were already unnerved.

“I just think BP shows how fragile the investor psyche is right now,” said C. Brett D’Arcy, chief investment officer at CBIZ Wealth Management. “Here’s a situation that should not fundamentally impact the market or the Dow,” Mr. D’Arcy said, referring to BP’s slide to $29.20 a share. “But it seemed like the market really turned on that information.”

The Dow fell 40.73 points, or 0.41 percent, to 9,899.25 on Wednesday. The S.& P. 500 lost 6.31 points, to 1,055.69, while the Nasdaq composite index dropped 11.72 points, or 0.54 percent, to 2,158.85.

The financial and technology sectors also fell.

In the Treasury market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 102 24/32, and the yield was unchanged.

Before the new concerns about BP, the markets were substantially higher, mostly because of more reassuring words from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, who said the sovereign debt crisis in Europe would probably have only a modest impact on the United States if the markets stabilized. He said he expected the economy would grow at a rate of 3.5 percent this year.

Testifying before the House Budget Committee, Mr. Bernanke said, “The economy — supported by stimulative monetary policy and the concerted efforts of policy makers to stabilize the financial system — appears to be on track to continue to expand through this year and next.”

His assessment was also reflected in the Fed’s latest “beige book” report, which said the economy was slowly improving throughout the country.

“Bernanke didn’t rock the boat,” said Ryan E. Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer’s Investment Research. “But it was fairly significant that he said the European issues wouldn’t affect us that much, whereas a lot of people said they will.”
315 2010-06-10 “We need a European coherent approach on this issue, which is what the commission is striving for,” Ms. Hansen told a news conference Wednesday in Brussels.

She said the commission would make proposals on how to regulate short-selling and derivatives during the summer.

In recent weeks, the commission’s chief of financial services, Michel Barnier, has suggested that a ban on short-selling could be considered during times of crisis.

The joint letter from Mr. Sarkozy and Mrs. Merkel masked — at least temporarily — how far apart Germany and France remain on aspects of economic governance.

The French have taken a dim view of the way Germany unilaterally imposed a national ban last month on some forms of short-selling and made clear that they want such measures to be coordinated across the European Union.

France and Germany are also at odds on how to oversee the 16 countries that use the euro, as the leaders of the European Union and government prepare to meet next week in Brussels for discussions that are expected to focus on economic issues.

France broadly favors the creation of a special secretariat, or council, for the countries using the euro. But Germany has opposed the idea because of concerns that it could give too much power to nations with a looser approach to spending or that it could compromise the ability of the European Central Bank, based in Frankfurt, to set interest rates independently.

France has also criticized Germany for declining to spend more of its surplus on stimulating growth in Europe.

A factor undermining the chances of a blocwide ban on short-selling is the position of the British government, which generally opposes measures that could jeopardize London’s status as a global hub for the financial services industry. Many London bankers and economists say volatility on European markets simply reflects the failure of governments to cut deficits.

The letter may also signal a frustration at how running deeply interlinked economies often requires painful consensus-building, and it could be a harbinger of greater frustration as the G-20 countries prepare to meet in Toronto at the end of the month.

Hinting at the potential for broader battles over financial regulation, Ms. Hansen said that “many of the measures mentioned require a coherent approach at global level.”
316 2010-06-10 This is one of my favorite salads. I make it for buffets all the time because it never gets soggy — the longer the vegetables marinate, the tastier the salad is.

1 pound trimmed fennel bulbs, quartered and cut into very thin crosswise slices

Combine the salad ingredients in a large bowl. Whisk together the lemon juice, vinegar, garlic, salt, pepper and olive oil. Toss with the salad and serve.

Advance preparation: This is a great keeper. The vegetables marinate in the dressing, and they don’t get soggy, just saturated and extremely tasty.

Nutritional information per serving: 137 calories; 11 grams fat; 2 grams saturated fat; 4 milligrams cholesterol; 8 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 128 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 3 grams protein
317 2010-06-11 David Means’s fourth story collection, “The Spot,” has just been published....
318 2010-06-11 Texas Rangers creditors are unhappy with the team's sale to a group led by Chuck Greenberg and Nolan Ryan and say an offer by Jim Crane could have netted them up to $20 million more....
319 2010-06-11 Carl C. Icahn and Lions Gate Entertainment continued their war of words, with Mr. Icahn arguing that the studio was flirting with bankruptcy, even though Lions Gate asserted that it had a strong balance sheet....
320 2010-06-11 The prospects remain uncertain for sections of the financial regulatory bill that would restrict derivatives trading, but Senator Blanche Lincoln is continuing to fight for them....
321 2010-06-11 Facebook users are now recording more than 20 million videos a month through the browser and mobile phones. They also watch more than two billion videos a month on the Web site....
322 2010-06-11 The tee times for the 2010 U.S. Open were released Friday, and the U.S. Golf Association did its usual thorough job planning the first two rounds for maximum television exposure....
323 2010-06-11 Market regulators proposed rules on Friday that would force exchanges to provide equal access to high-frequency traders that want to locate their speedy trading computers nearby....
324 2010-06-11 Miracle balms for athletic types....
325 2010-06-11 The prize money is nice, but there are other rewards....
326 2010-06-11 Jimmy Buffet's $50 million Margaritaville Hotel is still on course to open on the shores of Pensacola Beach in late June....
327 2010-06-11 With all the coaching changes in men's college basketball, getting an interim job is still no guarantee of a permanent position....
328 2010-06-11 Now is when big employers are busy assembling their benefits packages for 2011. And this year, they are having to factor in the new health law's requirements....
329 2010-06-11 Mitch Daniels' impractical idea....
330 2010-06-11 Dr. Eileen O'Reilly responds to readers asking about risk factors for cancer of the pancreas....
331 2010-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
332 2010-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
333 2010-06-11 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
334 2010-06-11 The stock market roared back to life on Thursday, driving the Dow Jones industrial average firmly above 10,000, as investors latched on to hopes that maybe, just maybe, the economic scene was not quite as bleak as it seemed....
335 2010-06-11 Dell said on Thursday that it was in talks with the Securities and Exchange Commission to resolve allegations that it and its founder and chief executive, Michael S. Dell, engaged in financial irregularities related to the company's dealings with ...
336 2010-06-11 Negotiators from the House and Senate gathered on Thursday to merge two bills representing the most comprehensive changes to financial regulation since the Depression, but the script they acted out was largely being written elsewhere....
337 2010-06-11 Cynics might laugh at the idea of Guy Hands as a defender of the real economy. In his heyday, he was known as the king of British private equity, bringing to Europe the idea of using cheap debt to pump huge returns from dowdy businesses -- as he t...
338 2010-06-11 The "flash crash" in U.S. stockmarkets that shook investors on May 6 may be the first of many as the market's herd mentality is exacerbated by ultra fast trading strategies that are rapidly spreading around the world and across asset classes, expe...
339 2010-06-11 Op Art never gets old. “Op Out of Ohio” presents about 30 eye-dazzling optical works from the ’60s by five painters who did time as students or teachers at Oberlin College or the Cleveland Institute of Art. All were also included in “The Responsive Eye,” the landmark 1965 exhibition of perceptual abstraction at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, and went on to exhibit internationally. Richard Anuszkiewicz and Julian Stanczak remain the best known. The others — Ernst Benkert, Francis Hewitt and Ed Mieczkowski — formed a collaborative called “Anonima.” Working in studios side by side, they investigated problems in perception and design with quasi-scientific zeal.

Unsympathetic critics thought Op Art’s catchy play with illusions was not to be taken seriously. But the best works here, from 1959 to 1970, have a stirring, numinous vibe. In Mr. Anuszkiewicz’s symmetrical composition of gridded blue and green dots on a bright red field, the pulsating image seems to lift off the canvas and hover in dematerialized psychic space. Mr. Stanczak’s painting of parallel verticals and curvy horizontals in deep purple and olive green projects a quietly hypnotic rhythm. Mr. Ernst’s all black and white, diamond-patterned mandala, “Black and White Op-Tickler,” seems to bulge outward to alarming, hallucinatory effect, while a pixilated, blue and yellow design of blurry, nested diamonds by Mr. Mieczkowski appears as if backlit by mystical light. Like other works in the exhibition, Mr. Hewitt’s painting of electrically colored horizontal lines on a dark gray background offers a prophetic glimpse of today’s cyber-psychedelic sublime. KEN JOHNSON
340 2010-06-11 Seventy-four Cuban opposition activists signed a letter Thursday supporting a bill in the United States Congress that would lift the American ban on travel to Cuba and increase American food exports to the island. “We share the opinion that the isolation of the people of Cuba benefits the most inflexible interests of its government, while any opening serves to inform and empower the Cuban people and helps to further strengthen our civil society,” said the letter, whose signers included the blogger Yoani Sánchez, above, the hunger striker Guillermo Fariñas, and the human rights leader Elizardo Sánchez.
341 2010-06-11 “Of course, bad or old-fashioned hair can become a metaphor for being out of step and in need of change,” he added. “I would like to believe that people use the trivial to express their thoughts about what matters, rather than believe that the trivial matters. That said, it is not a good way to start a woman-on-woman race by playing into negative stereotypes about female culture.”

While the comments may be viewed through the prism of sex, they more likely mark Ms. Fiorina as a novice more than anything else. “I think this is a mistake of a rookie candidate who doesn’t know when to keep her mouth shut,” said Garry South, a Democratic strategist in Santa Monica. “If a man had made the comment, it would have been viewed as sexist. When a woman says it, it would be viewed as catty.”

Senator Boxer saw an opening, and took it. “Let her talk about hair; we’re talking about jobs,” said Rose Kapolczynski, her campaign manager.

Video of the episode shows Ms. Fiorina waiting to be interviewed by a Sacramento television station, scrolling through her BlackBerry and asking a staff member why Ms. Whitman would want to appear on Sean Hannity’s show on Fox News, which she deemed too tough an interview.

Then, after commentary on the passion for hamburgers shared by her husband and male staff members, Ms. Fiorina somehow pivoted to the locks of her Democratic opponent.

“Laura saw Barbara Boxer briefly on television this morning and said what everyone says, ‘God, what is that hair?’ Soooooooo yesterday,” Ms. Fiorina said, scrolling, scrolling.

Even in the age of uncivil talk-show discourse and vicious campaign advertisements — Ms. Fiorina’s campaign constructed one that depicted her primary opponent as a possessed sheep — physical appearance, especially hair, is a place most candidates and their staff are careful not to go.

“If you are dissing their hair, you are dissing their personality and their lifestyle,” said Billy Lowe, a celebrity stylist who owns a hair salon in Los Angeles. “It is probably the one thing a woman spends most of her time on every day. It’s always on their minds. Your hair is your personality.”

News 10 in Sacramento, an ABC affiliate, used a CNN satellite to conduct the live interview with Ms. Fiorina, who was in Los Angeles. Producers at News 10 decided not to broadcast or post Ms. Fiorina’s comments.

“We had a vigorous editorial debate,” said Tim Geraghty, vice president and news director of News 10. “To put on a clip of an interview with someone talking about someone else’s hair did not fit with that brand we are trying to establish for News 10 in Northern California.”

Ms. Fiorina is particularly sensitive to the hair issue; hers is shorter than usual because she lost it during recent chemotherapy treatments for breast cancer. She talks about her hair — missing it, people’s reaction to it, even its political implications — frequently on the campaign trail. She did so when questioned by the Fox News host Greta Van Susteren, who teased her for mocking Ms. Boxer, saying, “All of us have suffered from the old bad hair.”

Ms. Fiorina replied: “Oh, you know, I was, I was quoting a friend of mine. My goodness, my hair’s been talked about by a million people, you know? It sort of goes with the territory.”

Ms. Van Susteren, who is not always warm and fuzzy toward Democrats, suggested that Ms. Fiorina call Ms. Boxer to apologize.

Ms. Whitman and Ms. Fiorina — the state’s first Republican female candidates for the respective offices they seek — will be tied together throughout this campaign, joined by party, goal and sex. But several people connected with both campaigns — who would not speak for attribution because they do not wish to be fired, or alienate either candidate — described the candidates’ relationship as frosty and somewhat rivalrous.

During a news conference earlier Thursday, Ms. Whitman told reporters: “Things happen early morning on TV. Having been now in the race for 15 to 16 months, you can actually see how it happens. Carly and I are good friends, and I’m looking forward to running with her.”
342 2010-06-11 “It appears that we are off to a rocky start because the base text before the conference was negotiated and completed behind closed doors, and without any Republican participation,” Mr. Shelby said. “In fact, we only received it about two and a half hours ago.”

Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and the chairman of the banking committee, nominated Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, to lead the conference.

The committee of 28 members has 12 senators (seven Democrats and five Republicans) and 16 representatives (10 Democrats and six Republicans). The House had some additional negotiators who will work only on select portions of the bill, like the crucial sections on derivatives trading.

Senator Blanche Lincoln, the author of a provision that would require big banks to spin off their lucrative derivatives-trading operations, said the measure would help restore stability to the banking industry.

“In my view, banks were never intended to perform these activities in the first place,” said Mrs. Lincoln, who on Tuesday narrowly won a hard-fought Democratic primary in Arkansas. “It is this economic activity that contributed to these institutions’ growing so large that taxpayers had no choice but to bail them out in order to prevent total economic ruin.”

Mrs. Lincoln said the provision would make clear that “derivatives dealing is not central to the business of banking,” and would still allow banks to use swaps to hedge their loan portfolios and to enter a derivatives contract when originating a loan with a customer.

But another negotiator, Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the top Republican on the agriculture committee, which Mrs. Lincoln leads, said the new rules would interfere with legitimate uses of derivatives.

“We need to make sure that we don’t overreach, not down just to Main Street, but into the manufacturing sector, into the energy sector, and into every other sector that uses financial tools to provide quality products to consumers around the world,” he said.

Along with derivatives, another area where the House and Senate bills significantly differ concerns the so-called Volcker Rule, a proposal to stop banks from engaging in proprietary trading, or making market bets with their own money as opposed to trading for their customers’ benefit. The Senate bill would restrict such trading after a period of study, and give regulators significant leeway on how to set up the restrictions.

Several Democratic negotiators, including Representative Paul E. Kanjorski of Pennsylvania and Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, called on Thursday for a far stricter version. They called for reviving some version of the Glass-Steagall Act, the 1933 law that separated commercial banking from investment banking and was watered down before being fully repealed in 1999.

Republicans, as they have in the past, assailed the legislation for failing to spell out the future of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants that have been taken over by the government.

Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, said the legislation addressed areas like interchange fees — which retailers pay every time a debit card is swiped — and payday loans that did not cause the financial crisis.

Both sides called for avoiding a repeat of past mistakes. Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, recalled that she sat on a similar conference committee for the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the milestone deregulation legislation that ended Glass-Steagall.

“I feared deregulation would have serious negative consequences,” Ms. Waters said. “I voted no. I was right.”
343 2010-06-11 Underscoring the issue, the two main leaders of the opposition Green Movement in Iran, Mir Hussein Moussavi and Mehdi Karroubi, called off plans for a nationwide commemoration of last year’s events because they feared bloodshed in the absence of a government permit.

In their statement announcing the cancellation, the two men repeated their accusation that President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad — whom they ran against in the election — could not claim to head a legitimate government, but said they did not want the rally to proceed, citing concern about possible violence.

“Even the simple announcement of an intention to demonstrate made the repressors shiver from fear and prompted a wide-scale and comprehensive security and police mobilization,” the statement said.

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the repression of public dissent was just one of the many ways Iran “caused so much concern around the world.” She spoke just a day after the United States pushed through new Security Council sanctions against Iran over suspicions about its nuclear program. (Iran says the program is peaceful.)

“When you look at the combination of their repression of their own people, manipulation of their own election, the fact that they still are an exporter and supporter of terrorist activities around the world, and their pursuit of nuclear weapons, it adds up to a very dangerous combination,” Mrs. Clinton said at a meeting of Caribbean leaders in Barbados.

In Geneva, Western governments and human rights organizations accused Iran of being duplicitous about its record, promising cooperation with the council over human rights issues while busily subverting many of them at home — including freedom of religion, expression and assembly and an independent judiciary.

Amnesty International said the government was taking aim at students, journalists, political activists, trade unionists, human rights defenders and members of ethnic and religious minorities.

“Executions have been carried out for politically motivated reasons and used to send a chilling message to those who would demonstrate,” the organization said in a statement. “These human rights violations appear to be committed by state officials with total impunity.”

Mr. Larijani attacked the record of the United States, calling it a center of racism, Islamophobia and “hundreds of other phobias,” until the conference chairman reminded him that Iran’s record was under review, not that of the United States.

Mr. Larijani denied accusations that special United Nations rapporteurs investigating issues like torture had been denied access to Iran, saying they had an open invitation. He said Iran was held to a standard out of alignment with its Islamic culture.

“We are not a secular system, we are not a liberal system; we are perhaps the only democracy, the greatest democracy in the Middle East,” Mr. Larijani said in comments broadcast live via the Internet from Geneva. He did not refer directly to the postelection violence in any of his remarks.
344 2010-06-11 A 16-year-old girl trying to sail solo around the world was missing in the Indian Ocean some 2,000 miles east of Madagascar, according to her family, who said Thursday that she had encountered treacherous seas.

The girl, Abby Sunderland of Thousand Oaks, Calif., departed alone Jan. 23 in her sailboat Wild Eyes. On Thursday, she lost satellite phone contact with her family and set off emergency beacons, triggering a rescue effort by United States, Australian and French authorities. Ms. Sunderland was trying to break the record for the youngest sailor to circumnavigate the globe, a title held briefly by her older brother Zac, who completed his sail last year at 17.

Christian Pinkston, a spokesman for Ms. Sunderland’s parents, Marianne and Laurence Sunderland, said they last spoke with her at about 4 a.m. Thursday, when Ms. Sunderland was reporting swells of 30 feet.

“She was having trouble with the engine and had taken on some water but she felt upbeat,” Mr. Pinkston said. An hour later the family was alerted that two G.P.S. emergency beacons had been activated, one on the boat and one on Ms. Sunderland’s survival suit.

“The family is fully, 100 percent focused on the rescue effort right now,” Mr. Pinkston said. “They’re seriously concerned but hopeful.” He added that Ms. Sunderland was well equipped and well trained for the sailing mission.

The two nearest ships — a fishing boat about 40 hours away and a French naval vessel more than three days away — were headed toward the location of Ms. Sunderland’s emergency beacons. Australia’s Rescue Coordination Centre planned to send a plane to look for Ms. Sunderland at daybreak, Mr. Pinkston said.
345 2010-06-11 There’s nothing for sale in the vacant store where “Can You Hear Their Voices?” is being performed. No shelves, registers or clerks, either. Yet there’s constant talk of money, of business, of labor. The play, a nifty piece of agitprop from the Depression, isn’t shy when voicing ideas about the American economy, and this production, as heavy-handed as it sometimes turns, doesn’t have to stretch too far to find parallels to current events.

First staged in 1931, “Voices” was adapted by Hallie Flanagan and Margaret Ellen Clifford from a short story by Whittaker Chambers, who was then an avowed communist. The tale, based on real incidents, documents a group of Dust Bowl farmers and their growing frustration over the lack of a government response to their plight.

Throughout the play, scenes of the farmers’ suffering alternate with episodes of the decadent rich enjoying lavish lives. One group debates socialism. The other denounces state-run aid. While there is never a question where your sympathies should lie, the script features a few powerful moments, including a final scene that stirs plenty of passion.

Rather than heightening such passion, the production, directed by Ralph Lewis and Barry Rowell, unwisely employs a detached approach, using intentionally absurd double-casting and other techniques in a Brechtian attempt to shift focus from the characters’ emotions toward a larger vision. Those ill-conceived choices, however, do more to promote a theory than to support the story.

Still, the cast of 11, playing more than 30 characters, is capable, particularly Christopher Hurt as Wardell, a farmer whose beliefs are born of disappointment. Added effects, like live music from a small ensemble and newsreels projected onto walls, give some depth to the 70-minute show, while the retail space, in Greenwich Village, itself serves as a reminder of economic hardships, then and now.

Though “Can You Hear Their Voices?” is often more interesting than exciting, the script holds up surprisingly well. The scrappy Peculiar Works Project, which specializes in bringing theater to alternative sites, has made an intriguing move in reviving the story. And they’ve picked an intriguing time to tell it.
346 2010-06-11 SAN FRANCISCO — Dell said on Thursday that it was in talks with the Securities and Exchange Commission to resolve allegations that it and its founder and chief executive, Michael S. Dell, engaged in financial irregularities related to the company’s dealings with Intel.

The company said that any settlement would not bar Mr. Dell’s service as an officer and director of a public company, and would be made without admitting or denying the agency’s allegations.

The disclosure that the S.E.C. has been investigating aspects of the relationship between the two companies is new, as is its focus on Mr. Dell. A person briefed on the case, who agreed to speak on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is confidential, said that the S.E.C.’s allegations related to how Dell accounted for payments and rebates that it had received from Intel. The allegations are not criminal.

Dell also said that it had set aside $100 million for a possible settlement of these allegations, as well a separate long-standing investigation by the S.E.C. into its accounting practices. That investigation, which began in 2005 and became formal in 2006, has already led to admissions of misconduct by Dell and prompted the computer maker to restate financial results from 2003 to the first quarter of 2007.

“We are hopeful that these settlement discussions will achieve a comprehensive resolution in the near future,” Sam Nunn, director of Dell’s board said in a news release and a former United States senator. As to Mr. Dell’s standing with the board’s independent directors. Mr. Nunn said, “He continues to have our complete confidence and support.”
347 2010-06-11 Those opening and closing periods typically account for about 24 percent of average daily volume in stocks in the S.& P. 500, the commission noted.

The pilot period for the new rules lasts through Dec. 10, after which the S.E.C. and the exchanges will consider making the rule permanent and decide whether to adjust the trigger points. The commission and the exchanges will also consider how to expand the rules “as soon as practicable” to other stocks and to exchange-traded funds. Exchange-traded funds are investments that often track a stock index like the S.& P. 500 but can be traded throughout the day, unlike mutual funds.

“It is my hope to rapidly expand the program to thousands of additional publicly traded companies,” the chairwoman of the S.E.C., Mary L. Schapiro, said.

The rules were adopted in response to the market volatility of May 6, when the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 600 points in a matter of minutes — causing many stocks to trade at what Ms. Schapiro called “clearly irrational prices.”

Trading on that day “illustrated a sudden, but temporary, breakdown in the market’s price-setting function,” Ms. Schapiro said in a statement. “By establishing a set of circuit breakers that uniformly pauses trading in a given security across all venues, these new rules will ensure that all markets pause simultaneously and provide time for buyers and sellers to trade at rational prices.”

Regulators have not been able to pin the cause of the drop on any single factor but have preliminarily concluded that it was the result of a sudden loss of liquidity in stock and futures markets, a condition that might have been exacerbated by differing trading rules on various exchanges.

For example, the New York Stock Exchange slowed trading according to its rules, but the orders that could not be executed migrated to electronic exchanges, where trading continued unabated.

Some of those different rules will continue to exist. A spokesman for the New York Stock Exchange said that it would continue to enforce its liquidity replenishment points, which are brief periods in which trading in volatile stocks is slowed to allow the order flow to catch up with a stock’s price movement.

Trading halts in individual stocks would be issued by the primary market on which a company’s shares are listed and would have to be observed by all trading markets. At the end of the five-minute pause, the primary market would reopen trading and other markets could follow.

If a continued imbalance in orders exists at the end of the trading pause, the primary market can delay the reopening, but only for another five minutes, after which other exchanges can resume trading whether or not the listing market is ready to continue.
348 2010-06-11 “Another night, another Met loss,” the caller sighed. “And it’s starting to be frustrating, as it was last year.”

It was late on a Saturday night on the Tony Paige show on the sports station WFAN-AM, and the guest was a longtime listener and regular caller: Gov. David A. Paterson.

The governor lamented that Oliver Perez’s fastball was “off four or five miles an hour” and that he was worried the left-hander could not make it as a location pitcher. For about 20 minutes he went on, talking about the team’s relief pitching and their sometimes agonizing base-running mistakes.

“You’re three runs down, you don’t advance any bases unless you’re absolutely sure you are going to get there,” Mr. Paterson said with exasperation.

New Yorkers do not see as much of their governor as they used to these days, as he enters the twilight of his term. But they can almost always hear him, as Mr. Paterson cannot resist the medium where he feels most comfortable: the radio.

The governor can be heard up and down the dial, on sports stations, news shows, black-themed programs and religious ones, showing the qualities that he struggles to demonstrate in other settings: confidence, persuasiveness and fluidity.

“I go places and people always stop and tell me, ‘I heard you on so-and-so’s show, and I really enjoyed it,’ ” Mr. Paterson said in a recent interview. “People actually tell me I should do it more.”

Mr. Paterson’s connection with radio is long and deep. He started listening as a boy. And because he is legally blind, radio was the best way for him to experience sports games and keep up with the news.

As governor, he has sometimes been mocked for his blindness, most notably on “Saturday Night Live,” which has portrayed him walking into cameras and holding charts upside down. But the governor said that on the radio, he was at ease because he was not anxious about how he looked.

“I don’t have to worry about looking at the camera, whether my tie is in place, whether my hands are flying in one direction,” he said. “I think it’s the reason my conversation is a lot more fluid. In TV interviews, I have difficulty relaxing, because I’m trying not to look to one side of the room.”

The radio, he added, “It’s sort of a perfect medium for me.”

Sometimes his appearances are scheduled; sometimes they are more impromptu. He has been known to dial up a station and ask to be put on the air to dispute something unflattering a guest has said about him. He calls a few stations so often that he has memorized the numbers. These days, he spends much of his time on the radio talking about the state’s dismal financial outlook and defending some of the more unpopular budget choices by his administration.

Joe Bartlett, a weekend morning host on WOR-AM, recalled that early one recent Saturday morning, the phone in his studio rang with someone on the line claiming to be the governor. At first, Mr. Bartlett thought it was a joke.

But it was not. Mr. Paterson had been listening to the show from home and decided to call in after hearing Bill de Blasio, the city’s public advocate, criticize him for failing to save St. Vincent’s Hospital Manhattan from closing.

Mr. Bartlett put the governor on the air to let him say his piece. But before Mr. Paterson expressed his outrage, he paused to reminisce — for nearly five minutes — about Ralph Snodsmith, the host of WOR’s Sunday morning program “The Garden Hotline,” who had just died. “It’s kind of like losing a friend,” the governor said.

Mr. Paterson typically begins his day listening to the radio, turning it on as soon as he wakes up. If he is at his home in Harlem, he will flip the dial back and forth between WOR, WNYC and WABC, where he can hear Don Imus, one of his favorites. Riding to and from events in the car, he often has his driver tune to the news stations WCBS or WINS. Before he goes to bed, he will turn on sports radio or the BBC.

A few radio hosts said they had been surprised to find out that the governor was a frequent listener to their shows.

“He would actually call me sometimes and tell me what I spoke about,” said the Rev. Al Sharpton, who is host of a radio show and has had the governor on as a guest. “He listens to talk radio — a lot.”

Mr. Paige said the governor once confessed to calling his show and using aliases like “David from Harlem” or “David from Manhattan,” so callers could not easily recognize him.

In May alone, the governor did about 20 radio appearances, and, in an interview, acknowledged that he had thought about a radio career. In addition to the WFAN sports show, Mr. Paterson appeared in May on “Religion on the Line” on WABC with Rabbi Joseph Potasnik and Deacon Kevin McCormack; WNYC public radio; and talk radio outlets in Schenectady and Syracuse.

The hosts who chat frequently with Mr. Paterson say he is relaxed and composed on the air.

“I’ve never heard him more at ease than when he’s just shooting the bull with me and Boom,” said Craig Carton, co-host of a talk show on WFAN with the former quarterback Boomer Esiason.

Mr. Paterson’s regular radio calls have set off speculation that he could be priming himself for a career as a host once he leaves office next year. He had a stint as a substitute host when he was a state senator, and he said he had later given serious thought to a permanent job.

“I would probably consider doing that,” he said.

His own show would, of course, have the added benefit of helping him resist impulses to pick up the phone and complain when he hears something on the radio he does not like.

Mr. Paterson said he often had to remind himself that it was probably unwise to call stations these days as “David from Harlem.”

“I’m listening to a sports station the other day,” Mr. Paterson said, recalling how he felt compelled to quibble with a caller’s analysis of how the Los Angeles Dodgers could have fared better in a recent game against the Mets. “I grabbed the phone and then said: ‘Nah, I can’t do it. They’ll know it’s me.’ ”
349 2010-06-11 Even before the opening bell sounded, it looked like a good day for Wall Street. Thursday’s rally began early, in Asian markets, and then spilled over into European trading. The United States market gathered momentum into the close of New York trading, as some traders reversed short positions, or bets that stocks would decline in value.

By the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 273.28 points, or 2.76 percent, at 10,172.53. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 2.95 percent, or 31.15 points, to 1,086.84, while the Nasdaq was up 2.77 percent, or 59.86 points, to 2,218.71.

The rally was broad and swift. Energy shares led the charge. BP, which has lost nearly half its value since the disastrous oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, jumped 10 percent. Only a day before, BP had plunged nearly 16 percent after lawmakers called on the company to suspend its dividends and its advertising to pay for the costs of the cleanup.

Driving the gains were several economic reports, mostly from overseas, that seemed to point to a sustainable global recovery. The European Central Bank slightly raised its forecast for economic growth in the euro zone this year, while the Japanese government reported that its economy grew 1.2 percent in the first quarter.

A stronger-than-expected employment report in Australia and news that New Zealand was confident enough in its economic prospects to raise interest rates added to the sense of optimism, as did better-than-expected results on weekly jobless claims in the United States.

Good news also came from China, in the form of surprisingly strong export figures. To some, the data — a trade surplus of $19.5 billion in May — suggested that China’s economy remained robust, despite troubles elsewhere in the world.

“China has been the economic juggernaut, and at least it’s not falling apart,” said Michael Fitzpatrick, vice president for energy at MF Global.

Others, however, insisted that the Chinese economy would ultimately slow down, posing a risk to growth worldwide.

“Whether it’s going to be a soft landing or hard landing — that to me is the most fundamental risk,” said Stephen P. Wood, market strategist for Russell Investors. “That’s really the big wild card.”

Mr. Wood said a slowdown in China was “inevitable.”

Indeed, many on Wall Street say they believe the economic outlook remains murky at best.

A report showing that weekly unemployment benefit rolls in the United States fell by 255,000 to a seasonally adjusted 4.5 million, the lowest total since December 2008, provided some relief to downbeat news of late. But the report was not enough to persuade economists that unemployment would decline markedly soon.

Scott J. Brown, chief economist of Raymond James, said the jobs numbers from Thursday and last Friday indicated a “long hard slog” ahead.

“The recovery should continue, but it may not be strong enough to push the unemployment rate down very much,” Mr. Brown said.

Mr. Wood said American economic data like Thursday’s claims numbers were “not bad, but not great.”

“Jobless rate leads to consumer confidence, which leads to consumer spending,” Mr. Wood said. “The key is consumption. The employment situation is the basis for consumer sentiment and behavior. And we’re seeing stabilization and a modest improvement in that.”

Mr. Wood acknowledged that risks from the oil spill and the European debt crisis could still affect the United States’ growth, which the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, indicated would be 3.5 percent this year as long as the markets held.

Mr. Fitzpatrick said the news from China was more significant than the increase in jobless claims. “But to say they’re going to carry the entire world out of a recession is out of the question if their customers around the world are mired in a recession,” Mr. Fitzpatrick said.

In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, settled 2 percent higher, while the FTSE 100 index added 0.92 percent in London.
350 2010-06-11 WEISS--Martin, passed away on June 9, 2010, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted and loving father of Sabrina and Sophia and son-in-law Jay Lapat. Also survived by his dear brother Carl and wife Ray, his loving nephew Peter an...
351 2010-06-12 The Treasury Department said Friday that repayments to the Troubled Asset Relief Program reached $194 billion in May, surpassing the $190 billion in funds outstanding. “TARP repayments have continued to exceed expectations, substantially reducing the projected cost of this program to taxpayers,” Herbert Allison, the Treasury’s assistant secretary for financial stability, said in a statement.
352 2010-06-12 Tiger Woods will play the first two rounds of next week’s United States Open at Pebble Beach with a familiar foe. Woods will be in a group that includes Ernie Els, the runner-up to Woods 10 years ago at Pebble Beach by a record 15 shots. This time, at least they will start on even terms. Lee Westwood, who has finished in the top three in the last three major championships, will round out the group. ¶Westwood birdied his final three holes and grabbed a share of a one-stroke lead with Garrett Willis after the second round of the St. Jude Classic in Memphis, Tenn. Westwood and Willis are tied at nine-under-par 131 total through 36 holes. classic ¶M. J. Hur had two chip-in birdies in a second consecutive six-under 66 that gave her a one-shot lead over Amy Yang after the second round of the LPGA’s State Farm Classic in Springfield, Ill. lpga (AP)
353 2010-06-12 “There’s something major going on right now in the American consumer market and mind-set which is leading people to embrace heritage brands,” said Neil S. Fiske, chief executive of Eddie Bauer, which introduced heritage items last fall. “People want to believe in things that are American and want to be part of things that have longevity.”

Reviving yesterday’s long-forgotten products can be both fun and daunting. While it has been tried here and there in the past, it hasn’t been done to this degree, the brands say.

At L. L. Bean, a clothing maker for almost 100 years, the task has fallen to Alex Carleton, the creative director for L. L. Bean’s “Signature” collection. Housed behind Mr. Bean’s old Victorian house off of Main Street in Freeport, Me., the company’s archives include rooms full of clothes, lockers stuffed with boots, every catalog ever printed, letters from people like Babe Ruth, and Mr. Bean’s hunting journals.

Clothes are hung or folded, encased in polypropylene containers, and have little tags explaining their provenance. The archivist insists that visitors put on white cotton gloves when they touch anything, and Mr. Carleton complies.

Some clothes he found were inspirational.

He redesigned a women’s wrap skirt, promoted in the spring 1957 catalog as “suitable for sport and camping wear,” as a casual chambray wrap skirt, with a slimmer fit and shorter length. For a restyling of a 1940s hunting jacket, he removed the plastic lining of the “kill pocket” in the back of the coat, originally meant to hold freshly shot bloody ducks.

Other pieces, Mr. Carleton said, did not make the cut.

He uncovered especially odd items from the 1970s, an era he plans to draw from for the fall 2011 collection. Some of those oddities: an angora colic band that wrapped around the torso was meant to warm the lower back and a men’s Labrador parka that is “a pull-over-the-head piece that practically goes down to your knees,” he said. There is also a women’s Tundra sweater made of thick white wool with a tiny hood and odd black-and-yellow trim at the cuffs, and a face mask made of deer skin that “completely covers the face, including nose, chin, ears and throat.”

“We want to make sure we’re not producing garments that are going to make people walking around look like they just stepped out of an ice storm,” he said.

Mr. Fiske, of Eddie Bauer, also turned to an archivist to assemble old items for inspiration. The company recently introduced clothes like the B-9 parka, which Mr. Bauer supplied to the Army Air Forces during World War II, and the Skyliner jacket, a quilted coat that Mr. Bauer designed after a freezing winter fishing expedition.

At the swimwear company Jantzen, which introduced a heritage collection this spring, more updating was necessary. Take a maillot bathing suit, inspired by a swimsuit from the Twenties. Now, the bathing suit is a red one-piece number with a crystal band and a hint of a skirt. Then, it was knit from wool, weighed more than eight pounds when wet, and was meant for both women and men, said Lorraine Medici, vice president of marketing at Jantzen.

Other brands glancing backward include Halston, which reworked designs from the Seventies to create its heritage line. Sperry Top-Siders is selling limited-edition shoes with old-school styling, like brick-colored soles. Keds is issuing two shoe designs for each decade from the last century (a 1920s sneaker looks almost like a dress shoe, with black and white details).

The trend extends to other industries, too. Earlier this year, General Mills sold some Lucky Charms and Cheerios in limited-edition vintage boxes. Pepsi-Cola brought back limited-edition Pepsi and Mountain Dew with retro labels late last year. And Carl’s Jr. brought back a vintage menu item — chili dogs, which Carl Karcher sold from a cart in the 1940s — last year.

The popularity of nostalgic items is not entirely because of the bad economy, said Lands’ End’s president, Nick Coe, who said he expected that the company’s historically inspired Canvas line would sell well even if the economy improved. And it is not always about good memories, either; the economy for much of the Seventies, for example, was a disaster.

“Buying habits have pretty seriously changed from the crazy consumption of the previous decade,” Mr. Coe said. “It’s not necessarily about cheap — it’s about real value.”

“The days of frivolous spending or buying stuff that’s disposable have gone away,” he said.
354 2010-06-12 WASHINGTON — When President Obama announced he was nominating Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court last year, he said “an understanding of how the world works and how ordinary people live” was a necessary trait for a justice.

As it turns out, according to financial disclosures for 2009 released Friday, Justice Sotomayor finds herself with modest assets and possibly larger liabilities — a position that might seem familiar to many Americans but uncommon on a court with its fair share of millionaires. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg could be the wealthiest of the court’s five millionaires, with assets as much as $45 million.

Justice Sotomayor listed assets between $15,000 and $65,000 — the lowest of the nine justices. She was also one of two members of the court to report any liabilities, owing between $15,000 and $50,000 for dental work and as much as $60,000 to credit card companies. Justice Antonin Scalia was the only other member of the court to report liabilities.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Scalia and John Paul Stevens are the other millionaires.
355 2010-06-12 The movement can be confusing to navigate and goes by many monikers — ”cradle to cradle,” eco-efficiency, life cycle improvement, closed-loop production. In its most utopian form, it envisions a world in which all products are made from natural materials and are 100 percent reusable, recyclable or biodegradable, never ending up in landfill.

At its most pragmatic, it is mainly about cutting costs — by reducing waste, selling recyclable components and reusing byproducts like rubber or plastic to create a new product. For a large company, this can mean millions of dollars in annual savings.

“When sustainability burst onto the scene, it was in the responsibility category, something that a company should do because it was the right thing to do,” said Beth Lester, a vice president at Penn Schoen Berland Associates. But now it is equally about saving money, she said.

For example, Wal-Mart attributed more than $100 million of its 2009 revenue to a decision to switch to a recyclable variety of cardboard in shipments to its 4,300-plus stories in the United States. Now it sells the cardboard to a recycler rather than paying to ship the waste to a landfill.

The company also sells photo frames made from its polystyrene waste and recycles plastic scraps leftover from producing Wal-Mart-brand diapers into material used in building new Wal-Mart stores.

“It’s coming from economics,” said Marc Stoiber, vice president for green innovation at the Chicago-based business consultancy Maddock Douglas. “If you look at the big guys like Wal-Mart, they embrace green because it’s all about efficiency.”

Matt Kistler, the senior vice president of sustainability at Wal-Mart, agreed. “If this was not financially viable, a company such as ours would not be doing it,” he said.

In its most ambitious project, Wal-Mart, after surveying more than 100,000 suppliers worldwide, has embarked on a yearlong effort to tag every product it sells with information about its production and life cycle.

Nike first dipped its toe into sustainability in 1993, when it began grinding up old shoes and donating the material and other manufacturing scraps to builders of sports surfaces, like tracks and basketball courts. That program continues, but the company has shifted gradually from one-of-a-kind initiatives to a long-term plan to “minimize or eliminate all substances known to be harmful to the health of biological or ecological systems.”

In the last four years, the company’s sustainable design group, known as Nike Considered Design, has brought shoes and athletic clothing to market that incorporate waste from the factory floor and a less toxic type of rubber. Some of Nike’s clothing incorporates zippers and cords made from old shoes.

The company has also reduced its use of solvents, the toxic glue used to cement soles to the bottom of shoes.

”Our customers expect this from us,” said Lorrie Vogel, general manager of Nike’s Considered group. “It’s not about two or three green shoes — it’s about changing the way our company does things in general.”

As companies move to reduce waste and analyze the components of their products, many are turning to outside consultants for help. Among the most prominent is William McDonough, co-author of a 2002 book called “Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things.”

He runs a consultancy that evaluates companies’ policies in areas like toxicity, renewable energy, water stewardship and sustainability and awards corporations Cradle to Cradle Certification if they make the necessary changes.

His firm, McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry, has worked with Nike, Herman Miller and Shaw, the world’s largest carpet maker. Herman Miller says that 50 percent of its revenue now comes from products that are Cradle to Cradle-compliant, and it is aiming for 100 percent.

Shaw has collected 300 million pounds of used carpet in the last three years and reused 85 percent of it.

“I’ve never met one C.E.O. who said ‘Give me a toxic product,’ ” Mr. McDonough said. “But they need business models that are effective for them.”

Still, companies can be reluctant to make trade-offs when performance or aesthetics suffers.

Method, a maker of household cleaning products, shuns chemicals like ammonia, bleach and phthalates and maintains a list of earth-friendly ones. But when it came to the design of its bottles, the company stood firm, declining to reduce the plastic content beyond a certain point because it believed that it would make them less visually attractive, according to a recent report in The McKinsey Quarterly, an online business management journal.

Companies may also have to weigh a product’s toxicity level against its longevity. The retailer Patagonia is viewed as environmentally conscious — 75 percent of the clothing it sells is recyclable — but it has had difficulty finding nontoxic dyes. For now, Patagonia prefers to stick with colorfast dyes, although not all are harmless to the earth.

“It’s super-easy to find an environmentally friendly dye that will fade in three washes,” said Jenn Rapp, a spokeswoman. “But a garment that lasts 20 years is much more friendly than one that lasts five months.”

Even champions of sustainability say that consumers should be wary of giving companies too much credit or accepting all of their claims. Makers of cleaning agents in particular may offer an expensive “green line” of offerings but leave the rest of their products untouched, some say.

“I think the cradle-to-cradle concept is great,” said Wood Turner, executive director of Climate Counts, a nonprofit group that scores manufacturers of consumer products makers on their track records. “The problem is that most companies are not as inclined to push that into all their products and all their brands.

“I have to ask, is this really just an example of green tokenism, or does it reflect deep thinking on a company’s part?”
356 2010-06-12 Academic disputes usually flare out in the safety of obscure journals, raising no more than a few tempers, if not voices. But a paper published this week by the American Psychological Association has managed to raise questions of censorship, academic fraud, fair play and criminal sentencing — and all them well before the report ever became public.

The paper is a critique of a rating scale that is widely used in criminal courts to determine whether a person is a psychopath and likely to commit acts of violence. It was accepted for publication in a psychological journal in 2007, but the inventor of the rating scale saw a draft and threatened a lawsuit if it was published, setting in motion a stultifying series of reviews, revisions and legal correspondence.

“This has been a really, really troubling process from the beginning,” said Scott O. Lilienfeld, a psychologist at Emory University and a collaborator with one of the paper’s authors. “It has people wondering, ‘Do I have to worry every time I publish a paper that criticizes someone that I’ll get slapped with a lawsuit?’ ” The delay in publication, he said, “sets a very dangerous precedent” and censors scientific discourse.

The inventor of the clinical test, Robert D. Hare, an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of British Columbia, sees a different principle at stake.

“The main issue here is that these authors misrepresented my views by distorting things I said,” he said in a telephone interview. “I have been doing this work for 40 years and never seen anything like it.”
357 2010-06-12 Ron Wooten, the state’s mine safety chief, says he has begun issuing subpoenas to reluctant witnesses to the nation’s worst coal mining disaster in 40 years. Mr. Wooten said that as of Friday, he had signed subpoenas for five people. All five missed interviews with investigators looking into the April 5 explosion at Massey Energy’s Upper Big Branch mine, which killed 29 men. Investigators suspect methane gas and coal dust, but have not established a definite cause. West Virginia rarely exercises subpoena power in mine investigations. The state is working with the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration, which can only compel witnesses to appear at formal public hearings.
358 2010-06-12 An Air Force squadron responsible for maintaining 2,000 nuclear weapons has been recertified after passing a surprise inspection this week. Kirtland Air Force Base officials said the 898th Munitions Squadron received a “ready” rating after a team from the Air Force Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio spent the week inspecting the unit. The Air Force says the reliability and accountability of the nuclear stockpile was never affected when the squadron was decertified on Jan. 27. The commander of the Nuclear Weapons Center at the Albuquerque-area base requested the decertification after the unit failed a November inspection.
359 2010-06-12 ROCKPORT, Mass. — New England teems with modest chamber music festivals each summer, and from a distance many look attractive if not always immediately distinguishable. The Rockport Chamber Music Festival in this town 40 miles north of Boston (not to be confused with, say, the Bay Chamber Concerts in Rockport and Rockland, Me.) has just set itself apart from the crowd with a striking new home, the Shalin Liu Performance Center, which the festival inaugurated on Thursday evening to open its 29th season.

The center was designed by Epstein Joslin Architects of Cambridge, Mass., and Kirkegaard Associates, the acousticians from Chicago, whose principals Alan Joslin and Lawrence Kirkegaard were involved in a major triumph at the other end of Massachusetts in 1994, the construction of Seiji Ozawa Hall at Tanglewood. The smaller-scale Shalin Liu center consists mainly of an intimate 330-seat concert hall, beautiful to the eye as well as to the ear.

It is, publicity materials quaintly note, “between the Atlantic Ocean and Main Street,” and it was conceived to blend seamlessly with both. The facade more or less recreates that of the 1870s Haskins Building, which the center replaced, and looks like a storefront, complete with an awning rather than a marquee. The stage is backed by a two-story window that gives a panoramic view of the harbor, Sandy Bay.

For New Yorkers the effect might be compared to that of Bargemusic, with its sight line through the stage to the buildings of Lower Manhattan, or to the Allen Room of Jazz at Lincoln Center, with its view onto 59th Street and Central Park. But the setting, remote and uncitified, offers fewer distractions, at least when the waters are calm. (In a not wholly reassuring reminder of the possibilities, the window is said by a festival representative to be “100 percent hurricane-proof.”)

The hall’s interior was designed by Deborah Epstein to reflect the natural setting in materials, largely wood and stone, and colors, and by Mr. Kirkegaard to reflect and disperse the sound. What Mr. Kirkegaard wanted, he said in a film shown before the concert, was “a sparkly, clean window to the sound,” and he has achieved it.
360 2010-06-12 HOUSTON — BP said Friday that its board of directors would meet Monday to discuss whether to suspend the company’s dividend to pay spill-related claims.

BP executives continued to say they were financially capable of paying the dividend, which amounts to $10.5 billion a year. But they also acknowledged the political pressures building in Washington to set aside at least the next dividend payment while the amount of oil being released into the gulf is assessed and the growing federal fines linked to that amount can be estimated.

“There are ongoing discussions, there are lots of options on the table,” said Andrew Gowers, a BP spokesman. Among options being considered by board members, BP officials say, is suspending or cutting the dividend for a quarter, paying the dividend in shares of stock, or issuing an i.o.u. for delayed payment.

The BP board will discuss a strategy for a meeting between top company executives and President Obama on Wednesday. No decision is expected until then. By that time, the company hopes its containment efforts will be gathering most of the oil spilling into the gulf. Such progress could relieve some political pressure as well. Political controversy boiled on many fronts Friday as Attorney General Bill McCollum of Florida sent a letter to BP demanding that it put at least $2.5 billion into a dedicated escrow account to cover spill-related losses to the state and its residents. Mexico’s environment minister told Reuters that Mexico was considering how to sue BP for environmental damage if oil reaches the country’s shores.

BP’s efforts to contain the spill were the subject of debate at hearings in Washington on Friday. Robert J. Barham, the secretary of the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, told a House of Representatives subcommittee that chemical dispersants used underwater may be more environmentally damaging than the oil.

“As bad as it is, we have a whole lot more experience dealing with oil on the surface than we do in subsea, where we have literally no experience,” Mr. Barham said.

He said that despite repeated requests to BP and to the manufacturer of the dispersant, they have not received information on the percentages of the components of the chemical, Corexit.
361 2010-06-12 Logistical issues must still be resolved. Traffic jams left some seats empty at kickoff. And it remained to be seen how efficiently fans could be transported out of the stadium. Still, as Tlou Chokoe, a 53-year-old accountant, put it, “Now we can say that we are able to do things that no one gave us any chance of doing.”

South Africa entered the tournament under enormous pressure, which was evident in a nervous and cautious first half. Zuma had voiced expectations of winning the tournament, which seems highly unlikely. No African team has advanced beyond the quarterfinals, and South Africa is ranked 83rd in the world, above only North Korea in this 32-team field.

The hope of an entire continent, not merely a country, seems to weigh heavily on the shoulders of Bafana Bafana. That hope swelled again in the 90th minute only to be dashed when a dangerous shot by forward Katlego Mphela glanced off the goal post.

“We are still in the competition; I can’t ask for more from the Boys,” said Carlos Alberto Parreira, South Africa’s coach. “They did not disappoint us. I’m very happy. We could have won with some breaks.”

South Africa relaxed in the second half, unfurling its speed on the counterattack. A beautiful diagonal pass came out of the midfield in the 55th minute. Siphiwe Tshabalala sprinted onto the ball and rocketed a left-footed shot just inside the right goal post for a 1-0 lead.

The crowd erupted with the din of plastic trumpets, called vuvuzelas, and Tshabalala and four teammates celebrated with a theatrical chorus line dance on the sideline.

But Mexico, which had dominated play for much of the game, only to be thwarted by missed opportunities, did not withdraw. In the 79th minute, a substitute midfielder, Andrés Guardado, fired a cross to the unmarked defender Rafael Márquez, who blasted a shot from 6 yards past the otherwise impenetrable goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune, leveling the score at 1-1.

Friday’s one bittersweet moment came in the absence of former President Nelson Mandela. He canceled a scheduled appearance after his 13-year-old great-granddaughter was killed in an automobile accident Thursday night on the way home from a pre-World Cup concert in Soweto.

It was hoped that Mandela’s presence might summon the same kind of inspiring and galvanizing moment that occurred when South Africa won the 1995 rugby World Cup here, as dramatized in the movie “Invictus.”

Yet Mandela’s spirit and influence in attracting the World Cup were still evident in the stadium. “You must start the game,” he said in a statement conveyed through Zuma. “You must enjoy the game.”

Several fans interviewed equated the expectation and excitement present on Friday to Mandela’s release in 1990 after 27 years in prison.

“Everyone is together around the country, embracing,” said Mabule Mothapo, a 35-year-old doctor. “We are not black or white; we are just South Africans today.”

Maintaining unity after the World Cup will certainly be a challenge in a country that is still struggling to provide the basic necessities of electricity and running water to everyone. Still, Soccer City Stadium, built in the shape of a calabash, a gourd used as a cooking pot, was for a few hours Friday also a melting pot.

Soccer is primarily the sport of blacks in South Africa, while rugby is the sport of whites. Ever so slightly, there is increasing crossover.

A rugby match was played recently in Soweto, and Friday’s soccer match drew blacks and whites who stood shoulder to shoulder in the stands, waving the South African “rainbow nation” flag, wearing shirts in the green and white of Bafana Bafana, and participating together in a pregame ceremony that featured traditional African costumes and dances.

“It’s like a political party that has to move from right to left or left to right,” said Jens Schutte, 38, the chief financial officer of an automotive company, who is white. “Whites are moving more toward soccer, and blacks are getting interested in rugby.”

All over Johannesburg, the national flag of South Africa flew in a crisp breeze on Friday. Even the sideview mirrors of many cars bore covers in the shape of the flag. Eight or nine hours before kickoff, the vuvuzelas were in full throat. Inside the stadium they blew incessantly, sounding variously like duck calls, trumpeting elephants, rumbling motorcycles and swarming bees.

A number of dignitaries attended the opening match, including Desmond Tutu, the retired Anglican archbishop from South Africa who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1984. He wore a Bafana Bafana scarf and danced along to the pregame music in his box.

Hours before the tournament, Tutu told reporters that he could not have dreamed that South Africa — isolated from international sport for nearly three decades until the early 1990s — would host the World Cup one day.

“I’m dreaming; wake me up,” Tutu said Thursday at the Soweto concert. “We want to say to the world, Thank you for helping turn this ugly, ugly worm, or caterpillar, which we were, into a beautiful, beautiful butterfly.”

If this World Cup begins to change the way the rest of the world views Africa — rebutting stereotypes of poverty and conflict — then it also might change the way South Africans view themselves, said Trod Maloba, a doctor.

“This gives us a vision of the future, and whatever that may be, we know collectively that nothing is impossible,” Maloba said.
362 2010-06-12 By some sort of cosmic coincidence, one of the biggest spectacles in international sport, the World Cup, kicked off on Friday, fresh on the heels of a day when the purely American spectacle of college sports erupted in one big messy fireball.

The colorful pomp and pageantry of the world’s most popular sport felt a bit like a strong breeze, clearing away Thursday’s gloom in college sports. Because there was nothing colorful or triumphant about Southern California’s behaving so badly that even the backbone-challenged N.C.A.A. was upset enough to smack it with far stiffer penalties than anyone had expected. And you really had to hold your nose to avoid the smell of greed in the conference-realignment scheme, which is being conducted like some Monopoly game among rich schools trying to become richer.

Southern California’s penalties were greeted with a national gasp, with writers like Pat Forde of ESPN.com marveling at a rare show of force by the N.C.A.A infractions folks. But while Stewart Mandel of SI.com declared the Trojans’ two-year bowl ban and other penalties a message to elite programs by a newly resolute N.C.A.A., Foxsports.com’s Mark Kriegel decided it only showed why there is so much incentive to cheat because everyone responsible for the mess still got paid. Others got busy slamming Southern California for making such a public mockery of the rules, like Dennis Dodd of CBSSports.com, and Bill Plaschke wrote in The Los Angeles Times that it showed the arrogance that permeates the Trojans’ programs. So, it should come as no surprise that the arrogance continued Thursday, with Athletic Director Mike Garrett declaring the penalties smacked of envy. “They wish they were all Trojans,” he told a group of boosters, by way of explaining why the penalties were so harsh. Uh, wow.

With all that going on, and the Pacific-10 taking its Monopoly turn by snagging Colorado from the Big 12, it might have been the perfect time for the Lakers to slide in a befuddling loss to Boston in the N.B.A. finals. The Celtics heroes were some of the most unlikely, coming from a bench that only Coach Doc Rivers believed in, writes Chris Sheridan on ESPN.com. The winning combination of Glen Davis and Nate Robinson is either a pair of lost souls, as described by Yahoo.com’s Adrian Wojnarowski, or misfits (the description favored by Ken Berger of CBSSports.com) but as Bob Ryan writes in The Boston Globe, Davis keeps finding a way into these situations, despite all of his obstacles.

The other news of the day involved the seemingly endless courtship of Tom Izzo by the Cavaliers, which prompted an emotional rally at Michigan State. In Pittsburgh, folks turned to a couple of television interviews by Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, in which he painted himself as remorseful about the ditch into which he drove his reputation. Others were watching the news of the 16-year-old Abby Sunderland, who was thought to be lost at sea in her attempt to be the youngest to sail around the world, but was spotted by plane. It was the rare story in which it was possible to feel badly for her parents, while also cursing them under your breath.

If Friday, however, gets you more in the mood to join the world in loving the World Cup, Dan Shanoff of The Sporting News explains why it is unlike any other event. You can peruse ESPN.com’s tournament overview, or marvel at the coolest interactive schedule by marca.com. The death of Nelson Mandela’s great-granddaughter in a car crash added a sad note, writes Chris Jones for ESPN.com, as South Africa aims to do well in hosting its first huge international event.
363 2010-06-12 The idea to start a “text tree,” as it is being called, came out of a security meeting of bar and nightclub owners this year. It is modeled after a video system Las Vegas casinos use to alert one another when people are cheating or gambling illegally.

Participants thought text messaging would be the easiest way to relay the information, since most employees carry a cellphone and can quickly see the message.

“It’s an extra set of eyes,” said Jeff Nappi, a bartender at Fore Play, a popular sports bar on Fore Street.

Mike Sauschuck, the assistant chief of police, said the police had enlisted about 25 bars — out of about 30 in the Old Port — to participate in the texting system as of Thursday. So far, he said, bouncers and other bar employees had sent about 20 texts warning of unruly patrons. The texts have not led to any arrests, but Mr. Sauschuck said publicity around the system appeared to have deterred fighting.

Users download a free text-sharing system, which Mr. Coulombe displayed on his iPod Touch. “We hope that before they hit the street, we’ll send out notice in advance not to let these people in,” he said.

Some patrons said they were glad the police had added an additional layer of protection, as violence had escalated in recent weeks. Last month, Eric Benson, 24, was walking with a woman after the bars had closed when three men approached and, after a brief conversation, started beating him, according to the police. He later died. A 20-year-old man has been charged with manslaughter.

“Would texting have prevented it?” Chief Craig said. “Possibly, but what I don’t know for certain was whether or not the group that is accused was disorderly” at the bars.

Other patrons and civil liberties groups worry that a kind of vigilante justice by untrained civilians could unfairly single out people who match a description but have done nothing wrong.

“We’d be concerned about the police using untrained, unaccountable bouncers to create a database of people that the bouncers claim are disorderly,” said Zachary Heiden, legal director at the Maine Civil Liberties Union.

“I’d be surprised if bars are really so incompetent at identifying people who have been overserved that they need to get the police involved,” he added. “Does this really need to be a government program that identifies people who are too drunk to go into a bar?”

But Derek Lovely, 26, at Bull Feeney’s listening to the band belt out “Everlong” by the Foo Fighters, disagreed.

“There’s a fight here every night,” he said. “One drunk guy starts a fight, and it escalates. We’re hard people in Maine.”

On a recent Thursday night, as closing time approached, two women yelled at each other as they tumbled out of Oasis, where a bikini-clad woman gyrated around a stripper pole. Another woman fought with her boyfriend. At RiRa, a low-key pub nearby, a drunken older man had to be escorted out after screaming at patrons and making threats.

Kate McGrath, the bar’s assistant manager, said she recognized the man but did not think the incident warranted the early-warning text system, which many said they would use judiciously.

And when the man left, Ms. McGrath and the remaining patrons watched with relief as he walked off in the other direction, away from the bars.
364 2010-06-12 JOHANNESBURG — Heartbreak intruded on the opening day of the World Cup soccer games when Nelson Mandela’s 13-year-old great-granddaughter Zenani was killed in an auto accident early on Friday.

After learning of the death, Mr. Mandela canceled a much heralded appearance at the stadium where the opening match was played. He had been instrumental in attracting the monthlong tournament, which has been widely viewed here as a triumphant showcase for his country and his continent.

Zenani Mandela was returning home from the event’s kickoff concert in Soweto on Thursday night, an extravaganza with stars like Alicia Keys and Shakira that was held to start the contest on a joyous note. At its conclusion, the sky lit up with fireworks as happy attendees made their way to their parked vehicles.

According to the police, Zenani died in a one-car accident on a Johannesburg highway. The man behind the wheel, who has yet to be named, was accused of drunken driving and may also be charged with culpable homicide, the police said.

The World Cup is being played in Africa for the first time, and the presence of Mr. Mandela, the frail 91-year-old liberation hero, was expected to be an emotional high point to one of South Africa’s proudest days.

In 2004, when international soccer authorities chose South Africa to host the 2010 World Cup, Mr. Mandela said their decision was a perfect gift for his country 10 years after its first democratic elections. Then 85, he held aloft the trophy and said he felt “like a young man of 50.”
365 2010-06-12 Since the Texas Rangers agreed to a sale to a group led by Chuck Greenberg and Nolan Ryan for $575 million earlier this year, creditors of the team's parent company have insisted that other bidders would have paid more.     In a brief filed Friday...
366 2010-06-12 JIDDA -- Roughly two years ago, Rowdha Yousef began to notice a disturbing trend: Saudi women like herself were beginning to organize campaigns for greater personal freedoms. Suddenly, there were women asking for the right to drive, to choose whet...
367 2010-06-13 With two home runs in the Mets' 11-4 victory over the Orioles on Sunday, David Wright exceeded his total from last season by two. But he said that total did not matter so much so long as he was driving in runs....
368 2010-06-13 It's Day Three of the World Cup. And guess what? There is life to Group C after THAT game. Follow Algeria-Slovenia in all its early-morning glory....
369 2010-06-13 Ireland, Spain, and the markets....
370 2010-06-13 Tom Roeder lost his wife, a son and a daughter-in-law to the flood at the Albert Pike campgrounds in Arkansas, but he still calls it “one of the most beautiful places you could ever go.”

His wife, Kay, 69, “never missed a year,” said Mr. Roeder, now alone in his large home in Luling, La. He usually joins the annual reunions with his four grown children and their families on the Little Missouri River. But he stayed back this year because, at 71, “I don’t travel well anymore.”

So his son Bruce, 51, and his wife, Debbie, 52, took Mrs. Roeder with them. All three died when up to 30 feet of water tore into their camper.

Bruce and Debbie Roeder’s daughter, Tara, was the only one to make it out of the trailer, which she told Mr. Roeder “absolutely exploded around her,” he said.

His granddaughter told him she thought she heard a puppy scratching at the door, but when she opened it, water splashed into the camper, which was three feet off the ground. Then a wave hit.

“She was standing in the doorway and the next thing she knew she was being carried through shrubs and brush and stuff,” before ending up in a tree and, hours later, wading to safety, Mr. Roeder said.

Mrs. Roeder died “where she wanted to be,” he said. The couple had been married 45 years, and this was Mrs. Roeder’s 51st year at Albert Pike. The Roeder clan gathers there annually for two weeks in June, circling their campers around three big tents, watching for deer and attending the church services offered at the site by local congregations every Sunday. It was where Bruce introduced Debbie — the first girl he ever kissed — to his father. The children have nearly free rein.
371 2010-06-13 Arjen Robben has been ruled out of the Netherlands’ opening Group E game against Denmark, after flying in to join his teammates six days late because of a hamstring injury.

The Dutch coach, Bert van Marwijk, said Saturday that it was too risky for Robben, one of the top Dutch players, to play on Monday at Soccer City stadium in Johannesburg. But he hopes Robben will be fit in time to face Japan on June 19 in Durban and Cameroon five days later in Cape Town.

Van Marwijk said Robben had had only one full training session in the last three weeks.

Robben sustained the injury on a back-heeled pass to a teammate five minutes from the end of a warm-up game against Hungary on June 5.

DROGBA STILL HOPES TO PLAY Ivory Coast’s captain, Didier Drogba, missed a World Cup training session with his teammates to receive further treatment on his broken right arm.

Drogba is hoping to be fit for Ivory Coast’s opening Group G match against Portugal on Tuesday in Port Elizabeth after breaking the arm in an exhibition match against Japan on June 4. He had surgery a day later.
372 2010-06-13 The new military anti-corruption effort is a joint operation with Afghan law enforcement and judicial authorities. But on Saturday, The New York Times reported that some in Afghanistan, including one of Mr. Karzai’s former top intelligence aides, complained that the Afghan president himself was increasingly mistrustful of the United States and had talked of cutting his own agreement with the Taliban.

A central goal in the Obama administration’s counterinsurgency campaign in Afghanistan, which is commanded by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, is to win over the country’s population. That goal requires persuading the Afghan people to support the central government in Kabul and not shadow Taliban governments that exist in many provinces. To that end, anti-corruption efforts are every bit as important as killing or capturing militants, if not more so, according to senior officers involved in the effort.

“Where once our whole network was to capture and kill Al Qaeda and the Taliban, now the information we’re trying to get is the information for the networks of corruption and government and influence,” said a senior American military officer in Afghanistan.

“The intelligence we were focused on before was just to drive the next target we were going to get,” he said. “Now our targeting is much more focused on the government: How do you control for corruption? How does the process work for security contracts?”

Top NATO officials in Afghanistan drove the creation of a new anti-corruption task force last October, and it has already succeeded in forcing out a number of provincial security officials suspected of significant wrongdoing, many of whom have been brought to trial.

The task force, whose senior NATO leader is Maj. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, the alliance’s director of military intelligence in Afghanistan, gathered information that allowed Afghan officials to arrest, try and convict a border police commander who was pocketing salaries from ghost personnel on his payroll as well as stealing money meant for widows of officers killed in action.

Other provincial-level police chiefs have been removed from their posts because they were involved in corrupt activities uncovered by the task force’s intelligence operations, although they were not brought to trial because of a lack of the kind of evidence that could be presented in Afghan courts, officials said.

These actions, while still limited in scope, have served as “a shot across the bow” of the security ministries, said another senior American military officer.

“The word is out that we are going to continue to look at corrupt behavior in the police and that we have an effort under way,” the officer said. “In a counterinsurgency fight, we cannot afford to have abusive behavior by police, and we cannot afford to have corrupt behavior by police.”

That officer, like other the others who discussed the effort, spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of military intelligence operations.

The military is focused on battling corruption at the local and provincial levels in ways that illustrate a commitment to good governance for the population to see in their day-to-day lives. Yet, Pentagon officials acknowledge that this localized effort must be supported by a more senior-level, political decision by the Obama administration on how to deal with corruption at the uppermost echelons of the Afghan government. American military officials have worked closely with Afghan law enforcement authorities and developed information that local prosecutors have used in newly established trials at the detention center for detainees accused of corruption or drug charges. Ultimately, this kind of information could also be used to help the Afghan government weed out corrupt governors.

American officers are cognizant that some Afghans may make false accusations to use the anti-corruption effort to take down political opponents. The antidote for such abuse, officials say, is to demand multiple sources of information, with multiple sources of confirmation, before making taking action.

“It’s a lesson we learned from Iraq — to ‘mass’ intelligence against one individual,” said the senior American officer. “We mass the analysts, we mass the interrogators and we mass the exploiters of the information before making a move.”

Weeding out corruption is not the only significant adjustment of military intelligence activities in Afghanistan as the Defense Department shifts the bulk of its attention from Iraq.

In Iraq, a relatively well-educated and high-tech society with a similarly well-organized insurgency, American troops seized computer hard drives and cellphones that provided a trove of information about militant networks, including detailed accounting of foreign fighters flowing into the country.

In Afghanistan, by contrast, there is a much lower level of technical sophistication with far fewer computers, hard drives and other communications equipment to exploit. In addition, insurgent networks in Afghanistan are far more fractured and decentralized than in Iraq.

More than 90 percent of detainees from recent security sweeps in Afghanistan are from their local areas, and are not foreign fighters or insurgents from other districts within Afghanistan. Thus, they have little information about the broader insurgent network that can be exploited.

Interrogations of these recent detainees yield a “good news, bad news” version of events, officials said.

According to senior American officers, many detainees expressed deep frustration at the Taliban leadership in exile inside Pakistan. These detainees — even the group aged 35 to 55 and who are in leadership ranks of the provincial insurgency — tell interrogators that they are short of money and tired of taking orders from leaders who remain at a safe distance from the fight.

At the same time, these detainees still express a lack of confidence in the Kabul government, and remain unwilling to reintegrate and stop fighting, officials said.

The troop increase ordered to Afghanistan by President Obama has brought with it increases in the intelligence-gathering and exploitation effort, as well. The American military operation in Afghanistan is operating with significantly increased numbers of sophisticated surveillance aircraft and a growing number of analysts to exploit the widening stream of information.

The number of American military and civilian interrogators has doubled since last summer, to about 75 people, a senior military officer said. And “fusion cells” — teams of people who gather and assess information from the battlefield to quickly pinpoint a likely target for a follow-on raid — have been pushed from the large headquarters in Kabul out to military outposts across the country.
373 2010-06-13 Sun Yat-sen, born in 1866, is revered in both the People’s Republic of China and Taiwan as the “Father of Modern China.” His anti-imperialist activism helped overthrow the feudalistic Qing dynasty in 1912, but for the 16 years before the revolution, Sun lived in exile. When he visited San Francisco in the early 1900s, he often relaxed in St. Mary’s Square, where this statue was erected in 1937.

The 14-foot-high monument of red granite and stainless steel is by Beniamino Bufano, an Italian-American sculptor and a pacifist and friend of Henry Miller and Ansel Adams. One of Mr. Bufano’s unrealized dream projects was to carve the head of Franklin D. Roosevelt on the face of El Capitan in Yosemite National Park.

St. Mary’s Square was donated to the city by the Roman Catholic Diocese in 1912. At age 17, Sun was baptized a Congregational Christian by an American missionary in Hong Kong.

During his exile, Sun was pursued by agents of the Qing dynasty. His hideout in Chinatown at the headquarters of the Chinese Freemasons at 36 Spofford Alley, was a block from today’s Golden Gate Fortune Cookie Factory, which bakes 20,000 cookies daily.

“Bodyguards and Assassins,” a martial arts action film based loosely on Sun’s life, had its North American premiere at the San Francisco International Film Festival; it was named Best Film at the Hong Kong Film Awards in 2009.

Sun was a powerful writer and orator, and his statement “The world is for all, all is for the people” is inscribed in traditional Chinese characters on Chinatown’s Dragon Gate. Historians know of stories of laundrymen who donated their life savings to Sun’s cause after hearing him speak.

In the mornings in St. Mary’s Square, Chinese Chinatown residents practice tai chi chuan, a graceful, meditative martial art. World Tai Chi Day, begun in Kansas City, Mo., in 1999, is the last Saturday in April.
374 2010-06-13 Retail sales fell unexpectedly last month, according to the Census Bureau, but the news on consumer spending has not been all bad. MSN Money reports that there has been a shift among consumers from one-ply toilet paper to more expensive two-ply tissue. Not only that, but a new three-ply bath tissue was ranked by one market research firm as the hottest new product of 2009, according to MSN, and earned Georgia-Pacific nearly $125 million. A company executive said skeptics had wondered “if it was right to launch this ultrapremium product.” But he said the success of Quilted Northern Ultra Plush bath tissue indicated a desire among consumers for affordable indulgences even in tough times.
375 2010-06-13 Fabian Cancellara won the Tour of Switzerland prologue, while Lance Armstrong finished far back at the start of his last race before the Tour de France. Cancellara clocked 10 minutes 21 seconds in the 4.7-mile time trial in and around Lugano, a lakeside town. Armstrong was 44th over all, 29 seconds back.

Cancellara, the time-trial world champion, has been at the center of speculation that some riders may be cheating by using tiny motors hidden in their bike frames. He denies he won the Paris-Roubaix and Tour of Flanders this year with help of an electric bike.
376 2010-06-13 In the United States Open, a lengthy or final putt often defines the winner. His many other shots, no matter how important, seem to drift together in memory like surf sliding up the sand. But with the Open returning to Pebble Beach, each of the four previous champions there — Tiger Woods, Tom Kite, Tom Watson and Jack Nicklaus — will always be identified by a specific shot.

Two were wedge shots out of the rough by Kite and Watson, one was a 1-iron by Nicklaus that clanked off the flagstick, and one was a 7-iron by Woods out of heavy rough that soared uphill onto the green.

Woods won the 2000 Open by a record 15 strokes, with a record 12-under-par total. He averaged 299.3 yards on his measured drives, hit 51 of the 72 greens in regulation, one-putted 34 greens and never three-putted. But the shot that other pros still talk about occurred in the second round from the thick rough to the right of the fairway on the 523-yard par-5 sixth hole along the edge of Stillwater Cove.

“Most of us would have punched it out, maybe 30 yards,” Darren Clarke said. “He knocks a 7-iron up the hill from 201 yards and on the green.”

Most pros don’t hit a 7-iron that far, especially uphill from heavy rough, but Woods did, then two-putted from 15 feet for one of his 21 birdies that week. He shot 69 in that round, after a 65 in the first round. With a 71 in the third round, he had a 10-stroke lead. He closed with a 67 to win his first of three United States Opens, but his 7-iron uphill out of heavy rough was the shot that lives in golf lore.

In the 1992 Open’s final round, the wind howled. When Colin Montgomerie shot a two-under-par 70 for 288, he was ordained the winner by Nicklaus, working as an ABC announcer. Minutes later, out on the 107-yard seventh hole, Kite, deep in the thick rough long and left after a 6-iron into a fierce wind, lofted his ball onto the green. Rolling quickly, it hit the flagstick and fell into the cup.
377 2010-06-13 The federal government has recently stepped in to fill this role for bloggers, issuing new guidelines and stepping up enforcement to help ensure that any marketing campaigns are properly disclosed. Advertising remains within the bounds of the Federal Trade Commission Act, which outlaws deceptive marketing. For example, a blogger must be clear about any “material connections” with a sponsor, especially if these would not be expected by the reader.

“We emphasize plain English, upfront,” said Mary K. Engle, associate director for advertising practices at the Federal Trade Commission.

Thus far, the commission has focused on marketers, Ms. Engle said, though it could also pursue individual bloggers under the law. (There is no investigation in the Absolut vodka case so far.) A promotion in January by Ann Taylor Loft — submit a blog post about the summer 2010 collection and receive a gift of up to $500 — was the first to be investigated by the commission. While no action was taken, marketers viewed the case as a shot across the bow.

“The F.T.C. guidelines around social media have created a chilling effect when it comes to giveaways,” said Steve Rubel, a senior vice president at Edelman Digital, a public relations firm. “Everyone is being extra careful.”

Mr. Rubel said that when he is at Starbucks and updates his location on Foursquare, a location-based social network, he’s always careful to mention that the coffee company is one of Edelman’s clients.

TechCrunch, a blog about technology products, apologized earlier this year after a writer was caught asking for a Macbook computer in exchange for coverage of a start-up company.

This kind of behavior is an aberration, marketing experts and technology writers said. And while traditional journalists might be barred from sponsorship deals, the requirement for blogs is simply transparency.

Hiding sponsorships can also hurt a Web site’s reputation, a point Ms. Engle and others at the F.T.C. make during presentations to bloggers.

And that seems to be the case in Brooklyn.

“There are a lot of blog posts about Absolut Brooklyn,” said Norman Oder, who criticized the Absolut campaign on his blog, Atlantic Yards Report. “I don’t see a lot of disclosure.”

As the controversy grew, some bloggers revealed their gifts. Still, Ms. Crawford maintained that no one had been co-opted.

“I thought of my post as a piece of writing,” Ms. Crawford said of a post written in connection with Absolut. “And they sent me a bottle of vodka.”
378 2010-06-13 Caroline LaForge Lamborn and Zubin Mehta were married Saturday evening at St. John’s Episcopal Church on Fishers Island, N.Y. The Rev. Michael E. Spencer, the church’s rector, performed the ceremony.

Mrs. Mehta, 28, is the executive assistant to the head of capital investments at RFR Holding, a real estate investment, development and management company in New York. She is the daughter of Kathleen R. Lamborn of New York and George D. F. Lamborn of Vero Beach, Fla. Her father, now retired, was the president of a New York asset management firm that bore his name. Her mother is the manager of the jewelry department at Scully & Scully, a department store in New York. The bride is also the stepdaughter of Diane D. Lamborn.

Mr. Mehta, 33, is a founder and a managing partner of Finger Lakes Capital Partners, a technology and media venture-capital firm in New York. He graduated from Columbia. He is the son of Manjula Mehta and Dr. Jagat S. Mehta of Pittsford, N.Y. His father, an internist, has a private practice in Rochester and is a clinical assistant professor in the department of medicine at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry.

The bridegroom was named for the conductor, but is not related to him.
379 2010-06-13 Alexandra Jordan McCormack and Dimitrije Mihailo Mitrinovic were married Saturday at the River Cafe in Brooklyn. Judith S. Kaye, a former chief judge of the State of New York and a former chief judge of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, officiated.

The bride and bridegroom, both 32, graduated magna cum laude from Harvard, where they met, and where she received a law degree and he an M.B.A.

The bride is keeping her name. She is an associate specializing in mergers and acquisitions at the New York law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.

She is the daughter of Marisa A. McCormack and Garry P. McCormack of Upper Saddle River, N.J. Her father is a partner in the New York office of the law firm DLA Piper. Her mother is an administrative assistant in the Hackensack Board of Education business office in Hackensack, N.J.

The bridegroom is an investment analyst for the Capital Group Companies, a Los Angeles based manager of mutual funds.

He is a son of Dragomirka S. Mitrinovic and Mihailo D. Mitrinovic of Belgrade, Serbia. His mother is a retired director at Kontaktor, an importer of electrical and transportation equipment in Belgrade. His father is a physics professor at the University of Belgrade.
380 2010-06-13 Well here’s your chance to find out. A six-month trial started June 1 on the 4, 5 and 6 trains; the M14, M23, M79, M86, M101, M102, M103 and BXM7 buses; 9 of the 11 PATH train stations, and the 6, 80 and 87 New Jersey Transit buses. One card to rule them all. Tremble at the power.

If you already have a MasterCard PayPass, you can go online to ridenewyorknewjersey.com and enroll, getting the same discounts available with MetroCard. (To use the PayPass for a single full-fare ride, you don’t have to sign up at all.) If you don’t have or don’t want to get one of those cards, well, tough. This trial isn’t for you.

I tapped my way into the Metropolitan Transportation Authority system, heading down Lexington Avenue on the 6 train, across 23rd Street on the M23 bus, and then, via a PATH train, down Sixth Avenue and under the river to Jersey City. There, in Journal Square, I went for the trifecta: I tried to board a No. 87 New Jersey Transit bus, my third transportation system of the day, in the same expedient and new-fangled manner.

Alas, it was not to be.

“That won’t work,” the driver told me, as I made for the electronic reader. “It won’t work till, like, January or something.”

So I got off and boarded a No. 80 New Jersey Transit bus, whose driver told me the gizmo would not work until November. Then I tried the No. 6 bus, where the driver didn’t seem to care enough to stop me, so I gave the electronic reader a tap. It flashed its by-then-familiar green arrow and pointed me toward my seat, which I gladly took as we rolled toward Merritt Avenue.

If news of this brave experiment hasn’t quite made its way to the bus drivers of the Garden State, it doesn’t seem to have seized the riders of Manhattan either. Stand at the PayPass turnstile in the Grand Central subway station and, I predict, your interest in technology and transportation will give out hours before you see anyone even try it.

I did find a few people who said it sounded interesting, one who had even heard about the six-month trial. But none who had given it a shot. Pietro Mantia, an enigmatic artist from Pennsylvania, said the sight of the electronic reader made him sad. “They should have used a wand instead,” he declared.

Depending on how the test plays out, transportation authority officials say we could someday soon bid our MetroCards farewell. As it happens, that’s something that critics have been begging for the chance to do since the cards’ wide-scale adoption in 1997. “People are going to look at this,” the transportation authority chief, Jay H. Walder, said in a video announcing the project, “and say, ‘Why didn’t I have this sooner?’ ” Well, exactly.

If a single-payment system worked for Metropolitan Transportation Authority subways and buses, PATH trains and New Jersey Transit buses, perhaps next up would be the AirTrain, then Metro-North and the Long Island Rail Road. After that, why not Connecticut’s CTTransit or Philadelphia’s trolley?

What if they invented a single-payment system that could be used on all public transportation across America? They’d have to give it a very special name. Something that grabs hold of the imagination and inspires young people to dream. Perhaps they could call it: cash.
381 2010-06-13 Kasia Krynski and David J. McCormick were married Saturday at St. Mary of the Angels Church in Chicago. The Rev. Tomasz Wojciechowski, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

The bride and bridegroom, both 30, met in Chicago after returning from serving in the Peace Corps, she having been in Senegal, where she aided women in establishing community gardens, and he as an environmental educator in Benin.

The bride is a Presidential Management Fellow, working at the United States Agency for International Development in Washington, where she helps to oversee assistance to West Africa. Starting Monday, she will begin a five-month stint in Houston working as a field representative for the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s hurricane disaster assistance program, before returning to the international development agency in Washington.

She graduated from the University of Illinois and received a master’s in international educational development from Columbia. She is a daughter of Grace and Jan Krynski of Highland Park, Ill.

The bridegroom is an investment banking associate in Houston for Deutsche Bank.

He graduated summa cum laude from Boston College and received a master’s in international energy and an M.B.A. from Columbia. He is a son of Laura and James McCormick of Chicago.
382 2010-06-13 Over all, 21 percent of the respondents whose math abilities placed them in the bottom quarter of the survey experienced foreclosure, versus 7 percent of those in the top quarter.

Mr. Meier said the fact that the borrowers in the sample had subprime loans — which in 2006 and 2007 were given even to those with dismal financial histories — did not lessen the significance of the findings. A larger survey in Britain, he said, found nearly the same levels of math illiteracy among those questioned about retirement savings.

Mr. Meier said the study had at least two implications for mortgage lenders. “Maybe start adding math tests to the process,” he said, “and screen them away.”

The other alternative, he said, would be working to help borrowers improve their financial literacy before they took out the loan.

“There are a lot of financial decisions you have to make as a homeowner,” he noted, “but some of the more difficult decisions have to do with how to rebudget if you’re hit by an income shock, which a lot of people had to do during the recession.”

Mortgage lenders, brokers and counselors mostly agree that it’s difficult to gauge a borrower’s math skills under the current mortgage-application system.

“A lot of payment numbers are discussed,” said Richard L. Tracy Jr., the chief executive of Campbell Mortgage in West Haven, Conn., “but by that time the computer programs have already done the math.”

Mr. Tracy said that although he believed financial literacy and math skills were important predictors of a borrower’s ability to pay, borrowers deficient in those respects would most likely also have weak credit scores.

Jacqui Atcheson, a senior loan officer with Prospect Mortgage of Sherman Oaks, Calif., said that she worked closely on budgeting possibilities with any borrower whose credit history was checkered. She added that she would not offer a loan to a borrower she found lacking in the mathematical or financial skills needed to pay it back, even if the borrower could qualify for a mortgage.

Eileen Anderson, a senior vice president of the Community Development Corporation of Long Island, a nonprofit housing organization, says her group counsels struggling borrowers through the foreclosure-avoidance process. “Many of them don’t understand how to do a budget — which is basic math, I guess,” she said.

Borrowers who receive prepurchase buyer education are less likely to end up in foreclosure than those who do not, she added.

“In our programs,” Ms. Anderson said, “we’re doing the math with them, not for them.”

And better-educated borrowers are not exempt, either.

“People say they’re doctors, so they don’t really need it,” she said. “So what? We see doctors who took out loans they didn’t understand, and who are in foreclosure now.”
383 2010-06-13 Forget the artists-versus-writers softball game or the quest for a reservation at Nick and Toni’s. The real battle line in East Hampton lately has involved the continuing feud between dog owners, who say they are diligent about picking up after their pets, and other beachgoers, who point to evidence otherwise.

It’s as much a clash of mind-sets as it is of beach manners. “I think the people who are dog owners and dog lovers are not really good at seeing the other side,” said Steven A. Ludsin, who frequents Georgica Beach and wishes that dogs did not. “They sort of feel like, ‘Why don’t you love my adorable little dog?’ ”

The controversy grew acute over the winter, when officials in the Village of East Hampton floated the idea of cutting back the hours for dogs on the beach — say, from 7 p.m. to 8 a.m. in the high season. This prompted many residents here to do what they do best when they are outraged: write well-worded letters to The East Hampton Star, the weekly newspaper.

It also prompted some to form a committee (another of the village residents’ strong suits). Kathryn Staley, who has a cairn terrier, and Maureen Bluedorn, who has two cairn terriers, organized a group called BeachDogs11937 — referencing the East Hampton ZIP code — to work against any new restrictions.

“You know how it is in New York City, some people just spoil it for everybody,” said Ms. Staley, who commutes between Manhattan and East Hampton. “There are some people who just never pick up after their dogs and always keep them unleashed. Most of us abide by the rules and clean up the beach as we walk.”

During the off season, BeachDogs11937 worked amicably with village officials, and the upshot was that the rules for dogs on the beach were not altered. In exchange, the dog owners agreed to hold beach cleanups every month this summer and start an education campaign — with T-shirts, pamphlets and radio ads — to coax people to pick up after their dogs.

“I think this year will be a good test for us,” Ms. Bluedorn said. Larry Cantwell, the village administrator, is the point person for complaints about beaches, which he calls the “crown jewels of the village.” He also fielded all the angry e-mail messages from the dog lovers who worried about the potential rule changes.

“When you have a conflict between people going to the beach and enjoying it with their children and dogs that spoiled the beach, it’s a serious matter,” he said. “When you receive a phone call from a parent whose child has picked up dog feces on the beach, we take that seriously.”

Which leads us to the story of Matt Norklun. A longtime East Hampton resident, Mr. Norklun has seen it all: dogs biting joggers, attacking birds, killing a seal, soiling on people and their belongings. “At Georgica Beach, people wash their dogs in the hot showers with soap that are meant for humans,” he said.

In 2008, he grew so exasperated that he took a Mutt Mitt, collected samples at Georgica Beach, and left it on the steps of Village Hall. Mr. Cantwell, who had to clean it up, was not amused, and Mr. Norklun was fined $500 for littering.

Mr. Norklun said his fine was paid entirely by neighbors who support his crusade but do not want their names associated with it. “I’m not anti-dog,” he said. “It’s just there’s a place for everything, and the beach is not a place for dogs. Imagine a kitty-litter box: would you put your hand in it?”

One thing both sides agree on: the summer people — make that, the “citiots” — are to blame.

“On a Friday evening, they drive out from the city and go straight to the beach,” Mr. Norklun said. “They’re like, ‘O.K., here we are at the toilet, let the dog out.’ A lot of times they don’t even get out of the car.”

He complains that the police department turns a blind eye. “They hand out thousands of parking tickets every day, and they can’t get one kid to go to the beach?” Mr. Norklun said.

Actually, an officer patrols the beach by car every morning. “It’s one of our top priorities,” said Gerard Larsen Jr., the village police chief. But “we can’t be everywhere all the time, and it’s probably a small percentage of the people who aren’t cleaning up.”

Last year, enforcement was stepped up, with officers starting beach patrol at 7 a.m. rather than 9 a.m., but to little avail. “I don’t think we’ve issued one summons yet for people not cleaning up,” Chief Larsen said. “It’s like driving enforcement: when the cops are there, everybody slows down.”

Most beaches in the United States don’t allow dogs, period, but East Hampton has been relatively lenient. In the olden days — perhaps the 1980s — when Main Street and Newtown Lane were dominated by mom-and-pop stores, the issue was less pressing, since there were fewer people and dogs. But now that the village has enough residents and visitors to attract the biggest names in retail — Hermès! Gucci! Tiffany! — the matter has come to a head.

According to the village government’s Web site, the population of East Hampton village — which is a subset of the Town of East Hampton — is 1,388. But on summer weekends, that swells to an inestimable number (not counting houseguests). On a Saturday night in August, 1,388 may represent the population of the East Hampton movie theater plus the people trying to get a table at Rowdy Hall.

The crowds were back on Memorial Day weekend, when BeachDogs11937 held its inaugural cleanup. Anne Haring, who helped dispense T-shirts at Wiborg Beach, recalled the days when bringing a dog was no big deal.

“There are more people, more children now,” she said. “There’s also been the whole cleanliness thing — germs. People are phobic about germs.”

Mr. Gaines, who chronicled the excesses of the Hamptons in his book “Philistines at the Hedgerows,” used the phrase “sense of entitlement” to describe careless dog owners, and worried aloud about the potential loss of a pleasurable morning ritual.

“This is really the friendly, happy beach,” Mr. Gaines said, gesturing to the crowd of people and dogs. “This is a very important part of living here.”
384 2010-06-13 One problem is that the link between specialization and technological innovation is not so clear. Certainly, specialists make promising candidates to develop further improvements in technology in their own area. Yet specialists often have the most to lose from new technologies that displace the old ones they know so well, and may want to block innovation. Perhaps this is why many breakthroughs come from creative outsiders who combine technologies generated by different specialties.

Actually, combining technologies to make new technologies is another favorite idea of Ridley himself. But he is too casual about the logic of it all: in his cringe-inducing metaphor, “ideas have sex.” For example, the telephone had carnal relations with the computer, and their love child was the Internet.

Ridley strains to fit the notion of ideas having sex into what he himself calls the “Procrustean bed” of his “gains from exchange” story of progress. But sharing ideas is not the same as exchanging goods. It is often accidental and involuntary: it’s hard to keep a good idea a secret, so strangers are likely to gain from your idea without your getting anything in exchange. The dissemination of ideas is therefore more mysterious than the gains from exchange of goods, and Ridley ultimately leaves us with logical loose ends rather than explanations.

Next he seeks to convince us that gains from exchange of goods are indeed the crucial determinant of human progress. It is here above all where skeptical readers are likely to be alarmed by Ridley’s too frequent jumps from guesses to proofs. For example, on one page we go from the cautious statement “It is a reasonable guess that one of the pressures to invent agriculture was to feed and profit from wealthy traders” to the sudden declaration “Trade came first.” Elsewhere, the charming doubt of “Perhaps I am wrong to seek the flywheel of human progress in the gradual development of exchange and specialization. Perhaps they are symptoms, not causes. . . .” becomes “I suspect specialization is the key,” which becomes — without any further evidence being introduced — the confident assertion “The increasing specialization of the human species, and the enlarging habit of exchange, are the root cause of innovation.”

Ridley’s free market history is one-­sided in another way: He stresses “market” a lot more than “free.” We hear little of the political ideals of equality and individual liberty, usually considered prerequisites for both exchange and innovation. These ideals are doubly potent because people desired them for their own sake as well as for their utility in achieving prosperity. But Ridley seems a bit equality-challenged himself. He has the disturbing tic of using the word “even” when he mentions Africa. Gains from exchange, he writes, “will enable the Chinese and the Indians and even the Africans to live as prosperously as Americans now do.” And “even Nigerians are twice as rich” as they were 50 years ago, thanks to global progress. (Disclosure: Ridley approvingly cites my own work on aid to Africa.)

Nor does Ridley grapple with why so many people doubt market-based progress. His entertaining account of how such pessimism is always in fashion — whether the subject is overpopulation, genetic engineering, Y2K or global warming (he thinks we’ll all end up living on a slightly hotter but richer planet) — also predicts that today’s pessimists will ignore his message. Ridley is tone-deaf to the 20th-century traumas that were huge setbacks for the gospel of progress. “Despite the wars,” he writes, “in the half-century to 1950, the longevity, wealth and health of Europeans improved faster than ever before” — a true statement that surely misses the point.

Ridley also fails to really address inequality and uncertainty. The free market may produce cornucopia, doubters concede. But it also gave Richard Fuld of Lehman Brothers $60,000 a day (in 2007, the year before the company went bankrupt) while one billion other people survived on a dollar a day. In his discussion of global warming, Ridley argues that we’ve avoided all previous doomsday predictions. But our resourcefulness, or our luck, could run out sooner or later.

A case for individual freedom and market exchange would have to convince doubters that alternatives would create even more inequality and uncertainty, or something worse. Such a case could argue that some of those 20th-century traumas were caused by a backlash against both the “free” and the “market,” and that central planning tends to create even more rigid inequality between political “ins” and “outs” while lacking the creativity needed to cope with future threats. But the case must move from “maybe” to logic and evidence. Alas, this book does not get there.

So read “The Rational Optimist” for its fascinating history of trade and innovation. But also ponder whether the debate over markets can move forward while it remains a purely religious war. Those willing to confront honestly all the doubts about the “free market” might then actually be persuasive in arguing that it is the worst system humans have ever tried — except for all the others.
385 2010-06-13 Skeptics rolled their eyes, but BMW has delivered. The S 1000 RR is the bike BMW always had the know-how to make, but not the self-discipline; it competes with the best in the sport-bike class on performance, price and features.

The S 1000 RR is powered by an all-new (but thoroughly mainstream) 999 cc transverse-mounted in-line-4-cylinder engine that, BMW says, produces 190 horsepower at 13,000 r.p.m. (the rev limiter is set at 14,200 r.p.m.) The engine hangs from a largely conventional frame made of aluminum rather than some space-age alloy, and the front suspension uses a conventional inverted fork.

A chain-drive, not a shaft, transfers power to the rear wheel, which is suspended on a triangulated swingarm. The as-delivered bike weighs 460 pounds, competitive with all of the 4-cylinder models in the literbike class.

Of course, BMW could not resist offering an array of sophisticated electronic features intended to one-up the competition, including throttle-by-wire and a variable intake system, with options like a new generation of antilock brake controls and a multimode traction control that is sensitive to cornering-lean angles. Where does the S 1000 RR slot into BMW’s existing lineup of G series single-cylinder bikes, F series parallel twins, R series boxer twins and K series fours?

It doesn’t. It creates a new family of one.

At a BMW reunion, the S 1000 RR would incite sibling envy. The S 1000 RR can charm rookie riders into thinking they are experts, and experts to believe they can take on Valentino Rossi.

The genius of the S 1000 RR is in its electronic brain. The bike’s optional electronics package includes rider-selectable settings that help to optimize power and throttle response over four modes. Rain mode limits the engine’s output to about 150 horsepower. Sport, Race and Slick (for use with treadless racing tires) modes progressively increase the lean angle tolerated while adjusting the power level, traction control and antilock brake application.

My test bike also came with the optional $1,480 Dynamic Traction Control and Race A.B.S. option, as well as the $450 Gearshift Assistant that enables full-throttle, no-clutch upshifts.

At a megatest known as MasterBike, organized by Motociclismo magazine and held this year at a racetrack in Spain in February), a collection of 15 expert riders, including racers and editors of cycle publications from around the world, nine top-ranked sport bikes were assembled for a performance shootout. Seven riders set their fastest lap times on the BMW, and the bike took the overall win by beating an impressive roster of entries: the Aprilia RSV4 Factory, MV Agusta F4, KTM RC8R, Ducati 1198S Corse, Honda CBR1000RR, Suzuki GSX-R1000 and Yamaha YZF-R1.

This result was not merely a shot across the bow of the competing bike makers, but a torpedo amidship — one that is likely to send engineers back to the drawing board.

Although I did not test the S 1000 RR on a racetrack, I found it exhilarating and confidence-inspiring to ride on city streets and on the Interstate. I was able to carry more speed deeper into corners, open the throttle sooner and accelerate harder than on any bike I remember riding. My worst problem? Stopping, because I usually found myself traveling much faster than I thought I was.

Drivability in everyday conditions (using Rain mode) was surprisingly good. Wind management from the minimalist fairing can be tuned to reduce rider fatigue. Sane use of the throttle yielded mileage in the high 30s.

Nitpicks included lack of a fuel gauge (just a remaining range indicator), a sidestand that places the bike at too upright an angle and the stomach-churning Acid Green Metallic that is one of four paint offerings.

It is fair to say the BMW S 1000 RR is the most significant motorcycle to be introduced in 2010, an overachiever on the order of the M3 or M5 from the four-wheel side of the BMW house. And its attractive starting price of $14,295 should help to achieve BMW’s goal of carving out a 10 percent share of the market in its class.
386 2010-06-13 MOTORCYCLE racing is not for the faint of heart — or for the fragile of collarbone.

The highly tuned and hand-built motorcycles at the top level of competition, called MotoGP, have engines that make more than 200 horsepower. Top speed for these machines, which weigh only about 340 pounds, is over 210 m.p.h.

This combination has the potential for serious injury to MotoGP riders. But advances in safety, from improved track design to better riding gear, have kept MotoGP racing remarkably free of fatalities.

There have been injuries, of course; the current MotoGP world champion, Valentino Rossi, recently broke his lower leg in a crash while practicing for his home grand prix at Mugello, Italy, ending his hopes for adding another championship this year.

It would not have helped prevent Rossi’s leg injury, but now, air bag technology is finally coming to motorcycle racing. Dainese and Alpinestars, racing-gear manufacturers based in Italy, have been testing their inflatable suits with professional riders, including Rossi before his crash, and will soon sell these suits to the public. Dainese says it will be offering production D-Air racing suits by the end of the year, and Alpinestars is shooting for June 2011.

Why has it taken so long, given that air bags have been ubiquitous in cars for years?

Most racing accidents end with the rider and motorcycle separated, tumbling along the track through an energy-absorbing gravel trap or into a special inflatable air fence. So an effective suit has to be mounted on the rider, not the motorcycle. It has to cushion the initial blow when the rider hits the track, and, unlike a car air bag, which deflates in milliseconds, it must continue to offer protection as the rider bounces to a stop — sometimes over five seconds.
387 2010-06-13 The connection between animal abuse and other criminal behaviors was recognized, of course, long before the evolution of the social sciences and institutions with which we now address such behaviors. In his famous series of 1751 engravings, “The Four Stages of Cruelty,” William Hogarth traced the life path of the fictional Tom Nero: Stage 1 depicts Tom as a boy, torturing a dog; Stage 4 shows Tom’s body, fresh from the gallows where he was hanged for murder, being dissected in an anatomical theater. And animal cruelty has long been recognized as a signature pathology of the most serious violent offenders. As a boy, Jeffrey Dahmer impaled the heads of cats and dogs on sticks; Theodore Bundy, implicated in the murders of some three dozen people, told of watching his grandfather torture animals; , the “Son of Sam,” poisoned his mother’s parakeet.

But the intuitions that informed the narrative arc of Tom Nero are now being borne out by empirical research. A paper published in a journal in 2004, “A Study of Firesetting and Animal Cruelty in Children: Family Influences and Adolescent Outcomes,” found that over a 10-year period, 6-to-12-year-old children who were described as being cruel to animals were more than twice as likely as other children in the study to be reported to juvenile authorities for a violent offense. In an October 2005 paper published in Journal of Community Health, a team of researchers conducting a study over seven years in 11 metropolitan areas determined that pet abuse was one of five factors that predicted who would begin other abusive behaviors. In a 1995 study, nearly a third of pet-owning victims of domestic abuse, meanwhile, reported that one or more of their children had killed or harmed a pet.

The link between animal abuse and interpersonal violence is becoming so well established that many U.S. communities now cross-train social-service and animal-control agencies in how to recognize signs of animal abuse as possible indicators of other abusive behaviors. In and several other states, new laws mandate that veterinarians notify the police if their suspicions are aroused by the condition of the animals they treat. The state of recently added Humane Society and animal-control officers to the list of professionals bound by law to report suspected child abuse and is now considering a bill in the State Legislature that would list animal abusers on the same type of online registry as sex offenders and arsonists.

When I spoke recently with Stacy Wolf, vice president and chief legal counsel of the A.S.P.C.A.’s Humane Law Enforcement department, which focuses on the criminal investigation of animal-cruelty cases in , she drew a comparison between the emerging mindfulness about animal cruelty and the changing attitudes toward domestic abuse in the 1980s. “It really has only been in recent years that there’s been more free and accurate reporting with respect to animal cruelty, just like 30 years ago domestic violence was not something that was commonly reported,” she said. “Clearly every act of violence committed against an animal is not a sign that somebody is going to hurt a person. But when there’s a pattern of abusive behavior in a family scenario, then everyone from animal-control to family advocates to the court system needs to consider all vulnerable victims, including animals, and understand that violence is violence.”

It isn’t clear whether Phoenix was used for dog fighting. Subsequent examinations of her body did find — along with evidence that gasoline had been poured down her throat — a number of bite wounds. Veterinarians, however, said that those could have been self-inflicted in the course of Phoenix’s frenzied attempts to fight off the flames. But prosecutors also later claimed that Phoenix’s accused assailants, 17-year-old twin brothers named Tremayne and Travers Johnson, of a nearby block of Pulaski Street, were using a vacant neighborhood home for the keeping of pit bulls and other ganglike activities.

The Johnson have pleaded not guilty. According to court documents, both suspects, said to be members of the 1600 Boys gang, were identified by a witness as running out of the alley where the dog was set alight. “There was some gang-style graffiti found in that abandoned building,” Randall Lockwood, the A.S.P.C.A.’s senior vice president for forensic sciences and anticruelty projects, and a member of the new Anti-Animal-Abuse Task Force in Baltimore, told me at the A.S.P.C.A.’s Midtown offices in December. “There was also dog feces on the premises. Unfortunately, nobody bothered collecting the feces to see if it was from Phoenix.”

Along with the need to track the physical evidence of animal cruelty there is the deeper and more complex challenge of trying to parse its underlying causes and ultimate ramifications. As a graduate student in , Lockwood had an interest in human-animal interactions and the role of animals and education in the development of empathy in children. This inevitably led him to consider the flip side of the equation: the origins of cruelty to animals and what such behavior might indicate about an individual’s capacity for empathy and his or her possible future behavior.

Back in the early 1980s, Lockwood was asked to work on behalf of ’s Division of Youth and Family Services with a team of investigators looking into the treatment of animals in middle-class American households that had been identified as having issues of child abuse. They interviewed all the members of each family as well as the social workers who were assigned to them. The researchers’ expectation going in was that such families would have relatively few pets given their unstable and volatile environments. They found, however, not only that these families owned far more pets than other households in the same community but also that few of the animals were older than 2.

“There was a very high turnover of pets in these families,” Lockwood told me. “Pets dying or being discarded or running away. We discovered that in homes where there was domestic violence or of children, the incidence of animal cruelty was close to 90 percent. The most common pattern was that the abusive parent had used animal cruelty as a way of controlling the behaviors of others in the home. I’ve spent a lot of time looking at what links things like animal cruelty and child abuse and domestic violence. And one of the things is the need for power and control. Animal abuse is basically a power-and-control crime.”

The dynamic of animal abuse in the context of domestic violence is a particularly insidious one. As a pet becomes an increasingly vital member of the family, the threat of violence to that pet becomes a strikingly powerful intimidating force for the abuser: an effective way for a petty potentate to keep the subjects of his perceived realm in his thrall. In 2005, Lockwood wrote a paper, “Cruelty Toward Cats: Changing Perspectives,” which underscores this dynamic of animal cruelty as a means to overcome powerlessness and gain control over others. Cats, Lockwood found, are more commonly victims of abuse than dogs because dogs are, by their very nature, more obedient and eager to please, whereas cats are nearly impossible to control. “You can get a dog to obey you even if you’re not particularly nice to it,” Lockwood told me. “With a cat you can be very nice, and it’s probably going to ignore you, and if you’re mean to it, it may retaliate.”

Whatever the particular intimidation tactics used, their effectiveness is indisputable. In an often-cited 1997 survey of 48 of the largest shelters in the for victims of domestic violence and child abuse, more than 85 percent of the shelters said that women who came in reported incidents of animal abuse; 63 percent of the shelters said that children who came in reported the same. In a separate study, a quarter of battered women reported that they had delayed leaving abusive relationships for the shelter out of fear for the well-being of the family pet. In response, a number of shelters across the country have developed “safe haven” programs that offer refuges for abused pets as well as people, in order that both can be freed from the cycle of intimidation and violence.

What cannot be so easily monitored or ameliorated, however, is the corrosive effect that witnessing such acts has on children and their development. More than 70 percent of U.S. households with young children have pets. In a study from the 1980s, 7-to-10-year-old children named on average two pets when listing the 10 most important individuals in their lives. When asked to “whom do you turn to when you are feeling sad, angry, happy or wanting to share a secret,” nearly half of 5-year-old children in another study mentioned their pets. One way to think of what animal abuse does to a child might simply be to consider all the positive associations and life lessons that come from a child’s closeness to a pet — right down to eventually receiving their first and perhaps most gentle experiences of death as a natural part of life — and then flipping them so that all those lessons and associations turn negative.

In a 2000 article for AV Magazine, a publication of the American Anti-Vivisection Society, titled, “Wounded Hearts: Animal Abuse and Child Abuse,” Lockwood recounts an interview he conducted for the New Jersey Division of Youth and Family Services in the early 1980s. He describes showing to “a perky 7-year-old boy” a simple drawing of a boy and a dog, playing ball inside a house and a broken lamp on the floor beside them. Lockwood asked the 7-year-old — a child who had witnessed his brother being beaten by their father, who was “reportedly responsible for the ‘disappearance’ of several family pets” — to describe what would happen next in the story of the boy in the picture. “He grew still and sullen,” Lockwood writes, “and shook his head slowly. ‘That’s it,’ he said in a matter-of-fact tone, ‘They’re all going to die.’ ”

Children who have witnessed such abuse or been victimized themselves frequently engage in what are known as “abuse reactive” behaviors, Lockwood said, re-enacting what has been done to them either with younger siblings or with pets. Such children are also often driven to suppress their own feelings of kindness and tenderness toward a pet because they can’t bear the pain caused by their own empathy for the abused animal. In an even further perversion of an individual’s healthy empathic development, children who witness the family pet being abused have been known to kill the pet themselves in order to at least have some control over what they see as the animal’s inevitable fate. Those caught in such a vicious abuse-reactive cycle will not only continue to expose the animals they love to suffering merely to prove that they themselves can no longer be hurt, but they are also given to testing the boundaries of their own desensitization through various acts of self-mutilation. In short, such children can only achieve a sense of safety and empowerment by inflicting pain and suffering on themselves and others.

In March I paid a visit to the newly established Veterinary Forensics Medicine Sciences program at the , Gainesville. Directed by Melinda Merck, a veterinarian who serves as the A.S.P.C.A.’s senior director of veterinary forensics and as the “captain” of its new mobile C.S.I. unit, the program is the first of its kind at a major U.S. university. As animal abuse has become an increasingly recognized fixture in the context of other crimes and their prosecution, it is also starting to require the same kinds of sophisticated investigative techniques brought to bear on those other crimes.

Veterinary forensic students at the University of Florida are being trained in the same way that traditional crime-scene investigators are, taking courses in a wide range of topics: crime-scene processing; forensic entomology (determining the time of an animal’s injury or death by the types of insects around them); bloodstain-pattern and bite-mark analysis; buried-remains excavation; and forensic osteology (the study of bones and bone fragments).

“I love being around bones,” Merck proclaimed as she led me into the university’s C. A. Pound Human Identification Laboratory, a sprawling, brashly lighted array of human skeletal remains arranged in meticulous piecemeal patterns on rows of shiny metal tables. “I find bones fascinating. There is a lot of information in them.” Merck, who testifies at animal-cruelty trials across the country, conducted the forensic osteology on the dog remains recovered from the mass graves on Michael Vick’s property in 2007.

The lab is one of the busiest of its kind in the world, enlisted for countless crime-scene investigations and archaeological digs and to help identify the victims of disasters, including those of the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center and . The fact that one of the examining tables and adjacent bone-boiling and cleansing units have now been assigned to Merck for her own animal-forensic work and course instruction speaks volumes about the shifting perspective toward animal-cruelty crimes. “We have a really cool thing going on here,” Merck told me. “We have the collaborative effort of a lot of big-wig forensic specialists down here with years of experience.”

She led me over to her examining table. Set at one end was what she called “my box of evidence,” a picnic-cooler-size plastic container that held the excavated remains from a mass grave, part of an investigation she is conducting into a suspected dog-fighting operation in . “In most of our cases of animal cruelty, the bodies are not fresh,” she said. “They’re decomposed. They’re discarded. They’re hidden. And so the advanced post-mortem stage is where we really need to be experts.”

Merck’s 2006 book, “Forensic Investigation of Animal Cruelty: A Guide for Veterinary and Law Enforcement Professionals,” which she wrote with Randall Lockwood and Leslie Sinclair of Shelter Veterinary Services in Columbia, Md., contains a daunting list of the grisly things human beings do to animals: thermal injuries (immolation, baking, microwaving); blunt-force trauma; sharp-force and projectile injuries; asphyxiation; drowning; poisoning; ritual murders; and sexual assault. Merck spared no details in discussing such horrors over the course of a veterinary-forensics lecture I attended earlier that day, held in a conference room at a hotel near the university as part of a four-day seminar. Even Merck’s seasoned audience of out-of-town vets, A.S.P.C.A. disaster-response and investigative-team workers, community-outreach personnel and the chief legal counsel for New York City’s Humane Law Enforcement department could be heard gasping into their coffee mugs as Merck annotated, one after the next, screen-projected slides of stark brutality: blood-drenched dog-fighting pits; bludgeoned, internally hemorrhaging pets; bruised and mutilated canine sexual organs; a heavily duct-taped, paint-coated puppy and the fur-lined, nail-scraped oven walls from which the puppy struggled vainly to escape.

Those whose compassion compels them to confront and combat daily its utter absence are, of necessity, often forced to affect a passionless pose. Merck proceeded through her seminar with clinical speed and precision through a series of signature forensic cases. One of the first pivoted around the mystery of a missing Pomeranian whose owners were convinced had been stolen from their backyard. Merck called up the slide of a tiny skeleton she had rendered in her corner of the lab from remains found in a vacant lot not far from the Pomeranian owners’ home. It looked like a wingless bat, the delicate brace of ribs bearing tiny symmetrical snaps on each side.

“What could have caused these,” Merck asked, pointing her red laser at the breaks. “What could make a dog disappear so fast?”

“Man!” someone called out to bursts of laughter.

“Yep,” Merck nodded. “Most likely a hawk. These two breaks are where the bird’s talons grabbed hold of the dog. This is why forensic osteology is so important, and yet there’s nothing in our standard veterinary training that teaches us how to look at bones properly.”

Merck soon proceeded to the case of the puppy found four years ago in the oven of a ransacked community center in . An outraged local prosecutor called Merck about the case and then showed up at her vet clinic one day with the dog’s remains. “She brings me the puppy, and this . . . ,” Merck said, the slide behind her now sapping the room’s air, “is what she brings me.”

Step by step, from the outer paint to the unraveled layers of duct tape to the dog’s abraded nails and paws to the hem of an old T-shirt that was used as a leash, Merck’s detailed forensic analysis of the victim and of the crime scene would be used to assemble a timeline of events. Ultimately, her analysis would help seal the conviction of two teenage brothers on multiple charges, including burglary, animal cruelty and — because the brothers had shown a number of children at the community center what they had done and then threatened them with their lives if they told anyone — additional charges of child abuse and terroristic threats.

The most common dynamic behind the cases cited that morning was that of a man abusing a family pet to gain control over, or exact revenge against, other family members. Merck told of one puppy found buried in the backyard of a house. As Merck tells it, the dog belonged to the female friend of a woman who had recently left the man with whom she and her two children from a previous marriage were living. She and her children had moved in with the friend, someone who the man decided was keeping him and his estranged partner from reuniting. The girlfriend’s pet, therefore, became for him the optimum vehicle for expressing his rage against both women.

“He tortured the puppy when the two women weren’t home,” Merck told me after her lecture that day. “He also tried to make two of the kids participate just to make it more heinous. So along with the animal cruelty, of course, we had child abuse.”

Merck has made it her mission to urge other vets to report and investigate suspected cases of animal abuse, incorporating a few cautionary tales of her own into her lectures to point up the often dire consequences of failing to do so. One involved a man from Hillsborough County in who was arrested for murdering his girlfriend, her daughter and son and their German shepherd. He had previously been arrested (but not convicted) for killing cats. In another story Merck tells, one related to her by a New York City prosecutor, a woman reported coming home to find her boyfriend sexually molesting her Labrador retriever, but the case never went to trial.

“My point on that one,” Merck told me, “is that no one took precautions to preserve the evidence on the dog. And once it comes down to a he-said-she-said type of situation, you’re lost. These types of cases are difficult enough even when we have all the evidence, in part because it’s very hard for investigators and prosecutors to even consider that someone would do things like this. It’s so disturbing and offensive, they don’t know what to do about it. A lot of the work I do involves not just talking to vets but reaching out to law enforcement to make them more knowledgeable on these matters, to make them understand, for example, that things like sexual assault of children and animals are linked. They are similar victims.”

On our way back to the hotel for an afternoon lecture on forensic entomology, Merck made a little detour to show me the A.S.P.C.A.’s new mobile C.S.I. unit, parked in a side lot of the vet school’s farm-animal compound. Twenty-six-feet long, with its own climate-control, generator, examination room and surgical suite, digital microscope, machine, sexual-assault kit and -oxygen machine, it is essentially a giant emergency room on wheels, allowing Merck and her crew to examine and care for animals at suspected crime scenes and to efficiently analyze and process evidence to ensure its integrity.

The van was an important part of the largest dog-fighting raid in American history last year, in which more than 400 dogs were rescued and 26 people from six states arrested. “We had two forensic teams on board for that,” Merck said. “We had to hit 25 different crime scenes in one day. We hit the first one at 7 a.m., and we finished up at around 6 a.m. the following morning.”

When I asked Merck if she thought incidents of animal cruelty were on the rise or if it was that we are now being more vigilant about them, she said that it is probably more the latter. “We’re more aware now,” she said, “but there is also more of a support system for responding to these incidents. When I started out as a vet 20 years ago, I was one of the few who would call if I got a suspicious case, and that was when such things were still a misdemeanor and it wasn’t law enforcement involved. It was animal control taking care of nuisance animals. Now with veterinarians I tell them you cannot not report, because you don’t know if what you’re seeing on the animal isn’t the proverbial tip of the iceberg.”

Merck then recalled for me a personal experience she most likes to relate in classes and seminars, what she’s dubbed “the tale of the good Samaritan and the savvy vet.” An Atlanta contractor pulled up to a house one morning where he was to perform some work. As he got out of his truck, he heard a dog screaming from the house next door, went over to investigate and saw through an open garage door a dog dragging its back legs and a woman standing beside it. The woman instantly began pleading to the contractor that the dog needed to be euthanized, but she said she couldn’t afford the vet bills. The contractor offered to take the dog to his vet, who, upon examining the dog, agreed that it was too debilitated to be saved. He then told the contractor that there was something suspicious about the case and that he was going to report it to animal services for whom Merck worked at the time as a consultant outside of her daily vet practice.

“They asked me to perform a necropsy,” Merck told me. “It turns out the dog was paralyzed from having been beaten so often. I reported what I found. Police went to the woman’s house to make an arrest. They found a badly bruised boy. And just like that both parents are being hauled off for child abuse. So there was a classic case of the system working like it should.”

Last November, Lockwoodwas asked to testify at the pretrial hearing in which a judge ruled that Tremayne and Travers Johnson would be tried as adults for the burning of Phoenix in Baltimore last year. Lockwood looked at dozens of pictures of Phoenix in order to select which images to present to A.S.P.C.A. staff members. “I could only find one that wasn’t overwhelmingly disturbing,” he told me. “It’s where she’s so bundled up in gauze and bandages you can’t really see anything. It’s easy to empathize with burns because we’ve all been burned, and even if it’s only minor, you realize how painful that is.”

The matter of empathy, of course, goes to the heart of most of our inquiries into the nature of cruel acts and their possible causes. There seems to be little doubt anymore about the notion that a person’s capacity for empathy can be eroded; that someone can have, as Lockwood put it to me, “their empathy beaten or starved out of them.” To date, little is known about the Johnson twins’ background beyond the fact that they both reportedly have chronic truancy issues and previous probation violations and were recently involved with a gang. Along with possible early abuse or genetic and biological components, Lockwood also spoke of the frequent association between environment and acts of violence, how poverty often creates the sense of persecution and injustice that makes some people feel justified in striking back in order to gain the sense of power and control they otherwise lack.

“What I have the most trouble relating to,” Lockwood told me, “and the Phoenix kids might be indicative of this sort of thing, is the kind of cruelty that happens just out of boredom. I’ve had quite a few cases where I ask a kid, Why did you blow up that frog or set fire to that cat? and they don’t respond with answers like ‘I hate cats’ or ‘I didn’t see that as a living thing.’ Their answer is ‘We were bored.’ And then you have to ask yourself, Well, what about alternative pathways to alleviating this boredom? I have difficulty grasping what would be the payoff for setting fire to a dog.”

Neuroscientists are now beginning to get a fix on the physical underpinnings of empathy. A research team at the headed by Jean Decety, a neuroscientist who specializes in the mechanisms behind empathy and emotional self-regulation, has performed fMRI scans on 16-to-18-year-old boys with aggressive- and on another group of similarly aged boys who exhibited no unusual signs of aggression.

Each group was shown videos of people enduring both accidental pain, like stubbing a toe, and intentionally inflicted pain, like being punched in the arm. In the scans, both groups displayed a similar activation of their empathic neural circuitry, and in some cases, the boys with conduct disorder exhibited considerably more activity than those in the control group. But what really caught the attention of the researchers was the fact that when viewing the videos of intentionally inflicted pain, the aggressive-disorder teenagers displayed extremely heightened activity in the part of our brain known as the reward center, which is activated when we feel sensations of pleasure. They also displayed, unlike the control group, no activity at all in those neuronal regions involved in moral reasoning and self-regulation.

“We’re really just beginning to have an inkling of the neurophysiology of empathy,” Lockwood told me. “I think empathy is essentially innate, but I also think empathy can be learned, and I know it can be destroyed. That’s why having a better understanding of the neurophysiology will really help us. Just doing a social intervention on a person doesn’t do any good if you’re not aware of certain physiological deficits. As I heard someone put it at a recent lecture I attended, that would be like an orthopedist telling someone with a broken arm to lift weights. It won’t do anything until the arm is set, and it actually might make things worse. I try to understand who the kids are who seem beyond reach, who seem to have truly impaired systems of empathy. And then I ask, Can that be restored?”

It turns out that just as recent brain-imaging studies have begun to reveal the physical evidence of empathy’s erosion, they are now also beginning to show definitive signs of its cultivation as well. A group of researchers led by Richard Davidson, a professor of psychiatry and psychology at the , , published a study in a March 2008 edition of the Public Library of Science One, showing that the mere act of thinking compassionate thoughts caused significant activity and physical changes in the brain’s empathic pathways. “People are not just stuck at their respective set points,” Davidson has said of the study’s results. “We can take advantage of our brain’s plasticity and train it to enhance these qualities. . . . I think this can be one of the tools we use to teach emotional regulation to kids who are at an age where they’re vulnerable to going seriously off track.”

To date, one of the most promising methods for healing those whose empathic pathways have been stunted by things like repeated exposure to animal cruelty is, poetically enough, having such victims work with animals. Kids who tend to be completely unresponsive to human counselors and who generally shun physical and emotional closeness with people often find themselves talking openly to, often crying in front of, a horse — a creature that can often be just as strong-willed and unpredictable as they are and yet in no way judgmental, except, of course, for a natural aversion to loud, aggressive human behaviors.

Equine-therapy programs, for example, are now helping an increasing number of teenagers who have severe emotional and behavioral issues, as well as children with and . At Ranch in Loa, , troubled teenagers are being paired off with wild mustangs that have been adopted from the , each species ultimately managing to temper the other, a dynamic that has also proved very effective in teaching patience and empathy to prisoners in correctional facilities. In the suburb of Compton, there is a youth equestrian program called the Compton Junior Posse. Teenagers clean stables, groom horses and then ride them in amateur equestrian events across . There are now bovine- and elephant-assisted therapy programs as well.

For Lockwood, animal-therapy programs draw on the same issues of power and control that can give rise to animal cruelty, but elegantly reverse them to more enlightened ends. “When you get an 80-pound kid controlling a 1,000-pound horse,” he said, “or a kid teaching a dog to obey you and to do tricks, that’s getting a sense of power and control in a positive way. We all have within us the agents of entropy, especially as kids. It’s easier to delight in knocking things down and blowing stuff up. Watch kids in a park and you see them throw rocks at birds to get a whole cloud of them to scatter. But to lure animals in and teach them to take food from your hand or to obey commands, that’s a slower process. Part of the whole enculturation and socialization process is learning that it’s also cool and empowering to build something. To do something constructive.”
388 2010-06-13 AFTER a long career as an actress on stage and screen, Rue McClanahan died this month at 76. Her New York City apartment is now on the market for $2.25 million, listed with Steven Marvisch of Brown Harris Stevens.

The role for which Ms. McClanahan is best known is that of Blanche Devereaux on the long-running television show “The Golden Girls,” a series about four women of a certain age who are roommates. Blanche was the Southerner who enjoyed a busy social life with many, many suitors. Ms. McClanahan gave the character warmth and charm, and got a lot of laughs.

A recent tour of her apartment, which she was preparing to sell at the time of her death, revealed that she decorated with a sense of fun, as well.

In the pantry of the three-bedroom co-op at 430 East 56th Street, a door disguised as a spice rack leads to a bathroom behind the kitchen — a secret passageway!

The door to her office is another conversation piece. It is sculptured to look as though a naked woman was walking through it. The woman’s head and one breast extend into the hallway; her hand is the doorknob. From inside the office, you see her backside.

As befits a belle, the place has more than a dozen closets and is full of knickknacks. And in the approximately 1,600-square-foot private garden out back, a toy pig is in residence in a planter.
389 2010-06-13 Moe Stein, 82, the owner of Frank’s Sport Shop, is as much an institution as is his store....
390 2010-06-13 “We were affected by pop only 10 years ago,” said Tijana Todorovic, a D.J. from Belgrade who hosts “Jelen Top 10,” a show about the Serbian music scene on the television station B92. “To this day, underground bands and D.J.’s have bigger followings than pop acts.”

In many ways, Belgrade’s cultural flowering closely resembles that of another city emerging from its own period of trauma. Like Berlin immediately after the Wall fell, Belgrade has become a bohemian free-for-all that attracts Serbian creative types and young travelers more interested in night life than in museums crowded with antiquities. And as in the German capital, there is very little that is quaint about Belgrade, which has not had the face-lift that many European capitals have.

But what the city lacks in beauty it more than makes up for in intensity, which is evident at 20/44, a ramshackle club named for Belgrade’s map coordinates. It occupies a wood-paneled pontoon boat, docked along the Sava River, that is decorated in a style that Milivoje Bozovic, its music director, described as “bordello of ’80s.” Among other retro touches are 17 musty computer monitors stacked like cargo on either side of the cabin.

On a Friday night in April, the D.J. Ivan Zupanc mixed psychedelic rock and spacey disco as strobe lights reflected off a life-size bronze sculpture of John Cleese, while waitresses handed out free shots of rakija, a traditional spirit.

The club’s faded red velvet banquettes are especially packed during the monthly Disco Not Disco party, which often features foreign D.J.’s who play obscure tracks. Recently, Baris K, a D.J. from Istanbul, mined Turkish disco and funk music until 7 in the morning.

“Disco Not Disco is all about playing the oddball,” said Slobodan Brkic, a local D.J. who helped start the party in 2008. “I played a Bosnian folk song three weeks ago, which kind of shocked pretty much everyone.”

Belgraders’ taste for the eclectic goes back to Communist times, and is inextricably linked to the country’s politics. “This was the only way of expression that had a green light,” said Dragan Ambrozic, a respected music writer who works at Dom omladine Beograda, a cultural center.

Banned from forming political organizations, young people in the 1980s and ’90s used music to create communities and to criticize politicians. A band known as Dza ili Bu wrote a 1996 song, “Vecna Lovista,” about the rising drug problem under Milosevic, while Rambo Amadeus, an admired and sometimes controversial performer, urged Serbs to turn off state-programmed television in his 1993 song “Karamba Karambita.”

With this sort of stormy, emotional undercurrent, music of that time did not end up sounding like candy-coated boy-band pop. Instead, it was off-kilter and brash — and it didn’t sound like anything else.

Music remained a bonding force after the first multiparty elections in Serbia in 1990. The explosion of techno parties coincided with the 1992 imposition of United Nations sanctions on the Yugoslav federation, which then consisted of Serbia and Montenegro, in response to the Bosnia war. Among other things, this embargo required that all trading cease and all traffic links to and from the country be suspended.

By 1995, it was so rare to see foreign acts in Serbia that when Laurent Garnier, a French techno D.J., played in a unused airport hangar in Belgrade, he was given an official ceremony by City Hall and presented with keys to the city by a mayoral representative. This honor was also bestowed upon the Prodigy, an English electronic band known for heavy eyeliner and manic live shows.

During this time, rock music began to be supplanted by turbofolk, a speeded-up form of dance music with folk influences and brass band elements, which gained in popularity during the Milosevic years and continued to dominate the airwaves even after he was deposed in 2000. For many in Belgrade’s underground music community, listening to turbofolk is a slightly stressful experience, because of the political associations it conjures and the scantily clad women who sing it.

“It is very loud, so you cannot avoid it,” said Rambo Amadeus. “But I keep trying.”

BUT in the last three years, an old sound has re-emerged. After years of suppression and much overshadowing, rock music is once again commanding the city’s club and festival stages. Spearheaded by the psychedelic rockers Petrol, the electronic pop collective Svi Na Pod! and the post-punk trio Repetitor, the Belgrade underground is finding a new voice.

“It’s live, healthy and growing,” said Ilija Duni, the singer and guitarist of Petrol, who are playing in the Netherlands for the first time this month, thanks to relaxed European Union visa restrictions for Serbians. “There are a lot more concerts, people practice more, and we are influencing each other.”

On a recent Friday, the nightclub Tube ran into a bit of trouble. Steve Bug, a celebrated D.J. from Berlin, was supposed to play a 2 a.m. set in the sleek, dark gray club located in a former nuclear fallout shelter. But volcanic ash had closed much of Europe’s airspace, and Mr. Bug was unable to fly in.

Luckily, Ms. Todorovic, the television D.J., agreed to spin at the last minute. In the early hours of the morning, she took over the turntables, satiating the party-hungry masses with deep house records and CDs she had grabbed at her apartment after attending KC Grad’s first birthday.

“Belgrade is not an easy crowd,” Ms. Todorovic said. “But if they like it, they show it in a warm and passionate way.” Her set ended as the sun rose, and the crowd gave her a rousing ovation.

IF YOU GO

HOW TO GET THERE

Flights to Belgrade from New York City generally require a connection. A recent online search found a British Airways flight, through Heathrow, starting at around $1,300 for travel in June. A taxi to the city center is about 1,300 dinars, or $16 at 81 dinars to the dollar.

WHERE TO GET DOWN
391 2010-06-13 To the Editor: Regarding “Frugal Europe, On Foot” (May 23), what an interesting, enjoyable travel story by Matt Gross. If I were somewhat younger, I would love to follow in his footsteps and would make the “Shoes on the Danube” memorial my journey’s end. This simple but powerful memorial, 60 pairs of iron shoes created by Gyula Pauer and Can Togay on the banks of the river in Budapest, honors Hungarian Jews killed by the fascist Arrow Cross Party during World War II.
392 2010-06-13 PRESIDENT OBAMA’S rise from a single-parent household and a background of modest means has been well documented, though some of the touchstones of his past have faded into history.

One such place, an apartment in Morningside Heights where he lived as a junior at Columbia in 1981, is now on the radar screen. The pre-presidential apartment, No. 3E at 142 West 109th Street, is available for rent. It is listed with Dalila Bella of CitiHabitats for $1,900 a month.

In light of its lineage, this walk-up is remarkably commonplace: it looks like a thousand other apartments in New York City. It has wood floors, some exposed brick, a kitchen area, and one bedroom — with a windowless office that doubles as a second. The best view from the apartment frames a ConEd building.

“If I was a landlord, I would,” Ms. Bella said with a laugh. “But they’re not.”

When the current tenants, Cotter and Heidi Smith, looked at the place last fall, the broker who showed it to them told them only that the president might have lived nearby.
393 2010-06-13 WEISS--Martin, passed away on June 9, 2010, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted and loving father of Sabrina and Sophia and son-in-law Jay Lapat. Also survived by his dear brother Carl and wife Ray, his loving nephew Peter an...
394 2010-06-14 Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, is expected to pick up support for her controversial derivatives restrictions from two more Federal Reserve bank presidents....
395 2010-06-14 Sarah Posner of Religion Dispatches and Mollie Ziegler Hemingway of Christianity Today debate whether same-sex marriage infringes on religious freedom.
396 2010-06-14 Resolved Tuesday, June 22 Senate Democrats yielded to the insistence of moderate Democrats in the House, agreeing to exclude auto dealers from the authority of the new agency.

The Obama administration persuaded the Senate to include auto dealers in its version with strong support from the Pentagon, which favors federal regulation of auto lending over concerns about mistreatment of military personnel.

Rep. John Campbell , a California Republican and a former auto dealer, won bipartisan support for the carve-out by arguing that the new layer of regulation should fall solely on companies primarily in the business of making loans.

The House bill excludes auto dealerships — which often arrange financing for customers — from the authority of a new consumer protection regulator that will write and enforce rules over lenders like banks and mortgage companies.

Resolved Thursday, June 24 Lincoln yielded some ground, agreeing that banks still can trade some kinds of common and relatively safe derivatives. But more speculative trading must be done through a separately-funded subsidiary.

Federal banking regulators have locked arms against the provision, arguing that it would push swaps trading outside their oversight. The administration also has worked quietly to remove the measure from the bill.

Sen. Blanche Lincoln , Democrat of Arkansas, has argued that banks, which can raise money more cheaply thanks to government backing, should be restricted from using the money to fund financial speculation.

The Senate bill would bar banks from trading in swaps, financial contracts than can be used to hedge risks – or to make big bets.

The Senate bill also limits banks in making their own investments or putting money in hedge funds, an idea championed by the former Federal Reserve chairman, Paul A. Volcker. He argues that banks should focus on serving customers.

Democratic Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and Jeff Merkley of Oregon like the idea so much that they want to impose stronger and more specific restrictions on such activity, which is known as proprietary trading.

Some Republicans argue that the measure would do nothing to address the causes of the financial crisis. The industry prefers the House version, which lets the Fed impose curbs if there is a threat to the financial system.

Resolved Thursday, June 24 Negotiators agreed that banks would be barred from some kinds of speculative investing, but still can invest up to 3 percent of their equity in hedge funds and private equity funds.
397 2010-06-14 In November, Xbox users will be able to throw away their controllers and rely on Kinect and their bodies to have avatars move around the screen....
398 2010-06-14 Goldman Sachs, the Blackstone Group and Credit Suisse are among the firms BP has hired as advisers as it faces financial and political pressure, people briefed on the matter said....
399 2010-06-14 The two men walking down the lonely road in the early-morning fog Monday looked as if they were either really lost or needed a ride. But it was clear moments after Carmen Battista and his brother Paul hopped in the backseat of a reporter's car tha...
400 2010-06-14 Live analysis of the Group F meeting between Italy and Paraguay....
401 2010-06-14 Even an uncoordinated, goofy geek like our video game critic found himself gyrating and grinning as he played a game for a new Wii competitor....
402 2010-06-14 Score one for "Ulysses" - Apple has decided that it is not obscene after all....
403 2010-06-14 Former Enron chief executive Jeffrey Skilling spoke to Fortune about the trials of prison life and pointed out how he would have changed his defense in the government's case into the energy giant's collapse....
404 2010-06-14 The question of whether James Joyce's "Ulysses" is obscene seemed to have been settled for more than 75 years. Until last week, that is....
405 2010-06-14 Brazil's national oil company Petrobras is preparing a $25 billion share issue for July, The Financial Times reported, in a move toward developing its "presalt" fields....
406 2010-06-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
407 2010-06-14 There are many things we could be making with our scraps. So why aren't we making any of them?...
408 2010-06-14 The Knicks can officially start courting LeBron James at 12:01 a.m. on July 1, just when a new Knicks-themed show will make its debut on the MSG Network....
409 2010-06-14 The Fox Business Network, which has had trouble finding a loyal audience, is whipping things up with a Tea Party-esque talk show....
410 2010-06-14 ¶The Alberto-Culver Company, Melrose Park, Ill., chose two agencies to handle its worldwide creative account, with spending estimated at $125 million to $250 million. The New York office of Arnold Worldwide, part of Havas, will create campaigns for Nexxus hair care products and skin care brands like Noxzema and St. Ives. Nexxus had been handled by Campbell-Mithun, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, and the skin care brands had been without a creative agency for several months. The Winston-Salem, N.C., office of Mullen, also part of Interpublic, will create campaigns for Tresemmé hair care brands, which had also been handled by Campbell-Mithun.

¶Mitsubishi Motors North America, Cypress, Calif., part of Mitsubishi Motors of Japan, named the Santa Monica, Calif., office of 180, part of the Omnicom Group, to handle the creative duties on its account, which had been handled by Traffic, El Segundo, Calif. Spending was estimated at more than $20 million. Also, the Los Angeles office of Schematic, part of WPP, was named digital agency of record.

¶Kevin DiLorenzo, president at Olson, Minneapolis, will add the post of chief executive. He assumes those duties from John Olson, who remains chairman.

¶The Cossette Communication Group, Quebec, will close its Cossette New York advertising office. The decision, reported by Adweek.com, came after Cossette’s acquisition by Mill Road Capital. The office, which has about 20 employees, will close on July 31 but will continue to handle the Coast Guard account until the expiration of a contract with that client at the end of September. Other Cossette operations in New York, Paine P.R. and Rocket XL, will remain open.

¶MJZ, a production company, won the most awards, 12, at the 19th annual A.I.C.P. Show, sponsored by the Association of Independent Commercial Producers, New York. Among the honors was a best of show award, for advertising excellence for a single commercial, for a spot for Old Spice, sold by Procter & Gamble. The spot, called “The Man Your Man Can Smell Like,” was directed by Tom Kuntz of MJZ and also won in the category of human and performance/dialogue. Following MJZ with the most awards, at five each, were Biscuit Filmworks and @radical.media.
411 2010-06-14 Albert Trummer, libations impresario and co-owner of the Prohibition-era styled Chinatown bar Apotheke, has built a reputation for concocting highly stylized drinks. Staggeringly strong and infused with herbs, his cocktails are said to cure one’s ailments — the menu lists “Stress Relievers,” “Pharmaceuticals” and “Therapeutic Treatments” — though they may inflict their own damage on livers.

Mr. Trummer, who is 40 and Austrian born, also gained notice for occasionally pouring alcohol along the bar top and setting it aflame. This delighted patrons, but not the Fire Department. Early Sunday, fire marshals arrested Mr. Trummer at the bar, at 9 Doyers Street, minutes after he drizzled various liquors and, apparently, ignited them.

“It was a huge fireball,” said Robert Byrnes, the city’s chief fire marshal. “It was in close proximity to decorations, curtains and combustible materials. This type of reckless conduct is not tolerated.”

Apotheke, which is German for pharmacy, opened in 2008, and was featured — along with Mr. Trummer’s flame show — in an episode of “The Real Housewives of New York City,” when one of the characters, LuAnn de Lesseps, went there on a date.

Chief Byrnes said an anonymous tip alerted the Fire Department to Mr. Trummer’s penchant for setting booze alight. Undercover fire marshals visited Apotheke in mid-May, but there was nothing on fire that night. Mr. Trummer was issued several violations anyway, the chief said, among them failure to have a permit for an open flame — an infraction that could include lighting candles without a permit — as well as overcrowding and having improper fire retardants.

Three undercover fire marshals returned to the bar Saturday night. Chief Byrnes said that the fire, set around 2 a.m. along the roughly 15-foot-long bar, was six feet wide and had flames that leapt two to three feet in the air. It burned for several minutes and then extinguished itself. No one was hurt, and no curtains singed, but Mr. Trummer was arrested and charged with reckless endangerment and criminal nuisance, both misdemeanors.
412 2010-06-14 The online version of Dash is to arrive first, in September, at dashrecipes.com. (That Web address, for now, redirects visitors to the Parade Web site.) A preview issue of the print version is scheduled for November, to be followed by regular monthly publication beginning in February.

The print version will, at the start, have a circulation of eight million and be carried by about 100 newspapers of the 540 that carry Parade. Dash will also provide editorial content about food that those newspapers can publish in print or online.

Unlike Parade, which accompanies Sunday newspapers, Dash will be included in newspapers to complement food articles — and advertising — in the “best food day” issues, in industry parlance, published on Wednesdays or Thursdays.

“Newspapers are going through the rigors of the damned,” said Jack Haire, president and chief executive at Parade Publications in New York, “but they are coming out stronger and smarter.”

“In this crazy market, if you’re going to grow, you have to innovate and move forward,” he added.

Newspapers can still offer advertisers opportunities, Mr. Haire said, citing data showing that “newspaper readers represent about $14 billion a week in sales of grocery products, which is about 72 percent of the groceries sold.”

Chris Chamberlain, president of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which has agreed to carry the print version of Dash on Thursdays, said it would “nicely round out what we do with food and not replicate or duplicate it.”

“One thing I liked is that the recipes are interesting,” he added, “but you don’t have to have an advanced culinary degree to prepare them.”

To help differentiate Dash from other food publications, it will collaborate editorially with Parade as well as Bon Appétit magazine, part of the Condé Nast Publications division of Advance; the archives of Gourmet magazine, also part of Condé Nast; and the Web site epicurious.com, part of Condé Nast Digital.

“With the partnership with those three great brands attached, there is some instant credibility” for Dash, said Brenda White, senior vice president and publishing activation director at Starcom in Chicago.

“Launching a new publishing brand is a risky thing to undertake, but there is potential here,” she added. “It’s an interesting proposition.” Among the food clients of Starcom — part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Groupe — are Del Monte and Kellogg.

The editorial collaboration between Parade and Condé Nast is the first, executives there say, between the two Advance divisions. And the decision by Parade to start Dash comes eight months after Condé Nast decided to cease publication of Gourmet with the November 2009 issue.

It seems counterintuitive that Advance would end one food magazine only to begin another, except that the “accessible” editorial approach of Dash is more “in the wheelhouse” of the giant food marketers, said Tracey Altman, senior vice president for special projects at Parade.

“We took some advertisers under the tent,” said Ms. Altman, who previously worked on a newspaper food magazine named Relish, “and they found the positioning extremely compelling.” Ms. Altman’s recent arrival at Parade generated speculation that Parade would be expanding in the food field.

Dash will compete for advertisers, and readers, with food magazines; magazines like Family Circle, Good Housekeeping and Woman’s Day, which cover food among myriad subjects, and Relish, which has a monthly frequency.

Since its introduction in 2006, Relish has grown in circulation to 15.5 million in 845 newspapers, from 6 million in more than 300 newspapers. Relish also has a Web site, at relishmag.com, along with events, books, podcasts, compact discs and a coming syndicated TV show.

“Imitation is the best form of flattery,” said Carol Campbell Boggs, senior vice president and chief revenue officer at the New York office of the Publishing Group of America, which owns Relish.

The way Dash “is launching is a strong acknowledgment of the weakness of traditional magazine distribution and the strength of vital local-market newspapers to deliver an audience,” she added. “The fact that Gourmet and Bon Appétit content is moving to this format says a lot.”

Even if the economy improves significantly and “people have more money in their pocket,” Ms. Campbell Boggs said, “they will stay home more and eat at home more.”

So if packaged foods are “the bread and butter of advertising right now,” she added, laughing, that trend “is here to stay.”
413 2010-06-14 Cervelo’s Heinrich Haussler, who holds German and Australian citizenship, won the second stage of the Tour de Suisse, a 103-mile route from Ascona to Sierre. The Swiss Fabian Cancellara of Team Saxo Bank, who won the opening time trial on Saturday, retained the leader’s yellow jersey.
414 2010-06-14 Pakistan has had close relations with the Afghan Taliban since the group’s formation in 1994, but Pakistani involvement with the insurgency against the international coalition in Afghanistan since 2001 has been both high-level and coercive, the author of the report, Matt Waldman, contends. Mr. Waldman is a fellow at Harvard University who worked in Afghanistan previously for the humanitarian organization Oxfam.

“Without a change in Pakistani behavior, it will be difficult if not impossible for international forces and the Afghan government to make progress against the insurgency,” he wrote.

An official from Inter-Services Intelligence, based in Islamabad, Pakistan, dismissed the report as “rubbish,” and the report does not include any corroboration from Pakistani officials.

“It’s not even worth commenting upon,” the official said by telephone, speaking on condition of anonymity in keeping with the policy of his agency. “It’s speculative, and degrading.” He called the report’s allegation that President Asif Ali Zardari met with imprisoned Taliban insurgents and pledged Pakistan’s continued support “completely outrageous.”

That accusation was second-hand and several analysts said it was unlikely to be true.

An American policymaker for the region said the inclusion of such a charge raised questions about the rest of the report. “I am skeptical of this sort of sensational discovery that seems to do better than U.S. intelligence,” said the official, who asked not to be named.

The report quotes from interviews with nine insurgent field commanders, who say that ISI operatives sit in on meetings of the Taliban leadership council, often known as the Quetta shura, which consists of a dozen or so members and meets several times a year in and around the Pakistani southwestern town of Quetta.

Afghan security officials and an adviser to the Afghan government working on persuading members of the Taliban to reconcile with the government have also said that ISI agents are known to sit in on the Quetta shura meetings as observers.

The ISI also exerts pressure on Taliban commanders, arresting those who step out of line, or threatening arrest if they do not follow established parameters of Taliban strategy, the report says. That allegation matches statements by Afghan and NATO officials, who have been working in recent months on ways to persuade Taliban insurgents to reconcile with the Afghan government. They have said that the threat of arrest or detention of family members by Pakistani intelligence is a major obstacle for insurgents considering defecting.

“You can believe all of that is happening,” one NATO official said in an interview.

The report says several Taliban commanders received training in large madrasa complexes in Pakistan from Pakistani military and ISI agents.

The ISI had a role in the genesis after 2001 of the insurgent group headed by Jalaluddin Haqqani and his sons that has mounted some of the most damaging attacks in Kabul, according to the report. Among the Taliban commanders interviewed was one senior Haqqani commander of 1,000 fighters who also described the significant influence of the ISI over the group.

“Pakistan appears to be playing a double game of astonishing magnitude,” Mr. Waldman concludes.
415 2010-06-14 Before the program, Chiquita Parker, a 25-year-old single mother with , too ill to continue her job with special needs children, repeatedly made medication mistakes, although she knows she depends on warfarin to prevent clots than can cause strokes, , or death.

“I would forget to take it,” and feel “like I couldn’t breathe,” she said. Or she would “take two in a day,” and develop bruises from uncontrolled internal bleeding.

But in the six-month lottery program, she pocketed about $300. “You got something for taking it,” Ms. Parker said. Suddenly, she said, “I was taking it regularly, I was doing so good.”

Skeptics question if payments can be coercive or harm doctor-patient relationships. “Why should people who don’t want to take medication be paid, when prudent people who take medication are not?” said Dr. Szmukler, a professor at King’s College .

Joanne Shaw, who runs a department of ’s National Health Service, asked: “Will others think, ‘If I behave like a potential noncomplier, I’ll get money for taking medication?’ And once you start paying people to take medication, when do you stop paying them?”

Health experts wonder if people will realize their health has improved and maintain medication without money. Or must payments be continued indefinitely, even increased?

Still, with patients forgetting medication, finding it inconvenient, fearing side effects, or considering it unnecessary if they feel better, important players are turning to financial rewards. , the insurer, helped pay for part of the Philadelphia experiment, and is considering using that or another method.

“We’ve made our best efforts to say, ‘If you didn’t take your beta blocker or medicine, you have a greater chance of ending up with a or dead or hospitalized,’ ” said Dr. Lonny Reisman, Aetna’s chief medical officer. “It’s going to take more. It’s going to take incentives.”

Aetna has begun paying doctors bonuses for prescribing medication likely to prevent problems: beta blockers to prevent heart attacks, statins for sufferers. Currently, 93,000 doctors are in Aetna’s “pay for performance” program; bonuses average three percent to five percent of a practice’s base income.

began by discounting copayments for employees of some corporations in its drug plans, to encourage prescription filling, and is studying “the ‘I’ll pay you $10 a month to be adherent’ approach, the lottery approach,” and other incentives, said Dr. Troy Brennan, the chief medical officer.

Even the new federal health care overhaul includes incentives, expanding a program paying pharmacists extra for helping some patients learn to take pills correctly.

Experts say the psychological effect is more important than the dollar amount, which is usually just enough to seem significant.

Expecting failure, the Traumatic Brain Injury Network, a , , clinic for brain-injured patients with problems, tried paying $20, in gift cards to grocery stores or restaurants, if patients completed their first treatment phase in 30 days. The one-time payment not only improved initial compliance, but “they actually scheduled more appointments” and stayed enrolled, said Dr. John Corrigan, the clinic’s director. “I didn’t start as a believer,” he said.

The $20 helped propel Damand, 30, who had quit the program twice, to attend, even walking when he lacked bus fare. “I’ve been taking my meds like I’m supposed to,” said Damand, who took the card “straight to the store,” buying soap, tissues, chips. (The clinic insisted that patients’ last names be withheld.)

Although “economically irrational,” Dr. Corrigan said, small sums might work better than bigger ones because otherwise patients might think, “ ‘I’m only doing this for the money,’ and it would undermine treatment.”

Even severely mentally ill patients respond to small payments. A British study in which patients are paid about $22 for regular injections of antipsychotics has kept some of them from being recommitted to psychiatric .

“We’ve had a least one patient say, ‘Now I see the benefit of medication and take it regularly,’” said Dr. Stefan Priebe, a psychiatry professor at Queen Mary, University of London. But for most, he said, “you would probably have to keep the incentive going.”

The Philadelphia lottery project has worked with patients of varying income.

In his spotless suburban home in Willingboro, N.J., Bernard Davenport, 68, said it made taking warfarin “like a game.”

“I didn’t miss one time,” he said, adding that he “couldn’t wait to get to the machine” to see if he had won money for taking warfarin the previous day.

The project’s co-leaders, Dr. Kevin G. Volpp and Dr. Stephen E. Kimmel, Medical School professors, chose warfarin because it can be life-saving but also “very dangerous if not taken faithfully,” Dr. Volpp said. He added that many people “who should be on warfarin are not even put on it because doctors don’t think they’ll be adherent.”

The lottery was chosen for suspenseful entertainment, said Dr. Volpp, an economist who has studied whether incentives help people , diet or do brain-training exercises.

Dr. Kimmel said patients win $90-a-month on average, reduced from $150-a-month because less money worked equally well. That $90 “will pay for itself” if it prevents two emergency clinic visits, he said. “Prevent a or major clot, we save tens of thousands of dollars,” he said.

Results in two initial studies showed that many patients took improved warfarin use and that their blood-clotting levels stayed normal much more frequently.

Still, many said “the incentive had nothing to do with it,” Dr. Volpp said. “They want to take for having done it on their own, not because somebody paid them,” he said. “Most people on some level actually want to do these things. And we want them to feel like they did it on their own” to keep them adhering when payments stop.

But not everyone did.

“I really went backward,” Ms. Parker said, after her participation ended. “I’m just forgetting all over again.”

Researchers are studying if longer-running lotteries will produce more dedicated medicine-takers. But given potential long-term savings, if payments must continue indefinitely, Dr. Volpp said, “it wouldn’t necessarily be a bad thing.”
416 2010-06-14 This happened in the 1990s, when coca cultivation shifted to Colombia after successful eradication projects in Peru and Bolivia. More recently, coca growers moved to dozens of new areas within Colombia after aerial spraying in other areas. Scholars of the Andean drug war call this the balloon effect, bringing to mind a balloon that swells in one spot when another is squeezed.

“Washington’s policy of supply-oriented intervention inevitably improves the efficiencies and entrepreneurial skills of traffickers,” said Paul Gootenberg, who wrote the book “Andean Cocaine.”

The balloon effect — and its consequences — is coming full circle in the jungle valleys of central Peru, the cocaine industry’s storied cradle.

In late April, a faction of the Shining Path, the rebel group held responsible for tens of thousands of deaths from 1980 to 2000 during its war against the government, killed two eradicators and one police officer here in central Peru.

This is the same region that experienced the first cocaine boom in the 19th century, after German chemists developed the formula for making cocaine from the coca leaf, feeding a legal trade in the United States and Europe. Sigmund Freud was among its early users.

By the 1970s, with cocaine illegal here and Peru’s government outlawing much of the new coca cultivation in the country, Colombian drug lords put in motion another boom, exporting Peruvian coca leaf to cocaine laboratories across the border. Columns of the Shining Path later worked to protect farmers growing coca in the region, consolidating Peru as the world’s top coca grower.

In the 1990s, President Alberto Fujimori militarized the region to crush the Shining Path, lowering cultivation levels. Now many farmers are planting coca once again. “Coca lets us feed our children,” said Jacinta Rojas, 45, a grower near Tingo María, explaining that coca can be harvested up to five times a year, compared with one or two harvests for crops like cacao.

The resurgence of Peru’s cocaine trade is on display in Tingo María, a bustling town that suffered when coca growing plunged during the 1990s. Now legions of motorcycle taxis swarm the streets and small hotels and restaurants cater to free-spending farmers.

Nightclubs feature Peruvian bands belting out cumbia, the folk music transplanted from Colombia, with lyrics that celebrate and lament the travails of cocaleros, or coca growers.

“Cocalero, your pots are empty; cocalero, your wife is crying,” goes a passage by a local cumbia band. “But keep planting more coca, so that money will sprout.”

The increased cultivation in central Peru contrasts with the situation in Colombia, where cultivation fell 18 percent in 2008, according to the United Nations. In Peru, cultivation climbed 4.5 percent that year, capping a decade in which areas under cultivation had increased 45 percent since 1998. Cultivation is also rising in Bolivia, though that country remains third in overall production.

Pointing to Peru’s anemic interdiction efforts, antinarcotics specialists in Lima, the capital, contend that Peru may have already surpassed Colombia in cocaine exports. An analysis of cocaine interception in Colombia and Peru by Jaime Antezana, a security analyst at Catholic University in Peru, found that in Colombia, which still cultivates more coca and produces more cocaine than Peru, the authorities seized about 198 tons of the drug in 2008, compared with just 20 tons in Peru. That left traffickers in Peru free to export 282 tons of cocaine, about 50 tons more than Colombia’s estimated cocaine-export capacity, he said.

“If current cultivation trends continue, we could also surpass Colombia as the world’s largest producer of coca leaf by 2011 or 2012, putting us back in the same place we were in the 1980s,” Mr. Antezana said.

President Obama’s top drug policy adviser, R. Gil Kerlikowske, announced a drug plan in May emphasizing prevention and treatment in the United States. But the administration has left financing for eradication projects in the Andes largely unchanged, despite debate over whether such efforts can sharply restrict the supply of cocaine or significantly increase the price in the United States in the long run.

American antinarcotics aid for Peru stands at $71.7 million this year, slightly higher than last year’s $70.7 million. American antinarcotics officials operate from a newly expanded Peruvian police base here in Tingo María, overseeing Peruvian teams that fan out to nearby valleys to cut down coca bushes by hand.

“We view drug trafficking in Peru as part of a regional and global phenomenon,” said Abelardo A. Arias, director of the narcotics affairs section at the United States Embassy in Lima. “In response to law enforcement pressure in one area, drug cultivators and traffickers switch operations to new territories.”

Peru uses some American aid to buy helmets and vests to protect against land mines planted by the Shining Path faction here, which is competing with a separate guerrilla faction over some coca-growing areas, according to Peruvian military officials. Other American aid goes to American contractors like DynCorp, which maintains the helicopters operating from Tingo María.

From one helicopter, Gen. Horacio Huivin, director of Peru’s antidrug police, gazed at coca fields, minutes from Tingo María. “We have fallen into a vicious cycle,” he said, “because we are eradicating in the same places where we were eradicating last year or in previous years.”
417 2010-06-14 There are not a lot of good weeks in . But last week was particularly bad. At least 26 American or soldiers were killed in attacks by insurgents. The commanding general, Stanley McChrystal, announced that his long promised offensive in the ’s home base of Kandahar would be delayed for months.

Then The Times reported that Afghan officials say President is trying to strike a secret deal with the Taliban and and doubts that the Americans and NATO can ever defeat the insurgents.

’s counterinsurgency strategy still seems like the best chance to stabilize Afghanistan and get American troops home. His aim is to push militants out of key cities and towns and quickly build up effective local governments so residents have the incentive and means to help stop extremists from returning.

That theory ran into harsh reality the first time General McChrystal tried to apply it, in the city of Marja, a lesser Taliban stronghold. Four months after American troops drove fighters out of Marja’s center, there is no functioning government, international aid programs lag, and the Taliban are coming back. A surge of assassinations of local officials in Marja and Kandahar has made Afghans all the more fearful about cooperating with the Americans and their own government.

We have not seen a full assessment of the Marja operation. General McChrystal said that he now plans to spend more time in Kandahar cultivating local support, improving public services and building up local governance. Building competent Afghan army and police forces has clearly proved far harder than expected. The same is true for fostering and protecting honest and committed Afghan officials.
418 2010-06-14 When historians set out to date the moment when the women’s movement of the 1970s officially consolidated its gains, they could do worse than settle on last Tuesday’s primaries.

It was a day when most of the major races featured female candidates, and all the major female candidates won. They won in and , and . They won as business-friendly moderates (the Golden State’s ); as embattled incumbents (Arkansas’s ); as insurgents ( in Nevada). gubernatorial hopeful even came in first despite multiple allegations of adultery.

But mostly, they won as Republicans. Conservative Republicans, in fact. Conservative Republicans endorsed by , in many cases. Which generated a certain amount of angst in the liberal commentariat about What It All Meant For Feminism.

“Do you still cheer,” Slate’s Sara Libby wondered of Whitman’s and ’s California victories, “if the [glass] ceiling is crashed by two conservative businesswomen? Good Morning America,” fretted that “it almost feels as if all these women winning are kind of a blow to feminism.” Writing in The Daily Beast, Linda Hirshman declared that support for rights and Obamacare were litmus tests for true feminism, as opposed to the “selfish” variety that triumphed on Tuesday.

These conflicted responses echoed a similar debate that broke out a few weeks earlier, following a Palin speech in which she repeatedly laid claim to the feminist mantle — praising the “mama grizzlies” currently running for office as conservative Republicans, and hailing an “emerging, conservative, feminist identity.” Half the women in journalism, it seemed, weighed in on the address, with reactions ranging from “you’ve got to be [expletive] kidding me” on the Web site Jezebel to Meghan Daum’s declaration in The Los Angeles Times that if Palin “has the guts to call herself a feminist, then she’s entitled to be accepted as one.”

The question of whether conservative women get to be feminists is an interesting and important one. But it has obscured a deeper truth: Whether or not Palin or Fiorina or Haley can legitimately claim the label feminist, their rise is a testament to the overall triumph of the women’s movement.
419 2010-06-14 “I think Fox is seeing a business opportunity here,” said Jacob G. Hornberger, the president of the Future of Freedom Foundation, a libertarian educational group.

In an interview, he said, “There’s always been this debate between left and right, liberals and conservatives. All of a sudden here’s Napolitano saying, where do you stand on this libertarian position?” Libertarian commentators, he said, have largely been locked out of TV debates in the past.

With its emphasis on out-of-control government and with Mr. Napolitano’s warning last weekend that the United States was “halfway to socialism,” “Freedom Watch” could be seen as a reaction to the policies of President Obama and a Congress controlled by Democrats. In the past, the host has also been critical of the Bush administration for fear-mongering about terrorism and curtailing civil liberties.

The Web was essentially an incubator for Mr. Napolitano, who has been a legal commentator for Fox known as “the judge” for more than a decade. “Freedom Watch” started as a weekly webcast on FoxNews.com early in 2009, and later ramped up its production to several days a week.

On the webcasts, Mr. Napolitano discussed libertarian hot topics like states’ rights, excessive overseas spending and draconian drug laws.

This month, Fox confirmed that he was getting a weekly TV show, beginning on Saturday mornings and replaying in prime time on Saturdays and Sundays.

The first TV episode was billed as a “Tea Party summit,” with appearances by the Fox pundit Sarah Palin; Representative Ron Paul, Republican of Texas; and his son Rand Paul, a Republican and candidate in Kentucky for the United States Senate. (The elder Mr. Paul endorsed and wrote a forward for Mr. Napolitano’s most recent book.)

Also on the show were three Tea Party favorites, Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina, Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and the former House majority leader Dick Armey of Texas, Republicans all, or “freedom fighters,” as the host called them. The lone Democratic guest was Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania.

“You know I love the tea parties,” Mr. Napolitano remarked at one point.

Fox News received both credit and condemnation last year for drawing national attention to the Tea Party movement. Last summer, after a Tea Party protest in Washington, Fox even mocked other news organizations for not paying enough attention. In a print advertisement it asked, “How did ABC, CBS, NBC, MSNBC and CNN miss this story?”; in fact, each network had covered the protests.

“Fox News created the Tea Party with the town halls last year,” said the liberal commentator Bill Press, the author of the forthcoming “Toxic Talk: How the Radical Right Has Poisoned America’s Airwaves.” Referring to “Freedom Watch,” he said, “Now they’ve given the Tea Party its own TV show.”

Fox executives have said that the network’s news division covers the movement, but does not favor it.

Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Napolitano declined an interview request on Friday. In an appearance to promote the show last week on the highest-rated hour on Fox News, “The O’Reilly Factor,” he said his intent was “to be the night watchman for the public, to expose when the government does wrong things, steals property, steals freedom, violates the Constitution.”

Lew Rockwell, the chairman of the libertarian Ludwig von Mises Institute and, like Mr. Hornberger, a regular guest on Mr. Napolitano’s webcasts, said he considered “Freedom Watch” to be “the most important libertarian broadcast in the history of the American media.”

“There has never been a show willing to address the difficult subjects involving liberty as this one does, let alone to do it so effectively and entertainingly. And Republican statism gets no free pass,” he said in an e-mail message.

Mr. Napolitano seems to be part of a retooling at Fox Business, which started in 2007 as a competitor to CNBC. Fox Business, which has had trouble finding a loyal audience, does not subscribe to full Nielsen ratings. Saying it has had a “horrible time getting ratings,” Mr. Press said, “I think they’ve just decided to make it the second propaganda channel.”

Fox did not respond to his comments.

Among other recent changes, Fox Business has added Charlie Gasparino, formerly of CNBC, and Gerri Willis, formerly of CNN, to support its business news regimen. Fox Business says “Freedom Watch” will address business topics, too, like economic liberties and consumer rights.

“Resistance to the growth of government will continue,” Mr. Napolitano said on Saturday, portending a lot of work ahead for the night watchman.
420 2010-06-14 The question of whether James Joyce’s “Ulysses” is obscene seemed to have been settled for more than 75 years. Until last week, that is, when the creators of a Web comic version of the classic novel, called “Ulysses Seen,” said that Apple required them to remove any images containing nudity before the comic was approved as an application for the iPad.

Robert Berry, the illustrator of “Ulysses Seen,” said that an image of a woman with exposed breasts was one of the offending panels in the comic version of the book. He offered to pixelate the image or cover it up with a fig leaf, suggestions that were rejected by Apple. “We basically had to lose all of her body and just tighten in on her face,” Mr. Berry said. “It is rather disappointing.”

Chad Rutkowski, the business manager for Throwaway Horse, the publisher of “Ulysses Seen,” said he mounted a vigorous defense of the nude images, particularly over the image of the “milk lady” that was eventually cropped. “I actually argued with the guy from Apple,” he said. “The way Rob drew it is important to what’s being expressed there.” In 1933, a federal judge ruled that “Ulysses” was not obscene, granting it entry into the United States. The novel is celebrated every year on June 16, or Bloomsday, when the fictional protagonist of the book, Leopold Bloom, wandered in Dublin.

Mr. Berry and Josh Levitas, the production director, began working on the comic more than two years ago and have also placed the initial installments on a Web site, ulyssesseen.com. They hoped that the comic would be used as a learning tool for college students and that fans of Joyce would download it from iTunes, where it is available free.

Mr. Berry said that he did not feel “remotely censored by Apple.” “It’s their rules,” he said. “We’re coming to their dinner party at their house.”
421 2010-06-14 Petitions by 20,507 citizens were denied in the last fiscal year, or 7.2 percent of the total; of these, only 506 were for fraud, and the rest were for reasons like discrepancies in the couples’ answers or not showing up for an interview.

One Florida pair spent two years fighting for recognition of their seven-year marriage, and in the end had to prove their love to an immigration court to halt the wife’s deportation back to Peru; a nun testified on behalf of the couple, who worked at a flea market in Tampa.

In an Oregon case, it took four years and two federal lawsuits to force the agency to accept the marriage of an American woman and her Algerian husband, despite the birth of two children; it emerged in legal discovery that government investigators had collected hundreds of pages of information on the wife and her associates.

Immigration officials, who say they cannot discuss individual cases, acknowledge that mistakes are sometimes made. But they point out that the burden of proof is on the couple, and that the duration of a marriage can cut two ways.

“They’ve been married 8, 10 years, and they don’t know a thing about each other?” asked Barbara Felska, a veteran in the Stokes unit, the New York office that quizzes spouses separately, then compares their answers to determine whether their relationship is real. “You don’t know his medical conditions, or that he has high blood pressure?”

The predicament of Ms. Feldman and Mr. Singh reflects what legal scholars see as a growing tension in national values between the protection of marriage from government intrusion, and the regulation of marriage through immigration laws.

The couple has appealed, but they worry that Mr. Singh will meanwhile be deported.

“I couldn’t live without him,” said Ms. Feldman, a short, wisecracking woman who credits her husband with helping her cope with her diabetes, asthma and years of being legally blind. He nursed her, she said, through several eye operations that restored her sight in 2008, when she finally saw him well enough to crow, “Honey, you’re the one with the wrinkles, not me.”

Her surgeon, Dr. Gary Hirschfield, confirmed that Mr. Singh had been supportive. “I can definitely affirm that he was involved and interested, and he was present and involved post-op,” Dr. Hirschfield said.

Mr. Singh entered the country illegally in 1992 but could be granted a spousal green card — a fast track to citizenship — under the more forgiving immigration laws governing those who wed citizens before May 2001.

He estimates that he has spent $20,000 on immigration fees, fines and legal costs, most of it borrowed from an uncle. He did not visit his mother in India after his father’s death two years ago, for fear he would not be allowed to return to his wife.

“Sometimes I feel like I’m going to jump out the window and finish,” he said in imperfect English, brewing tea near an image of a Sikh prophet and the Jesus clock he bought his wife at a 99-cent store. “But I know she need me.”

From a jumble of documents and photo albums on their king-size bed, they pulled out their joint apartment lease, tax filings and bank statements. But the immigration agency dismissed such documents in its last denial letter, dated Aug. 10, 2009, noting, for example, that the joint account they opened in 1997 showed low balances of $8.11 and $62.15 in two 2008 statements.

The letter concluded that their documents did not outweigh the discrepancies in answers the couple gave at their 2006 interview — like her statement that their rent was $677.17, while he said, “About $700.”

“If I was, in fact, fraudulently married to my husband for the purposes of obtaining a green card for him, would I have continued to file over and over and over again?” Ms. Feldman wrote in a letter of protest. “If my husband only married me to obtain a green card, I am sure he would have left me many years ago and found a wife that would fit the U.S.C.I.S.’s idea of what a couple should be.”

The couple say they wish that federal officials would just go up to their fifth-floor apartment to see how they manage on her Supplemental Security Income disability payments and his meager wages.

In other states, the immigration service often uses such home inspections, a practice that many complain violates privacy rights without guaranteeing better decisions. But in New York, so-called bed checks are considered off limits for the Stokes unit, named for a 1976 federal court settlement that came after reports by citizens of being coerced into withdrawing their petitions.

Under the settlement, if a couple’s first interview raises suspicions of fraud, the agency must give applicants a chance to hire a lawyer before a second interview; it must let them explain discrepancies; and it must record the sessions for possible appeal.

In the Queens couple’s most recent petition, their lawyer asked for extra patience from the Stokes examiner, saying Mr. Singh had memory problems because he had been hit on the head with a gun during robberies of the candy store where he used to work.

Officials denied the request for a new interview and instead reiterated the long list of the couple’s mismatched answers in 2006, starting with accounts of their first meeting, in a local park in the summer of 1993.

It was “music night,” Ms. Feldman recalled; Mr. Singh said there was no special event — perhaps, she later said, because the music was over by the time they met. She said she had taken his phone number but refused to provide hers; he said they had exchanged numbers.

At their wedding, she recalled, he wore a suit coat; he remembered a leather jacket. He did not know why her mother had not attended; she said her mother lived too far away — in New Jersey.

One can see why the interviewers were suspicious. New Jersey is not far from New York. Why did Mr. Singh seem so disconnected from his mother-in-law, and so hazy about Ms. Feldman’s sister? (She lives “in Oahu or Ohio,” he had ventured.)

A call to the sister, Lauren Stuart, shed some light. “I can’t stand him,” said Ms. Stuart, who has lived in Ohio and Hawaii and now resides in Colorado. “They have a marriage, I know that. He probably got the questions wrong because he’s an idiot.”

Ms. Feldman was reluctant to talk about her relatives but said the family had never forgiven Mr. Singh for drinking too much at her high school reunion in 1994 and dancing by himself.

“Nobody sees him my way,” Ms. Feldman said. “I know him good, bad and ugly. He is a kind man, and probably the only person who gives a damn about me.”

But if the government does not separate them, they could have the last laugh. “We look around and everybody’s marriage is falling apart,” said Ms. Feldman, whose mother has been married four times. “We’re so matched we can’t even figure it out.”
422 2010-06-14 DURBAN, South Africa — It would have been perfectly understandable if Joachim Löw’s German team had opened this World Cup looking unsettled instead of in tune.

Much has occurred that could have rattled the Nationalmannschaft in the run-up to South Africa. Goalkeeper Robert Enke, battling depression, committed suicide in November, and his replacement, Rene Adler, was ruled out because of an injury.

Michael Ballack — Germany’s longtime captain and biggest star — did not make it, either, after he damaged ligaments in his ankle in last month’s F.A. Cup final.

There was also the potential flip side of success: Bayern Munich, which provides more players to the national team than any other, reached the Champions League final, which was good news for German soccer but delayed its players from taking full part in Löw’s squad-building preparations. And Löw has had his own issues, having failed to agree on a contract extension with his federation that would take him beyond the World Cup.

But by the time Germany had finished pounding balls into the back of the Australian net Sunday night, none of that seemed significant. Lacking Ballack and lacking experience in key positions, the Germans still roared to a 4-0 victory and an early share of first place in Group D with Ghana.

The Germans’ victory was no surprise. Though the Australians reached the second round in the 2006 World Cup, they are an aging team without an established striker whose players generally earn their livings in second-tier leagues.

What was startling was the manner of the victory. It was an attention-demanding blend of the Germans’ traditional precision with a new creative streak, much of it because of the deft feet and lively soccer mind of Mesut Özil, a 21-year-old center midfielder.

“I think we all knew they were candidates for the World Cup, and they showed they have a fantastic team,” said Pim Verbeek, Australia’s coach. “Every player they brought into the team, they made the team not weaker but stronger.”

There was flair in abundance, particularly down the right flank, where outside back Philipp Lahm, Ballack’s replacement as the German captain, likes to roam far upfield and where Özil and an even younger talent, the 20-year-old attacking midfielder Thomas Müller, kept overwhelming the Australian defense.

That defense looked daunting at first glance, with all 10 outfield players, including striker Tim Cahill, forming a tight zonal block. But the Germans kept finding the fault lines and dashing into open spaces with the ball at their feet.

Müller set up the first goal in the eighth minute with a low cross that skidded untouched through the Australian penalty area until the German wing Lukas Podolski, running free, struck it hard with his left foot from 12 yards. The veteran goalkeeper Mark Schwarzer got his right hand on the ball, but that was not enough to stop it from rebounding into the goal.

Miroslav Klose scored the second goal on a header in the 26th minute after he beat Schwarzer to a long cross from Lahm inside the penalty area.

“I think we were pretty good,” Podolski said. “From the very first to the very last minute, we had great attacks and also put the opponents under pressure, and I think we implemented perfectly well what we wanted to do.”

In the 56th minute, Cahill was expelled from the game for a dangerous tackle in which he caught midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger on the outside of his left knee. Müller and the substitute striker Cacau soon added the last two German goals.

Klose and Podolski were the two main attacking threats for Germany in the last World Cup, when it reached the semifinals under Low’s former boss, Jürgen Klinsmann.

“I simply know I can rely on these players, even if they might not score in one match or if they go through a bad patch,” Löw said of Klose and Podolski.

Lahm and defenders Arne Friedrich and Per Mertesacker are also part of the bridge between that 2006 team and this one, which is a reflection of modern German society with its mix of ethnicities.

Özil is the son of former Turkish guest workers in Germany. Sami Khedira, who has replaced Ballack as a holding midfielder, is the 23-year-old son of Tunisian and German parents. Cacau, a Brazilian by birth, became a German citizen last year.

Together, they and their teammates made quite an impression Sunday night. The question is how much of it had to do with the Australians and how much of it had to do with them.

“There will be more difficult opponents to play, but this was a good warm-up,” Löw said. “We will be happy about this one, but there is no need to get euphoric.”
423 2010-06-14 “We are close to the abyss,” said Lieven de Winter, professor of politics at the Université Catholique de Louvain. “Whether we are five meters or five centimeters away is difficult to say. But Belgians are at a crossroads where they are making a choice on whether they want to live together or not.”

Claiming victory on Sunday evening, Mr. de Wever said that it was too soon for independence, which he favors, for Flanders, the northern part of the country where 60 percent of the population lives. He promised to reach out to French speakers, even as he demanded radical reform of the federal state.

“Don’t be afraid,” he told Belgians. “Have faith in yourselves.”

Mr. de Wever, a 39-year-old political writer, said he would not seek the post of prime minister, which might frighten Francophones, but preferred to concentrate on negotiating “a deal” to reform the state and its finances.

Final results early Monday gave his New Flemish Alliance 27 of the 150 seats in Parliament, a gain of 19 seats, just ahead of the French Socialists, with 26 seats, a gain of six. The Flemish- and French-speaking voters elect different parties, but there is a Flemish Socialist Party as well.

In addition to Mr. de Wever’s party, which got nearly 30 percent of the vote, Flanders gave 12.5 percent of its vote to the far-right separatists of Vlaams Belang and about 4 percent to another populist party, meaning that nearly half of the Flemish electorate voted for separatists. Mr. de Wever’s success appeared to come at the expense of the Christian Democrats of the current prime minister and his Liberal allies.

In French-speaking Wallonia and the capital, Brussels, the French Socialists won about 36 percent of the vote. Their leader, Elio di Rupo, may be asked to become prime minister, which would make him the first Francophone prime minister since 1974.

Perhaps Mr. de Wever’s greatest success has been to make the cause of independence respectable. Other separatist parties like Vlaams Belang were identified with the extremist and xenophobic far-right, which limited their appeal.

By contrast Mr. de Wever is a mainstream politician who argues for the gradual, slow death of Belgium, rather than its immediate dismemberment. “We do not want a revolution,” he said in Brussels last week. “We do not want to declare Flanders independent overnight. But we do believe in a gradual evolution.”

Belgium’s 180-year history contains many of the seeds of today’s difficulties. French-speakers in Wallonia dominated the country for much of the last century. The resentments of Dutch speakers in Flanders, who remember being treated as second-class citizens, run deep. As Wallonia’s traditional industries like coal and steel have declined, the Flemish increasingly feel that they are subsidizing the less productive south.

The parallel political system, in which each region has its own parties, reinforces the divisions. Politicians on either side increasingly have little in common, but have to form a federal coalition anyway.

Though the Czech Republic and Slovakia managed a “velvet divorce” in 1993, such a feat would be more difficult for Belgium, which would have to find a solution for Brussels, a largely French-speaking city that is also the capital of Flanders. Brussels is home to the headquarters of the European Union and of NATO.

While the two regional governments have considerable autonomy, the Flemish parties want to decentralize authority over justice, health, social security, taxation and labor, while the poorer French speakers fear losing federal social security protections.

Few symbols of Belgian unity remain, other than the royal family, the cartoon character Tintin and Brussels itself. There is a national soccer team, but it did not qualify for the World Cup.
424 2010-06-14 PARIS — Switzerland and Libya appeared Sunday to have finally resolved their fierce and bizarre dispute, which began two years ago when the Swiss arrested a son and daughter-in-law of the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, on suspicion of beating their servants.

The Swiss foreign minister, Micheline Calmy-Rey, announced Sunday in Tripoli that she had secured the release and return to Switzerland of a businessman, Max Göldi, and that bilateral relations would return to normal.

Mr. Göldi was barred from leaving Libya in July 2008, within days after the Swiss authorities had arrested Colonel Qaddafi’s son Hannibal el-Qaddafi and his wife at a luxury hotel in Geneva. They were acting on complaints by employees traveling with the couple that they had been beaten. The charges were soon dropped after compensation was paid anonymously to the employees, and Ms. Calmy-Rey apologized for the publication of photographs of Colonel Qaddafi’s son after his arrest.

“Max Göldi will leave the country today,” she told reporters on Sunday after talks with Libya’s foreign minister, Moussa Koussa. “Göldi will return to Switzerland and this is the start of the normalization of relations between the two countries.” The Reuters news agency reported that Mr. Goldi left Libya on Sunday evening.

Mr. Koussa said later that the Swiss had paid Hannibal el-Qaddafi $1.5 million in compensation for alleged mistreatment during his arrest and two days in detention. In retaliation for that arrest, Libya had taken at least two Swiss business executives into custody. The last to be allowed to leave was Mr. Göldi, who had spent the last four months in a Libyan jail, accused of violating immigration rules. He was released last week.

Libya also cut off all oil supplies to Switzerland and withdrew assets from Swiss banks. Colonel Qaddafi declared “jihad” on the Swiss after they voted in a national referendum to ban the building of any new minarets for mosques. For months, Libya banned European Union citizens from visiting the nation in retaliation for Swiss travel restrictions on high-ranking Libyans like Colonel Qaddafi, his family and senior government ministers.
425 2010-06-15 A mother who recalls a summer working at a supermarket and visiting with friends sees little she recognizes in her daughter’s upcoming vacation, which will be spent working with a university professor and filling out college applications....
426 2010-06-15 Americans who ate two or more servings of brown rice a week reduced their risk of developing Type 2 diabetes by about 10 percent compared to people who ate it less than once a month....
427 2010-06-15 The premise of “The Fabulous Beekman Boys” — a couple, uptight Brent and laid-back Josh, give up the Manhattan media world to become gentlemen organic farmers in upstate New York — inspires hopes of a gay “Green Acres.” The chores! The culture wars!

Alas, reality is less fabulous than 1960s sitcom, at least in the first two “Beekman Boys” episodes, Wednesday on Planet Green. So far the show favors dour bickering over fish-out-of-water rural humor, much to its detriment. It’s as if Jon and Kate Gosselin had spent every episode taking their children to see farm animals: Brent and Josh Plus 100 Goats.

The “boys” are Josh Kilmer-Purcell, a writer, advertising executive and former drag queen, and Brent Ridge, a physician and former “vice president of healthy living” for Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia. The “Beekman” refers to an old farm near Sharon Springs, N.Y., about 50 miles west of Albany, with goats, pigs, tractors and, crucially, a beautifully preserved, stately white house with a wraparound porch, the kind that makes weekenders go weak in the knees.

The couple bought the 60-acre spread several years ago, and now Dr. Ridge is there full time, overseeing operations with a compulsiveness that’s more off-putting than funny, at least on-screen. Most of the actual farming appears to be done by Farmer John, the manager, who has his own quirks, which include dissolving into tears at the thought of his beloved goats. “I become very emotional about my animals,” he says.

Mr. Kilmer-Purcell still spends his weekdays in Manhattan, where he brings in a paycheck by working for the advertising mega-agency JWT. This means he’s often unavailable to help with mucking the pens or cleaning the barn windows, which leads to snippy remarks from Dr. Ridge, then tart rejoinders from Mr. Kilmer-Purcell like, “Brent comes from a world of Martha Stewart parties, where everything looks perfect but nobody’s having a good time.”

Much of this sniping is inspired by money. The farm is the locus of the Beekman boys’ “ethical” and organic retail business (hence the involvement of the environmentally minded Planet Green), with products like goat-milk soaps and cheeses. The TV show is part of their omnimedia approach to marketing, along with Mr. Kilmer-Purcell’s most recent book, “The Bucolic Plague.”
428 2010-06-15 Things are starting to stack up a bit like they did in 2008 for the Irishman Padraig Harrington. That year he rebounded to win the British Open, the P.G.A. Championship and the PGA Tour's Player of the Year award....
429 2010-06-15 The unemployed South Carolina man whose surprise victory in last week's Democratic primary race for a Senate seat has drawn intense scrutiny now faces another obstacle....
430 2010-06-15 The police are accused of routinely issuing unsubstantiated disorderly conduct summons to the homeless....
431 2010-06-15 A European Central Bank executive board member's primer on how government bonds have themselves become a kind of currency that are crucial to institutions' dealings with each other....
432 2010-06-15 People aiming to reserve an iPhone 4 are having trouble placing orders on the Web sites of Apple and AT&T....
433 2010-06-15 In the city's largest watering hole for its Slovakian population, there was a grand total of one native Slovakian sitting at the bar of the Beer Garden at Bohemian Hall in Astoria, Queens, on Tuesday morning....
434 2010-06-15 As BP took its turn on the hot seat -- taking fire from lawmakers and its peers in the oil industry, its shares climbed on Tuesday -- in the United States, at least....
435 2010-06-15 The Slovakian team gives supporters several good reasons to crack a Budweiser with breakfast....
436 2010-06-15 The director Kevin Tancharoen talks about the making of his "Mortal Kombat" concept film, which has become a viral Web sensation....
437 2010-06-15 Apple expands it retail strategy onto the mobile phone....
438 2010-06-15 The Transportation Security Administration's plan to put hundreds of new body-imaging machines in airports promises a summer of adjustment for travelers....
439 2010-06-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
440 2010-06-15 A former colleague with Web development expertise offered to help the founder of a fledgling software company vet and interview candidates at no charge. She passed on the offer....
441 2010-06-15 Advertising spending in the United States will not begin to grow again until next year, according to an annual forecast from PricewaterhouseCoopers....
442 2010-06-15 CBOE Holdings said Monday that it had priced its initial public offering at $29 per share, but worries about its high price compared to other exchanges could weigh on its shares when it begins trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market on Tuesday, The Ass...
443 2010-06-15 House Democrats on Monday moved to kill a Senate plan to shake up the credit rating agency business, a key part of a landmark Wall Street reform bill that will be debated on Tuesday....
444 2010-06-15 Fremont General, once one of the nation's largest subprime lenders, emerged from bankruptcy after a California judge approved a reorganization plan by private investment firm Signature Group, The Associated Press reported....
445 2010-06-15 Despite all the bad headlines -- the accusations of fraud, the talk of a big settlement, the risk, however remote, of criminal charges -- there's an inconvenient truth that's been largely ignored: Most of Goldman's big customers are not bolting....
446 2010-06-15 Federal regulators on Monday approved a plan by Media Derivatives Inc. to begin trading futures contracts based on box-office revenue, though the film industry has continued to lobby Congress to ban such film-related trading....
447 2010-06-15 Most of the death threats made against Senator Edward M. Kennedy warned of shootings, but one claimed that a crossbow would be used. For years after two of his brothers were slain by assassins, Mr. Kennedy received repeated warnings that he would meet the same fate, according to thousands of pages of documents about Mr. Kennedy that were released Monday by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

It was no wonder that some of Mr. Kennedy’s relatives feared that it would be risky for him to run for president, and that Mr. Kennedy would sometimes blanch when cars backfired. “Even now, I’m startled by sudden noises,” he wrote in his memoir, “True Compass,” published last year after his death at age 77. “I flinch at 21-gun salutes at Arlington to honor the fallen in Iraq. My reaction is subconscious — I know I’m not in danger — but it still cuts through me.”

The F.B.I. files on Mr. Kennedy — 2,352 pages covering 1961 to 1985 — are mostly devoted to the scores of threats against him, but they also pull back the curtain on other episodes before and after he became a senator.

They document the keen interest the bureau took when Mr. Kennedy met with “ ‘intellectuals’ of leftist tinge” on a visit to Mexico in 1961; the relationship the Kennedy family had with J. Edgar Hoover, the longtime director of the F.B.I.; and the efforts of the Nixon administration to find out more about the 1969 Chappaquiddick accident, in which a young woman drowned after a car being driven by Mr. Kennedy plummeted off a bridge near Martha’s Vineyard.

John W. Dean III, an assistant at the Justice Department who later became President Richard M. Nixon’s White House counsel, called on Oct. 17, 1969, to ask the F.B.I. to gather information about Mary Jo Kopechne, the woman who drowned at Chappaquiddick, according to the files.

“He stated that both the deputy attorney general and the attorney general are anxious to discretely find out if Mary Jo Kopechne (deceased) had visited Greece in August, 1968,” an F.B.I. memo states, noting that Mr. Dean had Ms. Kopechne’s passport number and that he had asked for any reports the F.B.I. had on her or her acquaintances. “Mr. Dean reiterated that he would appreciate this matter being handled in a discreet matter.”
448 2010-06-15 A BP spokeswoman, Anne Kolton, said that Mr. Hayward would testify before the committee on Thursday. According to the committee schedule, the hearing will be before the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, headed by Mr. Stupak.

“I’m sure these issues will be covered at the hearing,” she said.

The committee leaders said that shortly before the blowout, BP engineers chose a faster, less expensive design for the final string of casing, the steel pipe that lines the well. The design chosen, which used a so-called tapered string, cost about $7 million to $10 million less than another method. But the tapered string afforded less protection if the cementing job were poor and gas were to rise up the well, the congressmen wrote. The choice of the casing design was previously disclosed in The New York Times.

In an exchange of e-mail messages in the week before the blowout, BP drilling engineers discussed the casing plans, with one, Brian P. Morel, asking another for a quick review of one schematic diagram. “Sorry for the late notice,” Mr. Morel wrote, “this has been nightmare well which has everyone all over the place.”

Time and money were both concerns, the two representatives wrote, because the well was behind schedule. A problem in March had forced the company to apply for a “bypass,” in which a well is drilled around a problem area. By the day of the blowout, the Deepwater Horizon, leased by BP from Transocean for about half a million dollars a day plus contractors’ fees, was 43 days late for its next drilling location, the committee leaders wrote.

The choice of a tapered string meant that the well had only two barriers to upward gas flow that could cause a blowout: cement near the bottom of the well and a seal assembly near the top. The congressmen described three flawed decisions relating to the cement, and said the company also decided not to use a device called a “lockdown sleeve” to ensure that the top seal would hold.

Among the decisions relating to the cement, the congressmen said, BP opted to use far fewer “centralizers,” devices to keep the final string of casing centered in the well hole and help assure that cement flows evenly around the outside of the casing. BP used six instead of the 21 recommended by the cement contractor, Halliburton, which warned of a potential for a “severe gas flow problem.” A BP official complained in an April 16 e-mail message that it would take 10 hours to install the recommended number. “I do not like this,” he wrote.

In addition, the congressmen wrote, BP did not fully circulate heavy drilling mud through the well — which would have taken about 12 hours — before proceeding with the cement job. The congressmen noted that the American Petroleum Institute, a trade group, recommends full circulation before cement work to reduce the possibility that the mud will contaminate the cement, which could contribute to its failure.

BP also did not order a cement bond log, a testing procedure that would have more fully evaluated the quality of the cement barrier. BP’s own engineers had run computer models suggesting that a good cement job was unlikely, and the company had a crew from Schlumberger on hand to conduct the test, which would have taken up to 12 hours.

But BP officials decided not to proceed with the test and the Schlumberger workers left the Deepwater Horizon the morning of the disaster.
449 2010-06-15 LOS ANGELES — Looking to outdo Nintendo and its popular Wii, Microsoft on Monday officially introduced Kinect, its camera-based, motion-control game system. The company also announced that it had redesigned its Xbox 360 game console, making it smaller and quieter, and adding a built-in hard drive and Wi-Fi.

The new Xbox, which will still cost $299, will be available in stores this week.

Nintendo reinvented the video game business several years ago with the Wii and its motion-sensitive controller, demonstrating that women and families who had no interest in traditional game systems could nonetheless be lured into interactive entertainment with an easy, intuitive interface. (Since late 2006, consumers have bought more than 28 million Wiis, compared with about 20 million Xbox 360s.)

Kinect, which is set to be released on Nov. 4 (its price has not been announced), tries to one-up the Wii by eliminating the controller.

Using advanced camera technology and software, Kinect recognizes a person who is merely standing in front of a television and allows the user to wave, lean or kick to drive a virtual car, run a virtual race or compete in a virtual dance contest.

At the Electronic Entertainment Expo here, Microsoft announced deals for Kinect with companies like Harmonix, creators of Guitar Hero and Rock Band, for a dance move game called Dance Central and LucasArts for an exclusive Star Wars light saber fighting game. Kinect Sports, Microsoft’s response to Wii Sports, will include virtual javelin throwing and table tennis.
450 2010-06-15 “I hope to get him back for our third match; not the second, the third,” Coach Marcelo Lippi said.

Lippi, the silver-haired Tuscan who coached the Italians to the 2006 title, was not about to sound defeatist. And it is true that Italy has looked unimpressive early in major competitions and still gone far.

“The only thing I regret is that normally matches of this type we win, but it didn’t happen,” Lippi said. “We definitely have to make some improvements. We didn’t finish much. We created little danger in relation to the volume of play the team expressed. That’s what I can say, but Italy is here. If ever anybody had any doubt, Italy is here. We’re here physically. We’re here mentally. We’re here with our hearts. We’re here fully.”

That was a clear message to the Italian news media, which has been quite a bit more pessimistic lately as Lippi has stuck by many of the men who helped Italy to its 2006 World Cup title (with a bit of help from Zinédine Zidane’s rash head butt). But Italy’s starting lineup on Monday was a true mix of young and old, with the 2006 stalwarts Pirlo, Gennaro Gattuso and Mauro Camoranesi all watching from the bench.

By the time the second half started, Italy was also without its long-established goalkeeper, Gianluigi Buffon, who was replaced by Federico Marchetti at halftime. But that was nothing to do with favoring new blood, rather with the unsettling news that Buffon, one of the world’s best keepers, is dealing with back problems, which might explain why he made no effort to intervene when the free kick on which Alcaraz scored soared deep into his area.

“During the warm-up, it already started,” Lippi said. “He said he wanted to go ahead, because he thought he could do it, and then very frankly after the first half he said he could not continue.”

Add Buffon to the list of luminaries who are fighting injuries in South Africa, along with Pirlo, Ivory Coast’s Didier Drogba and the Netherlands’ Arjen Robben.

But Paraguay is not at full strength either. Its leading scorer during World Cup qualifying, Salvador Cabañas, was shot in the head in Mexico City in January. He survived but has not recovered sufficiently to play soccer again, although the team and Paraguayans in general have used his fight to recover as inspiration.

With a population of a little more than six million, Paraguay is a demographic minnow in the shark tank of the World Cup, but it has proved a tenacious, dangerous, well-organized opponent for years. In this most recent World Cup cycle, it defeated Argentina and Brazil. And it came close to defeating Italy, the defending world champion.

“I think the only way to do this is to have collective talent,” said its Argentine coach, Gerardo Martino.

It did not hurt that Italy was hurting, too.

JAPAN 1, CAMEROON 0 Japan earned its first World Cup victory on foreign soil when Keisuke Honda scored in the first half for a 1-0 victory over Cameroon in Bloemfontein. After a sloppy first 30 minutes, Japan broke the tie in the 39th when Daisuke Matsui’s curling cross from the right drifted over the heads of Cameroon defenders Nicolas Nkoulou and Stephane Mbia. The ball fell to Honda at the back post, and he neatly controlled it and sent it past goalkeeper Hamidou Souleymanou.

Japan is tied with the Netherlands atop Group E. Its only previous victories in a World Cup came against Russia and Tunisia in 2002, when it was co-host of the tournament. This is its fourth World Cup. (AP)
451 2010-06-15 For its part, Goldman keeps insisting that it plays fair. To which its critics say, come on. Are you really sticking to that story, after all the public outrage? Who do you think believes you?

As unsatisfying as this may be to the firm’s detractors, the people who seem to believe in Goldman are the ones who pay its bills.

“We trust them,” Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chief executive of General Electric, told an audience at the 92nd Street Y in New York last month. “People need to tone down the rhetoric around financial services and stop the populism and be adults.”

In recent weeks, BP went looking for advisers to help it think through the liabilities of the spill. Considering BP’s own public relations problems, you might think it would stay far away from Goldman. But no, Goldman is now one of those advisers. (Goldman, it should be noted, happens to also be an adviser to the New York Times Company.)

All of this may have you questioning why the public is so outraged — ostensibly on behalf of wronged Goldman clients — when many of the clients themselves seem unconcerned.

Revelations about Goldman’s business practices have raised important questions about the social utility of many products that are sold on Wall Street and the need for stronger oversight. What is unknown is whether Goldman is losing prospective clients. It will be interesting to see what happens to its market share over the next couple of months, as the various government investigations unfold.

But the widely accepted narrative that Goldman almost single-handedly caused the financial crisis, that it is somehow worse than firms that failed like Lehman Brothers and that it consistently undermines its clients at every turn, doesn’t seem to square with its own clients’ perception of the firm.

And it’s not as if executives are blind to times and mores. Thomas J. Pritzker, the chairman of Hyatt Hotels and a long-time Goldman client, says he’s wise to Goldman’s practices.

“I’m a big boy,” Mr. Pritzker told me. “I understand that they are in many businesses. I go into it with my eyes wide open.” He added, “I don’t feel any outrage, just the opposite.”

That is not to say that all clients have stuck with Goldman or that none are dissatisfied. Some have stopped using the firm or are re-evaluating their relationship in light of the civil lawsuit brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission. But most of those clients are linked to government agencies, where appearances, and politics, matter.

The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, for example, has severed its ties, as have some public pension funds. Interestingly, the American International Group had planned to drop Goldman as its main adviser, after some well-publicized deals that put them in conflict and left A.I.G. on the losing end. But then A.I.G.’s attempt to sell its Asia business fell through recently — a deal that would have helped A.I.G. pay back some of its debt to taxpayers — and now Goldman is back on the case.

Indeed, Goldman’s franchise has endured — no, prospered — through one of the most tumultuous periods in the bank’s history.

Yet rarely has the view from the corner office been so at odds with the view from just about every other corner.

“Goldman has been politicized, and it is important to look beyond the demagogy to examine the facts,” Joseph M. Zubretsky, the chief financial officer of Aetna, the large health insurer, told me in an e-mail message. “Our experience with Goldman is that they conduct themselves consistent with the values we expect from a close adviser.”

Goldman has been good to corporations like Aetna and G.E., and vice versa. Goldman has helped companies raise money and cut deals that keep shareholders happy. G.E. and Goldman even share a big-name benefactor, Warren E. Buffett, who has invested billions in both companies.

So even if some clients do have misgivings, they might not want to speak ill of family. Its critics might suggest that its clients are so close to the action that they are missing the bigger picture.

The former chief executive of Washington Mutual sent an e-mail message about Goldman, disclosed as part of the S.E.C.’s civil fraud suit, that said, “They are smart, but this is swimming with the sharks.” His colleague added, “We always need to worry a little about Goldman because we need them more than they need us and the firm is run by traders.”

Another reason for clients’ steadfastness, of course, could be inertia. Most of Drexel Burnham’s clients, for example, did not abandon it until the bitter end. Either way, executives and investors seem to have concluded that the benefits of doing business with Goldman outweigh the risks. At least for now, pending another shoe dropping.

Reflecting on accusations and revelations that Goldman sometimes wore multiple, seemingly conflicting, hats, Mr. Pritzker told me that in one instance, such tactics might have served Hyatt well. When Goldman was advising Hyatt about selling a stake in its hotel chain and an investor dropped out, he said, Goldman’s own private equity arm swooped in. Did Goldman profit? Probably. But Mr. Pritzker was just glad the deal got done.

“That deal would have failed if they hadn’t done that,” he said.

Mr. Immelt has his own concerns about Goldman.

“I wish they’d take care of their own compensation,” he said in his remarks at the 92nd Street Y, suggesting Goldman is paying its people too much. “It just shouldn’t be this kind of problem. I trust them to manage their own reputation.”

On that score, even Goldman’s most loyal clients might say the firm has work to do.
452 2010-06-15 LOS ANGELES — Federal regulators on Monday approved a plan by Media Derivatives Inc. to begin trading futures contracts based on box-office revenue, though the film industry has continued to lobby Congress to ban such film-related trading.

After delays to consider objections from movie studios and others, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission approved a request to trade futures and option contracts tied to the opening weekend box-office revenue of the movie “Takers,” a crime thriller set for release in the United States on Aug. 20 by Screen Gems, part of Sony Pictures Entertainment.

The Motion Picture Association of America, which represents Sony and the other major studios, has opposed such contracts, arguing that they will be easily manipulated and may hurt the performance of films, as market players begin looking for ways to affect a movie’s opening.

In approving the Media Derivatives request, the commission said that the exchange created to handle the contracts had obtained an agreement from Rentrak, which compiles box-office numbers for the studios, to bar its employees from trading in the contracts.

The exchange would also require any studio that uses the contracts as a hedge against the performance of its own films to set up a firewall between employees who do the trading and those who work on a film.

In a dissent that accompanied the commission’s approval, Bart Chilton, one of the commissioners, said the need to wall off studio employees from their own films pointed to what he called a “fundamental flaw” behind the approval, since such contracts were intended to help those in businesses manage financial risk.
453 2010-06-15 “Downgrade the Ratings Agencies,” by Kathleen Casey and Frank Partnoy (Op-Ed, June 6), raises the question of ratings performance.

We recently published a study that shows that in asset classes other than United States mortgage securities, ratings performance has been well within expectations. Any suggestion that three high-profile corporate and municipal issuers whose ratings dropped precipitously because of extraordinary events are indicative of overall ratings performance is not supported by the facts.

That said, we emphatically support legislative proposals that use of ratings should not be mandated through government regulation.
454 2010-06-15 Re “In New Space Race, Enter the Entrepreneurs” (June 8): Despite President Obama’s misguided rollback of the space program, a manned mission to Mars remains a feasible, affordable and fundamentally sound national undertaking.

Absent a cold war imperative, the United States can harness liftoff technologies developed in the private sector — and work in tandem with other major space-faring nations. Witness Mars500, the 520-day experiment wherein Russian, Chinese, Italian and French astronauts are simulating a trek to the Red Planet. To paraphrase J.F.K.: We must choose to go to Mars.
455 2010-06-15 SAN FRANCISCO — Go to dance and see world culture. Midway through, the San Francisco Ethnic Dance Festival has addressed the 100th anniversary of the Mexican Revolution, shamanism in Korea, the Indian goddess Parvathi, an initiation ceremony in the voodoo tradition, a bridal preparation in the Northern Philippines, and the Hawaiian deity Hi’iaka’s preparation for battles with dragons and demons. I refer to just the second of the festival’s four weekend programs: a glorious achievement.

No, not all that history, mythology and religion were evident onstage to the untutored eye. What was unmissable, however, was the diversity of dance itself. This program also included items from Central Asia (the Uighurs of Turpan, China), India (Bollywood) and Transylvania (Hungary). The performers are all based in the Bay Area and not all of them are doing dances attached to their own ethnicities. At the end, after all the troupes returned to the stage, further melting-pot images occurred. The female specialist in Central Asian dance harmoniously began a circle dance with the female Korean specialist. Meanwhile Bollywood child performers threaded their way through women performing Mexican folklórico styles. Here is one of the finest of all American dreams: a setting where cultures can celebrate their own traditions while honoring and applauding others.

What I love is that the festival makes me feel so utterly a student, indeed, a novice. How many of us have ever seen Uighur dances before? This one — celebrating “The Dance of the Grapes” — was the program’s greatest revelation. It had just two performers, the musician Abbos Kosimov and the dancer Tara Catherine Pandeya. He, over white shirt and trousers, wore a long pale-gold jacket with tassels and embroidery, and white boots with toes curling upward, and he played first one drum (shaped like a flat bowl), then another, then three at once, with virtuoso rhythms. When the audience caught a regular beat and clapped along, he steadily accelerated and then teasingly fell silent. As soon as the audience stopped, he rounded things off with a terrific climax.

When Ms. Pandeya entered, wearing a yellow skirt and pantaloons and gold-colored shoes, she at once made the dance a matter of close musical responsiveness. First she matched his drum pulse with fast-traveling footwork, like a long trill. Next she built up virtuosity. She took alternate turns to right and left, fell swiftly to the floor in a sudden and spectacular backbend, and then, kneeling, began to brilliantly coordinate head (moving side to side) and hands. Every part of her body turned into dance display. She bent sideways as easily as backwards. In one passage, turning her back to the audience, she let her shoulders rapidly rise and fall, all in time with the drum.

Not all the troupes used live music. Every one that did showed how great a difference it makes. I was happy to watch the cycle of Transylvanian folk dances shown by the Eszterlanc Hungarian Folk Ensemble. Better, however, was the music, with two female singers (the female dancers sometimes chanted too), two fiddlers, and one double-bass, frequently in harmonies I would never have associated with Hungary, or even Europe.
456 2010-06-15 Q. After Sept. 23 of this year, the new law bars health insurers from rescinding a policy because of a pre-existing medical problem. What are my chances of being dropped if a checkup or preventive-care visit reveals a problem?

A. Don’t wait to get health care because of fears that you will be kicked off your plan if you get such a diagnosis. If you have group health coverage, those plans are “guaranteed issue” — the insurer must accept you if you apply, and cannot drop you from the plan even if you have medical problems.

If you have an individual health plan, the situation is different (except in the handful of states that require that all plans be guaranteed issue). In the individual market, insurers can generally decline to offer you insurance if you have a medical problem.

Once a policy has been issued, individual plans are not supposed to drop enrollees if they get sick. But in recent years there have been well-publicized examples of “rescissions,” in which the insurer did just that.

The new health care law should change that. “The rules are much tighter now,” Ms. Tolbert said. The new provision takes effect whenever people renew their policies or sign up for new ones after Sept. 23, after which time insurers can rescind coverage only if someone commits fraud — by lying on an application, for example.

If your health plan drops you or is not delivering benefits you think are covered, your first stop should be your state insurance department.

Q. When I buy subsidized coverage from a health insurance exchange, my costs are supposed to be capped at 9.5 percent of my income. But at the same time, I’m supposed to have my choice of four different levels of coverage, from platinum, which pays 90 percent of eligible medical costs, on average, down to bronze, just 60 percent. Why would I sign up for bronze if I can have platinum for the same price?

A. When the exchanges start up in 2014, people who earn up to 400 percent of the federal poverty level ($88,200 for a family of four) will be eligible for subsidies based on income. If your premium is capped at 9.5 percent, you must have an income of 300 to 400 percent of the poverty level. Lower-income families will have a lower maximum contribution.

But income is only part of the calculation; the type of plan enters into the equation, as well. Those opting for the higher-end plans, platinum and gold, may wind up paying more than those who choose silver or bronze.

The premium subsidies will be based on the price of the second lowest cost silver plan in a geographic area. If you sign up for that particular silver plan, you will pay no more than 9.5 percent of your income in premiums. But if you spring for a pricier gold or platinum plan, you will be responsible for paying the difference between that silver premium and those of the more expensive plans.
457 2010-06-15 Some prominent names turn up in Ensemble Studio Theater’s Series B group of one-acts, part of the company’s annual marathon of short plays, but it is a couple of lesser names that deserve the most attention: Rachel Bonds, whose lovely “Anniversary” concludes the program, and Julie Fitzpatrick, the actress who brings that play to life.

“Anniversary” couldn’t be simpler. Penelope (Ms. Fitzpatrick), showing signs of depression, is measuring the small events of her life according to how close they fall to the anniversary of the death of someone she loved. We don’t know who this person was, but the loss has clearly left this woman severely damaged.

And then one day she meets Matt (Jerry Richardson), the person who will slowly pull her back into the world. Ms. Bonds doesn’t try to do anything more than document that process in this delicate play, and Ms. Fitzpatrick’s honest performance helps validate that choice, showing that staying focused on one small point can be a powerful technique.

The disappointment in the lineup is “Amateurs” by David Auburn (“Proof”), a tale of political muscle that feels like a fragment of a “West Wing” script. David Rasche, the veteran television and film actor, gives a somewhat unfocused performance as an image maker and breaker who is confronted by the daughter (Diana Ruppe) of someone whose reputation he once tarnished. Mr. Auburn falls back on a predictable revelation/counterrevelation gimmick.

Of the other three plays, “Interviewing Miss Davis” by Laura Maria Censabella makes the strongest impression. Adria Vitlar is affecting as an aide to the late-career Bette Davis (Delphi Harrington) who is trying to hire her own replacement so she can escape the harridan’s clutches. It would be interesting to see how this thoughtful portrait of co-dependence played with an ordinary person, rather than the overexposed Davis, at its center.
458 2010-06-15 Uninsured Americans often have difficulty getting care and paying for medications. But what happens once they are admitted to a hospital with a life-threatening illness?

A new study finds that even after they have heart attacks or strokes and are admitted to hospitals, the uninsured are more likely to die than those who carry private insurance.

A gap persisted even after the researchers adjusted for disparities in the patients’ underlying health, socioeconomic status and other factors.

Researchers analyzed more than 150,000 discharges of working-age Americans, ages 18 to 64, who were hospitalized for heart attack, stroke or pneumonia. The data was drawn from the 2005 Nationwide Inpatient Sample.

The study found that uninsured patients who had heart attacks were 52 percent more likely to die in the hospital than the privately insured, and those who had a stroke were 49 percent more likely to die in the hospital.

“We thought there would be some disparity and a little bit of a difference, but we were surprised there were such significant differences,” said Dr. Omar Hasan, a hospitalist at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston who was the lead author of the study, in the Journal of Hospital Medicine.

One reason, Dr. Hasan suggested, may be that patients who have trouble getting care may have more advanced disease.
459 2010-06-15 Confusion over how many people were missing was caused in part by numerous calls from people who said they had not heard from loved ones but were not sure if they had been camping in the flooded area, Capt. Mike Fletcher of the Arkansas State Police said Sunday at a news briefing.

Estimates on the number of people who may be missing have fluctuated widely. On Friday, just hours after the search and rescue operation began, it was put at 24.

The Associated Press reported that 18 of the 20 bodies recovered had been identified by Monday morning. Three were from Arkansas, eight were from Louisiana and seven from Texas. Seven of the 18 were young children, the A.P. said.

Some anxious family members of those caught in the flood got to see the damage firsthand on Sunday morning. Forest Service officials escorted about 25 members of two extended families into the campground area, which is in the Ouachita National Forest in a mountainous area of western Arkansas, about 75 miles from Little Rock.

Each family had lost a relative in the flood, said the Rev. Graig Cowart of Pilgrim Rest Landmark Missionary Baptist Church in Lodi, Ark., who accompanied the group.

The riverside campground, a place of fond memories for generations of families, is now a wasteland, littered with wrecked campers, flattened trees and displaced slabs of asphalt roadway. For two hours, the families took it all in, went through possessions and retrieved pictures of children and keepsakes like baby blankets.

“It was for them just to go and have a little time,” Mr. Cowart said. “It’ll help with their closure as they move forward and reflect and they can see where they were at. It was just a heart-wrenching experience, but at the same time I think they received a little solace. They could understand it a little better.”

Mr. Cowart, unshaven after three days of ministering to the families that took refuge from the flooding in his church’s activities building, said the damage looked as if it had been caused by “a tornado that just hung around.” It made him appreciative, he said, that there had not been even more deaths.

Mr. Cowart and Forest Service officials praised local residents and companies for providing more food and supplies than the families could possibly use. Wal-Mart, he said, had sent a truck with ice and bottled water. An appliance store delivered portable freezers.

“We’ve had local people here drive up with checks they’d signed blank,” Mr. Cowart said.

The church canceled its regular Sunday service, but Mr. Cowart said he would share a private devotional with the families on Sunday night.

Charles Wade, a former Arkansas legislator, told The Associated Press that his granddaughter, Leslie Jez, and her 3-year-old son, Kaden, had been killed in the flood. He said that Leslie and Adam Jez had packed a camper and met up with family on Thursday, hours before floodwaters rising as swiftly as eight feet per hour poured through their campsite.

Mrs. Jez’s mother, Sherry Wade, was also killed; Mr. Jez survived, the authorities said.

Kaden’s “only vocabulary when it wasn’t ‘mama’ and ‘daddy’ consisted of tractors and horses,” Mr. Wade said. “I can just see her holding the baby” during the flood, Mr. Wade told the A.P., choking with emotion.

Forest Service officials said they began letting residents return to their houses in the area on Sunday, and they started towing damaged vehicles out of the campground. Captain Fletcher said that 18 vehicles had been towed, and that officials were still matching the license plate numbers to the owners. Two mangled pickup trucks were carted past the rescue command post at a gas station in Langley.

Divers were deployed on Sunday and searchers began using dogs and horses to aid search efforts, Captain Fletcher said. Mike Quesinberry, who was overseeing the search operation for the federal Forest Service, said crews had searched around 50 miles of waterway at least twice.

Vynn Stuart, who runs a dog search team called Four States Search and Rescue, was on her second day traveling through the jagged brush amid swarming mosquitoes.

Guiding a German shepherd tethered to a long neon orange leash, Ms. Stuart, who lives about 90 minutes away in Little River, came across numerous signs of devastation some eight miles south of Albert Pike: uprooted trees, a tipped-over canoe, and plastic chairs and a table. Sticks, dirt and other debris wrapped around trees like twine lashing together sticks. A grassy, open field was like a muddy marsh in parts.

Ms. Stuart, who has been working on rescue operations for 17 years, said her team had to cut its search short on Sunday because of the heat. Temperatures in the area were near 90 degrees on Sunday with high humidity and little wind, and were headed higher on Monday.

“It’s been really challenging,” she said. “The debris is so bad. It’s so hot and humid. Snakes are everywhere. We had bear tracks in our area, so we have to keep our eyes out for that. It’s just the worst thing that’s happened.”
460 2010-06-15 2. Heat the oil in a large, heavy skillet over medium heat, and add the garlic. Cook, stirring, until fragrant, 30 seconds to a minute. Stir in the tomatoes, salt, sugar, thyme and basil sprigs. Bring to a simmer. Stirring often and mashing with the back of your spoon to help break down the tomatoes, simmer until the tomatoes have cooked down and the sauce is thick and fragrant, about 15 minutes. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and pepper. Remove the basil sprigs, and stir in the diced roasted pepper and chopped fresh basil.

3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Oil a baking dish large enough to accommodate all of the rolled crêpes in a single layer. Place about 1/4 cup of the tomato-pepper sauce on the bottom half of each crêpe. Sprinkle a little goat cheese over the sauce. Roll up the crêpe like an enchilada, and place in the pan, seam side down. When all of the crêpes have been filled, cover the dish with foil and heat through in the oven for 20 minutes or until the cheese has softened. Serve hot.

Advance preparation: The crêpes will keep for a couple of days in the refrigerator, and they freeze well. The filling will keep for about three days in the refrigerator. The filled crepes can be kept in a covered baking dish in the refrigerator for a couple of days. They can also be frozen; to reheat, transfer directly from the freezer to the oven, and add 15 minutes to the baking time.

Nutritional information per serving: 319 calories; 18 grams fat; 6 grams saturated fat; 118 milligrams cholesterol; 27 grams carbohydrates; 3 grams dietary fiber; 850 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 14 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman can be reached at martha-rose-shulman.com.
461 2010-06-15 Euro zone countries and the I.M.F. this year agreed to a bailout package of 750 billion euros, or $950 billion, to help European countries deal with the sovereign debt crisis.

While the package “eliminates any near-term risk of a liquidity-driven default,” a senior analyst at Moody’s, Sarah Carlson, said, “the macroeconomic and implementation risks associated with the program are substantial.”

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 20.18 points, or 0.2 percent, at 10,190.89. The Dow had been up almost 100 points at one time on Monday. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was down 0.18 percent, or 1.97 points, at 1,089.63, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 0.36 points, to 2,243.96. Moody’s made its announcement after the markets had closed in Europe.

Energy shares that had recently been hurt by the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico were brought into focus again on Monday, when BP’s board discussed the demands by the United States to suspend dividend payments to shareholders until the costs of the spill are addressed. Exxon Mobil slid 0.8 percent to $61.37, while Anadarko Petroleum rose 0.5 percent to $42. In New York trading, BP depositary shares were down 9.7 percent.

“You are hard-pressed to cite any one piece of news today as a catalyst for direction,” said Joe Battipaglia, the market strategist for the private client group of Stifel Nicolaus. “BP is not a new story,” he said.

Doug Roberts, chief investment strategist for Channel Capital Research Institute, said many traders seemed to be winding down their positions toward the end of the day, probably leading to a lack of liquidity.

“People probably don’t want to hold positions overnight,” he added, leaving themselves open to developments out of the European Union.

The euro advanced during the day, but the bond spreads for Greece, Portugal and Spain widened. The Treasury’s 10-year note fell 5/32, to 102 2/32. The yield rose to 3.25 percent, from 3.23 percent late Friday.

Financial stocks fell. Bank of America slipped 1.22 percent, to $15.41, while JPMorgan Chase dropped 2 percent, to $37.33.

Still, corporate balance sheets are providing a strong foundation for companies, analysts said.

Stanley Nabi, chief strategist for the Silvercrest Asset Management Group, said that, in general, he thought the market would continue to move higher, albeit in a “jagged fashion.”
462 2010-06-15 Five critical differences between House and Senate versions of financial legislation that need to be dealt with by the conference committee....
463 2010-06-15 Five critical differences between House and Senate versions of financial legislation that need to be dealt with by the conference committee....
464 2010-06-15 WEISS--Marie, a gift to the Little Red School House and Elisabeth Irwin High School for more than a half-century. Business manager, associate director, nurse, teacher, confidant and friend. A consistent force in the life of our school and the thou...
465 2010-06-15 WEISS--Marie. Greatly loved and irreplaceable friend. Eve, Kara, Eddie, Amanda & Nina...
466 2010-06-16 Depression and obesity often go hand in hand, but does obesity lead to depression or vice versa?...
467 2010-06-16 James Cameron's deep-sea brain trust releases the recommendations it provided to federal officials overseeing BP and the gushing gulf well....
468 2010-06-16 Representative John A. Boehner, the Republican leader, bought stock in BP last year, while other lawmakers sold off BP stock before the oil spill caused the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico....
469 2010-06-16 Nine facts to know about the 2010 season....
470 2010-06-16 Two Democratic representatives from New York City are urging members of the House-Senate conference committee on the financial regulatory bill to reject provisions to restrict derivatives trading....
471 2010-06-16 The news that BP will suspend its stock dividend should be a wake-up call to anyone who hopes to retire in part (or in full) using the income from stock dividends....
472 2010-06-16 BP suspended its dividend for the rest of the year because of the costs of setting up a $20 billion fund to pay for damage claims from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. It also plans to sell about $10 billion in assets....
473 2010-06-16 AT&T said presale orders for the iPhone 4 were 10 times higher than they were for the previous version of the iPhone....
474 2010-06-16 Bloomberg continues to poach top-tier talent from rival news organizations, announcing that it has hired a top executive from Fortune as the publisher of Bloomberg Businessweek....
475 2010-06-16 The Federal Housing Finance Agency said the decision was based on Fannie Mae's stock price falling below the Big Board's minimum of $1 a share....
476 2010-06-16 People tend to do what they are good at doing and what they like doing. That does not necessarily mean they are doing what is best for the company....
477 2010-06-16 The Libyan government is pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into a new hedge fund set to launch in London this summer, The Independent reported....
478 2010-06-16 Some of the Texas Rangers' creditors on Tuesday sought a chance to vote on the club's bankruptcy plan, hoping to kill the team's proposed sale and restart the bidding process....
479 2010-06-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
480 2010-06-16 Rather than setting pay levels, the government should require banks and other critical financial institutions to withhold a share of each senior manager's total pay for several years, a group of leading economists is urging in a new book. The mone...
481 2010-06-16 Stocks in the United States closed higher on Tuesday, sustaining a broad-based rally that for once did not lose steam at the end of the session....
482 2010-06-16 Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region rose on Wednesday, and the Nikkei 225 index in Japan climbed above the 10,000 mark for the first time in nearly a month, extending a rally of more than 2 percent on Wall Street overnight....
483 2010-06-16 Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, a member of the executive board of the European Central Bank, gave a speech in New York on Monday that shed some light on why Europe's sovereign debt crisis is such a threat to euro-zone banks - and why the European Central Ba...
484 2010-06-16 “Our target audience was not other academics, but key decision-makers, not just in the U.S. but other countries as well,” said one of the economists, Matthew J. Slaughter, who teaches at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth with Kenneth R. French, who convened the group.

That ambition is reflected even in the book’s cover, whose design resembles that of the 9/11 Commission report, a surprise best seller of 2004.

Jeremy C. Stein, a Harvard professor who is part of the group, said that holding back a fraction of each year’s bonus pool would make bank executives act more like taxpayers (who do not benefit when a huge bank is profitable, but bear the costs when one has to be bailed out) and less like shareholders (who often favor short-term risks in the hope of scoring a quick profit).

The House and Senate bills would allow regulators to curb pay practices that make a bank unsound or take too many risks, but leaves to regulators the decision on how to do it.

Another recommendation that has received limited attention in Washington involves a kind of debt instrument known as contingent convertible bonds, or CoCo bonds. Banks would be encouraged to issue such debt, which would automatically convert into equity in a crisis. Such bonds would speed up the recapitalization of an ailing bank, at no cost to taxpayers, leaving bondholders to bear the cost of failure.

The House and Senate bills would allow, but not require, the Fed to impose a contingent capital requirement.

The Squam Lake group also concluded that each country should have a single regulatory organization — in the United States, ideally the Fed — to oversee the health and stability of the financial system.

The legislation in Congress entrusts that job to a new Financial Stability Oversight Council, led by the Treasury secretary, with the Fed chairman as only one of several voting members.

Anil K Kashyap, of the Booth School of Business at the University of Chicago, said that relying on cooperation among regulators was a mistake. “I doubt this will work, and it is very unlikely to produce much accountability,” he said.

The group also called for better disclosure of the risks of financial products, particularly the mutual funds used in retirement accounts and 401(k)s. The legislation would create an entity to protect consumers from abusive financial products, but did not focus on retirement savings.

One author, René M. Stulz of Ohio State University, said there was “no guarantee that a system that leaves that much discretion to regulators will successfully reduce systemic risk.”

But over all the Squam Lake authors said they believed that the legislation before Congress would do more good than harm. Several of their recommendations are in the bills: new tools to foresee and contain financial disruptions, higher capital requirements, mandatory “living wills” for the biggest financial companies and greater transparency in the trading of credit-default swaps and other derivatives.

Some marveled that 15 economists could agree on anything. The group includes Robert J. Shiller, the Yale professor who foretold the housing crisis; Frederic Mishkin, a former Fed governor; and Raghuram Rajan, a former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund.

Martin N. Baily, who was an adviser to President Clinton, said the situation “was such a disaster that we felt an obligation to reach some common ground.”

Seth Ditchik, the book’s editor, said it echoed “An Economic Program for American Democracy,” a 1938 book by seven Harvard and Tufts economists.
485 2010-06-16 Swiss lawmakers have approved a deal to disclose the names of thousands of American clients suspected of evading taxes through accounts at a UBS bank, but whether American prosecutors get the names could now be up to Swiss voters.

The lower house of the Swiss Parliament reversed itself on Tuesday and voted, 81 to 61, with 53 abstentions, to turn the names over to American regulators. But at the same time, lawmakers voted to put the question of the handover to a national referendum, leaving a resolution in limbo.

The possibility of a popular ballot on one of the largest tax controversies in global financial circles is the latest setback for the Justice Department and the Internal Revenue Service, and for UBS, one of the world’s largest banks. At stake are the traditional Swiss foundations of client confidentiality and bank secrecy that many Swiss citizens believed to be undermined by the closely watched deal.

The upper house had opposed a referendum in earlier votes, and both houses could take up the matter as early as Wednesday. The matter must be resolved by Friday, when the Swiss Parliament’s current session ends until September, if the Swiss are to adhere to the deal by the Aug. 24 deadline.

Under a deal signed last year between the United States and Switzerland, the I.R.S. and the Justice Department are seeking to force UBS and the Swiss government to disclose 4,450 accounts held by Americans suspected of evading taxes through UBS’s private offshore bank. The Swiss Parliament took up the issue after the courts blocked the disclosure, ruling that it violated national secrecy laws.

In addition to the possibility of Swiss citizens voting to block the handover of the UBS accounts, a referendum, regardless of the outcome, would put Switzerland past the Aug. 24 deadline. Under Swiss law, organizers have 100 days to schedule a referendum and must gather 50,000 signatures to put a matter to popular vote.
486 2010-06-16 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Federal Reserve on Tuesday adopted new rules aimed at protecting credit card customers from lofty late payment charges and other penalty fees.

The rules ban credit card companies from charging a penalty fee of more than $25 for paying a bill late. They prohibit credit card companies from charging penalty fees that are higher than the dollar amount associated with the customer’s violation. They also ban “inactivity fees” when customers don’t use the card to make new purchases, and they prevent multiple penalty fees on a single late payment. The rules take effect on Aug. 22.

Companies will also have to reconsider interest rates imposed on customers since the start of last year. Some lenders pushed through rate increases ahead of the first phase of sweeping new credit card protections, which took effect earlier this year. Those first set of rules were intended to protect customers from sudden surges in interest rates.
487 2010-06-16 The Supreme Court’s refusal to consider the claims of Maher Arar, an innocent Canadian who was sent to Syria to be tortured in 2002, was a bitterly disappointing abdication of its duty to hold officials accountable for illegal acts. The Bush administration sent Mr. Arar to outsourced torment, but it was the Obama administration that urged this course of inaction.

In the ignoble history of President George W. Bush’s policies of torture and extraordinary rendition, few cases were as egregious as that of Mr. Arar, a software engineer. He was picked up at Kennedy International Airport by officials acting on incorrect information from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. He was sent to Syria, to which the United States had assigned some of its violent interrogation, and was held for almost a year until everyone agreed he was not a terrorist and he was released.

The Bush White House never expressed regret about this horrific case. There was only then-Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice’s bland acknowledgement to a House committee in 2007 that it was not “handled as it should have been.” Since he took office, President Obama has refused to fully examine the excesses of his predecessor, but surely this case was a chance to show that those who countenanced torture must pay a price.

In Canada, the government conducted an investigation and found that Mr. Arar had been tortured because of its false information. The commissioner of the police resigned. Canada cleared Mr. Arar of all terror connections, formally apologized and paid him nearly $9.8 million. Mr. Arar had hoped to get a similar apology and damages from the United States government but was rebuffed by the court system.

Amazingly, Mr. Obama’s acting solicitor general, Neal Katyal, urged the Supreme Court not to take the case, arguing in part that the court should not investigate the communications between the United States and other countries because it might damage diplomatic relations and affect national security. It might even raise questions, Mr. Katyal wrote, about “the motives and sincerity of the United States officials who concluded that petitioner could be removed to Syria.”

The government and the courts should indeed raise those questions in hopes of preventing these practices from ever recurring. The Canadian police continue to investigate the matter, even the actions of American officials, though their counterparts here are not even trying.
488 2010-06-16 NEW DELHI — As Mamata Banerjee presented the Indian Railways budget to Parliament this year, opposition politicians howled in protest whenever a new project she listed was in her home state of West Bengal.

Ms. Banerjee, the railway minister and a member of the raucous lower house, was unfazed. Occasionally, she shouted back at her opponents, mostly older men, telling them to shut up and let her finish. “If you sit quietly, I will give you something,” she said.

A year into her second stint as railway minister, Ms. Banerjee, 55, is one of several regional Indian politicians who wield significant influence over the growth of India’s economy. These leaders control important ministries including rail, telecommunications, aviation and agriculture because their parties have just enough seats in Parliament to deny an outright majority to the Congress Party, which has ruled India for much of its 63 years of independence.

Many of them, including Ms. Banerjee, were previously members of the Congress Party. She left in the late 1990s to start the regional Trinamool Congress Party, because, she has said, national leaders were not doing enough to help West Bengal.

Ms. Banerjee has come under fire from rival politicians and industry groups for advancing expensive populist policies and heaping largess on West Bengal, where she hopes to take over as chief minister — the equivalent of a governor in an American state.

Ms. Banerjee, whose office declined an interview request, has denied favoring her state and said that she wanted the private sector to help build rail infrastructure.
489 2010-06-16 Accused after the Dec. 25 near-miss of failing to keep the would-be bomber off the plane to Detroit, the government’s Terrorist Screening Center has since doubled the no-fly list to 8,000 names, according to a counterterrorism official who discussed the closely held numbers on the condition that he not be identified.

Counterterrorism officials have focused especially on Yemen, where the Dec. 25 bomber was trained. Traditionally, Yemen has been a popular and inexpensive place for Americans and others to study Arabic.

At least three Americans have been detained in recent weeks by the Yemeni authorities on suspicion of terrorist connections, and civil liberties advocates have identified a half-dozen Americans or legal United States residents on the no-fly list who are stranded abroad, most of them after visiting Yemen.

On Tuesday, the Council on American-Islamic Relations, a Washington-based group that has been working with Mr. Wehelie’s family, wrote to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to protest what its executive director, Nihad Awad, called “apparently illegal pressure tactics” against Muslim American travelers.

“If the F.B.I. wishes to question American citizens, they should be allowed to return to the United States, where they will be able to maintain their constitutional rights free of threats or intimidation,” Mr. Awad wrote.

Mr. Awad noted that Yahya Wehelie’s younger brother, Yusuf, 19, who was stopped with him in Cairo, faced a shorter but even more harrowing time in Egypt. Questioned first by the F.B.I., Yusuf was later held for three days by Egyptian security officers, blindfolded, chained to a wall and roughed up before being allowed to travel home May 12, he said in an interview.

The American Civil Liberties Union says it has been contacted by a dozen people who say they have been improperly placed on the no-fly list since December, half of them Americans abroad.

“For many of these Americans, placement on the no-fly list effectively amounts to banishment from their country,” said Ben Wizner, a senior staff attorney with the A.C.L.U. He called such treatment “both unfair and unconstitutional.”

An F.B.I. spokesman, Michael P. Kortan, said that as a matter of policy, the bureau did not comment on who was on a watch list. But he said the recent plots showed the need “to remain vigilant and thoroughly investigate every lead.”

“In conducting such investigations,” Mr. Kortan said, “the F.B.I. is always careful to protect the civil rights and privacy concerns of all Americans, including individuals in minority and ethnic communities.”

Advocacy groups say they are trying to help Americans stranded in Yemen, Egypt, Colombia and Croatia, among other countries. At least one American, Raymond Earl Knaeble IV, who studied in Yemen and is now in Colombia, was returned to Colombia by the Mexican authorities after he sought to cross the border into the United States, the groups say.

The no-fly list gives the American authorities greater leverage in assessing travelers who are under suspicion, because to reverse the flying ban many are willing to undergo hours of questioning.

But sometimes the questioning concludes neither with criminal charges nor with permission to fly. The Transportation Security Administration has a procedure allowing people to challenge their watch list status in cases of mistaken identity or name mix-up, but Mr. Wehelie does not fit those categories.

Mr. Wehelie was born and raised in the Virginia suburbs of Washington with his five siblings by Abdirizak Wehelie, 58, and Shamsa Noor, 54, Somali immigrants who met in the United States and married in 1981.

He graduated from Lake Braddock High School in Burke, Va., and briefly attended Norfolk State University. He worked in a medical lab and held other jobs, but he was arrested for marijuana possession and reckless driving, and his parents felt he was adrift, he said from Cairo.

In 2008, they insisted that he travel to Yemen, where they thought he could study Arabic, expand his horizons and perhaps find a wife. “That’s the crazy thing — I was the one who made him go,” said his mother, Ms. Noor.

Mr. Wehelie studied computer science at Lebanese International University in Sana, the Yemeni capital, he said, and last year he married a Somali woman in Yemen. And in the small American expatriate community, he said, he met Sharif Mobley, the New Jersey man who was later accused of joining Al Qaeda and killing a Yemeni guard. Mr. Wehelie said their handful of encounters were brief and casual, the innocent small talk of two expatriates.

“It was just, ‘Hey, how you doing?’ ” Mr. Wehelie said. The F.B.I.’s suspicions are misplaced, he said: “I’m not even a religious person. I hate Al Qaeda. I don’t like anything that jeopardizes my country and my family.”

Evidently the F.B.I. is not convinced. The American authorities in Cairo canceled his passport and issued a new one Sunday with the notation, “valid only for return to the United States before Sept. 12, 2010,” Mr. Wehelie said. That is his goal, he said, but he has no idea how to get home.
490 2010-06-16 Mr. Wimmer, for example, who initially floated the idea of Republicans voting for Ms. Wright on his Facebook page last month, later withdrew the post and denounced the idea. A spokesman for the Utah Tea Party movement, David Kirkham, also said the group was opposed to members voting in the Democratic primary.

“We don’t play in the gutter,” Mr. Kirkham, adding that believed deliberate cross-party interference would be against Tea Party principles.

Ms. Wright, while making no bones that she would like to earn some conservative votes, said that the race would be won or lost in the Democratic base, and that she had a county-by-county strategy to pull off an underdog victory.

But whispers and hints, measures and countermeasures, have nonetheless become a subtext of the campaign for both candidates

On her campaign Web site, Ms. Wright pointedly states, “Remember, anyone can vote!” In an interview she said that some of her views, notably election law reform and a rejection of bailouts for Wall Street, are “Tea Party ideas.” A Web site with a counterintuitive search profile has kept talk of a crossover vote alive: Type in jimmatheson.com and a site called Conservatives for Claudia pops up.

Perhaps the loudest drumbeat of all is coming, again paradoxically, from Mr. Matheson himself. He has been telling his supporters that the possibility of an insurgent vote is real, so turnout will be crucial.

Contested nominations are not that common in Utah — this is Mr. Matheson’s first after more than nine years in office — and the usually low turnout means that even a few thousand added voters could make a difference, he said. In the last Congressional primary here, in 2008 for the Republican nomination in the Third District, only about 46,000 people voted.

“I think there are some signs that there’s going to be an effort,” Mr. Matheson said in an interview. “I think that concerns a lot of other voters in Utah, and I think it’s actually going to motivate them to turn out for me.”

The Republican nominee in the Second District, Morgan Philpot, who will face either Mr. Matheson or Ms. Wright in November, said in a statement last month that he did not support an attempt by Republican voters to influence the Democratic primary. Mr. Philpot’s campaign manager, Lyall Swim, said he thought Mr. Matheson should be properly concerned about the primary not because of Republicans but because Ms. Wright is a formidable candidate.

“I think he should be more worried about the energy Wright has created and the grass-roots support she’s generated, more than some phantom voter movement that may or may not materialize,” Mr. Swim said.

Ms. Wright, 61, who taught advanced-placement history and government for 31 years in public school, has deep Utah roots as a great-great granddaughter of the Mormon pioneer leader Brigham Young. She dismisses her pioneer connection as much of an electoral draw, though, since Mr. Young, with his multiple wives, has thousands of descendants. More to the point, she said, is that Utah is changing.

“There’s a very large gay community here and a very large progressive community here,” she said, referring to the Salt Lake Valley, where more than half of the Second District’s voters reside. “I think this is the place he has to worry about most.”

She said she thought the intense interest in the Republican Senate primary — between Tim Bridgewater, a businessman, and Mike Lee, a lawyer — would keep most Republicans on their side of the ballot booth. The incumbent Republican, Senator Robert F. Bennett, lost his party’s nomination in a Tea Party-led coup at the Republican convention last month. And under election rules, it is one primary per customer. No double-dipping. (The Republican primary is closed; only party members can vote.)

Mr. Matheson, 50, whose father, Scott M. Matheson, served as Utah’s governor from 1977 to 1985 — the last Democrat to hold the post — said the district was more politically diverse, and less liberal, than Ms. Wright believes.

At the Coffee Garden, a cafe in a part of the city identified with the gay and lesbian community and liberal politics, candidate loyalty seemed up for grabs. Joe Ivory Mattingly, a writer and visual artist, sipped coffee near the big front window where a Claudia Wright sign faced the street, and said he would very much like to see her as his congresswoman.

But the talk of a crossover vote by conservatives, he said, had scared him. Practical considerations were nudging him toward a reluctant vote for Mr. Matheson because he has come to agree that Ms. Wright would be the easier candidate for a Republican to beat.

“I hate to say that,” he said. “But it’s true.”
491 2010-06-16 PARIS — The Unesco executive board announced on Tuesday that it would delay awarding the international prize for Research in the Life Sciences, which has been widely criticized for being financed by one of Africa’s most infamous dictators.

The prize was to honor scientific achievements that “improve the quality of human life.”

But officials from Unesco — the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization — said the controversy over a prize financed by and named for President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo of Equatorial Guinea had undermined the organization’s credibility.

“I have come to you with a strong message of alarm and anxiety,” said Unesco’s director general, Irina Bokova, in a news release after a meeting with the agency’s executive board on Tuesday.

“I believe that given the changing circumstances and the unprecedented developments of the past months, we must be courageous and recognize our responsibilities, for it is our organization that is at stake.”

Mrs. Bokova said that while she would not a set a date for awarding the “Unesco-Obiang” Prize, consultations would continue “in a spirit of mutual respect and dignity” until the next session of the executive board in October.

The Unesco-Obiang prize, scheduled to be awarded at the end of the month, has stirred concern among officials, human rights organizations and scientists who accuse Mr. Obiang, who has ruled Equatorial Guinea since 1979, of corruption and personally profiting from his nation’s oil wealth.
492 2010-06-16 An orchard in a cup....
493 2010-06-16 HUITLACOCHE, a corn fungus that’s a delicacy in Mexican cuisine, doesn’t always fulfill its funky potential. Too often it’s bland and mushy, a bit of name-dropping on the menu that doesn’t do much on the plate.

Not so at Hecho en Dumbo, which recently moved to the Bowery after three years in Brooklyn. Here the quesadillas de huitlacoche ($10) have a flavor falling somewhere between black trumpet mushrooms and a damp basement. Two fresh tortillas are stuffed with the firm, ash-colored corn and cheese and then folded, crimped and fried until crisp. The success is in the shopping. Unlike most huitlacoche in the United States, it isn’t canned; it’s flash-frozen, from D’Artagnan.

No wonder Hecho en Dumbo had a devoted following in Dumbo, where it shared a space with a bar and cafe. There was also a Scandinavian design store in the back. The setup had its limits.

Now the restaurant has a storefront all to itself, a long room paneled with slats of weathered wood, as if Momofuku Ssam Bar has been left outside over the winter. It’s tasteful and spare, no wrestling posters or grainy photographs of Zapata.

Hecho en Dumbo finally has a kitchen all to itself, too. Danny Mena, the 30-year-old chef, who cooked at the Modern, is at his best when he takes the big flavors of his native Mexico City and strips a dish down to its fundamentals. He believes in his ingredients. The tacos de costilla ($11) couldn’t be more basic or more satisfying: three house-made corn tortillas topped with a pile of beef cut from seared short ribs, the bones left on the plate for gnawing. The rich meat doesn’t need anything more than a squeeze of lime.

Except maybe the company of a Pacifico ($6). Or even better, a Michelada Cubana ($8), an intense yet refreshing classic from Mexico City: a salt-rimmed glass nearly filled with fresh lime juice, hot sauce, Worcestershire and a dash of soup bouillon on ice is topped off with Bohemia Lager, the bottle served on the side. Take a sip of the concoction, then add more beer. The more you drink, the less you pucker.
494 2010-06-16 The cultural demonizing of gay men in public service films depicted them as at best, psychologically damaged and at worst, ruthless sexual predators. Lesbians were nearly invisible.

The same “CBS Reports” peddled the medical opinion, since discredited, that homosexuality was determined in the first three years of life. The movie has ominous vintage footage of electroshock aversion therapy being administered, accompanied by the suggestion that it might be a promising cure for what was widely regarded as a mental illness. The most unsettling historical tidbit concerns the treatment of homosexual patients at a mental hospital in Atascadero, Calif., where some were injected with a drug that simulated drowning, a process that one commentator describes as “chemical waterboarding.”

It is a sad indication of the marginalization of homosexuality in the late 1960s that media coverage of the Stonewall riots was mostly after the fact. And even then it was cursory and often condescending. Because so little photographic documentation exists of the unrest, the film relies mostly on eyewitnesses, including Seymour Pine, the now-retired police officer who led the initial raid of six officers and who describes it as “a real war.”

The details of the raid are reconstructed by several who were present, including Howard Smith and Lucian Truscott IV, journalists for The Village Voice whose offices were nearby. The film focuses on the first night of the unrest.

As one rioter remembers: “All of a sudden the police faced something they had never seen before. Gay people were never supposed to be threats to police officers. They were supposed to be weak men, limp-wristed, not able to do anything. And here they were lifting things up and fighting them and attacking them and beating them.” It was the first stirring of what came to be known as gay pride.

“This was the Rosa Parks moment, the time that gay people stood up and said no,” Mr. Truscott recalls. “And once that happened, the whole house of cards that was the system of oppression of gay people started to crumble.”

Produced and directed by Kate Davis and David Heilbroner; written by Mr. Heilbroner, based on the book “Stonewall: The Riots That Sparked the Gay Revolution” by David Carter; director of photography, Buddy Squires; edited by Ms. Davis; music by Gary Lionelli; released by First Run Features. At the Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, West Village. Running time: 1 hour 22 minutes. This film is not rated.
495 2010-06-16 American import prices recorded their largest decline in nearly a year in May as petroleum costs plummeted, according to a government report on Tuesday that bolstered views of tame inflation and low interest rates.

Import prices fell 0.6 percent, the biggest decline since July, after rising by a revised 1.1 percent in April, the Labor Department said.

Although the decline was less than the expectations of economists for a 1.2 percent fall, it was the first drop since February. April import prices were previously reported to have increased 0.9 percent. In the 12 months to May, import prices rose 8.6 percent.

The monthly decline in import prices reflected a 5 percent fall in the cost of imported petroleum and petroleum products.

Strength in the dollar was also helping to keep inflation pressures muted. This should allow the Federal Reserve, at next week’s policy meeting, to renew its pledge to keep interest rates low to bolster the economy’s recovery.

The Labor Department report showed export prices unexpectedly increased 0.7 percent last month after rising 1.2 percent in April. Analysts had expected export prices to be flat in May. In the 12 months to May, export prices rose 5.8 percent.
496 2010-06-16 Analysts said that once the S.& P. broke through its 200-day moving average and stayed there; a technical level, and perhaps a psychological one, had been breached for investors.

“It tells them that health is being restored into the market,” Ms. Krosby said. “Up until today it flirted with it and then pulled back.”

On Monday, for example, the market lost momentum just before the close as traders seemed to be winding down their positions, apparently not wanting to leave themselves open to developments in Europe, where sovereign debt problems have cast a pall.

“The question now becomes whether or not we see conviction buying: Do investors believe the worst is over, and we can actually work the market higher?” she said.

Art Hogan, the chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company in New York, said that crossing the moving average engendered “a self-fulfilling short cover rally.”

“We usually have that 3 o’clock to 4 o’clock reversal of direction,” he said.

In the absence of any single headline, investors reacted to many factors, like upbeat reports from manufacturers and new indicators on trade and home building.

Commodity prices and the euro also strengthened. Crude oil rose $1.82 to $76.94 a barrel in New York trading. The euro climbed back over $1.23.

European markets finished the day higher. The DAX in Frankfurt rose 0.82 percent while the CAC-40 in Paris settled 0.98 percent higher. The FTSE 100 in London was up 0.3 percent, held back by the BP shares, which declined another 3.8 percent.

Shares in the Boeing Company were up 4 percent at $67.48 after the company said it was starting to see increased interest in its products. Caterpillar rose 4 percent to $63.46, and Illinois Tool Works was up 2.4 percent at $46.78 after it raised its forecast.

Best Buy, a bellwether for consumer spending, fell 6 percent to $38.56 after profits edged up but fell short of analysts’ expectations. “It is a good sign that we were able to take the market higher,” Ms. Krosby said.

Import prices fell 0.6 percent, from a decline in petroleum prices, but the inflation numbers embedded in the trade data showed inflation was at bay, ahead of a Federal Reserve meeting next week. That was a positive sign, she said.

The S.& P. technology sector was also higher, in part because of a forecast by the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company of stronger global sales of computer chips. And a report by International Data Corporation showed year-on-year growth of 27 percent in the first quarter in the global personal computer market.

New economic figures showed a decline in home builders’ sentiment. The National Association of Homebuilders’ Housing Market Index fell to 17 in June from 22 in May, underscoring the importance of the government tax credit for the sector. The Empire state manufacturing index edged up to 19.57 in June from May. Though employment declined, the report indicated that the factory sector was recovering.

The Treasury’s 10-year note fell 14/32, to 101 20/32 . The yield rose to 3.30 percent, from 3.25 percent late Monday.
497 2010-06-17 The personal is political in the films of Agnès Jaoui, a sort of Gallic Woody Allen whose comedies of manners reveal a sensibility acutely attuned to the tiniest nuances of the mind games people play. Ms. Jaoui’s films may lack Mr. Allen’s comic shtick, quotable one-liners and showy metaphysical angst, but they are precisely calibrated dissections of the pretensions and insecurities of the French chattering class. As critical as she can be of her characters, Ms. Jaoui portrays them with the evenhanded sympathy of a wise therapist who likes her clients despite their annoying foibles.

The low-level politicians and media types who inhabit “Let It Rain,” her third film as a director (she has acted in many others), are too busy pursuing their personal agendas to sit back and despair about the human condition. Almost all them feel victimized in one way or another. That includes the protagonist, Agathe Villanova, a self-confident feminist writer (played by Ms. Jaoui with just the right edge of impatience) making the leap into politics.

Bossy and free-spirited, Agathe, who resembles a more unguarded Katie Couric, can’t understand why her boyfriend, Antoine (Frédéric Pierrot), objects to her rules about their relationship; she won’t live with him and has no desire for children. As much as Antoine loves her, he feels like an afterthought tagging after her during the campaign. As she discovers upon entering the fray, arguing politics with friends in Paris is no preparation for the rough and tumble of the real thing.

Agathe is at discreet loggerheads with her younger sister, Florence (Pascale Arbillot), who lives in the house, three hours outside of Paris, in which they grew up. Florence, who lacks Agathe’s self-esteem, is saddled with a clinging husband, Stéphane (Guillaume de Tonquedec). The sisters’ mother having recently died, Agathe returns to help settle the estate while campaigning for local office. Amid emotional tension exacerbated by Florence’s resentment of Agathe for being their mother’s favorite, their loyal Algerian housekeeper, Mimouna (Mimouna Hadji), is a calm voice of certainty. A believer in traditional family values, she looks askance at Agathe’s highhanded independence.

Once Agathe returns, Mimouna’s son, Karim (Jamel Debbouze), an aspiring documentarian who works as a hotel desk clerk, proposes making a television documentary about Agathe with his underemployed former mentor, Michel (Jean-Pierre Bacri, who wrote the screenplay with Ms. Jaoui). Agathe agrees, and the project becomes a comedy of errors in which the weather (it is always raining) plays a critical role.
498 2010-06-17 A customer-service representative from Verizon Wireless said that the company has put a new policy in place to attempt to get more money from customers through data plans....
499 2010-06-17 More than 200,000 Magnum pictures can be viewed by the public at the University of Texas....
500 2010-06-17 A customer service representative said that the company had put a new policy in place to try to get more money from customers through data plans....
501 2010-06-17 The Texas Republican quickly backpedaled, and then recanted, the remarks he made about BP's liability fund which had caused an uproar....
502 2010-06-17 A new study test a big increase in the price of soda and finds a big drop in consumption....
503 2010-06-17 As the uproar over his BP remarks continues, Rep. Barton backpedals....
504 2010-06-17 One of the deepest offshore oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico lies beneath 7,000 feet of water and under more than 20,000 feet of rock and sand. Operated by Chevron, it is less than 20 miles west of the unstoppable Deepwater Horizon blowout. And th...
505 2010-06-17 Well, that's good. But she went on to say: "Many customers request data blocks to prevent children from downloading applications, music, etc., that could significantly affect their bills. We have been training and encouraging the representatives to step customers through the services that will be affected by data blocks to make sure customers really want a total block, or if they would be better served by going to My Verizon (the online free account portal) and customizing their usage themselves by removing features they don't need. We haven't helped the customer if we put a data block on their phone only to have them call back because they didn't realize it would stop them from downloading a ringtone, for example."

So who's right? Maybe both my rep and the spokeswoman are correct: that you're really going to have to insist if you want data blocks put on your line. Verizon Wireless will try even harder than before to upsell you, to talk you out of the data blocks.

As for giving you credit for accidental charges, Verizon Wireless reports: "While we want the representatives to work with customers, and in appropriate cases, credit their accounts, we also ask that representatives encourage customers to move to plans that matches their usage needs. We don't want customers to go over their usage every month, and then call us looking for credits every month."

It seems true, then, that it will be tougher than before to get credited for accidental charges; the burden is on you to monitor the My Verizon Web site to track your own usage.

But would Verizon Wireless actually fire an employee for failing to upsell you? Ms. Raney is pretty emphatic on this point: "A representative would not be terminated or reprimanded for putting a data block on an account if that's what the customer requested. If a customer calls and indicates to a representatives that a data block would solve his or her problem, the representatives can and should suggest a data block, and we train them to do that."

My whistleblower rep also mentioned another development at Verizon Wireless. It pertains to the ETF -- the early termination fee, which is the penalty you have to pay if you discontinue your service before the two-year contract is up. The rep writes:

"Effective April the 26th, 2010 Early Termination Fees are no longer waived if a consumer moves out of our digital calling area coverage map. This means for customers whom have lost jobs and must relocate, people with immigration status and are liable to leave, or anyone who may otherwise relocate, is now subject to the ETF of $175 or $350, depending on device.

"In this economy, people are moving, they cannot keep certain bills, and when things don't work as planned, they also expect to terminate services. For a company that reports profit margins in the $49 billion range, you'd expect a little bit of kindness and compassion."

The rep attached a scan of the internal Verizon Wireless document that detailed this change.

Verizon's reply: "This was an old policy that needed updating, a leftover from before our network covered over 300 million out of the 305 million or so people in the U.S.

"There are two issues here. First, very few customers actually move out of a service area today. Second, if a customer buys a device from us at a deep discount in return for a two-year contract, and then decides to cancel service because he or she moves outside of that coverage area (likely out of the country, given the breadth of our coverage area), then the ETF helps us recoup our losses associated with the customer's early cancellation. This policy change was made in April and applies to very few people.  We also have other ways of handling exceptions such as military -- Verizon Wireless waives the ETF for deployed military personnel."

I have to say, I'm more understanding of Verizon on this point. Yes, times are tough. Yes, corporate compassion is a wonderful thing. But you don't see many companies letting their customers off the hook for bills they owe, and contracts they've signed, out of compassion; that's not the way the world works.

Thanks to my whistle blower for letting us know about the changing winds behind the scenes at the nation's biggest cellphone carrier. And thanks also to Verizon Wireless, who can't stand my muckraking about its practices, but nonetheless sent me these responses.
506 2010-06-17 The Internet ticket resale value of a seat for Game 7 is about $1,099, according to SeatGeek.com....
507 2010-06-17 "I just accept things before I even know what I'm doing," said the former Beatle and Wings man....
508 2010-06-17 An estimated 15,000 runners participated in the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge, which continues on Thursday night in Central Park....
509 2010-06-17 James Chanos, the well-known short-seller, tells Bloomberg Television about his latest trades, including several major oil companies -- but not BP....
510 2010-06-17 Employers and insurers will not be permitted to charge more for older dependents than for younger ones, but some employers may charge for each additional person added to a plan....
511 2010-06-17 The National Federation for the Blind says that drivers should not be able to turn off the external sounds created to alert pedestrians that an electric car is near....
512 2010-06-17 Brian d'Arcy James and Anika Noni Rose will be among the stars of a reimagined -- or should we say reincarnated? -- version of "On a Clear Day You Can See Forever" that Michael Mayer will stage at Powerhouse Theater in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., this sum...
513 2010-06-17 Two years after buying Bebo for $850 million, AOL sells it at a near complete loss. The upside? A big tax deduction....
514 2010-06-17 The company, based in California and founded in 2000, provides more than 170 products for use in the communications and computing markets,...
515 2010-06-17 What is the standard text-messaging rate?...
516 2010-06-17 Bloomberg continues to poach top-tier talent from rival news organizations, announcing that it has hired a top executive from Fortune as publisher of Bloomberg Businessweek....
517 2010-06-17 The recently elected British prime minister, David Cameron, and his Swedish counterpart, Fredrik Reinfeldt, spelled out their uncompromising stance on the European debt crisis in The Financial Times....
518 2010-06-17 Sovereign wealth funds and pension funds are backing start-up or small hedge funds again, FRM Capital Advisors has said, bucking a trend seen since the credit crisis for clients to favor the perceived safety of big funds, Reuters reported....
519 2010-06-17 Your Jokes | Alvin Greene, running for Senate from South Carolina, is a guy who doesn't campaign, doesn't speak in public and has no platform. Have you read his book, "Going Vague"? -- Bill Williams...
520 2010-06-17 Investors clamoring for Europe-based "hedge fund lite" portfolios in the wake of the credit crisis could still be cut off from their cash in a crisis, hedge fund executives have warned, Reuters reported....
521 2010-06-17 Canadian investors are increasingly looking for deals in emerging markets as the global economy recovers, following deep-pocketed pension funds into Asia in particular, even as valuation concerns linger, Reuters reported....
522 2010-06-17 More than 90 American banks and thrifts missed making a May 17 payment to the federal government under its main bank bailout program, signaling a rising number of lenders are struggling to meet their obligations, Reuters reported....
523 2010-06-17 The agreement between Switzerland and the United States over the transfer of UBS data on clients suspected of evading taxes was passed Thursday without allowing for a referendum, a move that will speed the hand over of the data to United States au...
524 2010-06-17 If you own BP shares and rely on the dividends for your retirement income, you matter less than shrimp boat owners and tourism workers in the Gulf of Mexico. That's what the announcement means that BP will suspend its dividend and set aside money ...
525 2010-06-17 Limited Brands will finally shed its remaining ties to the store franchise it arose from, agreeing to sell its 25 percent stake in The Limited to the retailer's majority owner....
526 2010-06-17 Limited Brands will finally shed its remaining ties to the store franchise it arose from, agreeing to sell its 25 percent stake in The Limited to the retailer’s majority owner.

A sale to the private equity firm Sun Capital Partners, for about $32 million, is expected to be announced as soon as Thursday. The deal will give complete control of the 220-store chain to Sun Capital, a firm known for buying ailing companies that has worked with management of The Limited to turn it around. (In November, the struggling retailer’s pretax annual earnings were positive for the first time since 1993, and management held a big celebration.)

Sun Capital, based in Boca Raton, Fla., bought a 75 percent stake in The Limited in August 2007 with a $50 million investment.

Founded in 1963 by Leslie H. Wexner in Ohio, The Limited provided the seed for what became Limited Brands, a retailing empire that includes the Victoria’s Secret, Bath & Body Works and Henri Bendel brands. All those other names will remain part of Limited Brands.

But as the shopping conglomerate began to focus more on higher-margin intimate apparel and beauty products, executives at its original franchise found it harder to amass the cash needed for operations like an e-commerce business.

“When you’re competing for capital with all these other businesses that are so much bigger, it’s hard to get anything,” Linda I. Heasley, The Limited’s chief executive, said in an interview on Wednesday. “It’s hard to show a great return to say, you should put the capital over here.”
527 2010-06-17 A joint panel of American and Vietnamese policy makers, citizens and scientists released an action plan urging the United States government and other donors to provide an estimated $30 million annually over 10 years to help to treat Vietnamese suffering from disabilities and clean sites still contaminated by dioxin, a chemical used in the defoliant Agent Orange. Agent Orange was dumped by the United States military over the south to destroy crops and jungle cover shielding guerrillas, an assault that has been linked to cancers, birth defects and other ailments.
528 2010-06-17 More than 30 Pakistani troops were missing after a Monday attack on a post less than a mile from the Afghan border, and the Afghan Taliban claimed to be holding up to 10 soldiers, said Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas, a Pakistani Army spokesman. Other security officials in the mountainous region said up to 65 soldiers were missing from the post, between the Mohmand and Bajaur agencies. In a clash about 12 miles away, 10 soldiers and dozens of militants were reported killed.
529 2010-06-17 “It shows the Apple magic is still present,” said Gerry Purdy, a mobile analyst at MobileTrax. “It’s impressive.”

Still, analysts said, Apple is struggling to maintain the same clear-cut lead over rivals that it had in the past. In particular, the growing portfolio of Android-powered phones, which number in the dozens this year and are offered by many companies, is a significant threat.

“The reality is that in the long term, the Android market share is going to catch up to Apple,” said Charles Golvin, a wireless analyst at Forrester Research. “When you have one device being sold to a smaller portion of the population, it’s not going to compete as well as many devices from many vendors on multiple carriers.”

Mr. Golvin said that the slimmer design of the iPhone 4 and features like a higher-quality display and front-facing camera were helping to whip up interest in the phone, which will go on sale next Thursday.

But he also said that many current iPhone owners were probably nearing the end of their two-year contract with AT&T, qualifying them for a discount on the iPhone 4. “I doubt that a meaningful percentage of these buyers are new,” he said.

Either way, Mr. Golvin said, the 600,000 figure was good news for AT&T, Apple’s wireless partner in the United States. Most iPhone buyers are extending their contracts, he said, “so AT&T is securing an ongoing relationship with them for one to two more years.”

AT&T said Wednesday that the demand for the phone had forced it to temporarily suspend new orders.

“The availability of additional inventory will determine if we can resume taking preorders,” said Mark Siegel, an AT&T spokesman.

Mr. Siegel said it had handled 10 times as many preorders for the iPhone 4 than it had on the first day the iPhone 3GS was available for ordering last June.

Although Apple is still accepting preorders, its Web site no longer promises delivery on the phone’s scheduled release date. Instead, customers who place an order now may receive their phones by July 14.

The sales report led some experts to estimate that Apple would beat sales records for previous versions of the iPhone.

In a note to clients on Wednesday, Gene Munster, an analyst with Piper Jaffray, noted that it took Apple three days to sell a million of the iPhone 3GS. Mr. Munster said his firm was raising his estimate for sales of all iPhone models in the current quarter to 9.5 million, from 8.5 million.
530 2010-06-17 Cervelli, who was 6 for 8 with 15 runs batted in with the bases loaded, said the drill helped his approach in looking for a pitch he can drive. Alex Rodriguez had 16 R.B.I., the most in baseball, and he had also hit two grand slams. Cervelli has none.

The Yankees, because of their versatile and talented lineup, may be more likely than other teams to load the bases and, thus, have more chances to perform. It does not hurt that their .366 overall on-base percentage was the best in baseball. As a team, the Yankees with the bases loaded were hitting .429 (36 for 84) with 6 grand slams and 99 R.B.I., all tops in the majors.

“Nobody tries to be a hero,” Cervelli said. “We all know what we can do, but if we don’t do it, we know the next guy will.”

FEWER HOMERS, BUT STILL A LOT Through its first 30 games, Yankee Stadium is still a launching pad — just not as much as it was in its inaugural season. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, the Stadium has yielded 79 homers (43 by the Yankees) compared with 110 (61 by the Yankees) at the same stage last season, a 28 percent decrease.

On average, 2.63 homers have been hit per game at Yankee Stadium, the third-highest rate this season, behind Chase Field in Arizona (2.94) and Miller Park in Milwaukee (2.70). There were 237 homers hit last season at Yankee Stadium, breaking the previous team record of 215 in 2005.

“The one thing that sticks out in my mind is it carried well the first six weeks,” Manager Joe Girardi said, referring to 2009, “and I didn’t necessarily see that the first six weeks of this season.”

As for reasons behind the decrease, it is possible that the demolition of the old Yankee Stadium changed the wind currents. Girardi also cited the weather and the style of pitchers the Yankees have faced as possible factors.

RODRIGUEZ AT D.H. Alex Rodriguez returned to his customary cleanup spot in the Yankees’ lineup Wednesday, but as the designated hitter, not the third baseman. Until he regains full mobility in his hip flexor, Rodriguez will continue to D.H., Joe Girardi said.

“We watched him take ground balls yesterday and I just didn’t think he had the lateral movement that we wanted to see quite yet,” Girardi said.

Rodriguez engaged in baseball-related activities Tuesday for the first time in five days, and the Yankees came away satisfied enough with his hitting to insert him back in the lineup. Getting loose has been a problem for Rodriguez, who in the downtime between at-bats will ride an exercise bike and have someone stretch him. Girardi acknowledged that Rodriguez’s diminished mobility could be an issue on the basepaths.

“Usually, from my experience, if you take five days off as a player and you go out there, that doesn’t necessarily mean that you feel fresh,” Girardi said. “Sometimes you feel sluggish, actually, because your body’s so used to moving every day. When you don’t move every day, you feel kind of strange.”

DRAFT PICK LOOKS TO SIGN Cito Culver reinforced his desire to begin his professional career quickly by passing on his scholarship to the University of Maryland. Culver, the Yankees’ first-round draft pick, told The Rochester Democrat and Chronicle that he was flying Wednesday to the Yankees’ complex in Tampa, Fla. Agreeing to a contract would be the next logical step, but Culver cannot officially sign it until after he graduates from high school on Sunday.
531 2010-06-17 The Italian Garden at Planting Fields Arboretum in Oyster Bay, N.Y., will open to the public on June 18 after an eight-year, $500,000 restoration. The sparkling pool has new tiles that replicate the originals, the camellias are blooming and Antonio Canova’s marble sculptures of scantily clad nymphs rise from pedestals in the pool.

The quarter-acre garden was designed for Mai and William Robertson Coe in 1916, as part of a 409-acre property, and was redesigned by the Olmsted Brothers in the 1920s. After Mr. Coe gave the property to New York State in 1955, it became a college and later an arboretum. “The broad landscape was considered important, but the Italian garden was not,” said Henry B. Joyce, director of the Planting Fields Foundation. It wasn’t until 10 years ago that the garden, which was in disrepair, was seen as significant. Open daily, except Christmas, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; (516) 922-8678.
532 2010-06-17 LONDON — Britain will abolish its main financial regulator and consolidate its authority in the Bank of England, the chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, said Wednesday night.

In a speech to financial executives, Mr. Osborne reiterated his criticism of the country’s regulatory structure, which he and others contend failed to anticipate the effects of the economic crisis on the nation’s financial system.

“At the heart of the crisis,” he said, “was a rapid and unsustainable increase in debt that our macroeconomic and regulatory system utterly failed to identify, let alone prevent.”

The new arrangement, he added, would be one “that learns the lessons of the greatest banking crisis in our lifetime.”

Mr. Osborne said the Financial Services Authority would be split into three parts. Its regulatory function will become a subsidiary of the Bank of England and be responsible for oversight of banks, investment banks and insurance companies. The government will create two separate entities, one for protecting consumers and the other for pursuing financial crimes.
533 2010-06-17 DURBAN, South Africa — Beautiful to watch and all but impossible to beat for the last two years, Spain has not yet figured out how to combine artistry and victory in South Africa.

Since winning the European championships in 2008, the only blemish on its record was a surprising 2-0 loss here to the United States in last year’s Confederations Cup. But the even bigger surprise came Wednesday on a lovely late afternoon in Durban, where Spain was beaten, 1-0, by Switzerland in the World Cup opener for each team.

The defeat, the first shock of the tournament, was not quite as big an upset as Senegal’s opening-day ambush of France in 2002: the French were defending champions. But this was still quite a jolt, considering that Spain and Brazil are widely considered the top two teams playing in South Africa.

To manage it, Switzerland had to repel assault after assault and accept the uncomfortable truth that the Spaniards would control the ball for most of the game with their passing and trapping prowess. The Swiss got top-notch games from their goalkeeper, Diego Benaglio, and from their defensive midfielders, Benjamin Huggel and Gökhan Inler, who implemented Coach Ottmar Hitzfeld’s game plan by funneling the Spanish attack largely to the wings, where their crosses, in light of Spain’s lack of height up front, did less damage.

“We said we didn’t want to lose too much energy fighting for the ball in their half,” Hitzfeld said. “We said we want to focus on our defense and wait for counterattacks. If you want to play an attacking game against Spain, you will lose out massively because they will score one goal after the next.”

The only goal Wednesday came not from one of Spain’s justly celebrated midfielders but from the more obscure Swiss midfielder Gelson Fernandes.

Fernandes’s moment came in the 52nd minute, after Spain opened the second half with a series of assaults on the Swiss goal. Switzerland’s strike began in the Spanish half with Eren Derdiyok heading the ball to Blaise Nkufo and then getting a quick pass in return that left him running toward the Spanish goal through a gap in the defense. Goalkeeper Iker Casillas met him with a slide tackle about 15 yards out and sent Derdiyok flying. As Derdiyok twisted in the air, the ball rebounded off his leg. It bounced forward and defender Gerard Piqué landed on it with his chest.

It then rolled free directly in front of the goal. Fernandes dodged the fallen Piqué and just beat the diving Casillas to the ball, flicking it into the net with his right foot.

“I’m not used to scoring goals, so I’m a little bit surprised,” Fernandes, 23, said. “When I saw Eren go to goal, I knew he was very powerful, and I just followed, and I just scored. It was a bit lucky.”

Perhaps, but it looked considerably less lucky when Derdiyok came within inches of scoring another Swiss goal in the 75th minute, shaking free of Piqué and Carles Puyol and poking a clever shot that struck the right post.

“We are very happy we were able to take 3 unexpected points,” Hitzfeld said of the victory.

The Spanish were supposed to dominate Group H but no longer control their fate. They could win the next two games, against Honduras and Chile, and still not be guaranteed to reach the second round if Chile and Switzerland also finish with 6 points. Wednesday’s defeat raised the specter of another Spanish disappointment at the World Cup. They remain the most powerful soccer nation never to win, having not advanced past the quarterfinals since 1950.

“This is of course not a good sign, certainly not a good sign, that we start off this way,” Spain’s coach, Vicente del Bosque, said. “But I think it’s our duty to cope with this and to approach the next two matches by trying to win.”

Spain certainly had its chances, particularly in an intense second half, when it kept pushing forward and stringing together short passes and long crosses. Midfielder Xabi Alonso hit the crossbar, with Benaglio clearly beaten, in the 70th minute with a bolt of a right-footed shot from just outside the penalty area.
534 2010-06-17 It’s not supposed to work this way, at least in the minds of the many investors of the old school. To them, a stock that pays a dividend is a stock that is safe. “It told them that a company was still around and operating, it was in good health,” said Milo M. Benningfield, a San Francisco financial planner.

Just because a company pays a dividend now is no guarantee that it will forever, or that the company will even continue to exist. Nor is it any guarantee that the underlying stock is stable. Steven Podnos, a financial planner in Merritt Island, Fla., notes that the iShares Dow Jones Select Dividend Index exchange-traded fund, which contains stocks that offer high annual yields through dividends, underperformed the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index over the last five years.

Still, plenty of people strap on the blinders and maintain their faith in the stocks they think they know well. A frightening article in the trade newspaper Pensions & Investments on Monday estimated that BP employees and others in the company’s 401(k) plan had lost more than $1 billion from the stock’s decline in the wake of the spill.

How can the loss be so high? Well, 29 percent of the plan’s assets were invested in BP stock as of last September. This, sadly, is yet another violation of the too-many-eggs-in-one-basket rule that company plan sponsors should have had inscribed in stone for employees — even before the Enron collapse and the resulting devastation in employee retirement accounts there.

Employees or retired employees are not alone. Devotees of white-hot companies (Apple comes to mind) simply refuse to believe that anything bad could befall the stock. Retirees reliant on dividend income may be averse to change if a stock has paid out regularly for decades. Others may have inherited a big slug of stock and may simply not know any better. Then there are those who are so tax-averse that they won’t diversify their holdings because they don’t want to give up some of their winnings to capital gains taxes.

If you know people who might fall into these categories, please do them a favor and send them to a financial planner post-haste if you can’t talk some sense into them yourself.

Or you could simply try to scare them. Very few people saw a spill of this magnitude coming, just as only a small number could have predicted a few years back that financial stocks would go from contributing 29 percent of the dividend payments of S.& P. 500 payments in 2007 to just 9 percent in 2009.

Today, consumer staples stocks contribute more than any other sector, according to Howard Silverblatt of S.& P. How might that sector or parts of it deteriorate? A prolonged terrorist campaign against large American retailers could begin, or a blight could emerge that wipes out a large percentage of the nation’s crops.

These things are unlikely but entirely possible, and they wouldn’t be a total surprise. Tempted by utilities? Mr. Benningfield suggested contemplating the remote possibility of solar flares frying the power grid.

As of Wednesday, there is now political risk to consider, too. Now that there is a recent precedent, legislators could again try to bully a company into suspending its dividends.

And if that weren’t worry enough for dividend fans, we must also rely on those same legislators to sort out our tax policy. Currently, no one pays more than a 15 percent federal tax on dividend income. If Congress does not act before the end of the year, however, investors will start paying much higher ordinary income tax rates on dividends come 2011. “Where it will wind up, no one knows,” said Kenneth L. Powell, a tax partner at the accounting firm Berdon L.L.P. in New York. Wealthier investors, meanwhile, may pay even more once a 3.8 percent Medicare tax on unearned income begins in 2013.

Everyone needs income in retirement, and dividends aren’t a bad way to get it as long as they don’t come from a single company. Again and again, we’ve seen out-of-nowhere scandals and crises and accidents bring big companies to their knees. Why, given the overwhelming evidence that these things do happen once in a while, would you not extract your dividend income from a low-cost, broadly diversified mutual fund that specializes in dividends?

The moral of the story, as always, is to diversify within each asset class you own, whether it’s dividend-paying stocks or municipal bonds or the emerging-market countries where you’re rolling the dice for big gains. Then, diversify your retirement income, too. The more sources the better, whether it’s dividend income, interest income, annuity income, rental income or periodic (and tax-savvy) outright sales of stocks or other assets.

Even this sort of diversification might not have protected you from the pain in 2008. But it can shield you from the ruin of betting too heavily on a single security like BP.
535 2010-06-17 ZURICH (Reuters) — The future of a crucial tax deal between Switzerland and the United States remained in limbo on Wednesday as the lower house of the Swiss Parliament voted again for a referendum, delaying a decision until Thursday.

A special panel will be formed to resolve differences between the houses before they take final votes on Thursday. If the Swiss are to adhere to an Aug. 24 deadline on the deal, both houses must resolve the matter by Friday, when the Swiss Parliament’s session ends until September.

Parliament’s main body finally backed the tax treaty on Tuesday, but the lower house’s demands for a referendum sent the issue back to the upper house which, early on Wednesday, remained unmoved in its opposition to a popular vote.

If parliamentarians find enough common ground to approve the deal, it will draw a line under months of uncertainty over a legal dispute that has threatened to bring the country’s biggest bank, UBS, to its knees.

The Swiss lower house originally rejected the tax treaty last week, delaying a decision on whether to allow the government to hand over the accounts of 4,450 clients UBS helped to dodge taxes to American authorities.
536 2010-06-17 BP is also developing a new system to replace the current containment devices, one that will be more flexible in the event of a hurricane in the Gulf of Mexico. This system will also be able to collect more oil, should those estimates increase, with a maximum capacity of 80,000 barrels, Adm. Allen said in the briefing.

The first containment cap was installed after BP cut an underwater pipe called a riser on June 3. The second containment system is attached directly with pipes and other equipment to the failed blowout preventer, the device that was supposed to shut off the flow of oil after an explosion rocked the Deepwater Horizon rig on April 20. That equipment had already been installed for the failed “top kill” effort weeks ago.

The flow was already categorized as the largest offshore oil spill in the nation’s history, but the new figures that the government released on Tuesday sharply increased previous estimates. Scientists estimated that the flow rate ranged from 35,000 barrels to 60,000 barrels a day — up from the rate they issued only last week, of 25,000 to 30,000 barrels a day. It continues a pattern in which every new estimate of the flow rate has been dramatically higher than the one before.

The new estimate is far above the figure of 5,000 barrels a day that the government and BP clung to for weeks after the spill started, following the April 20 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig. That estimate was made by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration using methods not recommended for large oil spills, and it came under attack from professors and advocacy groups who said the spill had to be larger. Time has proven those critics right.

The latest number is based on new information, including high-resolution video made after the riser cut, and on pressure readings taken by a device that was inserted this week into the equipment at the sea floor. Energy Secretary Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist, was personally involved in using those pressure readings to help make the latest calculation.

“This estimate brings together several scientific methodologies and the latest information from the sea floor, and represents a significant step forward in our effort to put a number on the oil that is escaping from BP’s well,” Mr. Chu said in a statement. “As we continue to collect additional data and refine these estimates, it is important to realize that the numbers can change.”

BP installed its second containment system a day after efforts to stop the damaged well hit yet another snag, underscoring once again the fragility of the work: lightning struck the vessel that had been collecting the oil from the well, starting a fire and forcing operations to be suspended for nearly five hours.

BP said in a statement that the fire, which broke out on the derrick — the familiar-looking tower used to lift the piping — was quickly extinguished, and there were no injuries. But as a precaution, the containment operation was shut down.

The containment cap has still been BP’s most successful method for collecting some of the oil that has been leaking from the undersea well, and it has only been partly effective.

If the new range of flow estimates proves correct, and if BP is ultimately found guilty of gross negligence in its actions leading to the disaster, the company could be assessed fines of up to $258 million a day. Those fines could come on top of payments for cleanup costs and to cover economic damage to Gulf Coast businesses.
537 2010-06-17 During his separate session before the Armed Services Committee, General Petraeus was given a chance for what he called “a redo hearing” — to make up for testimony cut short on Tuesday when he momentarily collapsed. General Petraeus used the opportunity to more forcefully state that he backed the president’s timetable for an American troop withdrawal in Afghanistan.

Senator Carl Levin of Michigan, the committee’s Democratic chairman, was especially rough on General Petraeus during Tuesday’s session, clearly dissatisfied with how the commander characterized his endorsement of the July 2011 withdrawal deadline.

During the earlier hearing, Mr. Levin reminded General Petraeus of his oath to provide Congress with his best professional assessments. But in response, Mr. Levin had received a vague answer — described by General Petraeus as “a qualified yes” — in defense of the timetable.

Given an opportunity on Wednesday to more clearly define his view, General Petraeus came with a prepared statement that stressed how much he did indeed “support and agree” with the decision to set a timetable for withdrawing troops from Afghanistan.

General Petraeus explained that the date would only begin a process to hand over security to Afghan forces, and that the pace for carrying out “a responsible drawdown” would be determined by security conditions a year from now.

That satisfied Mr. Levin, who had complained Tuesday that not enough was being done to train and equip the expanding Afghan security forces to take over the mission.

“I am glad to hear General Petraeus express his support for the decision to begin U.S. troop reductions in Afghanistan in July 2011,” Mr. Levin said. “I strongly believe it is essential for success in Afghanistan that everyone understand the urgency with which the Afghans need to take responsibility for their own security.”

But Senator John McCain of Arizona, the ranking Republican on the committee, continued to argue that the decision to announce a withdrawal date in advance “does not bode well for success in Afghanistan.”

“If we sound an uncertain trumpet, not many will follow,” Mr. McCain said. “And that’s what’s being sounded now.”

General Petraeus also said that he and other senior military officers had shared information with their counterparts in Pakistan about the Haqqani network, an insurgent group based in the North Waziristan region of Pakistan. General Petraeus said the group “clearly commanded and controlled” recent attacks in Kabul and against Bagram Air Base inside Afghanistan.

Mr. Gates, referring to the escalation in Iraq in his first year as defense secretary under President George W. Bush, told senators he felt “a certain sense of déjà vu, because I was sitting here getting the same kind of questions in June of 2007, when we had just barely gotten the surge forces into Iraq at that point.”

Mr. Gates predicted that the United States would be able to show “clear progress” in Afghanistan by the end of this year. “This is not something where we do ourselves any favors by tearing ourselves up by the roots every week to see if we’re growing,” he said.

Earlier in the hearing, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, flatly asked Mr. Gates if he had confidence in the top leadership of Afghanistan, a reference to President Hamid Karzai, who has had a rocky relationship with the Obama administration.

“Yes, I do,” Mr. Gates swiftly replied. He said that based on his own conversations with Mr. Karzai, “I think he is embracing his responsibility,” and that Mr. Karzai’s visit to Kandahar last week to offer support for a military and police anti-Taliban operation was “very important.”

Mr. Gates said that military operations in Marja had been successful, but that efforts to establish a local Afghan government and development programs were “moving slower than we originally anticipated.” He also said that “we made very clear at the very outset, many months ago, that this summer would see increased casualties.”

“As our military and our coalition partners move into areas that have been controlled by the Taliban for the last two or three years, it was inevitable that there would be increased casualties — tragic, but inevitable,” he said.

Admiral Mullen acknowledged that “we all have angst” about Afghanistan, but “I think we will know by the end of the year, obviously, where we are with respect to reversing the momentum.”
538 2010-06-17 I buy a lot of wood. Beautiful hardwoods, from domestic and foreign forests, that we use to make very fine furniture. But here's a weird thing: we throw a lot of it away. Not sawdust -- though we make lots of that, too -- but perfectly good chunks...
539 2010-06-17 Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota has established political action committees in Iowa and New Hampshire, two states likely to play a large role in choosing the Republican nominee for president in 2012.     The Iowa and New Hampshire versions of his F...
540 2010-06-17 In my first post about Consolidated Printing, I described a family business that is long on family -- seven family members to be exact -- and short on infrastructure.     My first meeting with the company's founder, Marilyn Jones, and her son-in-l...
541 2010-06-18 A sparkling construction by Samuel A. Donaldson....
542 2010-06-18 Oprah Winfrey's family office will help her with money management and household organization....
543 2010-06-18 Growth Energy, an organization representing ethanol manufacturers, is furious that the Environmental Protection Agency is delaying its decision until the fall....
544 2010-06-18 A four-day event for the plus-size apparel market....
545 2010-06-18 In a statement, the rapper's management said he is "a mainstay at music festivals all over the world and has performed at all of these without incident."...
546 2010-06-18 The Warrior Small Business Academy offers a five-week course for women and minorities who own construction and construction-related businesses....
547 2010-06-18 The Renaissance Boston Waterfront Hotel is offering a beer-themed package in time for Father's Day....
548 2010-06-18 In its second surprise executive shake-up in just over three months, the music company EMI announced on Friday that Roger Faxon, the head of its publishing division, would also oversee the company's recorded music....
549 2010-06-18 But prospects for jobs bill remain uncertain....
550 2010-06-18 EMI said Friday that it would shake up its management, days after it staved off default on a $5 billion loan from Citigroup....
551 2010-06-18 California Public Employees' Retirement System is building up a reserve of executives who it can then nominate for board seats, as the company gears up to take advantage of expected "proxy access" rules for shareholders, The Wall Street Journal re...
552 2010-06-18 The deal for the Intelligence job placement services unit is the private equity giant's first major deal in Japan....
553 2010-06-18 Hedge fund managers left their annual get-together on Thursday with much to worry about, as volatile markets, looming regulation and tax changes block the industry's recovery from the global economic crisis, Reuters reported....
554 2010-06-18 Two initial public offerings rose in their Thursday debuts as the broader U.S. market fell and a third offering was cut and delayed, a sign that the market for new issues is still uncertain, Reuters reported....
555 2010-06-18 A sweeping overhaul of financial regulations will include a controversial plan to insulate banks from risky swap dealing, aides said on Thursday as lawmakers hammered out a final bill, Reuters reported....
556 2010-06-18 Europe's fiscal problems are a risk that will have some effect on U.S. growth during the rest of this year and 2011, United States Federal Reserve vice chairman Donald Kohn said in an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Reuters reported....
557 2010-06-18 The White House intervened to weaken a provision in the final financial regulation bill that aims to give shareholders more say on how companies are governed, Reuters reported, citing three people familiar with matter....
558 2010-06-18 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
559 2010-06-18 U.S. citizens and residents with UBS accounts are racing the clock to disclose their secret holdings to the Internal Revenue Service after the Swiss Parliament ratified an agreement to surrender the names of 4,450 bank clients, tax lawyers told Bl...
560 2010-06-18 House and Senate negotiators agreed Thursday to broaden the scope of a new set of audits of the Federal Reserve by the Government Accountability Office to include transactions involving the Fed's discount window and open market operations....
561 2010-06-18 The 46-year-old Mr. Peskin, on the other hand, is widely described as a bare-knuckled powerbroker, a capable operative who has turned the Democratic Party in San Francisco into a solidly progressive political machine.

“Who has put together a majority on that board before? David Chiu and Aaron Peskin,” said Eric Jaye, a former political strategist for Mr. Newsom. “You need to look at those two as front-runners, without a doubt.”

Only three times in San Francisco’s history has the Board of Supervisors appointed an emergency mayor. The last occasion was in 1978, when the board appointed Dianne Feinstein after Mayor George Moscone was assassinated by Dan White. Mrs. Feinstein was elected to a full term in 1979 and served until being elected to the Senate in 1992.

This time, the stakes are particularly high, observers say, because the interim mayor would have a full year in office and would immediately become the decisive front-runner in 2012.

Besides Mr. Chiu, three other supervisors are believed to harbor mayoral ambitions: John Avalos, David Campos and Ross Mirkarimi. But they are prohibited from voting for themselves (six votes are required for election). The list of potential candidates also includes Mark Leno, Leland Yee and Tom Ammiano, all state legislators; Matt Gonzalez, a former mayoral candidate; the former mayors Willie L. Brown Jr. and Art Agnos; and Ed Harrington, the general manager of the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission.

“It could almost be a reality show at this point,” said Jim Ross, another former consultant for Mr. Newsom.

With most supervisors seen as vastly more progressive than Mr. Newsom, the rules for his succession have only added to the intrigue.

According to state law, Mr. Newsom would relinquish his position as mayor at the moment he was sworn in as lieutenant governor on Jan. 3.

A new Board of Supervisors will also be elected in November, but according to San Francisco’s charter, incoming board members will not be sworn in until Jan. 8. The current board, therefore, would have a five-day window to appoint an interim mayor.

People close to Mr. Newsom say he has promised his moderate base that he will try to delay his swearing in and hold on to his seat for more than five days, in an effort to ensure that a more moderate candidate emerges.

“Because of the whole issue of so much uncertainty over who the mayor would be in 2011, and the fact that a progressive-left Board of Supervisors could anoint someone who would have a real lead, he was concerned about it,” Jim Lazarus of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce said of Mr. Newsom.

Tony Winnicker, Mr. Newsom’s spokesman, said the tactic “could come into play” if the mayor was elected. The mayor had also proposed a November ballot measure that would result in a special ballot election to allow voters to choose the interim mayor, but it was rejected by the board.

“Voters ought to have the opportunity to elect the interim mayor, not a Board of Supervisors who just care about their own power,” Mr. Winnicker said.

A contest between Mr. Chiu and Mr. Peskin would pit two men with broad bases of support and a complicated, shared history against each other.

Their relationship has soured significantly over the past year, according to people on both sides. In an interview this week, Mr. Peskin criticized Mr. Chiu’s performance as board president as, at times, “weak” while he promoted himself as a candidate to succeed Mr. Newsom.

“I could do it,” said Mr. Peskin, who served on the board for eight years, including four as president. “There’s a profound, pent-up desire in San Francisco to give a real progressive mayor a try. The progressives can prove that we’re fiscally prudent, that we can make the tough decisions and do an effective job of running the city.”

Mr. Chiu, in an interview, declined to say whether he was actively seeking to succeed Mr. Newsom, saying only that he is focused on balancing the city’s budget. Nonetheless, he vigorously promoted his support for small businesses and portrayed himself as a consensus-building leader with citywide appeal.

“I occupy this center space,” Mr. Chiu said. “I am one person who has brought together stakeholders at City Hall that’s at war with each other — labor, business, the progressive left, the moderate right.”

Mr. Chiu is getting widespread encouragement to run, especially from Chinese-Americans. Rose Pak, a consultant for the Chinatown Chamber of Commerce, said: “This is our chance for the first Chinese-American mayor of this city. How can you pass that up?”

Mr. Chiu is the son of immigrants from Taiwan. He earned bachelor’s, master’s and law degrees from Harvard. Over the past year, there has been growing criticism that while he is cerebral, he relies too heavily on consensus building and is indecisive, criticism that has drawn comparisons to President Obama.

Even some of Mr. Chiu’s supporters say that he can be politically naïve and that his relationship with Mr. Peskin was damaged in part because of the perception that Mr. Chiu did not appear grateful for Mr. Peskin’s role in helping to elevate him to the board presidency.

“He’s a super, super smart guy, but he doesn’t always get people; he gets issues,” said a close friend of Mr. Chiu. “In politics when someone supports you, you’re loyal to them. For David, it was, ‘O.K., you got me into office, but now I’m going to try to work with everybody.’ ”

Mr. Peskin acknowledged that the differences between him and his onetime ally were borne more out of personality and a clash of styles rather than profound divisions on policy issues.

“Look,” Mr. Peskin said, “This is a guy who largely shares the same views I do on issues, and he could go and become the first Chinese-American mayor.”
562 2010-06-18 The Spanish government sold 3.5 billion euros of bonds Thursday, the maximum set for the auction, easing investor worries that the country might struggle to make ends meet without outside help....
563 2010-06-18 The Spanish government sold 3.5 billion euros of bonds Thursday, the maximum set for the auction, easing investor worries that the country might struggle to make ends meet without outside help.

The successful sale, worth about $4.3 billion, helped push European stocks and the euro higher.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Spanish note fell five basis points, helping rates in other peripheral European bond markets decline as well. On Wednesday the yield on the 10-year Spanish note rose to its highest level over its German equivalent since the inception of the euro, as investors worried about the fiscal situation in the country.

Spain sold 3 billion euros of 10-year debt at an average yield of 4.864 percent, less than the 5.04 percent that the bonds were trading at just before the auction.

Demand was 1.89 times the amount on offer. Spain also sold 479.2 million euros of 30-year debt at 5.908 percent, and the bid-to-cover ratio was 2.45, higher than the 1.38 at the previous sale in March.

Despite the relief at the auction result, Spain still has a long way to go to convince investors that the worst is over.

“With the current liquidity arrangements in place there seem few doubts about the ability to find buyers but the quality of the order book (difficult to find out in an auction) is important,” analysts at Deutsche Bank wrote in a research note.
564 2010-06-18 The final accord came after the two houses of the Swiss Parliament agreed early Thursday to forgo a national referendum on the matter and instead adhere to an August 2009 deal under which Switzerland promised to disclose information on 4,450 UBS accounts held by wealthy Americans suspected of evading taxes. The accounts, some with multiple owners, held $18 billion at one point, according to the I.R.S.

The prospect of a referendum had threatened to open up a new front in the American investigation into UBS because the bank would have missed the Aug. 24 deadline to hand over the account details, exposing it to further legal action. The Justice Department and the I.R.S. had threatened to revive a civil lawsuit demanding that UBS disclose 52,000 client names.

UBS said in a statement Thursday that it welcomed the approval and was confident it would meet the Aug. 24 deadline.

In 2009, UBS paid a $780 million fine, turned over several hundred client names and entered into a deferred-prosecution agreement with the United States over activities in its offshore private bank. Switzerland, one of the world’s largest offshore jurisdictions, holds nearly one-third of the estimated $7 trillion in global wealth kept offshore.

The parliamentary approval was a watershed moment in the history of Swiss private banking, whose tradition of client confidentiality goes back centuries. Unlike United States law, Swiss law distinguishes between tax evasion, a civil matter rarely prosecuted, and tax fraud, a criminal matter.

The Swiss Federal Tax Administration said in a statement on Thursday that it had already processed about 3,000 of the 4,450 cases, and that most of the rest were being processed. The Swiss Federal Office of Justice said in a statement that “nothing now stands in the way of UBS client details being disclosed” in cases where the account holders do not challenge the data transfer. Americans who contest the handover, in Swiss courts, are obligated to notify the United States attorney general of their challenge, a move that effectively identifies them to the I.R.S.

The criteria that prosecutors will use in pursuing tax cheats through other banks mirrors the UBS criteria. UBS will generally disclose American clients who had unreported accounts of at least a million Swiss francs, or about $988,000.

UBS will also disclose Americans who were the owners of secret offshore sham company accounts with that total. The accounts in question cover 2001 through 2008.

For accounts involving the concealment of funds, the submission of incorrect or false documents to UBS or the I.R.S., and what the I.R.S. terms “a scheme of lies,” the balance must be at least 250,000 Swiss francs, about $247,000. UBS will also disclose accounts for which holders did not file a special disclosure document, called a W-9, over at least three years since 1998, and for which the accounts generated annual revenue to the client of at least 100,000 Swiss francs.
565 2010-06-18 WASHINGTON — House and Senate negotiators agreed Thursday to broaden the scope of a new set of audits of the Federal Reserve by the Government Accountability Office to include transactions involving the Fed’s discount window and open market operations. But the Federal Reserve dodged attempts to extend Congressional review over its monetary policy decisions.

The Senate had previously approved a provision that would require a government audit of the Federal Reserve’s emergency lending authority, a move that arose in response to the Fed’s actions in the 2008 financial crisis. But the House-Senate conference committee wanted to go further, subjecting the Fed to regular audits of its routine operations.

As negotiators dived into a third day of trying to produce a final version of the financial regulatory overhaul, they fell behind the tight schedule outlined last week by Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, the Democratic leaders who have shepherded the bills through the process.

That schedule calls for the completion of the conference by the end of next week, with a bill approved and sent to President Obama for his signature by Independence Day.

But on Wednesday and Thursday, debate began to stretch beyond the expected time on several issues, including whether financial advisers should be subject to a fiduciary duty requirement, limits on executive compensation and the ability of shareholders to nominate directors for a company’s board, and whether the Securities and Exchange Commission should be self-financed.
566 2010-06-18 Justine Henin reached the semifinals of the Unicef Open in Den Bosch, Netherlands, without dropping a set. Henin defeated Kristina Barrois, 7-5, 6-3, to set up a match against fifth-seeded Alexandra Dulgheru, who beat Yaroslava Shvedova, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. Seventh-seeded Andrea Petkovic and Kirsten Flipkens will meet in the other semifinal.
567 2010-06-18 An influential watchdog group on Thursday called on members of the N.C.A.A. and the Bowl Championship Series to change the way they divide millions of dollars in men’s basketball and football revenue, proposing the creation of a fund that would allocate money based on academic success rather than victories or tournament appearances.

The recommendation by the group, the Knight Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics, provided a kind of counterpoint to the seismic tremors that have shaken the college sports landscape in recent weeks, moves prompted largely by debates over who should get what share of millions of dollars in television revenue, and why. As Nebraska, Colorado and Utah have announced plans to switch conferences — and as others have contemplated following suit — the discussion has centered on wins and losses, television markets and brand image.

Placing a larger emphasis on academic performance was one of several ideas proposed by the commission in a report aimed at encouraging colleges and universities to take a collective deep breath and slow the rate of spending on athletics.

“The situation we’re in right now is basically a financial race to generate more and more money to support intercollegiate athletics, and it’s a time when our institutions are under such incredible pressure to maintain the integrity of their academic programs,” said William Kirwan, the co-chairman of the commission and the chancellor of Maryland’s university system.

Jim Isch, the interim president of the N.C.A.A., applauded the outlines of the commission’s report Thursday, but he quibbled with some of the proposals, which he said were either unrealistic or already under way. “The N.C.A.A. and its member schools are overwhelmingly in concert with the Knight Commission,” Isch said in a statement. “However, we feel there are some aspects of both the data and solutions advanced that require clarification and debate.”
568 2010-06-18 In an address to the nation Tuesday night, Mr. Obama apologized for the effect on oil workers who had nothing to do with the BP accident. “I know this creates difficulty for the people who work on these rigs,” he said. “But for the sake of their safety, and for the sake of the entire region, we need to know the facts before we allow deepwater drilling to continue.”

The full economic impact of the drilling moratorium is still unclear, since many of the layoffs are just beginning and no one knows how long the ban will last.

The Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association has warned that many of the affected rigs will seek to drill in other countries, imperiling roughly 800 to 1,400 jobs per rig, including third-party support personnel.

The securities firm Raymond James & Associates predicts that the moratorium could last well into 2011, directly jeopardizing 50,000 jobs and potentially gutting blue-collar communities that rely heavily on the economic activity that comes with deepwater work. “Just as the demise of auto plants and steel mills in the Upper Midwest devastated entire towns, an extended drilling ban could eventually have a similar effect in the Gulf Coast,” the company said in a report Monday.

Lawrence R. Dickerson, the chief executive of Diamond Offshore Drilling, which owns the Ocean Monarch and five other deepwater rigs in the gulf, was less pessimistic, suggesting that 15,000 to 20,000 rig and associated service jobs were at risk. He predicted that some deepwater rigs would remain in the area awaiting a resumption of drilling, but that all would be forced to cut staff as the moratorium continued.

Three Diamond rigs are already prospecting for jobs in the Mediterranean and West Africa. Should they leave, they would take less than half of their crew with them, Mr. Dickerson said.

The halt in drilling in waters deeper than 500 feet came in response to the still-unchecked gusher of oil that followed the Deepwater Horizon explosion, which killed 11 workers. The goal was to give the government time to review the rules and oversight of such wells, and the shutdown was welcomed by many Americans who have watched the environmental disaster unfold.

But like fishing and tourism, deepwater drilling is also crucial to the Gulf economy.

At a Congressional hearing last week, Senator Mary Landrieu, a Democrat from Louisiana, confronted Interior Secretary Ken Salazar with a list of local companies that serviced and depended on offshore energy development. She said that a temporary drill ban, even if it only lasted a few months, could affect as many as 330,000 people in Louisiana alone. That would “potentially wreak economic havoc on this region that exceeds the havoc wreaked by the spill itself,” she said.

Until two weeks ago, the Ocean Monarch — a mammoth, $300 million semi-submersible not unlike the Deepwater Horizon owned by Transocean — was poised to drill a well in 4,000 feet of water at a spot more than 100 miles offshore. About 115 workers from a variety of companies were onboard.

After the moratorium, Cobalt International Energy, the company that had hired the Monarch and spent $60 million preparing to drill the well, said it was looking to dissolve the contract.

Those negotiations continue, but when two New York Times reporters visited the rig last week, it was squatting in just 50 feet of water 27 miles off the coast of Louisiana. On the deck, 75-foot segments of riser pipe were stacked in tidy rows two stories high, and the rig’s manifest listed just 77 crew members aboard.

At a meeting with the crew, Mr. Dickerson talked about the uncertain future. “You know, if we can’t go back to work for a minimum six months or longer, it’s awfully hard to leave rigs sitting here,” he said.

Once a rig moves, it tends to stay put, fulfilling multiyear contracts. Lower-level jobs are normally filled using the host country’s work force.

After the meeting with Mr. Dickerson, a handful of rig workers — burly men in oil-stained T-shirts and overalls — shared their gnawing fear that the jobs that paid their modest mortgages, doctor bills and children’s tuitions were about to disappear.

Louis Alvarez, a motorman and 21-year veteran with Diamond Offshore, said that a layoff could hinder plans that he and his wife had made to send their son to college in the fall. “It’s a shame that I have to tell my 18-year-old son that he might have to help his daddy buy groceries,” he said.

Mr. Brown, the shakerhand, began to cry when he said that his wife, Athena, was now looking for a job.

A broad-shouldered, broad-faced man, Mr. Brown, 29, is paid roughly $22 an hour to work the rig’s standard two-week-on, two-week-off cycle, supplemented by occasional overtime. That’s enough to support Athena and their three children: 5-year-old Shiloh, 3-year-old Maelah, and 1-year-old Bennett, who wears a brace to help correct club feet.

The job prospects around their home in Magee, Miss., a dilapidated town of about 4,000, are few. Tyson Foods and Polk’s Meat Products have plants in the area, but would be unlikely to match a rig worker’s paycheck.

In an interview at their home, Mrs. Brown said that someday, the country might find a low-cost alternative to oil.

“But we don’t have an option right now,” she said. “For us to stop drilling in the gulf is like ending our lives as far as the way we live. It’s really that scary.”
569 2010-06-18 The Justice Department has asked a federal judge to dismiss a lawsuit by 20 states challenging President Obama’s health care overhaul. The motion says that the United States District Court in Pensacola lacks subject-matter jurisdiction over some claims raised in the suit and that other parts of the lawsuit fail to state claims upon which relief can be granted. Government lawyers say the health care overhaul cannot be moved from the elected branches of government into the courts without a genuine constitutional issue, which they maintain is lacking in this case. The lawsuit was filed in Florida, and was joined by Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Indiana, Idaho, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah and Washington.
570 2010-06-18 It’s a shame that Bell Telephone’s Institute of Humanistic Studies for Executives lasted only during the 1950s. Happily, though, the model is alive and kicking at Johns Hopkins University, where this fall we will unveil an M.B.A. program whose emphasis on intellectual flexibility reflects the Bell initiative’s efforts to move its junior managers beyond rote answers to consideration of “what questions are worth asking.”

Business education has indeed focused too much on supplying a standard set of financial implements without providing the critical thinking, creativity and empathy that will be the essential tools of the 21st-century business person.

The old orthodoxy and its concomitant allegiance to shareholder value have contributed in no small way to the current economic disorder, and so if we are to bring much-needed change to the way business is practiced, we must change the way it is taught.

The writer is the dean of the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School.
571 2010-06-18 That group, too, split two ways, with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, joined by Justice Sonia Sotomayor, suggesting that the due process clause might provide better protection for property rights threatened by court decisions.

Justice Stephen G. Breyer, joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, said little more than that there was no unconstitutional taking here.

Justice John Paul Stevens did not participate in the decision and did not say why. He owns an apartment in a beachfront building in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Libertarian and business groups expressed disappointment with the outcome but welcomed Justice Scalia’s analysis of the possibility of judicial takings.

“The part of the decision that was unanimously unfortunate turned on a narrow and probably mistaken interpretation of state property law,” Ilya Shapiro of the Cato Institute said in a statement.

Much more important, he continued, “the remainder of Justice Scalia’s opinion makes clear that judicial takings are just as much a violation of the Fifth Amendment as any other kind.”

Liberal groups, on the other hand, focused on the result and not the jurisprudential infighting.

“As the oil spill now ravaging our nation’s coastlines vividly demonstrates, it is crucially important that the government have the authority to step in to protect our beaches and coastal communities,” Doug Kendall, president of the Constitutional Accountability Center, said in a statement.

In the end, the case, Stop the Beach Renourishment v. Florida Department of Environmental Protection, No. 08-1151, turned on interpretation of Florida law. The state allows property owners to keep oceanfront land gained through gradual and imperceptible accretion but gives new land created suddenly to the owner of the seabed, which is typically the state.

The project at issue, all of the justices agreed, was in the second category.

Justice Scalia acknowledged that the result may seem counterintuitive and unfair. “After all,” he wrote, the owners’ “property has been deprived of its character (and value) as oceanfront property by the state’s artificial creation.”

But that did not, he said, make it a taking.

“The takings clause only protects property rights as they were established under state law, not as they might have been established or ought to have been established,” Justice Scalia wrote.

In the part of his opinion joined by only three others — Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. — Justice Scalia used language tart even by his standards to deride Justice Breyer’s failure to discuss whether there can be judicial takings.

In finding there was no taking here without saying what standard he employed, Justice Breyer’s approach, Justice Scalia said, was “reminiscent of the perplexing question ‘How much wood would a woodchuck chuck if a woodchuck could chuck wood?’ ”

“He simply pronounces,” Justice Scalia said of his colleague, “that this is not a judicial taking if there is such a thing as a judicial taking.”

Justice Breyer, for his part, said it would be a mistake to decide too much too quickly.

Justice Scalia’s approach, Justice Breyer said, would threaten “to open the federal court doors to constitutional review of many, perhaps large numbers of, state-law cases in an area of law familiar to state, but not federal, judges.”

In a second case, New Process Steel v. National Labor Relations Board, No. 08-1457, the court called into question about 600 decisions issued by the labor board over 27 months starting at the beginning of 2008 because it was operating with only two of five members as three vacancies went unfilled.

The court split 5 to 4, with Justice Stevens joined by the court’s four more conservative members in the majority.

The statute governing the board did allow delegation to a group of three members with a quorum of two, Justice Stevens wrote. But Congress could not have intended for two members to continue issuing decisions indefinitely by dint of a “Rube Goldberg-style delegation mechanism.”

The law, Justice Stevens said, “does not authorize the board to create a tail that would not only wag the dog, but would continue to wag after the dog died.”

Justice Kennedy, writing for four dissenters, said “that state of affairs was, to say the least, not ideal.” But he said it was better than no board at all.
572 2010-06-18 WASHINGTON — Lockheed Martin is negotiating to cut the price for the next group of its new F-35 fighter planes to at least 20 percent less than Pentagon officials projected last fall, Robert J. Stevens, the chief executive, said Thursday.

The company, which has been under pressure because of costly delays, is likely to build those planes under a contract with a fixed price, Mr. Stevens said. He said Lockheed could earn bonuses for meeting production milestones.

Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates recently revamped the F-35 program and removed the general in charge, after long delays caused the Pentagon’s projected costs to soar by 64 percent to $382 billion for 2,457 planes.

Mr. Stevens told reporters that the contract would start a transition to fixed prices for the stealth planes two years earlier than planned. He would not say what that price was likely to be for the next group of 32 planes.

But he said Lockheed was confident enough that it was regaining control of the F-35 program, the Pentagon’s largest, to start bearing more of the risk instead of leaving the federal government obligated to cover any cost increases.
573 2010-06-18 Re “Fighting for the Right to Have Limited Rights” (The Saturday Profile, June 12):

The female-led campaign against increasing rights for Saudi women reminded me of the time 60 years ago when I was a sophomore at Cornell University trying to have the women’s curfew raised from 10:30 to 11 on weeknights.

Sadly, there were many women (we called them “girls” back then) who objected. Too much freedom, they said! They feared that they’d feel social pressure to stay out later than they wanted: it wouldn’t be acceptable to come back to their dorms even if they wanted to sleep or study. And because of this, they asked the university to restrict them — and all women along with them.

How much longer until women (and men) can take full responsibility for their own lives?
574 2010-06-18 Brian d’Arcy James and Anika Noni Rose will be among the stars of a reimagined — or should we say reincarnated? — version of “On a Clear Day You Can See Forever” that Michael Mayer will direct this summer at Powerhouse Theater, the Poughkeepsie collaboration between Vassar College and New York Stage and Film. The concert workshop of that Alan Jay Lerner/Burton Lane musical, whose cast will also include David Turner, Kerry O’Malley, Colin Hanlon and Sarah Stiles, will feature many changes from its stage and film versions. But what kind, exactly? Mr. Mayer isn’t ready to say. “I’m really not trying to be coy, but I don’t want to overexplain it,” said Mr. Mayer, the Tony Award-winning director of “Spring Awakening,” in a telephone interview. He added: “By playing a little bit with gender, I thought I could make a different kind of love triangle at the center of it. That’s the goal.” The Powerhouse Theater production of “On a Clear Day” will run from July 29 through Aug. 1.
575 2010-06-18 Sorry, Sting, but it sounds like Paul McCartney has just lapped you in the race to be the pop musician with the most classical bona fides. Mr. McCartney, the former Beatle and Wings man whose orchestral works include “Standing Stone” and “Ecce Cor Meum,” told BBC News that he has agreed to write the music for a ballet and has already started on the project. “I’m interested in doing things I haven’t done before,” Mr. McCartney said to the BBC. “That offer came up and I love writing music, the two went together and I said, ‘Yeah,’ so I just accept things before I even know what I’m doing.” Mr. McCartney did not say who the music was being written for or when it might be performed, but he acknowledged that it was an unusual excursion, even for someone who has ridden shotgun in a yellow submarine, designed his own postage stamps and been recorded eating vegetables by both the Beach Boys and Super Furry Animals. “I don’t really know that much about it yet,” Mr. McCartney said. “I’m just writing music for it, but it’s a switch.”
576 2010-06-18 Through January the South Street Seaport Museum is displaying a third of the collector Mario J. Pulice’s 300 pieces from the Normandie, including a Bakelite telephone and a blond ash grand piano. Mr. Pulice, a publishing executive, said he would probably sell the collection next year rather than squeeze it back into his Manhattan apartment. He has been collecting for three decades, and “it’s getting to be time for it to move on,” he said. “Maybe someone with a fresh set of eyes will walk around it and ooh and aah like I used to.”

Bloomsbury Auctions in New York will sell boxes of stuffed manila folders on Wednesday, all from John Steinbeck’s home office at 206 East 72nd Street in Manhattan. Gingerly open a file at random, and you might find cards with inked paw prints from Charley, Steinbeck’s French poodle and frequent travel companion, or a few typewritten lines signed by William Faulkner. What great insights did Faulkner, the Nobel Prize-winning Southerner, impart to Steinbeck, the future Nobel Prize-winner in a 1956 note? “You can pretty much disregard some of the October 1st letter,” is pretty much all Faulkner had to say.

The estate of Steinbeck’s third wife, Elaine, sold the apartment a few months ago after years of legal wrangling among family members. Correspondence and unfinished manuscripts, largely undisturbed since Steinbeck’s death in 1968, will be broken up into 52 lots at Bloomsbury unless a single bidder steps up in advance to pay at least $200,000 for the whole archive.

The auction lots reveal moments of dry wit in a writer better known for moral stances. In a scribbled essay draft about the great outdoors (estimated to bring $5,000 to $8,000), Steinbeck observes, “No marriage, no family can survive three rainy days in a camper.” He sometimes sorted reviews of his work into files labeled “Highly Unfavorable” and “Moderately Unfavorable,” and in his unpublished version of “Don Quixote”($6,000 to $8,000), he describes his fictional hero Donald Keehan of Manchon as “really off his rocker.”

The paperwork also conveys psychological turmoil. His publisher Pascal Covici worried that Steinbeck seemed “emotionally shattered and mentally confused” in the 1950s, when much of his best work was behind him. Bloomsbury is selling an entire box of tragic memorabilia: a pigskin briefcase that belonged to Steinbeck’s friend Edward F. Ricketts, a California marine biologist who inspired the character Doc in “Cannery Row.”After Mr. Ricketts was killed in a car accident in 1948, Steinbeck stashed away the briefcase. The lot ($9,000 to $12,000) comes with reams of Ricketts’s writings about salmon canning and tide patterns and a friend’s telegram reporting that Ricketts had been “seriously injured late today when train hit car.”

Steinbeck’s five-legged desk chair and a globe with scrawled lines representing his trans-Atlantic travels are for sale ($2,000 to $3,000), as are his pipes, worn eyeglasses and checkbooks ($400 to $600). He seems to have chewed on the earpieces of his glasses while paying bills for laundry, doorbell repairs, gifts to the Central Church of Christ, Bonwit Teller clothing for Elaine and Bloomingdale’s presents for his sons, John and Thomas.

Weird connections between lots can emerge as a customer sifts through them. Did he perhaps inherit the Confederate Army buckle that is mixed in with the eyeglasses? After all, in a packet of 1960s correspondence ($3,000 to $5,000) there is a note he wrote to a conservative Virginia politician admitting that “I am one of the few Americans whose grandfather fought on both sides of the Civil War.”

Museums and libraries have expressed interest in the archive but are struggling to raise money quickly enough to bid, said Richard Austin, a literature specialist at Bloomsbury. Buyers of the sometimes brittle paperwork will also need to pay for conservation treatments. “There’s a certain amount of caretaking that would go into it,” he said.
577 2010-06-18 Everyone has a theory. Donald Rubell, a Miami collector, said he thought dealers were too afraid to bring good objects last year because the economy was so bleak. “People are now realizing that art is an international currency,” he added.

Mr. Rubell and his wife, Mera, are known for talent spotting, snapping up works by artists like Richard Prince and Maurizio Cattelan years before they become popular. Asked if they had bought anything at the fair, Mrs. Rubell replied, “How can you resist?” But when pressed to elaborate, she answered coyly, “I can’t share that information yet.”

The Rubells weren’t the only high-profile shoppers. Michael Ovitz, the former Hollywood agent; Roman Abramovich, the Russian billionaire; and Pauline Karpidas, a London collector, were all spotted. Artists could be seen milling around too, among them Lawrence Weiner, Joseph Kosuth and Doug Aitken, along with museum directors like Thomas P. Campbell from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Glenn D. Lowry from the Museum of Modern Art and Richard Armstrong from the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation.

Barbara Kruger’s “Are We Having Fun Yet,” a 1987 photographic silk-screen of a woman’s hands covering her face was, until recently, hanging in the Dallas Museum of Art, where it had been on loan since 1988. Sandy Heller, a Manhattan art adviser who works with hedge-fund billionaires, bought it for $700,000 from the Skarstedt Gallery of New York within hours of the fair’s opening. He declined to say for whom he had purchased it.

Bigger sales were reported too. At Jan Krugier, a gallery in Geneva and New York, Picasso’s “Personnage,” a 1960 plaster sculpture, sold to an unidentified collector for $15 million. Hauser & Wirth, dealers with spaces in Zurich, London and New York, sold a set of five dwarf sculptures from Paul McCarthy’s “White Snow” series, to a European collector for $3 million.

Pieces by Louise Bourgeois, who died last month, were hot commodities. At Xavier Hufkens, a Brussels dealer, a 2009 mixed-media work on paper, “A Baudelaire (#7),” priced at more than $650,000, was snapped up. Michael Werner Gallery of New York sold two works by Sigmar Polke, the German artist who died last week. His “Here and Elsewhere,”a 1975-76 photo collage that was priced at $450,000, was bought by an American collector, and a multilayered abstract painting with an asking price of around $1.5 million was purchased by a European foundation, said Gordon Veneklasen, a partner in the gallery.

But to say that business was approaching that of the boom years would be an overstatement. “There’s not the impulse shopping there once was,” said Tobias Meyer, who runs Sotheby’s contemporary art department. “New buyers are coming here as much for information gathering as for collecting.” Many dealers said they felt a price resistance when it came to spending more than $500,000.

Work by artists from the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s who had been overlooked was evident. Capitalizing on the Yves Klein retrospective at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, David Zwirner, a Manhattan dealer, brought “Anthropometrie (ANT 110)” (1960), one of Klein’s signature blue-pigment works in which he pressed nude models’ paint-smeared bodies onto paper. This one is unusual because its two figures are thought to be the artist and his wife, Rotraut Klein-Moquay. The asking price is $12.8 million.

Dan Flavin was enjoying a comeback. Among the many works by him was a room-size installation from 1969, “Three Sets of Tangented Arcs in Daylight and Cool White (to Jenny and Ira Licht).” It was being shown by Mr. Zwirner, who is representing the artist’s estate, for the first time since the year it was made and has an asking price of $4 million.

The installation could be found at “Unlimited,” a space next to the main fair for oversize works, including many video installations. One standout is a room by Mr. Aitken called “Frontier”(2009), which features the artist Ed Ruscha moving through a surreal urban landscape.

Why is there such a proliferation of videos this year? “It’s all about the bottom line,” said Lucy Mitchell-Innes, a Manhattan dealer. “It’s much cheaper to put a DVD in the mail than it is to bring a bronze sculpture.” And what sculptures there are at “Unlimited” are often made of cheap materials, like a 1969 maze fashioned from rolls of cardboard by the Italian artist Michelangelo Pistoletto.

For those jaded art lovers wondering if there are things on view here that haven’t made it to New York, the answer can be found at Metro Pictures. That Chelsea gallery, which has a booth at the main fair, is featuring a new series by Cindy Sherman. It is actually wallpaper with backgrounds of Central Park and life-size images of Ms. Sherman posing naked with props like a sword or juggling clubs. Examples of the series were included in “Sexuality and Transcendence” at the Pinchuk Art Centre in Kiev this year. Janelle Reiring, of Metro Pictures, said collectors can order a single wall (about $150,000) or an entire room (around $700,000). They then receive a CD and a certificate.

Ms. Sherman is getting ready for a show at the Museum of Modern Art in 2012, Ms. Reiring said, “And the museum doesn’t want us to show them in the United States before then.”
578 2010-06-18 “Cellphone and text message communications are so pervasive that some persons may consider them to be essential means or necessary instruments for self-expression, even self-identification,” Justice Kennedy went on. “On the other hand, the ubiquity of those devices has made them generally affordable, so one could counter that employees who need cellphones or similar devices for personal matters can purchase and pay for their own.”

The decision did not address the privacy rights of people employed by private companies.

The case, City of Ontario v. Quon, No. 08-1332, involved a member of the police special-weapons team in Ontario, Calif. The officer, Sgt. Jeff Quon, used a pager issued to him by the Police Department to send and receive messages that were, in the trial judge’s words, “to say the least, sexually explicit in nature.”

A city policy on computer, Internet and e-mail use made clear that the city had the right to monitor such communications. The policy allowed “light personal communications” but said “users should have no expectation of privacy or confidentiality.” Sergeant Quon signed a statement agreeing to the policy.

But the policy did not explicitly apply to text messages, and Justice Kennedy suggested that e-mail messages sent through the city’s servers might be treated differently from pager messages sent via an outside company.

The Police Department’s audit of pager messages, Justice Kennedy wrote, “was not nearly as intrusive as a search of his personal e-mail account or pager, or a wiretap on his home phone line, would have been.”

Sergeant Quon had argued that an informal policy instituted by a police lieutenant overrode the formal one, even if the formal one did apply to pager messages. The lieutenant for a time indicated that the pagers could be used for personal messages so long as the employees responsible paid for charges beyond a 25,000-character limit. The lieutenant eventually changed his mind, and the department’s internal affairs divisions audited the messages Sergeant Quon had sent during work hours for two months.

Sergeant Quon and a second officer, and the sergeant’s wife and mistress, sued the department, saying their Fourth Amendment rights were violated.

The Supreme Court has said that public employers have wide latitude to search their employees’ offices and files. But it has also said that the Fourth Amendment has a role to play in affording the employees some privacy rights.

In Sergeant Quon’s case, a jury found that the city had a good work-related reason to audit the messages — to see if the character limit made sense as a business matter. Given that jury finding, the trial judge ruled that the search had not violated the Fourth Amendment.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, reversed the decision, saying that there would have been less intrusive ways to conduct the audit. For instance, it said, Sergeant Quon could have been given notice of the change in the informal policy, or been allowed to audit himself.

Justice Kennedy assumed, without deciding, that Sergeant Quon had a reasonable expectation of privacy. Even so, he said, the city’s search was not unduly intrusive.

The city, he wrote, “had a legitimate interest in ensuring that employees were not being forced to pay out of their own pockets for work-related expenses, or on the other hand that the city was not paying for extensive personal communications.”

Justice Kennedy dismissed the Ninth Circuit’s proposals for less intrusive ways to conduct an audit as filled with “analytic errors.” The possibility of a less intrusive search, he said, did not make the search that took place unreasonable.

Justice Kennedy emphasized that the ruling as to Sergeant Quon was narrow, even as he explored the implications of it. In his concurrence, Justice Scalia criticized that approach.

“Applying the Fourth Amendment to new technologies may sometimes be difficult, but when it is necessary to decide a case, we have no choice,” Justice Scalia wrote. “The-times-they-are-a-changin’ is a feeble excuse for disregard of duty.”
579 2010-06-18 Investors and economists will be closely monitoring the Fed meeting for any change in the language of the statement on rates. The chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told the House Budget Committee last week that the economy was still in a recovery mode and needed support.

Given the high unemployment and low inflation, the Fed is likely to wait until 2012 before it starts to raise interest rates, according to a research paper released Monday by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The bank does not represent the official position of the central bank.

Most economists estimate that the Fed will increase the federal funds rate sooner. Mr. Semmens suggested such a move could come in the third quarter of next year or later.

With inflation apparently under control, increasing employment is another priority. Weekly jobs data released on Thursday was weaker than expected. Initial claims for unemployment insurance rose by 12,000 from the previous week, to 472,000.

Mr. Semmens said in a research note that the jobs data showed the country was “still failing to create jobs at a pace that will tackle the high level of unemployment.”

Ultimately, he said, consumers will be cautious about their spending because of the weak job market.

Consumer price statistics also showed that prices for housing rose 0.1 percent, the first rise since August 2009. The food index was unchanged after increasing 0.2 percent in the last two months.

“The U.S. economy is slowing down, particularly relating to the consumer,” said Allen L. Sinai, president and chief global economist for Decision Economics. “The jobs market is not improving, and we are observing a deflationary tendency in the price indices.”

A report on Thursday on regional manufacturing activity showed a slowdown in activity. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia said that regional manufacturers in a survey reported no expansion of overall employment and work hours this month, compared with May.

The survey said activity continued to expand in June, but at a slower rate than it did last month, with the index falling to 8.0 in June from 21.4 in May.

But manufacturers expected growth over the next six months.
580 2010-06-18 Cherries have arrived in Southern California, so I’m inspired to make a Turkish pilaf that I love. It is traditionally made with sour cherries and bulgur or rice, but I’ve also added dried cherries or cranberries (two other ingredients I found in my pantry) to the mix. Ground fennel contributes to the sweetness.

1/2 cup thickened yogurt or thick Greek-style yogurt, or 1/4 cup crumbled feta for serving (optional)

1. Melt the butter or heat the oil over medium heat in a large, heavy saucepan, and stir in the fennel seeds and the bulgur. Cook, stirring, until the bulgur smells toasty, three to four minutes. Add the fresh and dried cherries (or cranberries), water and salt (I use about 1/2 teaspoon), and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat, cover and simmer gently for 10 minutes or until the water has been absorbed. Remove from the heat, cover with a clean dish towel and place a lid over the towel. Allow the bulgur to sit for 15 minutes. The bulgur should be tender. Mound into a wide bowl or onto a platter, and serve with a dollop of thickened yogurt or sprinkled with crumbled feta cheese.

Yield: Serves four to six.

Advance preparation: This can be made several hours ahead, transferred to a baking dish and allowed to cool uncovered. To reheat, cover with foil and place in a 325-degree oven for 20 minutes.

Nutritional information per serving (based on six servings): 164 calories; 2 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 5 milligrams cholesterol; 33 grams carbohydrates; 6 grams dietary fiber; 22 milligrams sodium (does not include salt added during cooking); 4 grams protein
581 2010-06-19 Monologue | Friday night on "The Late Show With David Letterman" on CBS: There are rumors now that the C.E.O. of British Petroleum is saying they could go out of business. And I thought, well, yeah, great. But if they go out of business, who will ...
582 2010-06-19 The surging Mets trump the Yankees, 4-0, in the opener of the 2010 Subway Series, part 2....
583 2010-06-19 Early this week, after the city announced a new plan to combat rat infestations in subway stations, City Room asked readers to send in photographs of rats. They are still coming in, and we will publish them online early next week. But we also got something that surprised us: passionate e-mail messages defending, applauding, lauding and otherwise expressing affection for ... rats. Who knew so many New Yorkers, and others, loved their rats so much? We certainly didn’t.

Here are some favorites, edited for space and style:

What gives us the right to kill these creatures? They don’t make war for political reasons, they don’t rape, they don’t create unstoppable oil spills or unleash nuclear weapons and kill themselves and many others in the name of religion or perpetrate genocides, they don’t do any number of the heinous things our supposedly “advanced” species does. No, I don’t want a rat in my home, and no, I don’t want them in the city playgrounds, but these places are far easier to safeguard.

The subway? Forget about it.

Starved for wildlife as I am, I relish the ratty sightings, fuzzy little signs of life on a dim and dirty subway platform. David Hilberg Brooklyn Heights

I’m not in the city that much, but I always look for rats when I’m waiting for the train. Don’t know why — it’s a weird curiosity for me. The only time I ever saw one was in the middle of the afternoon, on the platform while I was changing trains in Brooklyn — I think it was from the D to the R. The thing showed no fear of humans. I was stunned to see one just out in the open like that.

Tracy Edwards Telford, Pa. What the M.T.A. and Mayor Bloomberg should realize is that rats are not some scourge or blight upon the subway system, but part of an urban ecosystem. They have shared humans’ habitats for thousands of years, and they will continue to do so for several thousand more. Besides, I’d rather have them on the tracks than displaced into the surrounding office buildings and residences (which, I am sure, is all that will happen in the M.T.A.’s fight against rats). You can’t destroy them, and you can only move them around.

They are animals, too, so please don’t be cruel to them (of course, there is nothing stopping the M.T.A. from poisoning them, alas). Besides, it’s not their fault that we are so dirty and filthy, which allows them to prosper and multiply. If you people consumed less and threw away less and littered less, there’d be less rats, you know. Humans are the truly disgusting ones.

I was watching the tracks once, when one of those garbage trains went through. A rat was on the track and it went up in a big burst of sparks; I think it might have hit the third rail. I figure it’s Darwinian: the rats who are too bold or too stupid to avoid the trains get eliminated. But I do think they are cute, like little puppies. I love it after it rains and the rats play in the puddles. Jordan Walters Washington (previously Morningside Heights)
584 2010-06-19 Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction equipment, said worldwide retail sales of machinery measured over three months rose for the first time in almost two years. Sales as reported by dealers climbed 11 percent in the period through May, the company reported Friday. The previous gain was posted in September 2008, said Jim Dugan, a spokesman. North American sales rose 15 percent in the period, the first improvement since August 2006.
585 2010-06-19 With teenagers running through its shiny halls for only a few weeks, East Side Middle School still has that new-school smell.

The school, on 91st Street between First and Second Avenues, officially opened on Friday; it is the first new public school building on the Upper East Side in nearly 50 years. By all accounts, it is a welcome upgrade from the school’s old home on East 78th Street. “Now, if I spread my arms out, I don’t touch both sides of the hallway,” said Gillian Madans, 13, a seventh grader.

Upper East Side campuses are overcrowded, with many students on waiting lists to attend schools in their own neighborhoods.

The 80,000-square-foot building, also known as Middle School 114, has room for 190 more students. It includes space for a special education program, and should help remedy overcrowding, school officials say. It also has a full-size gym.

The building was made possible through the city’s Educational Construction Fund, a partnership between the city and private developers who build and pay for the school. In return, the developers are allowed to build on part of the land, said Jamie Smarr, the fund’s executive director.
586 2010-06-19 AstraZeneca has agreed to pay $103 million to settle United States litigation involving claims that it inflated prices for its Zoladex cancer drug and Pulmicort Respules asthma medicine. The company will pay $13 million to consumers and third-party payers in Massachusetts, where the class-action lawsuit originated, and $90 million to those in other states, an AstraZeneca spokesman said Friday. The lawsuit has been pending in United States District Court in Massachusetts. The allegations claimed that AstraZeneca inflated the average wholesale price of the drugs, a benchmark commonly used for determining reimbursement. The settlement is subject to court approval.
587 2010-06-19 St. Vincent’s, 160 years old and one of the major institutions of Greenwich Village, brought thousands of people to this sector of the neighborhood. Its 400 beds brought in not only patients but also their visiting families and friends. Before the hospital stopped taking emergency room patients in late April, its work force included more than 3,500 doctors, nurses, administrators and others.

Mr. Najda, son of the Lebanese immigrant who opened Jessie’s Express Cafe three decades ago, is already mourning the customers who gave him a lift. For example, there was the doctor who, virtually every day for the last 30 years, ordered “the usual” — a bagel with apricot jelly, tea with milk and two bananas. That doctor will be here only a few weeks longer, Mr. Najda said.

With his business down 75 percent, Mr. Najda said, he has had to cut his staff of six in half.

Already, Burritoville and the Top Men barber shop, both on Seventh Avenue, have closed. Residents fear that they may also lose other businesses, like Mr. Najda’s.

Naturally, many residents fret about the loss of nearby medical care. “We have had great peace of mind having an E.R. so close,” said Clora Kelly, 41, who was able to whisk her daughter to St. Vincent’s during an asthma attack five years ago.

But the closing has nonmedical ramifications, too.

On just plain neighborliness, for one. Dick Fogell, 65, was for 31 years the doorman of the Vermeer apartment building on 15th Street. He recently needed a heart valve operation and had to get it across town, at NYU Langone Medical Center, on First Avenue and 32nd Street.

The operation went well. But, Mr. Fogell said, “It would have been nice to have the tenants at the Vermeer visit me.” He was suggesting that many were deterred by the prospect of a crosstown trip.

Susan Matula, who was shopping recently at the Paper Works stationery store on Seventh Avenue, added that the round-the-clock presence of a hospital, with uniformed staff members wearing ID badges, made her feel safe walking at night.

“Now, you come around the corner and every day is like a Sunday morning because all the people are gone,” Ms. Matula said. “Now, I don’t feel as safe.”

Not all businesses are equally affected. Many restaurants and clothing and knickknack shops in the West Village rely mostly on tourists and visitors, not local traffic. At a restaurant on Greenwich Avenue called Elephant and Castle, for example, Rick Salas, the manager, said that he missed the doctors who would nod to him as they arrived for lunch, but that his dinner business was doing as well as ever.

Jason Portnoy also runs a restaurant, the Petit Cafe on Greenwich Avenue, but he is more anxious than Mr. Salas, saying his receipts are down 40 percent. The cafe is a fueling station for hospital workers, Mr. Portnoy explained, and he relied on business like the catered weekly breakfasts that pharmaceutical companies arranged for personnel at the psychiatric ward.

Mr. Portnoy pointed at the tables in his small luncheonette, almost all of which were empty.

“Every table was occupied with doctors or nurses,” he said. “And we had visitors picking up soup or salad for someone staying at the hospital.”

Of course, the neighborhood buzzes regularly with talk about what might happen with the half-dozen buildings in the St. Vincent’s complex — this one might be converted into condominiums, that one might become an urgent-care center for minor emergencies. But merchants know how long such ideas take to hatch, and how easily their enterprises can sink.

“Nothing in this neighborhood happens quickly,” Mr. Portnoy said. “It took me a year to get an awning. Imagine how long it will take to get a critical-care facility.”
588 2010-06-19 A 27-ton imperial sarcophagus from the Tang Dynasty that was stolen by tomb raiders has been returned to China from the United States, according to a report in China Daily, an official English-language newspaper. The coffin, which was stolen from the tomb of the Tang empress Wu Huifei, who died in 737, arrived at the Shaanxi History Museum on Thursday. Chinese police officers first discovered that the relic had been stolen in 2006. They traced it to a businessman in the United States, who had bought it for $1 million, China Daily reported. The businessman agreed to return the coffin unconditionally after three rounds of negotiations. The coffin was shipped from Virginia on March 16.
589 2010-06-19 Cities have already begun pleading with James through parties, politicians and song parodies. Celebrities are on the verge of becoming pitchmen. And to think, free agency has not even started yet. At least not until July 1, officially. But it is already on everyone’s mind.

On Thursday night, with Moët still in the air, his daughters at his side and the vanquished Boston Celtics getting dressed to go home, the question was posed to a triumphant Bryant: Could he imagine playing in the N.B.A. finals against a combination of James and Wade or Wade and Bosh?

Bryant did not take the bait. “What is it with you, you want to emotionally drain me?” Bryant responded with a smile. “I don’t want to think about that. Those guys, I’ve seen those guys up close and personal. I don’t want to think about playing against them at the same time. I want to enjoy this for a little bit.”

He will, for at least a couple of days. And there is also the matter of next week’s draft before the intensity of free agency can be fully uncorked.

But when the clock strikes midnight on June 30, negotiations between agents and teams can begin. In the past, many teams have been too hamstrung by the salary cap to fully go after players. But the Knicks and other clubs have been busy creating wiggle room. They are ready to spend; the question is on whom.

James — who, like Wade and Bosh, still has to opt out of his current contract — is expected to dictate the market. If he re-signs quickly with the Cavaliers, other teams will probably move on to other choices, and other signings could follow fairly quickly. But if James deliberates for a while, teams will hesitate to remove themselves from the hunt for him by committing money to someone else. The more James delays, the more the summer could turn into a prolonged national tour, with players visiting team after team, city after city.

Last summer, free agency played out in fairly modest fashion. Ron Artest quickly signed with the Lakers. Hedo Turkoglu, who was the top free agent (showing what a difference a year makes), reached an agreement with Portland before changing course and opting for Toronto. Contract offers were extended, mulled, rescinded and extended to Lamar Odom before he finally agreed to terms with the Lakers on July 31.

“It’s just impossible to say,” said the agent Mark Bartelstein, whose client David Lee will be a free agent, when asked to forecast what could happen with free agency this time. “It has a life of its own, sometimes.”

No contract can be signed or officially announced until July 8, when the league’s annual moratorium on trades and signings ends. During that period, the N.B.A. and the players’ association will conduct an audit that will determine next season’s salary cap.

Bryant was never fully in this free-agent market and officially withdrew by signing a three-year contract extension with the Lakers in April.

Of the pending free agents, the Celtics’ Ray Allen was the only prominent one who played in the finals, although his availability this summer will not be creating the kind of frenzy that that of James and friends presumably will.

“I’ll deal with that when the time comes, but it’s obvious that I don’t want to be anywhere else,” Allen said.

One by one, this summer’s big free agents — most notably, James — exited the postseason or, in the case of Bosh, did not make it at all. Whether that will make those players more inclined to change teams, or perhaps willing to try to sign in tandem with one club, is unclear.

The last time N.B.A. free agency attracted so much attention was in 1996, when Shaquille O’Neal, entering his prime, switched coasts from Orlando to Los Angeles to join the Lakers. There, he paired with and sometimes sparred with a developing Bryant. Together, they won three titles; since their split, O’Neal has won one more, with the Heat, and Bryant now has his fourth and fifth as a Laker.

“Just got one more than Shaq,” Bryant said Thursday night when asked what the victory in the finals meant to him individually.

Then he went off to savor the night, the moment and the victory. He left the summer to the challengers.
590 2010-06-19 United States military investigators are asking law enforcement to be on the lookout for 17 Afghan military members who disappeared while training in Texas. An Air Force spokesman said on Friday that the Afghans disappeared from Lackland Air Force Base one by one over the last 18 months. He said the men were not believed to be connected to one another or to any terrorist group.
591 2010-06-19 In its second surprise executive shake-up in a little more than three months, the music company EMI said on Friday that Roger Faxon, the head of its publishing division, would also oversee the company’s recorded music.

Mr. Faxon’s new role, as group chief executive, puts the two units under a single leader for the first time since 2007. He said in an interview that the company would focus on becoming less dependent on album sales and more reliant on revenue from licensing music to TV, video games and other outlets.

“The measure of success is how many people are deeply affected by the music,” Mr. Faxon said. “That’s the point at which value is created. Our job is to yield that value.”

In March, Charles Allen was appointed executive chairman of the recorded music unit, taking over the day-to-day responsibilities from Elio Leoni-Sceti, who had been its leader since 2008. Mr. Allen will become an adviser to the music company and its owner, the private equity firm Terra Firma.

Mr. Faxon was appointed just a week after Terra Firma investors injected £105 million ($155 million) into EMI to avoid defaulting with its creditor, Citibank, which lent it $5.2 billion to buy the music company in 2007.

Before that investment, EMI had pursued licensing agreements with Universal and Sony Music to provide some financial breathing room. Those kinds of deals are still an option, Mr. Faxon said.

Mr. Faxon, 62, has led the publishing unit since 2007. He joined the company in 1994 after spending much of his career in the movie industry, holding a variety of positions at Lucasfilm, TriStar and Columbia Pictures.
592 2010-06-19 Eligibility for credit union membership has evolved , though in every case members are supposed to have what is known as a “common bond.”

One way to become a member is through occupational classification, where credit union members work for the same employer or perform the same job. The second is a community credit union, where members must live in the same “well-defined” region.

Things get murky with the third type, what is known as the “multiple common bond” credit union, which can pull in many different groups of eligible members as long as they are within reasonable proximity of the credit union. In the early 1980s, members of associations were allowed to join credit unions as part of an effort to include populations the banks were not reaching. “The idea was to get credit union service to people who wanted it from people who wanted to give it to them,” said Wendell A. Sebastian, who worked for the federal credit union industry regulatory body at the time.

In practice, this ended up opening credit union membership to anyone in the United States. About 10 years ago, the Pentagon Federal Credit Union approached the National Military Family Association and offered to let its members join the credit union. What PenFed really got out of the deal, however, was the ability to say on its Web site that if prospective members didn’t meet other eligibility requirements (like working for the Defense Department), they could join the military family association for $20 and become eligible that way.

In the years since, membership in the association has risen to 45,000, from under 10,000. How many of them joined just to slip through the side door into the credit union? “Probably most of them,” said Joyce Raezer, the association’s executive director. “It was a win-win for both of us, and it’s enabled us to do a lot more for military families.” The new members won, too, because they got access to products like PenFed’s excellent Visa Platinum Cashback Rewards credit card.

This is perfectly legal, though members’ common bond may only be a shared lust for credit card rebates.

What representatives of the American Bankers Association find particularly objectionable, though, are the big credit unions that have their own associations for what appears to be the express purpose of signing up people and then making them eligible for credit union membership.

Take USA Fed in San Diego, for instance, which adopted that name in 2008 to show, according to its Web site, that “membership is easy and anyone can join.” People who don’t meet the normal eligibility requirements can join something called the Prime Meridian Association.

The association offers financial seminars and discounts to members, and just so happens to be based at USA Fed’s headquarters. “It appears that all they’ve done is create a phantom association for the purpose of allowing people to join their credit union,” said Keith Leggett, vice president and senior economist at the American Bankers Association.

Mary Cunningham, president and chief executive of USA Fed, said Prime Meridian was a legitimate nonprofit organization and noted that with under 700 members it hardly contributed the bulk of USA Fed’s new members each year. “It’s not a phantom organization by any stretch,” she said.

If the bankers’ association is so exercised about this, why not sic the credit union regulator, the National Credit Union Administration, on USA Fed? Because the association doesn’t think the regulator does a very good job. “The bottom line is that the N.C.U.A. doesn’t enforce the common bond rules,” said Ed Yingling, the association president and chief executive.

John J. McKechnie III, a spokesman for the regulator, defended its work. “We cannot determine intent as to why a particular association or group exists but do monitor compliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements to be granted an associational field of membership,” he said in an e-mail message. He added that he was not aware of any information that would make USA Fed’s inclusion of Prime Meridian members invalid.

This jockeying for members is an amusing spectator sport — until a credit union blows up, that is. In 2008, the credit union regulator liquidated Norlarco Credit Union, based in Fort Collins, Colo., after it had helped to organize and underwrite a Florida real estate lending binge. In an autopsy performed by the credit union administration’s Office of Inspector General, auditors noted that about 43 percent of the borrowers lived in the Miami-Dade County area of Florida.

How did those people get to be members of a credit union in Colorado? It was easy. Norlarco told the Florida dwellers that they could join the Rocky Mountain Bird Observatory or other groups. Membership allowed them to become credit union members and, it turns out, to roll the dice on a bit of house-flipping.

Mr. Sebastian, the onetime regulator who also spent many years running the giant GTE Federal Credit Union, said he believed the bankers’ complaints masked another issue. “It’s all camouflage for the fact that they don’t like that there are institutions that are willing to work on a nonprofit basis,” he said. “When you don’t have to call Wall Street every quarter and cut rates on savings and raise fees so you can suck even more money out of customers’ pockets and put it in shareholders’ pockets, well, they can say anything they want. But at the end of the day, their goal is to take as much money from customers as possible and give it to stockholders.”

That’s a fancy bit of rhetoric but it’s a type of camouflage, too, intended to avoid the inconvenient fact that most of the people who slip into credit unions through association memberships are simply looking for a better deal.

They are hardly ill-served by the banking system. Yet it was that very idea — of helping those who have no other help — that was a founding principle behind credit unions and a big part of the reason association members were allowed into credit unions in the first place.

Mr. Sebastian noted that one maxim in the credit union world is that poverty is not a common bond. All are welcome and have to be included, he said. After all, you need well-heeled deal seekers to save in certificates of deposit so that others can borrow a bit to try to get ahead in life.

I’m not sure who is right here, but if you’re a consumer it doesn’t really matter. So many people haven’t gotten the message yet, that it’s worth repeating again, once more, with feeling.

And until the industry regulator stops allowing many of the biggest credit unions to offer services to anyone who shows up or logs in, you’d be foolish not to check out a few the next time you need financial services.
593 2010-06-19 Paul Barman thinks his is a great idea for a business: personalized, hip-hop versions of the traditional Jewish wedding contract, known as the ketubah, that he writes and sings.

He calls them Audioketubah and, at $1,500, they come in the form of handwritten scrolls and CDs, perfect gifts for a couple who cannot stomach another set of stemware.

Juan Hinojosa makes collages from found materials like Metrocards and food wrappers, and clothing tags that he filches from high-end stores. He often brings an attractive female friend along to distract the staff while he snips off the labels, though he said he has never actually taken anything of value.

On five Saturdays this month and next, Mr. Barman, Mr. Hinojosa and 54 other artists are attending a class paid for by the City of New York that is intended to help them turn their creative works into money.

“Does everyone have Excel?,” Peter Cobb, a lawyer and administrator at the New York Foundation for the Arts, which runs the program, asked the class last Saturday. “For next week, your assignment is to make a list of all your expenses for 2009.”

The sighs and complaints that followed were proof of the challenging task Mr. Cobb and his colleagues have taken on: trying to teach people who like to color outside the lines about drawing up business plans, budgeting and making a sales pitch.

The city’s cultural sector “attracts very, very creative people who have incredible ideas, but they don’t always know how to turn their ideas into financial sustainable entities,” said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. His agency is spending $50,000 on this program and a similar one being run by the Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, with Creative Capital.

It is harder than it used to be to live as an artist in New York City, given the cost of housing, studios and rehearsal space, and the Bloomberg administration does not want artists to leave the city. Culture is a magnet for tourism and a major reason why people in other professions (and often higher tax brackets) want to live here. Ergo, two city-financed courses devised to help artists help themselves.

“It’s kind of the teach-a-person-to-fish school of cultural support,” Mr. Pinsky said.

The group attending the five-week program includes painters, sculptors, photographers, filmmakers, creative writers, actors, directors, dancers, singers, musicians — and some who defied categorization, like Ryan Murdock. He said his work encompassed filmmaking, radio documentary and photography, as well as organizing events that brought together “silent films, live music and homemade pies.” He said he had recently quit his job in public television, and hoped to arrive at “a business structure that will allow me to do everything I want to do, because I’m too curious to pin myself down.”

Along with group sessions covering subjects like intellectual property and Internet marketing, each artist has a 20-minute meeting with a New York Foundation for the Arts staff member or an outside adviser to review his or her business plan. At the end of the course, the students can apply for subsidized studio or rehearsal space at the Brooklyn Army Terminal, courtesy of Chashama, an organization that transforms vacant properties into art spaces.

“Artists are not taught to plan,” said Jackie Battenfield, a painter and the author of “The Artist’s Guide: How to Make a Living Doing What You Love.” Too often, she said, they’re “going in circles, and that’s very demoralizing.”

This is the first time the city has financed such a program, though others, like one at the Bronx Museum called Artists in the Marketplace, have long strived to help artists manage their careers.

Most of the artists in the class had some kind of day job. Many teach. Mr. Barman, who has released several albums, does freelance journalism and teaches hip-hop to high school students.

Mr. Hinojosa works as an assistant to a more established artist, Shinique Smith. He has also sold his own works for as much as $2,000, and thinks that he’ll eventually be able to make a living from his art. One benefit to art made from found materials, he points out: “The supplies are free.”

Eric Wright, a lanky puppeteer, is one of a few students who already have a successful business. With two partners, he runs The Puppet Kitchen in the East Village, which has built puppets for the Disney Channel, Royal Caribbean Cruise Lines, the Public Theater and the noted puppeteer Basil Twist.

They have more work than they can do themselves and want to expand, but, being artists, Mr. Wright said, they need help with the financial side of things. “Most business development courses are for restaurant managers” and people in other traditional businesses, he said, so he was thrilled to find one geared to artists. “People think that art and business are at odds,” he said, but “you can create great art and have it also be a business.”

Mr. Pinsky said the city plans to follow up to see how many participants succeed in implementing their business plans.

Mr. Barman said that when it comes to his Audioketubahs, he is motivated by much more than just profit.

“It’s the most positive, fun, exciting, deep and funny thing I’ve ever been involved in,” he said of writing the songs, for which he often interviews the bride and groom at length, over drinks. “Every single one I do makes everyone so happy.”
594 2010-06-19 Having spent the better part of four years fighting for his right to travel to Britain, the hip-hop star Snoop Dogg, left, now finds himself a rapper non grata in The Hague, where the authorities had him scratched from the lineup of a free concert planned for later this month, BBC News reported. Snoop Dogg was scheduled to perform at the Parkpop festival in The Hague on June 27, but the mayor and law enforcement officials there asked its organizers to find another artist to replace him to ensure the “open and friendly character” of the festival. In a statement the rapper’s management wrote that Snoop Dogg was “astonished by the decision of the Mayor of The Hague,” and is “a mainstay at music festivals all over the world and has performed at all of these without incident.”
595 2010-06-19 So what is the lure of a family office for someone like Ms. Winfrey? In two words, privacy and control.

“Sometimes they care less about the economics than control,” said Robert C. Elliott, senior managing director at Bessemer Trust, which was founded in 1907 to manage the Phipps family fortune. The founder, Henry Phipps, was Andrew Carnegie’s partner in the Carnegie Steel Company.

Generally, someone needs at least $500 million to set up a fully functioning family office. This would include investment, reporting and accounting services as well as general lifestyle management, such as maintaining homes, yachts and private planes. The height of the bar to justify the costs of a family office explains why many single-family offices want to merge.

Mr. Elliott said Bessemer, which began managing money for other families in 1975, took in two family offices so far this year and expected to bring in two more soon. “Investment returns are driving it,” he said. Maria Elena Lagomasino, chief executive of GenSpring Family Offices, said that five years ago families were happy to stay separate and never talked about giving up their independence. But that is no longer the case.

“The way it comes out is, ‘I’d like to rethink what we’re doing and maybe there’s a better way, and I feel that you’re going to be around,’ ” she said. “I wasn’t having those conversations at all two years ago. We’re having a lot of them today.”

Yet even if they did not merge their family offices, many wealthy families worried this year that their privacy could be breached in a different way. Family offices have long received special exemptions from the Securities and Exchange Commission. While the offices manage billions of dollars, they have not been subject to the same requirements that a money management firm would be. This is because they have been deemed private advisers, acting on behalf of a family, not public ones working for various clients.

In December, the House of Representatives voted to end the exemption for family offices in its version of the financial overhaul bill. The Senate version maintained it. Still, what bothers the families is not the reporting requirements or the costs of complying with S.E.C. rules but the public disclosures that come with them. “The loss of confidentiality is what upsets our clients,” said David Guin, head of the United States securities group at Withers Bergman L.L.P. “One of the things that goes on the investment adviser form, which is publicly available on the S.E.C. Web site, is the amount of assets under management. Anyone could find out what the family is worth — it would include ownership and control and trading strategies.”

Mr. Guin said he hoped the exemption would remain as the House and Senate bills were reconciled. If it does not, one way a family office could retain a level of privacy would be to join with a multifamily office, which reports on the assets of many families bundled together, he said.

In many ways, this consolidation of family offices is a generational issue. People with family offices like Ms. Winfrey, Bill Gates and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York are the ones who created the wealth, just as Rockefeller and Phipps did. Yet as the Phipps did with Bessemer Trust, the Rockefellers opened their family office. It has been managing other wealthy people’s money since 1980.

Family offices are lobbying in one area that affects everyday Americans. The leaders of 10 family offices signed on to the Fiduciary Statement, which advocates requiring all people calling themselves advisers to put their clients’ best interests first. Currently, an adviser at a brokerage is bound by the looser suitability standard. The differing standards are also part of the financial overhaul legislation.

“We’d like everyone to have our standard, which is biased toward us, but it’s troubling otherwise,” said Ed Lazar, a signatory and the president of the Threshold Group, which oversees the fortunes of the Russell family of Russell indexes and the Grace family of Bethlehem Steel. “We want everyone to have the same standard and sit on the same side of the table.”

And having that unconflicted advice is at the heart of what Ms. Winfrey or any family would want.
596 2010-06-19 Their disappearance has become one of the enduring mysteries of the war, two young journalists — like movie adventurers — riding their motorbikes into no man’s land and losing a bet against fate.

Mr. Flynn, the dashing and glamorous son of the movie star Errol Flynn, had in fact briefly been an actor, and he brought an aura with him to Vietnam that gave his disappearance at the age of 28 a mythic quality.

“Sean Flynn could look more incredibly beautiful than even his father, Errol, had 30 years before as Captain Blood,” wrote Michael Herr in his classic book about the war, “Dispatches.”

“But sometimes he looked more like Artaud coming out of some heavy heart-of-darkness trip, overloaded on the information, the input!”

Mr. Page had shared some of those journeys into darkness, and his visit to Pkhar Doung was the latest of many searches in what he called “a 25-year madness” in pursuit of the bones of the man he calls his brother.

Weeks earlier two bounty hunters made a false claim to have found them, reviving interest in the disappearance and spurring American investigators to step up the search for the missing journalists.

Mr. Page said, “I don’t like the idea of his spirit out there tormented,” a wandering ghost that could find rest, as many in Asia believe, only after proper funeral rites. “There’s something spooky about being M.I.A.”

Mr. Page is also seeking a measure of peace for his own soul, scarred like his body from the traumas of combat, from nearly fatal wounds and from the loss of friends, trying to put together what he calls “an enormous jigsaw puzzle, bits of sky, bits of earth.”

“I don’t think anybody who goes through anything like war ever comes out intact,” he said. “I suppose the closure of Sean’s fate also has to do with closure of the whole war experience.”

Theirs was an intimacy forged by shared danger and by what Mr. Page calls the magnetic pull of two only sons searching for a bond.

“We could have been brothers, and felt as though we were,” Mr. Page wrote in a memoir, “Derailed in Uncle Ho’s Victory Garden.” “We would sit for hours in the same room, hardly speaking yet in total communication, a vibration as intimate as between lovers.”

FOR Mr. Page a lonely intimacy has continued, and he hears what seems to be the voice of his friend from time to time, the voice of a tormented spirit.

“We have conversations in strange moments, and often enough to remind me of the presence of his spirit,” Mr. Page said on his recent drive to Pkhar Doung. “It’s there but not there, and you’re aware that there’s something somehow lurking, just out of reach.”

As he drives past the rubber trees, whose rapid regular repeated rows create the illusion of some ghostly shifting world in the distance, he said, he often hears his friend’s voice: “What are you doing, man? What are you doing, boy? What are you doing, mate?”

Mr. Flynn’s lost bones and wandering soul are not alone in Cambodia, where as much as a quarter of the population died in the late 1970s during the brutal rule of the Khmer Rouge. Many of their remains, like those of Mr. Flynn, are still unidentified in killing fields around the country.

Cambodia was a particularly dangerous place for foreign journalists during five years of war before the Khmer Rouge victory in 1975. At least 37 died or disappeared, including 15, along with Mr. Flynn and Mr. Stone, in a six-week period in 1970.

After pursuing various theories and false trails, Mr. Page said he now believed that Mr. Flynn survived for a year after his disappearance and might have been killed by lethal injection at a field hospital here. On a visit last year, Mr. Page recovered some medical vials and turned them over for analysis to the American military office in Hawaii that seeks to recover the remains of missing soldiers.

This new visit to Pkhar Doung did little to solve the mystery. Since the bounty hunters ravaged the site with a backhoe, the American military office, known by its acronym, JPAC, has sealed it off. Mr. Page was turned away by the local police.

In the future, he said, he planned to talk with nearby villagers who might have some memory of captive foreigners long ago and what became of them.

Even if he never does succeed, Mr. Page said his search had helped him honor both Mr. Flynn and other journalists who had died or disappeared in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos.

HIS pursuit has inspired a documentary, a new memorial to dead and missing journalists in Phnom Penh, journalism courses for local reporters and most significantly a book titled “Requiem,” which includes the work of 135 photographers from all sides who died covering Indochina’s decades of war.

Mr. Page, who grew up in Britain, taught himself photography and covered the war as a freelancer from 1965 to 1969, sending pictures to major American and French publications, including Time and Life, Look and Paris Match.

He became known for his vivid combat pictures and also for the risks he took and the wounds he survived. At the time Mr. Flynn disappeared, Mr. Page had suffered his most severe injuries, from a mine explosion that sent shrapnel into his brain and body.

He was pronounced dead on arrival at a hospital, he said, but surgeons revived him for a long and painful recovery. The thin borderline between life and death still seems to draw him.

“At the end of the day, the mysticism of it — living, not living — becomes a mystery,” he said, “and I don’t think we are ever privileged except on death’s doorstep to actually understand it.”

He hovers close, though, pouring his energies into his search for the unmarked grave of his friend, then sometimes finding comfort in the quiet of a cemetery.

“It’s always peaceful in a cemetery,” he said. “Everyone there has found rest. All the tribulations of life are over, and you return to the peace of nothingness.”
597 2010-06-19 That was very much the same strategy employed by Mickelson, who emerged from the fog with the lowest round of the tournament so far, a five-under 66, that brought him back from an opening 75. Mickelson also birdied six holes, bogeying just one in a solid ball-striking and putting round.

“I thought something in the 60s was out there and would get me into contention,” Mickelson said. “I knew I needed to get off to a quick start, because the first seven holes are the birdie holes and I needed to capitalize on that.

“I think birdieing the second hole, even though it was only a three-footer, it was uphill, I was able to be aggressive roll it in, see a birdie putt roll in, and it just gave me some confidence about making a couple more after that. It led to a good round.”

He birdied the third hole, the fourth from eight feet, the sixth from seven feet and, after missing a makeable putt at the short seventh hole, he made short work of No. 8, one of tournament golf’s most difficult par-fours. He hit a 4-iron off the tee to within two steps of the chasm, calmly hit his approach 18 feet below the hole, and made the putt. He missed a par putt of about six feet to bogey the ninth hole for the only blemish on his card, and his outgoing 31 was also the best of the week on the front nine.

One golfer who might have been surprised by Mickelson’s round was Tiger Woods, who shot a one-over 72 and is at four over, seven strokes off the pace. Woods said he was happy with his position — “I feel very good, I’m right there and I’m only, what, seven back” — adding that he did not foresee anyone in the afternoon part of the draw shooting a round in the 60s because the greens would be bumpy.

They were a little bumpy, as Mickelson found when a couple of makeable putts on the back nine did not go in. But, ignoring the bumps, Mickelson somehow reduced his first-round total of 32 putts by seven, needing just 25 putts on Friday.

“I knew I’d been putting well and it was just a minor tweak here or there that was needed,” Mickelson said. “Just a minor adjustment in the setup and the ball is rolling on line now.”

Els had a similar improvement in putting, from 33 in the opening round to 25 Friday. He was rolling the ball with authority, looking the way he did earlier this year when he won twice in Florida.

Eighty-three players made the cut at seven over. Some notable absentees for the weekend include Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland (75-77); Stephen Ames (74-84); Y. E. Yang of South Korea (73-83) and Geoff Ogilvy of Australia (79-71).

Tom Watson, 60, made the cut on the number, pulling himself back together with an even-par 71 after his opening round of 78. He enjoyed his walk around Pebble Beach with Ishikawa and McIlroy, and had some insights into the game of Ishikawa, the Japanese sensation who shot 58 in a Japan Tour event on May 2, the same day McIlroy won the Quail Hollow Championship with a closing 62.

“His putting is excellent,” Watson said. “I love it. That makes up for so many mistakes. He has great touch, you can tell that.”

He is now in the mix at what might be one of the most entertaining United States Open weekends in recent memory. There is plenty on the table for everyone at the top of the leader board, beginning with McDowell, who is looking to become the first European in 40 years to win an Open.

Mickelson has a lot on the table. Five runner-up finishes in this event have given him a burning desire to break through, and he is positioned to take over the No. 1 spot in the world rankings at the same time.

A victory by Ishikawa would be a landmark accomplishment. He would be the youngest major championship winner in modern times by three years, the first Asian player to win a United States Open and it would burnish his already glittering image in Japan as an iconic sportsman.

Although it seems far-fetched, Watson did not rule out the possibility that Ishikawa could do, at a much younger age, the very thing Watson did here 28 years ago at age 32.

“Look at his position,” Watson said. “Not a question. Look at the scores. He’s even par for two rounds. Some guy here 28 years ago was even par for two rounds. He ended up winning the tournament at six under.”

Less spectacular, but more likely, Johnson could become the new Prince of Pebble Beach by winning the last two AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Ams and the Open in a two-year period. Lastly, if Woods could somehow manage to do what he believes he can, it would be among the greatest comebacks in Open history.

And it all shaped up, and shook out, in a remarkable day, after a very early wake-up call.
598 2010-06-19 There is much that Micheel, the 2003 P.G.A. Championship winner, could whine about.

There is the shoulder surgery that sidelined him for almost a year and caused him to lose his full-time status on tour and seek entry into European PGA Tour events. There is his lack of success in procuring sponsor’s exemptions into tournaments despite having won a major championship.

Most of all, there is his mother’s deteriorating condition, which makes him teary just thinking about it. He broke down a couple of times after his round while talking about “the guilt factor” in being out here playing when she is too sick most days to get out of bed. He did say, strangely enough, that he has never felt more in control of his emotions on the course.

“I’m really playing for her,” Micheel said.

He added: “Knowing that my mom wants me out here playing golf is comforting. And so while I’m able to do it, while she’s able to really encourage me to be out here, I’m going to give it 100 percent.”

Donna Micheel had a close call on Mother’s Day when her white blood cell level dropped precipitously. She was rushed by ambulance to the hospital, where she spent five days before returning home.

“I thought I had lost my mom then,” Micheel said.

Five weeks later, at the PGA Tour stop in Memphis, his hometown, Micheel finished in a tie for fourth, his best finish since 2006. He posted a 67 in the final round despite a rough start.

While standing on the first tee box, he saw his sister, Shannon, who was leaving to take a flight home to Oregon. She waved goodbye, and Micheel turned to his caddie, Steven Johnson, and said, “Next time I see my sister will probably be at my mom’s funeral.”

Johnson’s eyes grew misty and his voice cracked as he told the story. “We had to stop in the middle of the fairway for a little bit and kind of compose ourselves,” he said.

His mother’s illness has backed Micheel into philosophy’s dark corners. He finds himself pondering questions he never considered before: What is the best way for a loved one to die? And how to explain death to his 6-year-old son and 3-year-old daughter?

“I often wondered,” he said, “is it better to lose someone quickly, never get the opportunity to spend that time with them? How would you handle that? Or is it better to have this time and share it with her and share it with your family and get to, I don’t know, maybe say your last goodbyes? I don’t know.”

He added: “I’m scared to death for my mom. I’m scared to death of my own impending demise, at some point in my life. I have two young children that are still trying to get to know my mom.”

For 45 minutes Micheel answered questions, many of them having to do with his mother’s declining health. After the moderator declared the news conference over, Micheel stepped down from the podium and stood and talked about his mother for 10 minutes more.

“I’ve always internalized things so much,” he said. “It just makes me feel a lot better to just kind of get it out there and not keep things bottled up.” He added: “I haven’t talked to her about how she feels about my telling her story. I’m not sure if she appreciates it. I’ve never asked. I’m almost afraid to.”

With clear eyes Micheel spoke of his parent’s 42nd wedding anniversary last week, which his mother was unable to celebrate because it fell on a day of a chemotherapy treatment.

The next day, the representatives from hospice care paid a visit to his mother.

Micheel talked of her 64th birthday on July 2 and a trip she has her heart set on making to Eugene, Ore., to visit her daughter.

“I don’t think she’s going to be able to go,” he said, “and it breaks my heart.” He paused. “I don’t know if my dad has told her that,” he said.

Micheel talked about his determination to be at his mother’s bedside when she draws her final breath, even if it means withdrawing from an Open in which he’s contending.

“I do not want not to be there and not say my last goodbyes,” he said, adding: “I will be there. I have to be there.”

He was standing six feet from the exit and as he spoke. His wife opened the door and popped her head in. Twice. That was Micheel’s signal to wrap up his talk therapy session.

“She’s hungry,” he said, sheepishly, and then he was out the door.

Micheel had to be back on the course in less than 12 hours, his 7:22 a.m. start giving him barely enough time to check in by telephone with his mother, as he does the first thing every morning.

When he talked to her Thursday morning, she told him she was not feeling well. “She’s been having a lot of bad days,” Micheel said. “But she encouraged me to go out and have a great round, and that’s what I did.”
599 2010-06-20 “Gasland,” a documentary making its television premiere on HBO on Monday night after winning a special jury prize at the Sundance Film Festival, is maddening in several distinct ways.

The first is the way its director, Josh Fox, intended. If you are predisposed to distrust big business and the bureaucrats who regulate it, then “Gasland,” a soberly muckracking film about the health and environmental dangers of the current nationwide rush to drill for natural gas, will light a flame in you. It might resemble the flames Mr. Fox films sprouting from people’s kitchen faucets or from the surfaces of polluted creeks, in places where methane has turned water into a fire hazard.

Mr. Fox lives in northeastern Pennsylvania above the vast Marcellus Shale formation, which has been much in the news the last few years as energy companies have rushed to sink wells employing the controversial technique of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which millions of gallons of water and chemicals are pumped underground to extract natural gas trapped in the shale. The film came about, he says on screen, when he received an offer from a company to lease his 19.5 acres with an upfront payment of nearly $100,000. Rather than take the money, he begins investigating stories he has heard of ruined water wells and sickened families in nearby Dimock Township.

From there he heads west, visiting landowners and drill sites in states like Colorado and Wyoming, where fracking has been practiced for years. Wherever he goes he finds flammable, foul-smelling water, sick people and animals, and families who no longer use their wells but truck in all their household water (usually bought at Wal-Mart). In some cases oil companies provide the water after settling lawsuits.

The accumulation of stories and sympathetic faces is persuasive; it’s buttressed by testimony from scientists like Theo Colborn and Al Armendariz, named regional director of the Environmental Protection Agency in Dallas since the film was completed. Most viewers who seek out “Gasland” are likely to share Mr. Fox’s outrage (which he expresses in melancholy tones) and to accept the picture, familiar and so often true, of heedless profiteering, co-opted and ineffective regulation, Orwellian spin control and innocent, ruined lives. Comparisons to the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico will be unavoidable.
600 2010-06-20 As the party tries again this week to fight through its election-year storm, Job No. 1 is settling on a common destination....
601 2010-06-20 In business, the end of each year is an opportunity to start with a clean slate. Unfortunately, your kids' childhoods don't work like that....
602 2010-06-20 Chess players often talk of the creative aspect of chess — the role of imagination in conceiving strategies. Sometimes the desire to execute an original plan can overwhelm even the desire to win.

Mikhail Tal, a former world champion, wrote in his autobiography that he had lost more than a few games because he had chosen a “beautiful” combination, only to discover that he had miscalculated.

To borrow a baseball metaphor, a grand slam for a chess player would be to play brilliantly, win the game and defeat a strong opponent when there is a lot riding on the outcome.

That is what Timur Gareev of Uzbekistan did in the final round of the National Open in Las Vegas last Sunday. He trailed Varuzhan Akobian, a grandmaster who lives in California, by half a point, so he needed to beat Akobian to capture the title. After he did, he said the game was one of his “sexiest ever,” according to the United States Chess Federation’s Web site.

Akobian chose the Tarrasch Variation of the Queen’s Gambit Declined. It was an aggressive and risky choice, particularly given the stakes, but perhaps he thought that his opponent would be unprepared.

Gareev could have played 6 dc5. After 6 ... d4 7 Na4 Bc5 8 Nc5 Qa5 9 Qd2 Qc5 10 e3 de3 11 Qe3 Qe3 12 Be3, White would have had an edge because he would have had the bishop pair, but it might not have been enough to win.
603 2010-06-20 Mapping the human genome was not just about finding cures. It was also about understanding disease so we could provide better care.

That is now happening in spades throughout the health system. Genetic tests can identify the exact molecular nature of a patient or disease, allowing for better prevention and targeted treatment. The cure rate for childhood leukemia now exceeds 80 percent, compared with just 4 percent in the 1960s. This is a result of genetic tests that allow better timing and dosing of anticancer drugs.

Genetic tests for variations in a patient’s ability to metabolize blood-thinning drugs allow more precise dosing, potentially cutting hospitalizations by a third. Similar progress in care is being made for patients with H.I.V., colon cancer, melanoma, heart disease and adult leukemia — all thanks to knowledge from mapping the human genome.

The writer is president of the American Clinical Laboratory Association.

Using the Human Genome Project data, we discovered in 2008 the virus causing most Merkel cell carcinomas, the most deadly of the skin cancers (“Virus Is Linked to a Powerful Skin Cancer,” news article, Jan. 18, 2008).

Because of the Human Genome Project, we now know the cause of this cancer, and there is a clear map for its prevention and treatment. This is but one obvious example of how the project has changed medicine. Exploitation of the genome has been throttled more by the loss of scientific financing and distorted biomedical industry incentives than by a fundamental lack of medical opportunities.

The writer, a doctor, is the American Cancer Society professor at the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute and director of its cancer virology program.

The disappointment in the rate at which health benefits have resulted from the deciphering of the human genome may be self-inflicted by the scientific community.

The phrases “genetic blueprint” and “genetic road map” were often invoked. Implicit in these concepts is predictability.

Following the lines on a road map leads to arrival at a defined destination. It may be more appropriate to say the elucidation of the human genome provides a catalogue of materials and components whose assembly can lead to an enormous number of physiological possibilities.

The challenge for drug discovery is to understand the rules of assembly and how the unique physiology of each person, interacting with the environment, can modify these rules.

The writer is emeritus professor of biochemistry and molecular biology, Michigan State University.
604 2010-06-20 Located in the foothills of the Mount Diablo range on a former apricot orchard, Gurdwara Sahib is one of the largest Sikh temples in North America. The architecture is Indo-Persian, a fusion of Hindu and Islamic elements. Gurdwara Sahib features onion domes, frilled archways, fountains and panoramic views.

Sikhism originated 500 years ago in the Punjab region of India. Its founder, Guru Nanak, preached monotheism, women’s equality and rejection of the Hindu caste system.

Every Sikh house of worship, or gurdwara, has a langar, or community kitchen, where free vegetarian food is served seven days a week. Langars were revolutionary in India because everyone ate together, regardless of caste. Typical fare at Gurdwara Sahib is rice, lentils, yogurt and roti (bread). Diners must be barefoot and wear a head scarf, and everyone eats on the floor.

THE WAY TO SAN JOSE

Sikhs first came to California in the early 1900s to work on railroads and farms in the Sacramento Valley. There are now 1 million Sikhs statewide and 300,000 in the Bay Area. The first gurdwara in California was built in Stockton in 1915, and there are now about 20 around the state. Approximately 5,000 members attend the San Jose gurdwara.

Dalip Singh Saund was the first Asian-American, Indian-American and Sikh United States congressman when he was elected in 1957. Born in Punjab, he won three elections to represent Riverside and Imperial Counties in Southern California.

IT’S ALL IN A NAME

Sikh women go by the surname Kaur (princess); men use Singh (lion). This tradition promotes social equality (the names do not have a caste designation) and sexual equality (married women do not adopt their husband’s name).

The turbans worn by Sikh men and some Sikh women are made of cloth that can be up to 33 feet long. Baptized Sikh men and women are supposed to carry kirpans (ceremonial daggers), a custom often challenged by airport security officials.
605 2010-06-20 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — A missile strike in North Waziristan killed at least 16 militants on Saturday as they were making plans to go fight NATO forces in Afghanistan, residents and an intelligence official said.

They said a single missile, believed to have been fired from a drone aircraft, struck a government water-supply plant in the village of Haider Khel, near the town of Mir Ali, where the group was meeting.

Most of the concrete, government-built structures in the area, like schools, hospitals and water plants, have been occupied by militants, who use them to meet and for training.

The residents said that 11 of the dead were foreigners, mostly Arabs and some Uzbeks. An additional 19 people were wounded.

The compound is near the border of Haider Khel and Hassu Khel, two villages that are militant strongholds.

The North Waziristan tribal area borders Afghanistan and is a base of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the leader of an insurgent network blamed by the Americans for recent attacks in Kabul, the Afghan capital. North Waziristan is also the place where the American authorities say that Faisal Shahzad, who is accused of trying to bomb Times Square, was trained in explosives.
606 2010-06-20 Q. How did you learn that lesson at a young age?

A. My parents were immigrants from Haiti, and both of them are doctors, against all odds. They’ve persevered, and the lesson they taught me was not necessarily humility, but that the key to success is to wake up every day and do the best you can do.

Their focus was never about competition, although I am competitive because I was an athlete as a kid. But my parents always taught me to be introspective and go after success with my own measurement, not other people’s measurements.

Luckily for me, my expectations were higher than what other people expected of me. I learned that collaboration and getting the most out of other people seemed to be where most people got their success.

I did karate when I was a kid. In karate, 90 percent of success is internal, preparing for that moment to win, and you do that by struggling internally about who you are, what you do, and how can you maximize your skill set for that moment when you do need to compete against other people. My sensei in karate never talked about himself. He never talked about what he could do. He always talked about the group, how we could help each other.

Because of the six kids in my family, I had to learn how to compromise and maximize. I think it’s a combination of having a large family and getting some early leadership lessons from something as simple as karate class.

Q. What about leadership lessons from particularly good or bad bosses?

A. You’re a collection of all your experiences, good, bad, indifferent, and great leaders you’ve worked with. Actually, you learn a lot from the worst managers you’ve had. You learn probably more than from the great managers.

A. Absolutely. I think my worst bosses were hyper-controlling. I’ve learned that leaders actually do the opposite, which is to give their best people complete freedom to do the job. The worst managers come in and believe, “O.K., I’m going to control this.” They’re very structured. And what I’ve learned is that actually stifles high performers.

People who are really good at what they do want freedom. They want to be able to be innovative. So I try to hire the best people and give them the freedom and flexibility to do the job they were hired to do. But they have to sign up for things to get that freedom.

Q. What are those things?

A. One is, make people feel like they’re part of the team. To do that, you’ve got to make people feel like they can come in and talk about anything with absolutely no fear of, “O.K., this could be stupid.” They need to feel like their voice is heard, and feel completely fearless to have those conversations with me.

Two, they have to be clear on what our goals and vision are. This is the mountain we’re trying to go after, and let’s be clear on what we have to do. And if you do sign up for that, you’re going to be accountable. If you give good people clear goals, you can let them be accountable and go after it in their own way. And then reward and recognize.

Q. Give me an example of how you reward and recognize.

A. I bring all of the U.S. employees together every two months. I want to tell them how we’re doing, what’s on my mind, and recognize people who’ve exhibited the leadership characteristics that we foster at YuMe. We give out an award, and that particular employee has it until the next vote. Then they hand it to the person who wins it next.

Q. How do people win the award?

A. People vote for the person who best epitomizes my mantra, which is: Be passionate about what you do and interested in making the people around you better. These people show humility. They’re selfless. They will work for other people’s success. The people who win are the ones who are the most team-oriented. They’re not the ones who have the best skills. But they’re passionate about what they do. They’re a positive influence. They’re not in the lunchroom gossiping about somebody.

That’s one of my tenets. If you have issues with a colleague, go to your colleague and say, “Joe, this is what I’m thinking.” Have a candid conversation.

Q. How do you hire?

A. By the time people come to me I know they can do the job, whether they’re engineers or salespeople. So when I interview people, I look for their leadership characteristics and their ability to thrive in ambiguity. So I try to ask questions about how they handle adversity. I want to get people’s thought processes on how they deal with something that’s not black or white, but gray.

I ask questions about their leadership, like, are they selfless mentors? Do they try to make people around them better? Are they proactive? Do they take initiative, so they don’t wait to be asked to do something? I try to get examples of that.

I try to really form a picture of this person outside the job. On a scale of 1 to 10, are they naturally curious people? Do they read? Do they want to learn? Do they have this thirst for knowledge that leaders have? Do they have the ability to find clarity among chaos, to have this calmness to be able to get stuff done? Does this person have a history of just being proactive in their life and not being told what to do?

I try to find people who are a 10 in tactical ability. And if they’re naturally curious people and they handle adversity with grace and they understand what they bring to the table, I’ll hire them tomorrow.

Q. What are your best questions to get at those qualities?

A. What I try to do now is find examples of how they’ve worked. One thing is, depending on the job they’re in, I ask about a situation where something didn’t go your way. How did you handle it? Explain that to me. And I love asking people what the meaning of life is. It’s a fun question because no one’s expecting it.

Q. What kind of answers have you heard through the years?

A. Some people automatically say happiness. For a lot of people it’s family, the people in their life, the quality of their relationships. I also say, "On your death bed, what do you want to be remembered for?" I love asking those questions because the folks who are completely prepared are not prepared for those questions.

Q. Have you heard some odd answers?

A. I have. My favorite is, "Are you talking about my business life or my personal life?"

Q. What does that tell you?

A. It tells me somebody is really disconnected from being passionate about what they do. They’re going to come in and say, “How can I position myself to be really successful?” versus just be who they are. Those are the people that will always be angling for something. The minute they say that, I’m like, “O.K., next.” We don’t need anglers in the company who are just trying to position themselves and managing up. We try to stay away from those kinds of folks.

Q. What other questions do you ask?

A. I try to ask: “When things don’t work your way, how do you deal with it? What’s life about? What’s the most important thing that’s happened to you over the last three years, something that’s really changed your life?” I try to ask questions that give me a sense of the person’s character and how they process information.

Q. So, what’s the meaning of life for you?

A. Two things: happiness and the quality of the relationships you’ve had in life. The impact you can have on people is why you’re here. Hopefully, you do that with enough people, and you have fun doing it.

From a business perspective, you try to generate a ton of revenue, keep the investors happy, and above all make customers happy. I try not to spend too much time talking about this stuff, because they think Michael’s going to be coming in here in his Buddhist outfit soon. But it’s about, am I present and here?

When you have a conversation with somebody, you’re not going to get the nuances of the conversation if you’re doing too many things. I try telling people, if somebody picks up the phone, stop your e-mail, stop what you’re doing, listen and have that conversation with the person and then move on. With most people in business, they’re on the phone and they’re on e-mail, and you know when they’re on e-mail.

Q. You can hear it in their voice.

A. Yes. So, I try to wake up in the morning, be connected, and have conversations with people. Don’t be distracted, and the little nuances of life will show up, and you will hear things. I’m not immune. I have to do a lot of things, and I try to slow down sometimes. I try to be present so I can enjoy the richness and quality of interactions with people. Most people can’t multitask without losing something in each of those tasks.
607 2010-06-20 Amnesty International, in a recent report, outlined 15 cases of threats against Mexican human rights activists in recent years scattered across the country. Although there are no precise tallies, human rights groups say that the number of activists who have been improperly singled out by the police, soldiers and government officials is in the dozens.

In one of numerous new cases on file with Mexican human rights organizations, Ms. Vázquez and another woman, Blanca Mesina Nevarez, recently fled Tijuana because they feared that their lives were in danger as a result of their work. The two activists had been representing 25 police officers who had accused Mexican security forces of torturing them in early 2009 to force them to sign confessions saying that they were taking bribes. The activists suspect that a group of rival Tijuana police officers are the ones threatening them.

The more vocal the activists were in raising the torture allegations, the more intense the response. First there were threatening phone calls. Then police cars began turning up outside their homes and trailing them around the city. After Ms. Mesina testified at a hearing in Washington last fall of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, a man in a mask approached her and threatened to kill her.

Alarmed by the intimidation, the Inter-American Commission of Human Rights recently took on the case of the Tijuana activists, calling on the Mexican government to beef up its protection measures for the two women, before it is too late.

For some, like Raúl Lucas Lucía, it already is. Mr. Lucas defended the rights of indigenous people in the state of Guerrero until he was abducted by three men who claimed to be police officers in February 2009. “Keep quiet or we’ll kill your husband,” Mr. Lucas’s wife, Guadalupe Castro Morales, was told in a phone call from someone who reached her on her husband’s cellphone. “This is happening to you because you’re defending Indians.”

Mr. Lucas’s body and that of a colleague, Manuel Ponce Rosas, were found seven days later. The case remains unsolved.

“Do you think you’re so brave?” a man in a car yelled at Obtilia Eugenio Manuel, the founder of an indigenous rights organization, also in Guerrero, in another case compiled by Amnesty International. The man added, “If you don’t go to prison, we’ll kill you.”

She also received three death threats by text message on her cellphone, one of which warned her that no human rights group could save her. Responding to her case and those of other activists in Guerrero, the international human rights commission, which is part of the Organization of American States, called on the Mexican authorities to provide her and dozens of other activists with protection.

In another case, Cristina Auerbach Benavides, who campaigned on behalf of the families of 65 miners who died in a coal mine explosion in 2006, was confronted more than once at her home in Mexico City by men who claimed to be police officers. The incidents occurred when the bodyguard assigned to her by the Mexico City government was off duty.

“Mexico is a dangerous country in which to defend human rights,” said the Amnesty International report, which noted that there were many more cases in the files of the country’s numerous human rights groups.

Activists working on cases connected to the drug war are particularly vulnerable because drug trafficking organizations, and their many accomplices in police forces and governments, show little tolerance for criticism.

To be sure, human rights workers are by no means the sole targets. Crusading journalists have been silenced by shadowy gunmen. Politicians and police officers who dared confront organized crime have lost their lives over it.

President Felipe Calderón has defended his government’s human rights record and described his antidrug offensive as an effort to protect the human rights of all Mexicans against powerful criminals.

“Obviously we have a strong commitment to protect the human rights of everybody, the victims and even of the criminals themselves,” he said last August in Guadalajara, with President Obama at his side, when questioned about human rights. “And anyone who says the contrary certainly would have to prove this — any case, just one case, where the proper authority has not acted in the correct way.”

Human rights activists say they have stacks of cases. And they say that there is ample reason in Mexico to take death threats seriously.

In Ms. Mesina’s case, after she returned from Washington, she was followed by a mysterious black pickup truck with tinted windows and no license plates. She drove her car into a parking lot to get away, and that is when a man dressed in black got out, with his face covered, and approached her.

“ ‘This is the last time I’m going to warn you to stop filing complaints in Tijuana,’ ” she recalled him saying in a stern warning that was laced with expletives. “If I don’t kill you now it’s to avoid a scandal around the elections and because your case is already known internationally.”

Ms. Mesina, who became an activist to help free her father, who is one of the jailed Tijuana officers, and his colleagues, took the last part of that threat as form of encouragement. More attention on the case, she said, might make it harder to kill her.

But Nik Steinberg, a researcher for Human Rights Watch who does work in Mexico, expresses some doubt. “One wonders, if the government will not even protect defenders whose cases have attracted international intention, who will it protect?” he said.
608 2010-06-20 He is the son of Linda K. McCormack of Houston and the late Patrick J. McCormack. His father was a project manager in Houston for the Bechtel Corporation.

The couple met in August 2004 during their first week of law school. Mr. Lowman and a female classmate who was his roommate went on a class outing to a minor league baseball game in Winston-Salem. But the roommate had an agenda and wanted Mr. Lowman to help her out.

“She said there was this guy who was really cute, but she didn’t know if he was gay or not, so she wanted me to check him out,” he said.

Mr. McCormack said he was totally out of place because he never attended baseball games. “I didn’t know they were scoping me out,” he said.

Mr. McCormack added that he had already noticed Mr. Lowman on campus.

“I could see him talking to friends, and they were all laughing,” Mr. McCormack said. “I could see he was a fun spirit, but I wanted to be focused on my law studies, so I kept my nose in the books and didn’t pursue him.”

Later that year they became good friends, with their relationship blossoming from there as they discovered more and more shared interests.

“He would come over to my house, and we would play different Broadway soundtracks and sing along,” Mr. McCormack said. “We both knew all the words to ‘Wicked,’ and that’s how we bonded.”

Their relationship turned romantic at a Super Bowl party that Mr. McCormack hosted in February 2006. He had invited a group of friends who were not big football fans, and after watching for a while, he and Mr. Lowman turned on show tunes and got up and sang.

“Everyone else just watched and laughed at us while we were singing to ‘Rent’ — we really got into our roles,” Mr. Lowman said. “I hugged him, and I could feel him hug me back, and it just felt right.” PAULA SCHWARTZ
609 2010-06-20 “If everyone does what they’re supposed to do, it should not be a big problem,” said Jim Pair, the president of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers.

Mr. Pair said he had for years counseled borrowers not to charge any large purchases or change jobs in the weeks between the initial mortgage application and the closing. “If the consumer is responsible, they won’t,” he said.

But what if a borrower’s car breaks down or the home heating system stops working? “If that happens,” Mr. Pair said, “you should see if you can get money from family or friends until the loan closes. After that, you can repay them.”

Sean Bloch, the owner of Block Financial Resources, a mortgage broker based in Manhattan, said the new policy could have significant repercussions for borrowers whose credit scores were at certain thresholds, like 680 or 720, that often activate different loan terms.

Lenders can check for major changes in a borrower’s financial profile without retrieving a credit score, but if a lender does use this method and learns that the score has materially changed, the lender must disclose that to Fannie Mae. (High credit-card bills can affect credit scores, because they directly influence a borrower’s debt-to-income ratios.)

“Just one point in a credit score can change things tremendously,” Mr. Bloch said. “And potentially, they may not qualify for the loan.”

He says borrowers whose scores drop to 719 from 720 can, in many instances, incur additional fees.

And last-minute changes in terms could also delay the loan. New federal regulations that took effect last year mandate a three-day waiting period for borrowers whose interest rates have changed by more than an eighth of a percentage point.

That waiting period, instituted so that borrowers have time to review the new terms, can be waived for emergencies. But for those borrowers who locked in a low rate for a fixed period or who have tight scheduling, such delays can be costly.

Sometimes, Mr. Bloch said, borrowers begin the loan process with such a high credit score that lenders will think nothing of a drop in the score late in the loan process. And while he likewise advises borrowers not to switch jobs before the closing date, lenders can sometimes make adjustments without making changes to the loan terms.

One of his current clients recently changed jobs, he said. The lender asked the borrower for a letter from the new employer guaranteeing the base income, and the borrower submitted his first pay stub to further verify his income.

“Clients who communicate well with us can work things out,” Mr. Bloch said. “The ones who have problems are really the rogue clients who try to hide things from you.”
610 2010-06-20 But viewers expecting a glimpse of the inner lives of the politicians and power brokers who actually run this town may be in for a disappointment.

Washington is, after all, a place where success depends on a certain level of discretion. And as everyone knows, discretion and reality television do not mix.

“We never envisioned that Nancy Pelosi would be a real housewife of D.C.,” said Abby Greensfelder, whose company, Half Yard Productions, created the show for Bravo. “We didn’t do any traditional casting. It was all talking to people who knew people who knew people. That’s the way in which D.C. works. It’s a town that’s all about the proximity to power, and it operates in these concentric circles, around the White House.”

It is on the outer rings of these concentric circles that the D.C. housewives exist, and they have spawned a kind of self-examination here about just what “real” Washington is.

Aside from the irreverent Cat Ommanney and the social-climbing Michaele Salahi, the cast includes Mary Amons, a granddaughter of the television personality Arthur Godfrey, who lives with her husband and five children in the same McLean, Va., neighborhood as Dick Cheney; Lynda Erkiletian, a divorced mother of four who founded a local modeling agency and dates a much younger man; and Stacie Turner, the cast’s only black woman, who grew up in foster care, has a Harvard M.B.A., runs a successful real estate business and seems to have the most down-to-earth family of the bunch.

IF the first episode (Bravo provided a sneak peek last week) is any guide, the show reveals a none-too-flattering side of life in a city where connections are the local currency, and what you know is sometimes less important than whom. It is rife with the kind of air-kissing and sniping “Housewives” aficionados expect; at one point, Lynda derides a polo match hosted by the Salahis as a “little goat rodeo,” and accuses Michaele of being dangerously skinny. It is all played out against the backdrop of what Ms. Greensfelder calls “the wallpaper of Washington”: politics.

In a nod to race relations in the age of Obama, a slightly tipsy Mary babbles during a dinner party that “salons need to integrate,” provoking arched eyebrows from Stacie, seated next to the prominent black hair stylist Ted Gibson. Michele S. Jones, the Pentagon’s liaison to the White House, turns up at the polo match; as Salahi watchers know, the couple tried to use her to snag an invitation to the state dinner.

Name-dropping abounds. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. makes a cameo, when Charles Ommanney texts his wife a cellphone image of him wearing sunglasses and kicking back in his limousine. Cat Ommanney moans about the Obamas’ failure to reply to her wedding invitation, and provokes an uproar by calling George W. Bush a gentleman.

There are no congressmen or high-flying campaign consultants to be seen, but a health care lobbyist and self-styled Republican strategist, Edwina Rogers, does wander in, wearing too much red lipstick and a garish feathered hat. Mrs. Rogers, whose husband, Ed, worked for the first President Bush, created a ripple here when she turned up on YouTube wrapping presents with sheets of uncut dollar bills from the gift shop of the United States Bureau of Engraving and Printing.

It’s enough to make the capital’s official arbiters of good taste turn up their collective noses and sniff. After all, this is Washington, not Orange County or New Jersey.

“People in Washington don’t want to call attention to themselves — attention creates envy and envy creates enemies,” said Lea Berman, a former White House social secretary. “Washington is so different from any of the places where they have these shows. They’re all in places where being famous for being famous is enough. There’s no achievement behind it, and Washington is an achievement-oriented town.”

Others, like Michelle Delino, the cast member Lynda Erkiletian’s good friend, are trying to sound optimistic.

“I do think we’re going to have a classier set of ladies, with one exception,” she said, in an obvious reference to the Salahis, “who will elevate the show and bring it to a higher standard, because it’s pretty low, when you see what New Jersey was all about.”

Washington is a transient city, and those who grew up here wear their native status as a badge of honor. Ms. Greensfelder is among them. She says she has long believed “D.C. has an interesting story to tell,” and pitched a show to Bravo several years ago. The company wasn’t interested.

That changed with the election of Mr. Obama. So in early 2009, Ms. Greensfelder began tapping into her own connections. She didn’t have to look far; her husband, Franklin Foer, is the editor of The New Republic. Her goal, she said, was to “represent an authentic view of Washington in the context of the ‘Real Housewives’ franchise.”

It wasn’t easy. Juleanna Glover, a Republican lobbyist and social hostess, let a Bravo crew film one of her parties, but drew the line there. “There’s only a small portion of my life that I can share outside password-protected e-mail communications,” Ms. Glover explained.

The flap over the Salahis, which took place near the end of production, complicated matters. Suddenly, Bravo had evidence that could be relevant to a criminal investigation. Ms. Greensfelder and Andy Cohen, a senior vice president at Bravo, declined to say whether they turned over any videotape. But they say they have “cooperated fully” with authorities. Mr. Cohen, who refers to the party crashing as “that incident in November,” said Bravo actually contemplated killing the show.

“It was either going to be, we kill the show altogether or we do it with Michaele,” Mr. Cohen said. “Her story from the beginning is so intertwined with the other five that it would not have been possible to cut her.”

And the escapade brought Bravo the kind of hype money can’t buy. As Sally Quinn, the grande dame of Washington’s politico-journo elite, said, “I think it would have died without the Salahis.”

Much has changed since the heady days of the Obama inaugural, when the country was aglow with good feelings for the new president, and some here wonder whether reality television can rekindle the romance. Tammy Haddad, a media consultant and veteran network producer here, sounded doubtful.

“In a year where the country has turned against Washington,” she said, “it seems a big stretch to believe that even the successful Bravo could get America to embrace it.”

Much has changed for some cast members as well. Life on camera can be tough on a marriage, and the word here is it may have been too tough on the Ommanneys. The pretty yellow clapboard house they rented, where crews filmed Cat and her daughters frolicking in the yard, is empty, its shades drawn tight. The girls have been shipped back to England to live with their father.

Ms. Greensfelder says viewers won’t see much of the breakup; things apparently fell apart after taping ended. Fodder, perhaps, for next season.
611 2010-06-20 WHAT’S with all the kissing lately?

Kristin Chenoweth’s knees buckled after Sean Hayes wiped her mouth with his tongue at last week’s Tony Awards. Days earlier, Sandra Bullock cradled Scarlett Johansson’s tousled mane, tenderly pressing their lips together at the MTV Music Awards. That came on the heels of Miley Cyrus’s awkward kiss of a female backup dancer on a family-oriented British talent show.

Celebrities, it seems, can’t get enough mouth-on-mouth action. Once used to provoke tabloid furor, the onstage kiss has become the newest stunt to cope with a controversy or exhibit a certain level of gender-bending cultural cool.

Why else would Dustin Hoffman and Jason Bateman, the unlikeliest bromance east of Hollywood, lock lips for the Kiss Cam at the N.B.A. Finals? It’s enough to make Adam Lambert’s enthusiastic man-on-man smooch with a band mate at the American Music Awards last year seem passé.

Men. Women. Straight. Gay. Bi-Curious. Almost every onstage kiss pays homage to Madonna’s 2003 kiss with Britney Spears at MTV’s Video Music Awards. For Madonna — old enough to be Ms. Spears’s mother — it brought a certain amount of street cred with Britney’s teenage fans.

The problem with the recent rash of celebrity P.D.A.’s., said Terry Press, a Hollywood marketing expert, is that: “Its shock value has worn down. At this point you would have to kiss Dick Cheney to have a ‘woo hoo’ moment.”
612 2010-06-20 “IT is almost Friday night. Outside, the dark is getting darker and the cold is getting colder. Inside, lights are coming on in houses and apartment buildings. And here and there, uptown and downtown and across the bridges of the city, one hundred and five people are getting dressed to go to work.”

Those are the opening lines of “The Philharmonic Gets Dressed,” (Harper & Row, 1982) a children’s book by Karla Kuskin that follows 105 members of the Philharmonic orchestra as they shower and shave, as they wrap themselves in dresses and bow ties, and as they haul their instruments to work. The book sets a New York scene that is the perfect size and tone for young people to digest.

Ms. Kuskin, who wrote more than 50 books for young people — and was a New Yorker herself — died last year at age 77. Her town house in Brooklyn Heights is now on the market for $3.4 million — $200,000 less than when it was first listed in February.

The mid-19th-century house has 4,630 square feet over five stories. It has been divided into three spaces. The top three floors are a five-bedroom triplex with a deck, which was occupied by Ms. Kuskin and her family. The parlor floor is configured as a two-bedroom rental apartment, and the garden level is being used as a doctor’s office.

Ms. Kuskin’s longtime home was first put on the market for $3.6 million. The listing agents, Kim Soule and Lucy Perry of the Corcoran Group, lowered the price this month.

“I know charm is a word that’s overused, but it really is a charming house,” Ms. Perry said, adding that she had read Ms. Kuskin’s book “James and the Rain” to her three children. “And it feels like it’s filled with memories.”
613 2010-06-20 THERE’S nothing particularly remarkable about the mustard-colored building at Bellmansgatan 1, in Stockholm’s Sodermalm neighborhood. But that doesn’t stop tourists from taking photos of the place.

Fans of the late Swedish author Stieg Larsson’s phenomenally popular Millennium thriller trilogy, which began with “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” will recognize the address as the home of the fictional crime-fighting journalist Mikael Blomkvist. Indeed, readers from around the world are traveling to Stockholm to follow the footsteps of Blomkvist and his computer hacker cohort, Lisbeth Salander. The Stockholm City Museum even offers a Millennium walking tour of Sodermalm, where much of the trilogy’s sinister action transpires.

But anyone hoping to stumble on a crime scene will be disappointed. In the years since Mr. Larsson started writing the novels, Sodermalm has evolved from a gritty, working-class neighborhood into Stockholm’s hippest district, with the area south of Folkungagatan — nicknamed SoFo — the trendsetting epicenter of the entire city.

“The area has exploded over the last three years,” said Mats Sjoquist, co-owner of Kocksgatan 17 Herrekipering (Kocksgatan 17; 46-8-408-15014; www.kocksgatan17.se), an elegant men’s wear store that opened in SoFo in 2008, selling refined merchandise like trilby hats (599 Swedish kronor, or $76 at 7.91 kronor to $1) and leather laptop bags (999 kronor). But Mr. Sjoquist is skeptical of the neighborhood’s aspirational moniker: “We should be careful about drawing comparisons with London and New York, here in Sweden,” he said.

Other neighborhood businesses, though, have embraced the slick SoFo nickname, offering special promotions and free drinks during “SoFo night” on the last Thursday of each month. At a recent SoFo night event at Grandpa (Sodermannagatan 21; 46-8-643-6080; grandpa.se), which was an area pioneer when it opened in 2003, a D.J. played American rock while skinny-jeans-clad Swedes with beer bottles in hand flipped through the racks. Vintage threads hang alongside the latest designs from top Swedish labels, but virtually everything on display is for sale, from the secondhand orange floor lamp (1,900 kronor) to the antique Remington typewriter (600 kronor).

It’s too bad that not everything is for sale at 6/5/4 (Nytorgsgatan 27; 46-8-640-4654; sexfemfyra.se), a stylishly decorated shop that opened in April 2009. Niklas Malmqvist, an owner, said that the decision to open in SoFo was simple. “There’s no other area in Stockholm that is as cozy, that has so much life and so many people,” he said. The hybrid surf shop, clothing store and espresso bar offers wetsuits (5,699 kronor), sundresses (795 kronor) and lattes (25 kronor).
614 2010-06-20 WEISSMAN--George, M.D.,curriculum vitae, died Sunday, June 13, 2010 of natural causes at the age of 91, at his home in Dallas, Texas. Born in New York City, he retired from the Veterans Administration in Manhattan after 30 years as Chief Clinic Ca...
615 2010-06-20 Hammering out legislation that could be the biggest change in financial regulation since the Great Depression is a monumental task -- and it's commanding the full firepower of lawmakers on all sides of the issues. This month, House staff members h...
616 2010-06-21 Over the next month, Intel and the Federal Trade Commission will discuss reaching some sort of settlement in a case brought against Intel last year....
617 2010-06-21 A British court made public new charges on Monday against a man who was convicted of killing a 2-year-old boy in 1993, when he was just 10 years old himself, and then released from prison in 2001 and given a new identity....
618 2010-06-21 When reviewing collections intended expressly to lure the dollars of women who winter in the urban jungle, qualities like prettiness, wearableness and merchiness are suddenly very good things....
619 2010-06-21 House Democrats agreed to a Senate plan to make a financial consumer watchdog part of the Federal Reserve, instead of an independent agency....
620 2010-06-21 A look at the pros and cons of a carbon cap that would apply to power plants only....
621 2010-06-21 A squabble among supporters of abortion rights threatens to derail a bill in Albany....
622 2010-06-21 Reacting to a price cut for the Barnes & Noble Nook, Amazon has dropped the price for the Kindle to $189....
623 2010-06-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
624 2010-06-21 "Gasland," a documentary by Josh Fox, investigates problems attributed to natural gas drilling....
625 2010-06-21 Our scrap varies in quantity, size, and species, which makes us an unreliable source for a business of any size....
626 2010-06-21 Barnes & Noble started a round of e-reader price-cutting by dropping the price of the original Nook....
627 2010-06-21 Stocks are supposed to earn a risk premium. So why haven't we earned one in many years, and when will it start again?...
628 2010-06-21 Barnes & Noble cuts the price of the Nook reader, signaling overall lower prices for the category amid more versatile tablets like the iPad....
629 2010-06-21 The lies have already eaten Alan Simpson's brain....
630 2010-06-21 The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers said that it had filed copyright suits against 21 bars, nightclubs and restaurants across the country, from Doug's Burger Bar in Imperial, Mo., to The Vibe in Riverside, Calif....
631 2010-06-21 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
632 2010-06-21 The president of the World Chess Federation, who is running for re-election, pledges $500,000 of his own money as prizes for two tournaments in the Caribbean and Latin America....
633 2010-06-21 It helps to start thinking about it long before you list your business for sale....
634 2010-06-21 There's less urgency to confront pressing issues in Congress as a key concern gets resolved....
635 2010-06-21 Every major player featured on Nike's "Write the Future" ad is having a terrible World Cup. What up with that?...
636 2010-06-21 China's weekend announcement of more flexibility for the renminbi triggered an across-the-board rally in Asian stock markets Monday as investors welcomed the political and economic implications of the announcement....
637 2010-06-21 Corn Products International, a big producer of corn-based sweeteners, said on Monday that it has agreed to buy the National Starch division of AkzoNobel for about $1.3 billion in cash....
638 2010-06-21 ¶Coty, Paris and New York, chose Rapp, part of the Omnicom Group, to lead worldwide digital marketing for the Sally Hansen brand and licensed brands like Beckham, Halle Berry and Guess. The assignment had been handled by more than 10 agencies, some of which will continue to work with Coty. Spending was not disclosed. The Rapp New York office will lead the account, collaborating with the Paris office.

¶Don V. Cogman, a senior counselor at the PulsePoint Group, Austin, Tex., was named the company’s first chairman. He is a former president and chief operating officer at Burson-Marsteller, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP.

¶Mitchell Caplan joined McCann Erickson North America, New York, as chief marketing officer, a new post. He had been chief marketing officer at the Y&R Advertising and Young & Rubicam Brands units of WPP. McCann Erickson North America is part of McCann Erickson Worldwide, a division of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Amy Fuller joined Y&R New York as executive vice president and global client leader, a new post. She had been executive vice president and group executive for worldwide consumer marketing at MasterCard and before that was a Y&R New York senior partner and account managing director. Y&R New York is part of the Y&R division of Young & Rubicam Brands, owned by WPP.

¶Ace Metrix, Los Angeles, sold a minority stake to WPP. Financial terms were not disclosed. Mary Ann Packo, chief executive at the Millward Brown North America unit of Millward Brown, a WPP company, will join the Ace Metrix board. Ace Metrix provides analytics of television advertising in real time as the commercials are shown.

¶Online advertising spending in the United States is expected to grow steadily to reach 20.3 percent of total media ad spending in 2014, according to a forecast by eMarketer, compared with 12.2 percent in 2008. The percentages year by year are: 2009, 13.9; 2010, 15.1; 2011, 16.2; 2012, 17.4; and 2013, 18.9. By dollar amounts, online ad spending in the United States is expected to grow to $25.2 billion this year, from $22.7 billion in 2009, according to eMarketer, and reach $36.3 billion in 2014.
639 2010-06-21 “A delirious patient happens almost every day,” said Dr. Manuel N. Pacheco, director of consultation and emergency services at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He treated Mr. Kaplan, whom he described as “a very learned, acclaimed person,” for whom “this is not the kind of behavior that’s normal.” “People don’t talk about it, because it’s embarrassing,” Dr. Pacheco said. “They’re having sheer terror, like their worst nightmare.”

The cause of delirium is unclear, but there are many apparent triggers: infections, surgery, pneumonia, and procedures like catheter insertions, all of which can spur anxiety in frail, vulnerable patients. Some medications, difficult for older people to metabolize, seem associated with delirium.

Doctors once dismissed it as a “reversible transient phenomenon,” thinking “it’s O.K. for someone, if they’re elderly, to become confused in the hospital,” said Dr. Sharon Inouye, a Harvard Medical School professor. But new research shows significant negative effects.

Even short episodes can hinder recovery from patients’ initial conditions, extending hospitalizations, delaying scheduled procedures like surgery, requiring more time and attention from staff members and escalating health care costs. Afterward, patients are more often placed, whether temporarily or permanently, in nursing homes or rehabilitation centers. Older delirium sufferers are more likely to develop dementia later. And, Dr. Inouye found, 35 percent to 40 percent die within a year.

“It’s terrible, more dangerous than a fall,” said Dr. Malaz A. Boustani, a professor at the Indiana University Center for Aging Research, who found that elderly patients experiencing delirium were hospitalized six days longer, and placed in nursing homes 75 percent of the time, five times as often as those without delirium. Nearly one-tenth died within a month. Experts say delirium can contribute to death by weakening patients or leading to complications like pneumonia or blood clots.

Ethel Reynolds, 75, entered a Virginia hospital last July to have fluid drained that had been causing her feet to swell. She wound up hospitalized for weeks, sometimes so delirious that “she screamed constantly, writhed,” said her daughter, Susan Byrd. “I had to get in bed with her because she thought someone was coming and they were going to hurt us,” Ms. Byrd said.

Ms. Reynolds ended up needing dialysis and surgery after an infection, and she died in September.

“We got her death certificate, and the No. 1 cause of death was delirium,” said Ms. Byrd, an ophthalmology nurse. “I was just blown away. As a nurse, I was expecting a quote-unquote medical reason: kidneys, heart, lung, an organ that I could understand had failed, and it wasn’t. It was delirium.”

Other triggers involve disorienting changes: sleep interrupted for tests, isolation, changing rooms, being without eyeglasses or dentures. Medication triggers can include some antihistamines, sleeping pills, antidepressants and drugs for nausea and ulcers. Dr. Inouye said that many “doctors don’t know how to appropriately use meds in older people, in terms of dosing” and compatibility with other medications.

Earle Helton, 80, a retired chemist hospitalized after a stroke, ordered his family to “throw a rope over the hedge so he could escape,” said his daughter, Amanda. He tried removing his hospital gown, loudly sang “Lullaby and Goodnight,” and doctors had to tie down his hands to prevent him from leaving, said his wife, Ginnie. Only when Dr. Inouye stopped some medications that other doctors had prescribed did he become lucid.

Delirium is sometimes treated with antipsychotics, but doctors urge caution using such drugs.

Delirium can wax and wane, not always causing aggressive agitation.

“It is often the person quietly in bed,” and the condition can linger for weeks or months, landing patients back in the hospital, said Dr. Julie Moran, a geriatrician at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. “We would have to build 100 more floors to keep everybody until they cleared their delirium. There are times when we could be working round the clock seeing patients with delirium.”

Frequently, geriatricians say, delirium is misdiagnosed, or described on patient charts as agitation, confusion or inappropriate behavior, so subsequent doctors might not realize the problem. One study found “delirium” used in only 7 percent of cases; “confusion” was most common. Another study of delirious older emergency-room patients found that the condition was missed in three-quarters of them.

People with dementia seem at greater risk for delirium, but many delirious patients have no dementia. For some of them, delirium increases the risk of later dementia. In such cases, it is unclear if delirium caused the dementia, or was simply a signal that the person would develop it later.

Some hospitals are adopting delirium-prevention programs, including one developed by Dr. Inouye, which adjusts schedules, light and noise to help patients sleep, ensures that patients have their eyeglasses and hearing aids, and has them walk, exercise and do cognitive activities like word games.

Dr. Moran’s hospital removes catheters, intravenous lines and other equipment whenever possible because they can make patients feel trapped, leading to delirium. She said nurses repeatedly assess cognitive function so patients “don’t have smoldering symptoms of delirium for days before they end up yelling and screaming.”

Mr. Kaplan, a biographer of Mark Twain and Walt Whitman, later jotted notes about his hallucinations, including being in a police helicopter “tracking fugitives with enormous light.”

“Exhilarating until I become one of the fugitives,” he wrote. “End up cold and naked in some sort of subway passage.”

His fall bruised his elbow, leg and wrist, said his wife, the writer Anne Bernays. The next day, “he was gaga till about noon,” and even “looked me in the eye and said ‘I’m going to kill you,’ ” she said. “He didn’t know where he was and didn’t recognize me.”

Fortunately, his delirium was discovered very quickly and he made a very good recovery, Dr. Pacheco said. “But,” he said, “delirium is very disruptive for the patient, family, hospital caregivers.”

As Mr. Kaplan understated later, “It was a lot of unpleasantness.”
640 2010-06-21 In order to view this feature, you must download the latest version of flash player here

It was the last line of defense, the final barrier between the rushing volcanic fury of oil and gas and one of the worst environmental disasters in United States history.

Its very name — the blind shear ram — suggested its blunt purpose. When all else failed, if the crew of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig lost control of a well, if a dreaded blowout came, the blind shear ram’s two tough blades were poised to slice through the drill pipe, seal the well and save the day. Everything else could go wrong, just so long as “the pinchers” went right. All it took was one mighty stroke.

On the night of April 20, minutes after an enormous blowout ripped through the Deepwater Horizon, the rig’s desperate crew pinned all hope on this last line of defense.

But the line did not hold.

For days, technicians and engineers worked furiously to figure out why, according to interviews and hundreds of pages of previously unreleased notes scrawled by industry crisis managers in the disaster’s immediate aftermath.

Engineers sent robotic submersibles 5,000 feet deep to prod the blind shear ram, nestled in the bosom of a five-story blowout preventer standing guard over the Macondo well.

They were driven on, documents and interviews reveal, by indications that the shear ram’s blades had come within a few maddening inches of achieving their purpose. Again and again, they tried to make the blades close completely, knowing it was their best chance to end the nightmare of oil and gas billowing into the Gulf of Mexico.

“If that would’ve worked,” a senior oil industry executive said of the blind shear ram, “that rig wouldn’t have burned up and sunk.”

Much remains unknown about the failure of this ultimate fail-safe device. It continues to be a focus of inquiries, and some crucial questions will not be answerable until the blowout preventer is recovered from the sea.

But from documents and interviews, it is possible to piece together some of the decisions and events that came into play when the Deepwater Horizon most needed the blind shear ram.

Engineers contended with hydraulic fluid leaks that may have deprived the ram of crucial cutting force. They struggled to comprehend what was going on in the steel sarcophagus that encased the shear ram, as if trying to perform surgery blindfolded.

They wondered if the blades had by chance closed uselessly on one of the nearly indestructible joints that connect drilling pipe — a significant bit of misfortune, given a decision years before to outfit the Deepwater Horizon’s blowout preventer with just one blind shear ram when other rigs were already beginning to use two of them to guard against just this possibility.

But the questions raised by the failure of the blind shear ram extend well beyond the Deepwater Horizon.

An examination by The New York Times highlights the chasm between the oil industry’s assertions about the reliability of its blowout preventers and a more complex reality. It reveals that the federal agency charged with regulating offshore drilling, the Minerals Management Service, repeatedly declined to act on advice from its own experts on how it could minimize the risk of a blind shear ram failure.

It also shows that the Obama administration failed to grapple with either the well-known weaknesses of blowout preventers or the sufficiency of the nation’s drilling regulations even as it made plans this spring to expand offshore oil exploration.

“What happened to all the stakeholders — Congress, environmental groups, industry, the government — all stakeholders involved were lulled into a sense of what has turned out to be false security,” David J. Hayes, the deputy interior secretary, said in an interview.

Even in one significant instance where the Minerals Management Service did act, it appears to have neglected to enforce a rule that required oil companies to submit proof that their blind shear rams would in fact work.

As it turns out, records and interviews show, blind shear rams can be surprisingly vulnerable. There are many ways for them to fail, some unavoidable, some exacerbated by the stunning water depths at which oil companies have begun to explore.

But they also can be rendered powerless by the failure of a single part, a point underscored in a confidential report that scrutinized the reliability of the Deepwater Horizon’s blowout preventer. The report, from 2000, concluded that the greatest vulnerability by far on the entire blowout preventer was one of the small shuttle valves leading to the blind shear ram. If this valve jammed or leaked, the report warned, the ram’s blades would not budge.

This sort of “single-point failure” figures prominently in an emerging theory of what went wrong with the Deepwater Horizon’s blind shear ram, according to interviews and documents. Some evidence suggests that when the crew activated the blind shear ram, its blades tried to cut the drill pipe, but then failed to finish the job because one or more of its shuttle valves leaked hydraulic fluid.

These kinds of weaknesses were understood inside the oil industry, documents and interviews show. And given the critical importance of the blind shear ram, offshore drillers began adding a layer of redundancy by equipping their blowout preventers with two blind shear rams.
641 2010-06-21 Ross Douthat ends his June 14 column, “No Mystique About Feminism,” with the assertion that the emergence of the most recent round of conservative victories is a happy consequence of the victories of the women’s movement. He is right: the women who won this month have the feminist movement, and especially the ’70s liberal wave of feminism, to thank for opening the public world of politics to women.

What gets lost in Mr. Douthat’s analysis is the slippery slope that we may find ourselves on if the policies that made it possible for Carly Fiorina et al. are not supported going forward. Women must have choices about how many children they can support, affordable child care options and the ability to earn a living that will allow more of them to run for office and lead in other sectors as well.

Women make up only 17 percent of political leaders today, and the White House Project’s most recent research, “Benchmarking Women’s Leadership,” shows that across 10 sectors of American culture, women on average are only 18 percent of its leaders. If the full range of health, economic and safety options is not supported by the women who advance, then they will pull the ladder up behind them.

Ross Douthat’s notion of feminism doesn’t square at all with the movement that emerged under that name in the 1970s. The campaign then was for legal, social and economic equality, to be sure, but the existential fight was never for the freedom to be as self-interested and testosterone-maddened as the average man.

The thinking was that once women entered the public sphere, the world would be a markedly more civilized place — perhaps as a natural outgrowth of a woman’s ability to bear and care for children.
642 2010-06-21 To anyone watching the spew into the Gulf of Mexico, the argument for curbing this country’s appetite for fossil fuels could not be clearer. was right last week when he called on America to unify behind a “national mission” to find alternative energy sources, sharply reduce its dependence on oil and cut its greenhouse gas emissions.

We were disappointed, however, that Mr. Obama’s address failed to insist that the best way to do all of these things is to establish a broadly based, economywide system that would put a price on carbon emissions. He opened the door far too wide to alternative policies that aren’t real alternatives — and to more stalling.

A House bill approved last year would set up such a system. Action in the Senate has been delayed for months, as Republicans, and some Democrats, have argued without any real proof that capping and pricing carbon emissions would cripple the economy by driving up the cost of energy.

On Wednesday, Democratic leaders, who have promised to bring an energy bill to the Senate floor after the Fourth of July recess but are nowhere near agreement on what should be in it, will troop down to the White House. This time, Mr. Obama must stress, explicitly and emphatically, that a conventional energy bill will not do — and that attaching real costs to older, dirtier fuels now dumped free of charge into the atmosphere is the surest way to persuade American industry to develop cleaner fuels.

Mr. Obama also needs to push back a lot harder against critics who claim, wrongly, that such an approach will raise electricity and fuel prices to unacceptable levels.
643 2010-06-21 The sale of a stake in the agency could also let its owners tap some of the wealth that has largely been locked inside their sprawling private business. But people briefed on the discussions — who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the agency’s stringent policy against public comment on its business — insisted that no managing partner was planning to leave.

Hollywood’s top agencies have been under pressure for years, as an erosion in home video revenue, a drop in film production and fragmentation in the TV business have clipped income for stars and filmmakers and turned deals like the still-pending Miramax sale into bargaining quagmires.

“The C.A.A. conversations are nothing more than a reflection of these realities,” said Peter Dekom, a longtime entertainment lawyer.

For Mr. Lourd and his associates, a group of whom bought Creative Artists from its co-founders, Michael Ovitz and Ron Meyer, in 1995, the challenge has been to keep their company from becoming a gilded cage that might shrink if it failed to connect with a larger business world.

Mr. Lourd declined to be interviewed for this article. He has, however, unwillingly become the most public of his agency’s private group of owners, in large part because of an unsuccessful marriage to the actress and writer Carrie Fisher, who made their relationship grist for book projects, including her memoir and one-woman stage show, “Wishful Drinking.”

Mr. Lourd, meanwhile, has emerged as a main strategist behind the agency’s search for new backing. Any deal with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, TPG or another investor could still be months in the making.

But talks toward what might elsewhere be seen as a ho-hum step in business expansion have been an attention-getter in Hollywood, perhaps because Creative Artists and its owners have been long cloistered in a world that revolves around the agency’s Century City headquarters.

Mr. Lourd, for instance, is virtually alone among the partners in having joined a major corporate board — that of IAC/Interactive Corporation, the Internet-oriented conglomerate led by a Hollywood friend, Barry Diller.

He also sticks out in Hollywood because of his humble background and down-to-earth demeanor. The son of an oil field worker, Mr. Lourd, now 49, grew up along the Bayou Teche, in New Iberia, La. He came to Los Angeles as a student at the University of Southern California, where he studied journalism and international relations after seeing the school advertised on television, according to friends.

While still in college, Mr. Lourd became a page at CBS Studios, on the game show “The Price Is Right” and the soap opera “The Young and the Restless” — and a show business career was born. In 1983, he joined the mailroom at the William Morris Agency.

In a classic progression, Mr. Lourd quickly became an agent, was tagged as an up-and-comer, then jumped to the hotter Creative Artists in 1988.

Ms. Fisher, born to Hollywood’s inner circle as the daughter of Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher, brought still deeper connections, though Mr. Lourd was already building a client list that included Meryl Streep, Robert Redford and Brad Pitt.

Mr. Lourd joined his partners in 1999 in battling Mr. Ovitz, who had begun wooing clients to his new management company. Disinclined to share business with Mr. Ovitz, the agency said anyone he managed would be shut out of Creative Artists. (The Ovitz operation soon folded.)

With Mr. Huvane primarily focused on talent relationships, Mr. Lourd and Mr. Lovett, who is the agency’s president and chief organizer, have at times appeared to be an operational committee of two at the top of Creative Artists, despite a group ethic that puts the partners on equal footing.

Mr. Lovett has been known for a special interest in the agency’s foray into sports marketing, as it recruited prominent agents who represent the likes of LeBron James and Peyton Manning. The initiative — now managed by Howard Nuchow, Michael Levine and Peter Kenyon but heavily overseen by Mr. O’Connor — has led to tensions with the competing sports agency IMG.

In April, IMG filed suit in a United States District Court in Ohio against Matthew Baldwin, a sports agent it accused of taking confidential files, including client contracts, when he recently quit to join Creative Artists.

Mr. Baldwin had already sued IMG in California, seeking to void contractual terms that would keep him from competing with it. The two courts are now sorting out where the cases will land, perhaps setting the stage for a battle that could touch Creative Artists, though it is not named as a party to either suit.

Deep inside the movie business, at any rate, things sometimes still go the way they should for a top player.

Engineering a new version of “The Karate Kid” for Sony Pictures Entertainment, for instance, was mostly a matter of getting one of Mr. Lourd’s own clients, the producer Jerry Weintraub, who made the original film, to talk with a client of Mr. Lovett’s, Will Smith.

“He said don’t close your mind,” Mr. Weintraub said of Mr. Lourd’s role in brokering the deal behind a film that has taken in $107 million at the domestic box office in its first 10 days.

And Harvey Weinstein remains a believer, even if Miramax — for the moment — slipped off the hook.

“He is a level-headed and fair negotiator,” Mr. Weinstein said of Mr. Lourd. “Bryan was an incredible force to have involved.”
644 2010-06-21 Though her point shoes include remarkably large (though soft) blocks, she uses her feet more beautifully than many other ballerinas. (Ms. Osipova’s feet, though clad in noiseless blocks and giving her an unequalled jump, do not yet trace small steps with the same kind of delicacy.) One disappointment: Ms. Cojocaru took such long balances early in the Rose Adagio that her briefer ones at its famous conclusion seemed a relative anticlimax.

No other Aurora of my experience has acted in such affecting detail the different sensations that pass through her after pricking her finger on the spindle. Pain in the finger; chills through arms and torso; a sudden spasm in the heart; puzzlement; brief relief; then new anxiety and isolation. With no loss of youthfulness or lightness, she has deepened as a dance-actress.

Yet like most interpreters of Aurora today, Ms. Cojocaru doesn’t shape the three-act role as a large arc. In Act II, when she materializes as a vision to the prince, she plays the part not as an elusive and mysterious apparition to be pursued but as if actively seeking his love. The searching looks she kept addressing to his face were too reminiscent of those we’d seen her give her parents and the princes in Act I. And when awakened and married — more searching looks into her prince’s eyes — she mainly reiterated the first act’s girlish happiness.

In this respect she takes too little from her music. Tchaikovsky and the choreographer Marius Petipa arranged Aurora’s wedding adagio with a quality of poignant quiet and gave her solo variation in the final act a greater range of dynamic contrasts than any other solo in 19th-century ballet. But Ms. Cojocaru conceives the role more as a dance-actress than as a musician or a classical stylist. Her line — light, joyous — has neither grandeur nor inevitability.

Ms. Osipova’s performance was less mature in delivery and, occasionally, more evidently nervous. Her fortune remains her jump, but Aurora is not principally a jumping role or even a spectacular role. If she can discover the dynamic contrasts of Act III, and if she can show how the perfect geometries of Aurora’s line can embody the sublime, then this outstanding dancer may also become a great interpreter of the role. She already sets each act in a distinctly different hue: She’s a shyly brave girl in Act I; a coolly remote vision in Act II; a young woman illumined by love in Act III. You long to see her resume the role when she has more experience.

Ms. Cojocaru’s prince, Jose Manuel Carreño, gave his role much of the same flesh-and-blood reality as she. In Act II you follow his changing emotions with concern. He has charm, elegance, virility. Ms. Osipova’s prince, David Hallberg, brings less acting weight and color to the role and he, like Ms. Osipova, should learn not to let his mouth fall ajar in moments of excitement.

But Mr. Hallberg’s was the one ideally classical performance of the whole day. Whereas most other dancers extended their legs either as high as they could or to heights that they’ve been told are correct, his line aimed unerringly forward and backward in space, as if beaming energy to specific points in the distant firmament.

There’s something unearthly about him. For all his pale-blond beauty, he’s the Harry Potter of princes. He’s unlike everybody he knows; only when the stage floods with ethereal nymphs, and he encounters the Lilac Fairy, does he at last understand why he’s different. More than either of Saturday’s ballerinas, he epitomized the ideal. He had only to point a foot, and it was an event of magnitude. The wealth of tone, the perfection of form, the flow of energy were all glorious. He was nowhere finer than in the double air turns that characterize this role. They come out of nowhere and arrive on the music with a soft ease that’s calmly decisive.

As in their “Giselle” last year he and Ms. Osipova plainly stimulated each other, not just in intensity and virtuosity but also in responsive nuances of interpretation. Just the way he touched her waist in Act II was a marvel; you could see him bringing his hands toward her as if in awe of this revelation who was transforming his life.
645 2010-06-21 Clearly losing his composure, Johnson then double-bogeyed the third when his drive over the towering cypress trees guarding the left side flew into the hazard, leading to a frenzied and fruitless search for his golf ball. It was found, 39 seconds after the five-minute search limit expired, and Johnson had to go back to the tee to hit another.

He drove that shot into a bunker, hit the green and two-putted from 10 feet. Johnson declined to speak after his round. But others were not so reticent.

Phil Mickelson, who has five second-place Open finishes but could not mount a run at his first Open title, started with a birdie from just in front of the first green. But he wound up shooting a 73 and tying for fourth with Tiger Woods, who shot a 75.

“I thought when I made that putt on the first hole it would be a great day,” Mickelson said. “When I saw that Dustin Johnson made triple on the third, I thought it would be anybody’s ballgame. And I had a lot of opportunities on the first seven holes but just wasn’t able to make anything happen.”

Mickelson drove the green on the par-4 fourth, but three-putted from 12 feet beyond the hole, pretty much summing up his day. That was also where Johnson lost his last opportunity by selecting driver from the tee and sending his shot into the hazard. He bogeyed the hole, and was three strokes behind, the closest he got the rest of the way.

One by one, the rest of the contenders fell away. Woods, who began the day five strokes behind Johnson, bogeyed two of the first four holes, added two more at the sixth and the eighth holes, and made the turn five strokes behind McDowell.

“I made three mental mistakes,” Woods said, without elaborating, “and all that did was cost me the Open.”

Ernie Els also had his chances. He briefly tied for the lead before McDowell’s birdie at the fifth, but a tough three-hole stretch at Nos. 9-11 probably cost him any realistic chance at the tournament. He played those holes bogey, double bogey, bogey and squandered a remarkable tap-in birdie at the 12th hole with a bogey at the vicious par-5 14th hole.

The famous 17th hole, which Els played in five over for the week, summed up his — and many other golfers’ — frustrations Sunday. A rock hard green combined with a very tough hole location combined for a telling stat: only seven of the contestants hit the green in regulation.

Els had a slim chance when he came to the hole at one over par, two shots behind McDowell, who had just bogeyed the 14th to slip to one under. But like many before him he found the left-front bunker.

He exploded to six feet beyond the back-left hole location with a good chance to save par, but his putt never hit the hole. He dropped to two over, made a disappointing par from the front bunker at the last and finished alone in third place at two over par.

That left it all up to Havret, ranked 391st in the World Golf Rankings, a qualifier who was trying to become the first Frenchman to win a major championship since 1907 when Arnaud Massy won the British Open. He gave it everything he had, playing the front nine in one under, better than anyone near the lead. Havret pulled to two strokes of the lead when McDowell bogeyed the 10th after slinging his approach shot into the rough above the hole from the fairway.

But when it came down to it, Havret played the final two holes in one over after a bogey at the 17th and a two-putt par at the 18th, missing an 8-footer that would have forced McDowell’s hand. It would have been a bit much to ask of Havret to get up and down for birdie at the 72nd hole of his first United States Open.

“Well, it’s some great feelings,” Havret said. “It’s been a great week. I had to hole a 50-footer in the qualifying to get into the playoff and then to win a playoff to get here and all of a sudden I am playing on Sunday with Tiger Woods.”

And outplaying him by two strokes, Havret was too polite to add.

And as happy as Havret was with his performance, McDowell was that much more, staring at the sky in a combination of relief and joy, the first major champion from Portrush, Northern Ireland, since Fred Daly won the 1947 British Open.

“I think there’ll be a few pints of Guinness going down tonight,” he said. “I think there’ll be some celebrating going on.”
646 2010-06-21 The Chinese government would have ample reason to prevent publication of the book. Perhaps most troubling are passages in which Mr. Li claims that China’s current leaders, President Hu Jintao and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, supported the military’s assault on the square.

In his version of events, Mr. Li defends the decision to deploy the army, saying he wanted to prevent the spread of social instability. He writes that China’s paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, gave the final approval, ordering that casualties be minimized, but saying that the Communist Party had to be prepared to “shed some blood” to quash the demonstrations.

Mr. Bao said he was given a copy of the manuscript by a mysterious middleman and, after extensive due diligence, he determined the writings were those of Mr. Li, who is 81 and reportedly in failing health. He said he tried to obtain permission from Mr. Li but was unable to reach him.

Last year Mr. Bao’s company, New Century Press, printed the memoirs of Zhao Ziyang, the party chief whose opposition to use of force at Tiananmen led to his downfall. Mr. Zhao had secretly recorded them on cassette tapes, which were smuggled out of the country. Mr. Bao is the son of a senior aide to Mr. Zhao, who, after the Tiananmen protests, spent the remainder of his life under house arrest and died in 2005.

When news of the Li memoirs’ publication became public this month, copies quickly found their way to the Internet but were promptly blocked by Chinese government censors. The censorship effort was so zealous that for days, any search that included Mr. Li’s name yielded no results.

Mr. Bao said that he had yet to tally the monetary loss from canceling the print run of 20,000 copies, but added that the bigger loss was not financial. "I regret that the public will not have access to the formal publication of this important historical document," he said. 



Even if Chinese readers are unable to get their hands on a hard copy of Mr. Peng's writings, those able to circumvent the country's Internet restrictions -- something easily done with readily available software -- will have ample opportunity to read the memoir, which is now posted online.
647 2010-06-21 As Democrats try again this week to fight through their election-year storm, Job No. 1 is settling on a common destination.     For instance, they will need to make order out of chaos on energy, the issue President Obama elevated from the Oval Off...
648 2010-06-22 At a White House reception to celebrate gay and lesbian pride month, President Obama promises to press for repeal of the Defense of Marriage Act....
649 2010-06-22 Ahead of a meeting at the White House on Wednesday between Gen. Stanley McChrystal and President Obama, speculation is rife in Washington and online on whether the general will keep his job....
650 2010-06-22 Ahead of a meeting at the White House on Wednesday between Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and President Obama, speculation is rife in Washington and online about whether the general will remain America's top commander in Afghanistan....
651 2010-06-22 How Rolling Stone got a candid interview with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal....
652 2010-06-22 To reach a compromise, 13 of 16 industrial zones are excluded from a new bill giving loft tenants additional rights....
653 2010-06-22 A poet for hire sets up shop with his blue typewriter on the streets of Brooklyn....
654 2010-06-22 Excerpts from "The Runaway General," an article in an upcoming issue of Rolling Stone that has reportedly enraged the president....
655 2010-06-22 Excerpts from "The Runaway General," an article in an upcoming issue of Rolling Stone that has reportedly enraged the president....
656 2010-06-22 The crucial distinction for Monday's team-up between Jay-Z and Eminem, which will be seen Friday on "Late Show," was that it was staged on the roof of the Ed Sullivan Theater, and not the marquee....
657 2010-06-22 President Obama is set to expand rights included in the Family and Medical Leave Act to gays and lesbians....
658 2010-06-22 Premiums in large self-funded plans probably will not increase, and may decline, under the new health care law, according to the Congressional Budget Office....
659 2010-06-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
660 2010-06-22 Spyglass Entertainment has emerged as the leading contender to run Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, after impressing a group of hedge funds holding large amounts of the movie studio's debt, The Wall Street Journal reported....
661 2010-06-22 Intel has reached a legal cease-fire with the Federal Trade Commission over a complaint that the company abused its position in the chip market....
662 2010-06-22 The only reason we invest in stocks is to earn more than we would get from cash or bonds. The amount you are supposed to earn by taking the additional risk of owning stocks is called the risk premium. So when is it coming back?...
663 2010-06-22 But a result has been that while more students now take admissions tests for gifted programs, fewer students now enroll, and they are less racially diverse, council members said.

Under the previous policies, 15 percent of the students admitted to gifted programs were Hispanic and 31 percent were black. In the 2009-10 school year, 12 percent were Hispanic and 15 percent were black. Over all, 39 percent of kindergartners are Hispanic and 27 percent are black.

Six districts in central Brooklyn and the South Bronx will have no gifted kindergartens in the fall because so few students qualified.

Over the next several months, Mr. Sternberg said, the city will explore whether a newer test reflecting up-to-date research could result in a more diverse gifted program.

“We think that the testing technologies have evolved significantly since our last” request for proposals, he said.

“And we are going to push,” he added.

A wide range of issues would be in play, Mr. Sternberg said, including the testing protocols and outreach, as well as the test itself. “And we are every bit as committed as we have been, if not more so, in trying to find a way that there is proper representation among students.”

Currently the city uses a mixture of the Otis-Lennon School Ability Test, or Olsat, a reasoning exam, and the Bracken School Readiness Assessment. Because the Bracken is a knowledge test, it is easy to prepare for, and increasing numbers of nursery schools and private companies offer tutoring. Preparing for the Olsat is more controversial, but some companies have claimed high rates of success in helping students master the exam.

Students who score at the 90th percentile are offered a seat in a gifted class. The number of children scoring over 97th percentile, making them candidates for one of five highly selective “citywide” gifted programs, rose by one-third this year, with the greatest growth in middle-class districts.

The city has repeatedly defended its admissions policies, and even after Mr. Sternberg’s remarks, it continued to do so on Monday. David Cantor, the press secretary, said that while the city would naturally look for the best test available next year, that did not indicate a problem with the current test. After the hearing, Mr. Sternberg spoke with members of the Education Department’s communications staff and then told reporters that his comments did not indicate a change in policy and refused to take further questions.

Whether a different test would end the problem of professional preparation was unclear.

“If they change the tests to another test, it’s not going to make a big difference,” said Bige Doruk, the founder of Bright Kids NYC, a tutoring company. “I think this notion that you can change it and stop people from preparing is quite not correct. There’s too much at stake.”

Mr. Sternberg also said that the city would look at the timing of the test. Currently, families do not find out until June if their child matched to a gifted program, leading to high anxiety among some parents, particularly those whose children are on waiting lists for their overcrowded neighborhood schools or who must decide whether to put down deposits on private schools.

Elizabeth Sciabarra, who heads the city’s student enrollment office, said the main constraint the city had faced in notifying parents earlier was that the current test was valid only for children 4 years old or older, so the city had to wait until January of the year before kindergarten to administer it. But, she said, that too might be looked at in searching for a better test, adding that children could be tested even earlier.

“The only way we can change the timing,” she said, “is to do as Marc suggests, is to look at perhaps another vehicle for testing that could get us to a place where we might be able to test earlier.”
664 2010-06-22 Mr. Hayworth trails Mr. McCain in polls, fund-raising and endorsements. The Phoenix area is dotted with large billboards for Mr. McCain, and Mr. Hayworth’s campaign remains strikingly upstart.

But between the unusually late primary date of Aug. 24 — which could have an impact on turnout — and the volatility of an energized primary base that has never quite cottoned to Mr. McCain, his team is concerned enough to keep him pressing the flesh all his non-Washington days.

On the trail these days, there is less of the energy generated by a run for the White House. And the candidate often seems to be striking a different tone.

Back in 2008, at a town-hall-style meeting, presidential candidate McCain snatched the microphone away from an older woman who referred to Mr. Obama as "an Arab" and protested: “No, no ma’am. He’s a decent family man with whom I happen to have some disagreements.”

The other day, in front of about 100 people at the Parker Community/Senior Center here in western Arizona, a man who identified himself as a Vietnam veteran said, “I want to know what this guy, what’s his name, let me see, Hussein, Barack Hussein Obama, is doing about our health care.”

Senate candidate McCain’s face flashed with brief amusement, and then he gazed toward the scuffed floor and settled into a grimace. “We all want to be respectful of the president of the United States,” he said.

Both remarkably sprightly and just this side of cranky, a visibly thinner Mr. McCain zips around Arizona regularly these days, scurrying from public forum to campaign office opening to West Valley business luncheon. The crowds can be loving or volatile.

Speaking without notes on subjects like North Korea, deficit spending, immigration policy and Social Security for 20 minutes at a time, Mr. McCain often reflects the experience and savvy he has come by honestly through years on the stump.

But just as often he squints as if he is bracing for a verbal blow. And he can shift from the animated Mr. McCain of past campaigns — quick with a joke or a warm “Thank you for your service” to a young mother whose husband is on his third tour to Iraq — to being uneasy and defensive about the parochial issues he finds himself hectored about.

“I’m not going to come in here and tell the local government what to do,” Mr. McCain snapped at Darla Tilley, director of the Parker center for the elderly, who pressed him in early June on the lack of nursing homes and assisted-living facilities in her county. A little while later, before leaving for his next stop, Mr. McCain pivoted to contrition. “I hope to be more like you,” he told her.

In an interview later, Ms. Tilley said she had been upset less by the exchange than by the fact that “the senator didn’t really seem to know or understand how many state-funded programs we have lost here.”

If it galls Mr. McCain, a two-time presidential candidate, senior senator and war hero to have to race across this vast state to defend himself against a former radio talk show host who once suggested that same-sex marriage could lead to nuptials with animals, it is not readily apparent.

He never mentions Mr. Hayworth by name and has so far refused to debate him. “I have a day job,” he said in response to one voter who pressed him on this. McCain campaign officials refused numerous requests for interviews.

Most often Mr. McCain is flanked by just an aide or two — the old posse of elected officials and fellow war heroes back home or plotting their own political futures — while he toughs it out at a North Scottsdale library before voters who are not afraid to confront him.

“We all know what happened after 9/11,” said one man in the audience here. “Why didn’t you close this border down? Where were you, Senator?”

The senator sparred at the library with a voter, Richard Martin, who took him to task for 15 minutes over his history of immigration legislation, his distaste for torture and his refusal to debate his opponent. “You won’t have any debates,” Mr. Martin fumed. “You’re afraid of J. D. Hayworth. The people in Arizona deserve debates.”

As several stops with him around his state this month demonstrate, Mr. McCain, whose tirelessness at age 73 is a thing of visual wonder, is often under fire from voters weary of shape- shifting politicians this year.

Nowhere is this more clear than on immigration. Mr. McCain has been dinged for moving significantly from his former position of giving working papers to some illegal immigrants to a border-control-only approach on the issue. But it is crystal clear that this is what his primary constituents want and expect from him.

While border crime has decreased in this state in recent years, the killing of a prominent rancher in the south by what the police suspect was an illegal immigrant set off rage across the state, and helped fuel a tough new state law directed at immigrants.

Repeatedly over three days, Mr. McCain was asked why he had supported “amnesty” for illegal immigrants in the past (“I never supported amnesty,” he says), and how he feels about a proposed state law intended to prevent children of illegal immigrants born in the United States from automatically becoming citizens. (He deflected the question.) One woman suggested she would like to “get a gun” and help border agents herself, a not-uncommon refrain here.

“People in the southern part of the state are not safe in their homes,” Mr. McCain said repeatedly, to the sound of applause.

Yet for all his oratory about Arizona issues, Mr. McCain is also a one-man show of Washington bashing, generally focused on the deficit and the new health care plan.

“My favorite bumper sticker is the one that says, ‘Don’t tell Obama what comes after a trillion,’ ” he said, using a reliable laugh line.
665 2010-06-22 PRETORIA, South Africa — The referee Koman Coulibaly blew his whistle almost 90 times during the United States’ 2-2 tie with Slovenia on Friday, but one blast stands out, and his decision to disallow an apparent go-ahead goal by the Americans in the 85th minute remains without an explanation.

Monday might have been a good day to provide one, with about three-quarters of the 87 referees and assistant referees assigned to work the World Cup taking part in a training session at a high school that was opened to the news media before Coulibaly ever became a household name, of sorts, in the United States.

But while the referees and their supervisors provided various insights into the world in which they operate, no one was willing to talk about Coulibaly’s no-goal call or any other controversial rulings at this year’s World Cup. Coulibaly himself was not on hand.

“We cannot explain every single decision,” said José María García-Aranda, the head of FIFA’s refereeing department. FIFA did, however, announce its referee assignments for Matches 33-40, and Coulibaly was not included. Frank De Bleeckere, a Belgian, will referee the United States-Algeria match Wednesday, his third game of the World Cup.

Soccer referees stand out from officials in other sports because their decisions on the field are final, and no justification is required afterward. Armed with their whistles and their yellow and red cards, they are somewhat omnipotent, but hardly omniscient or infallible — as the World Cup referees on hand Monday were willing to acknowledge.

“Sometimes, there is a decision that is just a mistake,” said Howard Webb, a referee from England. “Just like, sometimes, the players make a mistake. We don’t expect the players to come and apologize to spectators, to their fans. I don’t think we should.”

They were blunt words, the kind that might not play so well in the United States, where, earlier this month, the major league umpire Jim Joyce wasted little time in admitting to reporters that he had blown a call that cost Detroit Tigers pitcher Armando Galarraga a perfect game.

But whether they provide explanations for their rulings or not, soccer referees have plenty else to do. They are responsible for the entire field of play and must monitor the actions of 22 players with the help of one assistant referee on each sideline, for offside calls. A fourth official helps maintain sideline order.

The main referee must also keep track of time and punish players for infractions based only on what he can see with the naked eye.

Webb and other referees on Monday said they would often explain to players on the field why a call went against them, but that there were circumstances when it could do more harm than good.

“Sometimes, it’s better for a referee to turn his back on the player,” said Henrik Andren, a Swede who was assigned to be an assistant referee in the World Cup. “If the player is very angry, you can see he is very frustrated, then there’s no reason for dialogue, because he’ll be upset no matter what the explanation.”

Referees train daily during the World Cup. On Monday, players from nearby schools were invited to run drills with them, and the drone of the vuvuzelas was even piped in over the public-address system to simulate the atmosphere of the games here.

Unlike the players, who leave the field at the end of 90 minutes knowing whether they have won or lost a game, or tied it, the referees must wait for the often harsh judgment of a public that has the benefit of video replay, from multiple angles.

“When we leave the pitch, we can have a feeling that it was generally good or generally not good,” said Sweden’s Martin Hansson, who is here to work as a full referee. “But to make sure all the decisions are correct, we have to wait for the briefings.”

Indeed, after each match, FIFA officials will review the referee’s report and video of the game and give the referee an evaluation.

Hansson came to South Africa with the same World Cup ambitions as any elite soccer professional. But almost two weeks into the tournament, he has yet to get on the field. The reason may not be hard to figure out.

While refereeing a World Cup playoff game in November between France and Ireland, Hansson failed to spot Thierry Henry’s notorious handball that helped France qualify at Ireland’s expense.

“After the game, we were sitting in the dressing room and I cried,” Hansson said Monday. “I realized what a mistake it was.”

Hansson added, “If you watch the rest of the game, it was maybe one of the best games in my career, except for that terrible thing.”

Hansson, of course, did not have access to instant replay after Henry passed the ball with his hand to his teammate William Gallas, who scored. Interestingly, several referees said Monday that they were open to new tools to help them make calls, provided the tools did not disrupt the flow of the game.

But Sepp Blatter, the president of FIFA, has stated that he is against the use of technology to assist referees. He said he valued the human element of refereeing because it allowed fans to continue the debate the game long after the final whistle.

Meanwhile, as teams are eliminated from the tournament, so, too, will referees be sent home, depending on their performance.

“The stakes are high for us, too,” Webb said.
666 2010-06-22 WASHINGTON — Iran on Monday barred two United Nations nuclear inspectors from returning to the country, apparently the first step in what Iran’s government has said will be a series of actions in response to the latest round of United Nations Security Council sanctions.

While Iran announced the restriction on Monday, it wrote to the International Atomic Energy Agency on June 10 — after passage of the sanctions — denying visas to the two inspectors, who are part of a much larger team that regularly visits the country.

Ali Akbar Salehi, the head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization, said the two inspectors, whom the agency refused to name, published “false and unreal” information in a report on equipment that could be used for experiments in pyroprocessing, a technique the inspectors thought might have some application to nuclear weapons development.

Mr. Salehi said Iran would continue to cooperate with other international nuclear inspectors and “comply by our international commitments,” according to Iranian news media, though the I.A.E.A. has long complained that its inspectors have very limited access to Iranian facilities they want to visit.

The Iranian announcement came as leaders of a House-Senate conference committee said they had reconciled two versions of bills moving through Congress that would impose harsher American sanctions against foreign banks that are doing business with companies or financial institutions on a blacklist of Iranian firms. That would go far beyond the United Nations sanctions and, if enforced, make foreign banks choose between business in Iran and the ability to conduct transactions in the United States. But President Obama would have wide latitude to exempt some foreign companies from the law.

The legislation would also create a new set of sanctions against companies that are working in Iran’s energy sector, an area the United Nations sanctions did not address. The Treasury Department, which enforces financial sanctions, said it was still reviewing the language in the compromise legislation before announcing whether the administration would support it.

Iran is within its rights to bar some selected members of inspection teams. Nonetheless, the White House denounced the move as an effort to obfuscate the nature of Iran’s nuclear program.
667 2010-06-22 The avant-garde composer and multireedist Anthony Braxton had plenty of words for his admirers at Le Poisson Rouge on Friday night, when it was officially his turn to take the stage. He talked about the striving of noncommercial artists. He referred to “geopolitical dynamics,” adding that the world was still full of “men and women of goodwill.” He expressed appreciation for the costume splendor of Lady Gaga. And finally he struck a note of retirement-party humor: “If you have to be 65, this is the best way to do it.”

Mr. Braxton, bespectacled and cardiganed as usual, was a hands-on honoree during Tri-Centric Modeling: Past, Present and Future, a two-day festival commemorating his legacy as well as his age. With proceeds going to the nonprofit Tri-Centric Foundation, which supports performances and archival preservation of his music, the festival gathered a marvelous cohort of his protégés and peers, outlining something like a living index of contemporary improvised music.

The terms of genre have always been problematic for Mr. Braxton. The music that he presented on both nights, however infused with spontaneous actions, was the furthest thing from improvised. On Saturday, at the Issue Project Room in Brooklyn, there were excerpts from “Trillium E,” an opera he recorded this spring. Friday’s concert culminated in “Composition 361,” a 20-minute work for Mr. Braxton’s 12+2tet: his primary public outlet of late, stocked with woodwinds, horns and strings.

Among other things, “Composition 361” conveyed the impression of a great beast given to disarmingly graceful movements, like a hippopotamus in water. A general rumble at the outset gave way to a succession of internal alliances: between, for instance, Sara Schoenbeck on bassoon and James Fei on alto saxophone, sketching interlocking motifs; or between the guitarist Mary Halvorson and the flutist Nicole Mitchell, with a zipperlike ascending run. On the whole, the piece was wily and ungraspable.

That sense of the enigmatic was a common thread among the artists who had earlier appeared. Ms. Mitchell, representing Chicago’s Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians, led a version of her Black Earth Strings, with the violinist Renée Baker and the cellist Tomeka Reid. Their music was terse but buoyant, enlivened by tonal frictions.

The evening began with a droning bagpipe processional, played in the dark by Matthew Welch as he circled the room. The alto saxophonist Steve Coleman and the trumpeter Jonathan Finlayson followed with a circuitous duet, variously pointillist or boppish. Mr. Coleman hailed Mr. Braxton afterward: “If it wasn’t for you, we wouldn’t be here.”
668 2010-06-22 Maybe location really is everything. When Mannes College the New School for Music presents its annual summer festival concerts in its auditorium on the Upper West Side, they seem low key and academic, no matter how vividly played and well attended they are. But following in the footsteps of the Keys to the Future festival, which was held at the similarly quaint Greenwich House Music School until this year, Mannes has moved a few of the concerts in its Institute and Festival for Contemporary Performance to Le Poisson Rouge.

The difference between the staid, sometimes dreary atmosphere of the opening concert at Mannes on Tuesday and the vital, fresh installment the festival staged at Le Poisson Rouge on Sunday was enormous.

The Sunday evening program, the fourth of the festival’s seven, was billed as a concert by TimeTable Percussion, a trio consisting of Matthew Gold, Alex Lipowski and Matt Ward. But three of the six works were solo piano pieces, performed by Yejin Gil. Ms. Gil opened the program with a sharply etched reading of Pascal Dusapin’s Étude for Piano No. 2 (“Igra,” 1999), in which a mechanistic chordal figure evolves slowly into an easygoing, slow trill with an almost Minimalist spirit.

In the Dusapin Étude No. 3 (“Tangram,” 1999), Ms. Gil used a light touch in the rolled chords that begin the piece and become its structural columns, and a singing tone in the gentle melodic strands that flit between them. That same flexibility enlivened the complex cross-rhythms and glittering textures of Unsuk Chin’s Étude No. 1 (1999, revised 2003).

The first offering from TimeTable was the premiere of Nathan Davis’s “Whet” (2010), a score for cymbals only: 18 of them, in various sizes and shapes, some played by hand but most suspended and played with mallets. You might think that a percussion ensemble limited to cymbals would sound constricted in terms of color and range, and you would be partly right. Much of the time, Mr. Davis (who is also a percussionist) had the three TimeTable players create the whoosh of cymbal pairs rubbed together, relieved by rhythmic tapping of at least one pair. But the interest was in the detail: the cymbals were amplified, not to make them louder but to capture overtones and other sonic qualities that can be heard only close up.

Sarah Carrier, a flutist, joined the percussionists for José-Luis Hurtado’s “Móvil I” (2000), an earthy score in which the flute writing was often sharply rhythmic and the percussion sometimes suggested the windy timbres of a toneless flute. Ms. Carrier combined thoughtful musicality with virtuosity in her alternately energetic and delicate account of a flute line laden with light multiphonics and unusual timbres.

TimeTable and Ms. Gil closed the program with a powerful rendering of Philippe Hurel’s rhythmically and harmonically dense “Interstices” (2009). Mr. Hurel’s percussion palette here leaned heavily on vibraphones, which both blend and contrast with the piano, and he regulated that interaction carefully, ratcheting up the score’s tension level whenever a passage seemed headed toward a moment of calm.
669 2010-06-22 The world’s richest known concentration of these remarkable communities is in the Gulf of Mexico. The life forms include tube worms up to eight feet long. Some of the creatures appear old enough, scientists say, to predate the arrival of Columbus in the New World.

Now, by horrific accident, these cold communities have become the subject of a quiet debate among scientists. The gulf is, of course, the site of the giant that began April 20 with the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon drill rig. The question is what the oil pouring into the gulf means for these deep, dark habitats.

Seep researchers have voiced strong concern about the threat to the dark ecosystems. The spill is a concentrated surge, they note, in contrast to the slow, diffuse, chronic seepage of petrochemicals across much of the gulf’s northern slope. Many factors, like the density of oil in undersea plumes, the size of resulting oxygen drops and the potential toxicity of oil dispersants — all unknowns — could grow into threats that outweigh any possible benefits and damage or even destroy the dark ecosystems.

Last year, scientists discovered a community roughly five miles from where the well, a mile deep, subsequently blew out. Its inhabitants include mussels and tube worms. So it seems that researchers will have some answers sooner rather than later.

“There’s lots of uncertainty,” said Charles R. Fisher, a professor of biology at , who is leading a federal study of the dark habitats and who observed the nearby community. “Our best hope is that the impact is neutral or a minor problem.”

A few scientists say the gushing oil — despite its clear harm to pelicans, turtles and other forms of coastal life — might ultimately represent a subtle boon to the creatures of the cold seeps and even to the wider food chain.

“The gulf is such a great fishery because it’s fed organic matter from oil,” said Roger Sassen, a specialist on the cold seeps who recently retired from . “It’s preadapted to crude oil. The image of this spill being a complete disaster is not true.” His stance seems to be a minority view.

Over roughly two decades, the federal government has spent at least $30 million uncovering and investigating the creatures of the cold seeps, a fair amount of money for basic ocean research. has provided this money in an effort to ensure that oil development does no harm to the unusual ecosystems. Now, the nation’s worst oil spill at sea — with tens of millions of gallons spewing to date — has thrown that goal into doubt.

The agency behind the exploration and surveying of the cold seeps is none other than the much-criticized of the — not its oil regulators but a separate environmental arm, which long ago began hiring oceanographers, geologists, ecologists and marine biologists to investigate the gulf seabed and eventually pushed through regulations meant to protect the newly discovered ecosystems.

The minerals service is joining with other federal agencies to study whether the BP spill is harming the dark habitats. Scientists say ships may go to sea as soon as July, sending tethered robots down to the icy seabed to examine the seep communities and take samples for analysis.

It is a bittersweet moment for scientists like Dr. MacDonald of Florida State University, who has devoted his career to documenting the ecosystem’s richness and complexity. In an interview, he said the sheer difficulty of trying to fathom the ecological impacts of the spill had left some of his colleagues dejected.

“Once, we had this career studying obscure animals down there,” he said. “And now, it’s looking at this — probably for the rest of my career. It becomes this huge unknown.”

Inky darkness, icy temperatures and crushing pressures conspire to make studying the deep oceans arduous and remarkably costly. Humans are estimated to have glimpsed perhaps a millionth of the ocean floor.

By contrast, people looking at the surface of the gulf have known about the seeping oil for centuries. Spanish records dating from the 16th century note floating oil.

In the early 1980s, scientists investigating the oil seeps wondered if nearby creatures on the seabed might suffer chronic harm from pollution and serve as models for petrochemical risk. They lowered nets about a half mile down and pulled up, to their surprise, riots of healthy animals.

“We report the discovery of dense biological communities associated with regions of oil and gas seepage,” six oceanographers at Texas A&M wrote in the journal Nature in September 1985.

The animals included snails, crabs, eels, clams and tube worms more than six feet long. The founding microbes of the food chain turned out to feed on seabed emissions of methane and hydrogen sulfide — a highly toxic chemical for land animals that has the odor of rotten eggs.

Plants derive energy from sunlight and make living tissue in a process known as photosynthesis. The corresponding method among the microbes of the dark abyss is known as chemosynthesis.

The minerals service proceeded to finance wide expeditions. It issued thick reports in 1988, 1992 and 2002. By then, scientists had discovered dozens of seep communities and found some of their inhabitants to be extraordinarily old.

In the journal Nature, Dr. Fisher of Pennsylvania State University and two colleagues reported that gulf tube worms could live more than 250 years — making them among the oldest animals on the planet.

The latest expeditions have looked at seep communities as deep as 1.7 miles — far down the continental slope toward the gulf’s nether regions. In an interview, Dr. Fisher said investigations of the deeper communities suggested that tube worm species there grew slower and lived longer.

How long? “It’s likely they can live a lot longer,” he answered. “I’m uncomfortable with an exact number, but we’re talking centuries — four, five or six centuries.”

Over the years, scientists have found that the deep microbes not only eat exotic chemicals but also make carbonate (a building block of seashells) that forms a hard crust on the normally gooey seabed. The carbonate crusts can grow thick enough, they say, to reduce the flow of gas and oil through the seep communities and form attachment points for a variety of other sea creatures, especially deep corals and other filter feeders like brittle stars.

By probing the gulf’s deep waters with sound and other imaging technologies, scientists have found evidence for the existence on the northern continental slope of roughly 8,000 regions of hard crust — all, they say, potentially home to old or new seep communities.

On its Web site, the minerals service freely admits “a management conflict” between encouraging oil development and protecting the dark ecosystems. It issued regulations in 1989 and has periodically toughened the rules, most recently in January.

Now, in the wake of the oil disaster, many seep researchers have voiced strong concern about the threat to the dark ecosystems. Dr. Fisher said that thick oil could coat the respiratory structures of the animals and cause them to suffocate, and that high concentrations might otherwise prove toxic.

Samantha B. Joye, a cold-seep scientist at the , told a House science subcommittee on June 9 that the BP blowout represented “an unprecedented perturbation to the Gulf of Mexico system.”

She expressed particular concern about the dispersants that BP is injecting a mile down into the spewing oil — in a largely successful effort to reduce the flow reaching the surface.

Dr. Joye said the surge of oil into subsurface waters could feed microbes that consume oxygen. If their numbers explode, she said, the result could be a spike in oxygen consumption so large that its deep levels drop precipitously.

The dark ecosystems, she noted, “can tolerate reduced oxygen concentrations.” But she cautioned that the BP spill will challenge their tolerance “beyond any previous insult.”

Now, oceanographers are preparing to dive deep to see how the dark communities are holding up. The lessons for oil precautions and regulatory care, they say, could have application not only for creatures in the inky depths of the Gulf of Mexico but also around the world.

“Everywhere they looked, they’ve found them,” said Norman L. Guinasso Jr., director of Geochemical and Environmental Research at A&M. He cited discoveries of seep communities off Angola, and .

In exploring the gulf, Dr. Guinasso said, scientists are struggling to fathom the strengths and vulnerabilities of some of the planet’s oldest and most novel creatures. he said, “are still learning.”
670 2010-06-22 “Recovery” could have been an opportunity for re-evaluation or redefinition, a record that would steer Eminem into new, possibly difficult topical terrain. But instead he’s used it as a platform to reassert his core values, stripped clean of the self-induced trauma of recent years.

Even he knows how much damage he’s done to his reputation. “Them last two albums didn’t count,” he raps on “Talkin’ 2 Myself.” “ ‘Encore’ I was on drugs, ‘Relapse’ I was flushing them out.”

What’s left behind is the same petulant child he’s always been, the one that was rescued and polished up by Dr. Dre and subsequently sustained by critical adulation, financial success and self-medication.

Were this same album to come from a new artist, it would be met with head scratching and possibly derision, but for Eminem it’s merely charmingly bare-bones.

First and foremost Eminem’s rapping has survived largely intact, still a wondrous thicket of internal and complex rhymes that come off as feats of athleticism as much as language. Take this tightly packed run from “No Love”:

Cold hearted, from the day I Bogarted the game, my soul started to rot, fellow

When I’m not even at my harshest, you can still get roasted cause Marsh is not mellow.

Throughout “Recovery” he is practically panting from rapping at such a frenzied clip. This is redolent of Eminem circa 1997-98 — before the whimsical accents and cadences — just as his Slim Shady alter ego was being formed, when wordplay mattered far more than subject or tone.

That propensity can be a liability too. Just because words rhyme doesn’t mean they should. On “Not Afraid,” the first single, he catalogs his climb back to sobriety but doesn’t know when to duck a shoddy double entendre:

The way I feel, I’m strong enough, to go to the club or the corner pub

And lift the whole liquor counter up

Thankfully, there are just a handful of his quickly outmoded pop-culture references on this album: — Michael Vick, Brooke Hogan, David Carradine, David Cook. (What, nothing rhymed with Kris Allen?) A decade ago they marked Eminem as a provocateur willing to take on enemies. Now they suggest he’s become a passive and sluggish consumer of pop culture. Even the tongue-in-cheek infomercial spots for “Recovery,” starring ShamWow/ Slap Chop spokesman Vince Shlomi, feel like shtick.

What Eminem hasn’t let go of is his taste for melancholic bombast in production. The beats here, especially the rock-tinged ones by DJ Khalil and a pair from Boi 1da, who brought serrated textures to Drake’s recent debut album, feel no more vibrant than anything Eminem has rapped over since Dr. Dre was supplying him with ornate, swinging production early in his career.

And that’s for the worse, especially given how notably different he sounds when the beat beneath him is optimistic. “W.T.P.,” produced by Supa Dups, is out of place here, a slinky, up-tempo number, but it forces Eminem into lighter, more flexible rhyme structures. It’s the most alive he sounds on this album.

Still, even here he’s frustratingly limited in his topical range. And given all his life changes in the last few years, it’s notable how few new shades of personality he shows on “Recovery.” Post-rehab Eminem isn’t that different from pre-rehab Eminem. He’s always been quick to eviscerate himself, so hearing him say on “Going Through Changes,” “I walk around the house trying to fight mirrors/I can’t stand what I look like,” isn’t much of a surprise.

Where Eminem goes one step deeper is on “Talkin’ 2 Myself,” recounting how his reliance on drugs led him to consider taking shots at Lil Wayne and Kanye West and took away the one thing that his rapping had never lacked for: confidence.

But Marshall is not an egomaniac, that’s not his motto

Otherwise the only moments of stretching here come on a pair of songs — “So Bad,” “Seduction” — on which he takes a crack at flirtatiousness, with awkward results. Listening to them makes it clear that Eminem, at 37 one of the most freakishly gifted technicians in rap history, still has almost no sense of how to age gracefully.

And in less competitive waters that might be less of a problem. But today in hip-hop, the most popular rappers are also the best: Lil Wayne, who appears on this album; Jay-Z, with whom Eminem will share a pair of concert bills in September; even lesser stars like Cam’ron, Fabolous and Rick Ross

When Eminem first appeared, he was a curio, inspiring both fierce culture wars and fawning notice from critics eager to call him something greater than a mere rap star. He was more than happy to oblige, even if it meant getting lost along the way.

But today more than ever being a mere rap star is multilayered, complicated work. It’s just the type of thing this fiery white rapper from Detroit might eventually be great at.
671 2010-06-22 Until this spring, e-book sellers like Amazon and Barnes & Noble sold many best-selling e-books at a loss to entice customers. But then five of the six major American publishers agreed with Apple to change to a so-called agency sales model.

Under the new agreement, booksellers were required to raise prices on many digital books and were able to make a 30 percent commission on the sales, which allows them to sacrifice some profit on their hardware.

Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s chief executive, said this month at the announcement for the company’s new iPhone model that iPad owners had downloaded more than five million books in the last two months, or 2.5 books for each iPad. It was seen then as a troubling sign for Amazon because it revealed that iPad buyers were willing to make small sacrifices to read books on a general-purpose tablet that is heavier and has a bright LCD screen that can cause eye fatigue.

The price cuts should add further momentum to what, despite incursions by the iPad, has been a growing market for dedicated e-reading devices. Amazon and its rivals are on pace to sell 6.6 million e-reading devices this year, up from 3.1 million in 2009, according to Forrester.

But even as the market grows, several smaller players have encountered problems. IRex Technologies, based in the Netherlands, recently sought bankruptcy protection from creditors, citing problems with its division in the United States.

This month, the Skiff e-reading platform, developed by Hearst, was acquired by the News Corporation, casting doubts on the planned introduction of a Skiff reading device.

Plastic Logic, the 10-year-old offspring of Cambridge University, has been delaying its $800 professional document- and book-reading device, the Que. It planned to have the reader on the market in April, but keeps pushing back a release date.

Sony may be particularly affected by the price cuts. It was the first to the market with an e-reader in 2006, but it has fallen behind its rivals because it lacks Amazon’s online sales prowess and Barnes & Noble’s physical retail presence. Its $169 Pocket Edition model lacks a wireless connection, which suggests that Monday’s price cuts will put pressure on Sony to also cut prices. Sony has two other models, the $199 Touch Edition and the $349 Internet-connected Daily Edition.

With recent software upgrades, Barnes & Noble has improved the Nook, which now has features to counter Amazon’s aggressiveness on e-book prices and the brand power of the Kindle. Barnes & Noble allows Nook owners to read entire e-books within stores and lend e-books to friends for up to two weeks. Now, with yet another software upgrade, Nook owners have free access to AT&T’s nationwide Wi-Fi network.

“I don’t see more than two, or maybe three dedicated reading companies in the market for selling e-books,” William J. Lynch, chief executive of Barnes & Noble, said. “I think you are starting to see a shake-out now.”

Mr. Lynch also predicted that within 12 months, e-reading devices “that people will actually want to buy” could be available for less than $100.
672 2010-06-22 The International Whaling Commission on Monday began what promises to be a contentious, high-stakes meeting in Morocco on whether to maintain a 24-year-old moratorium on commercial whaling in the face of pressure from Japan, Norway and Iceland to permit the hunt.

Representatives of the convention’s 88 member governments gathered behind closed doors in the Moroccan resort city of Agadir to discuss a 10-year compromise plan proposed by the United States and other anti-whaling nations that would allow the three countries to continue whaling but at significantly lower levels and under tight monitoring.

It would also create a whale sanctuary in the Southern Ocean. Japan, Iceland and Norway have long defied the moratorium by claiming exemptions and conducting their whaling under unilaterally determined quotas. More than 33,000 whales have been killed since the ban took effect in 1986, undermining the commission in the eyes of critics.

Nations supporting the compromise say that it would result in 3,200 fewer whales being killed over the next 10 years. Trade in whales and in whale products would be banned, and no non-whaling nation would be allowed to begin hunting under the proposal, which is described as a starting point for negotiations.

The whaling countries argue that their activities do not threaten the survival of whale stocks and that the commercial ban should be lifted altogether. Opponents of the compromise would like to impose a ban on all commercial whaling but allow a limited catch by indigenous peoples for subsistence.
673 2010-06-22 A class of blood pressure medicine used by tens of millions of patients is being linked to a slight but significant increase in cancer, especially lung cancer.

In an analysis of five studies following about 60,000 patients, researchers found a rise of 11 percent in cancer over all and 25 percent in lung cancer among patients who took the drugs, called angiotensin-receptor blockers.

That translates into one additional case of cancer for every 105 patients who take the drugs for four years, according to the analysis, which was published online last week by the medical journal Lancet Oncology.

The drugs are used to treat hypertension, heart failure and diabetes-related kidney damage. Most of the data in the analysis was drawn from studies of telmisartan, which is marketed as Micardis, among other names.

Officials with Boehringer Ingelheim, which makes Micardis, disputed the findings in a statement, saying that the company’s “comprehensive internal safety data analysis of primary data contradicts the conclusions about an increased risk of potential malignancies.”

Angiotensin-receptor blockers can be replaced with other blood pressure medications, the authors of the paper said, but they warned patients not to do anything before consulting with a physician.
674 2010-06-22 Fatigue and weakness are the familiar symptoms of the blood disorder anemia, which afflicts millions of Americans. But a fixation for ice?

Oddly enough, in recent years, cravings for ice have emerged in the medical literature as a puzzling and increasingly documented sign of anemia, especially its most common form, iron deficiency anemia. Scientists don’t fully understand the link, but some suspect that compulsive consumption of ice — called pagophagia — relieves inflammation in the mouth brought on by iron deficiencies.

In extreme cases, people with undiagnosed anemia and pagophagia have been known to go through multiple bags or trays of ice in a single day; the problem usually clears up after treatment with iron supplements. (Another well-known anemia, sickle cell, cannot be treated with these supplements.)_

Studies at Northwestern have shown that ice cravings are a common side effect of a popular type of weight-loss surgery. The procedure, known as Roux-en-Y (pronounced ROO-on-why), involves bypassing the part of the intestine where iron and other minerals are most easily absorbed; about a third of patients develop a deficiency of iron or vitamin B12. One case was described in the Mayo Clinic Proceedings in 2008, involving a 33-year-old woman who had undergone bypass surgery.

“The patient’s husband frequently observed her in the middle of the night with her head in the freezer eating the frost off the icemaker,” the report stated. “This craving resolved after transfusion and iron administration.”

Abnormal cravings for ice can be a sign of anemia.
675 2010-06-22 Neither the Police Department nor the Queens district attorney’s office said any complaints about the practice had been received. But its critics argue that the accused shoplifters are deprived of basic civil rights and the usual assurances in public legal proceedings, like the right to a lawyer and freedom from coercion, and are not being held by adequately trained security officials with proper oversight.

“If a store owner says he’ll call the police unless you pay up, that’s extortion, that’s illegal,” said Steven Wong, a community advocate in Chinatown, sitting in his office above a restaurant on Square. “And putting up pictures in public, calling someone a thief who has never even been formally charged, that’s a violation of their civil rights.”

It is unclear exactly how widespread this practice is, and whether threats of arrest are always used, but it is used in certain predominantly Chinese neighborhoods around the city.

Many accused shoplifters plead poverty. But they usually manage to come up with money to pay their way out of being publicly shamed and arrested, Mr. Shieh said, often after calling upon friends and relatives for the cash.

Fears of being deported often color their panicked responses.

“Two weeks ago, a woman tried to take two bags of grapes worth maybe $10,” he said, speaking in Chinese.

The woman first said she had no money, but somehow found some. “She came back with eight new $50 bills,” Mr. Shieh said.

At the Chang Jiang Supermarket on Kissena Boulevard in Flushing, where hawkers of fresh produce in sidewalk bins continuously yell out specials in Chinese, credit cards are accepted from accused shoplifters for payment to avoid arrest, said the manager, Wu Jian Si.

“They just say, ‘Run the credit card,’ ” said Mr. Wu, 30, speaking in Chinese. “They have money.”

Fliers posted in the store display images of accused shoplifters and of a man being escorted by the police, along with warnings in Chinese and English that say, “If we catch, we will take your photo for records and your fine will be $400 or you go to prison.”

The fines are necessary, Mr. Wu said, because the police do not always arrest the accused shoplifters. And even if they do, Mr. Wu said, “The most they’ll get is 24 hours.”

Many of the accused shoplifters are immigrants who have a heightened fear of authority, and they often are in the country illegally, said Jason Sanchez, 24, who has worked as a security guard at several Chinese markets in Flushing.

“They figure they’ll be deported, so they’ll do anything to get the money,” Mr. Sanchez said. “Some stores ask for $400, or some ask for $200 — it becomes a negotiation.”

In an example of the wall-of-shame style that certain stores use, a grocery called NY Tak Shing Hong, on East Broadway in ’s Chinatown, posts photographs near the cash registers, some bearing names, addresses and numbers of the persons depicted. Several also include simple descriptions in Chinese, like “Stole Medicine” and

Some store owners share their photographs with other stores, or post them in other store branches they own. For example, an image in the Chang Jiang market of a man holding up a large stash of live fish in a plastic bag, with the words “Big Thief,” can also be seen in several other stores in the area.

The Chung Fat Supermarket on Main Street in Flushing posts photographs of accused shoplifters on the front doors and up above the cashiers.

“All we can do is put up their pictures and let them know we do something about it,” a manager, Sam Lim, 42, said in Chinese, referring to the many photographs of suspected shoplifters posted near the cashiers.

Chung Fat has 100 surveillance cameras. According to a sign in a storage area, first-time shoplifters face a $500 fine, and repeat offenders must pay $2,000.

Store officials acknowledge, though, that they are rarely able to collect much money from offenders.

Some of these enforcement policies have recently come under fire. Last month, two Chinese immigrants spoke out after being wrongly accused of shoplifting at the New York Supermarket, a store under the Manhattan Bridge in Chinatown that posts photographs of accused shoplifters next to the cashier, behind the live crabs and eels.

One of those immigrants, Li Yuxin, said that after being accused of thievery, she began weeping in front of a crowd of shoppers. The other immigrant, Liang Huanqiong, a 60-year-old home attendant, said that false accusations of theft damaged her reputation and caused mental anguish.

The episodes made headlines in Chinese-language newspapers, and store officials apologized to the women and said they would train employees to better recognize thievery and use more sensitivity in approaching suspected shoplifters, the articles reported.

Both women are being advocated for by Mr. Wong, who is critical of the practices despite the apparent vagueness of the law. The police declined to discuss the legality of the practice because they had not investigated it.

In New York State, a retailer may sue a thief (who has stolen any type of item, costly or not) for the item’s retail price up to $1,500 if the item cannot be resold, along with a penalty of $75 to $500, depending on the item’s price. Usually, the retailer threatens legal action and settles for a sum in the hundreds of dollars, experts in loss prevention said. This process is separate from criminal prosecution and can take place without arrest or conviction, and even if the case is criminally tried and thrown out.

Richard Hollinger, a sociologist and criminologist at the , said a shopkeeper demanding money on the spot was a version of the legal process of civil recovery outside the law. He said it could veer into extortion, which New York law defines in part as demanding payment by making a person fear he will be accused of a crime or charged with one.

Mr. Sanchez, the security guard, said some stores paraded the shoplifting suspect up and down the aisles, announcing the attempted theft to customers.

“It is truly the walk of shame,” he said.
676 2010-06-22 ''Chopsticks'' or Chopin?     Actually, both, played on an eye-popper of a piano next to the Metropolitan Opera House....
677 2010-06-22 EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.  - The Nets continued their search for a complementary big forward to center Brook Lopez on Monday by working out the college freshmen DeMarcus Cousins of Kentucky and Derrick Favors of Georgia Tech.     It wasn't an original...
678 2010-06-22 The amateur pantomime that is England's 2010 World Cup campaign took another theatrical turn on Monday, perhaps more entertaining in its way than the mercy flight of WAGs winging its way to South Africa in defiance of Coach Fabio Capello's ban on ...
679 2010-06-22 TUOHY-MACKAY--Janet McCarty, born in 1919, resident of Garden City, NY, and most recently of Newburyport, MA, passed away peacefully on June 21, 2010. She is predeceased by her first husband, John J. Tuohy, former Chairman of the Long Island Light...
680 2010-06-23 John Burns is taking readers’ questions on President Obama’s dismissal of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, following comments the general made in a Rolling Stone interview....
681 2010-06-23 Senate negotiators will probably offer changes today that would soften the Volcker rule by allowing banks to sponsor hedge funds and invest their own money, within limits, alongside that of clients....
682 2010-06-23 Healthy eating gets a place in the council's name, and goals, along with active lifestyles....
683 2010-06-23 Senator Blanche Lincoln was told by Democratic Congressional leaders to "water down" her strict derivatives measure, but so far she has refused, a person familiar with the discussions said....
684 2010-06-23 Is scamming the elderly a hate crime? Prosecutors in New York think so....
685 2010-06-23 Motorola introduced its latest Android-powered smartphone, the Droid X, at an event in downtown Manhattan....
686 2010-06-23 The Senate Republican leader is upset by the nominee's remarks, during the Clinton administration, about campaign finance laws....
687 2010-06-23 Student Opinion | What's your take on the McChrystal controversy?...
688 2010-06-23 Were it not for the use of fertilizer and other high-yield agricultural techniques, humans would have emitted significantly greater amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, a new study suggests....
689 2010-06-23 Michael S. Sitrick, the Los Angeles-based strategic communications guru, has struck back against the lawsuit in which two former employees, Richard Wool and Alan Mayer, accused Mr. Sitrick and his wife, Nancy, of mishandling an employee stock plan...
690 2010-06-23 The White House Web site is offering this live stream of President Obama's remarks, scheduled to begin at 1:30 p.m. on his decision about Gen. Stanley McChyrstal's future....
691 2010-06-23 Philosophical and practical questions and activities related to I.B.M.'s Watson....
692 2010-06-23 Patients with pre-existing conditions and high premiums might consider transferring to a high-deductible plan linked to a health savings account....
693 2010-06-23 Nickname for a proposed movie futures exchange....
694 2010-06-23 Justine Henin's form so far indicates that she is playing well enough to seriously contend for the only Grand Slam title that has eluded her....
695 2010-06-23 A documentary on Pat Tillman has been well received by critics. One of the military officials criticized for obscuring the truth of Tillman's death is Stanley A. McChrystal....
696 2010-06-23 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
697 2010-06-23 The U.S. Federal Communications Commission on Tuesday approved Verizon Wireless's $2.35 billion wireless spectrum license sale to AT&T, Reuters reported....
698 2010-06-23 Petrobras, the Brazilian national oil company, said on Tuesday that it would defer a rights issue worth up to 150 billion reais ($84 billion) until September pending a government decision to evaluate certain oil assets....
699 2010-06-23 Some of Canada's largest investors are resisting a controversial proposal by Magna International, the auto parts maker, to eliminate the dual class share structure that allows its chairman and founder to control 54.7 percent of Magna while owning ...
700 2010-06-23 Use the photo and related article to answer basic news questions.
701 2010-06-23 Ben Bernanke thinks that growth is too slow but that it shouldn't be accelerated. With unemployment high, that's risky....
702 2010-06-23 Timothy F. Geithner said on Tuesday that taxpayers were recovering their investment from the financial bailouts as the program was wound down. But he acknowledged there would probably be a loss from American International Group....
703 2010-06-23 Theories abound regarding Rodriguez’s meager power output, and he and the Yankees have dismissed any suggestions that his hip problem has affected his power. Still, Rodriguez has already had homerless streaks of 61, 49 and 41 at-bats. Heading into Tuesday, he had homered every 30.8 at-bats. His career rate is once every 14.5 at-bats. Rodriguez said he has not thought about the drought.

“I’ve hit a lot of home runs,” Rodriguez said. “The one thing I do worry about is if you’re not making solid contact and if you’re not driving runners in. The columns I worry about are RBI and wins. I’ve never considered myself a home run hitter, either.”

Which is all fine and good, of course, except for the fact that Rodriguez is a home run hitter. He managed to hit 30 last season despite missing the first five weeks of the season after hip surgery. Since becoming a full-time starter in 1996 at age 20, Rodriguez has averaged 41 homers and only once, in 1997, hit fewer than 30.

“I just think his timing was a little off because he didn’t play for about a week,” Girardi said. “The fact that he’s not fatigued and using his legs and driving the ball, that’s a good sign.”

Equally encouraging was the continued brilliance of Pettitte, who, in becoming the fourth pitcher to surpass 2,500 innings with the Yankees, lasted at least seven innings for the sixth consecutive outing. He struck out seven and scattered seven hits, pitching more efficiently after a shaky second inning to collect his 238th career win.

“I can’t blow guys away, not that I ever could,” said Pettitte, who singled in the fifth. “I just feel like I continue to develop as a pitcher. Both sides of the plate, changing speeds. I’m just feeling good with all my pitches.”

Said Pettitte, “Usually you might have three or four or five or six starts where you feel really good. I’ve felt really comfortable with all my pitches and my command of all of them for a while now.”

Returning to Chase Field, the scene of his greatest failure — Game 6 of the 2001 World Series, when his implosion cost the Yankees a chance to clinch — still evokes unpleasant memories for Pettitte, who had pitched here since then with Houston but not in pinstripes. None of his adversaries that night still play for the Diamondbacks, of course, their Tuesday lineup populated by eight 20-somethings and Adam LaRoche, the 30-year-old elder statesman. Combined, the lineup had 31 plate appearances of experience against Pettitte.

That lack of familiarity seemed to favor Pettitte, who, unlike in that fateful Game 6, certainly was not tipping his cutter. He retired the side in order in three of the first four innings, his only blemish coming in the second, when the Diamondbacks appeared to invent new and interesting ways to extend the inning.

The first came when Mark Reynolds, after lining a ball near the left-field line, arrived at second base after the throw from left field but evaded Robinson Cano’s tag with a jump slide of sorts. That put runners on second and third with two outs for the No. 8 hitter Chris Snyder, who, down in the count, 0-and-2, worked a walk on the 12th pitch of the at-bat to load the bases for Haren.

“I threw him everything, and I’m not going to lie,” Pettitte said of Snyder. “I was tired. After that inning, my legs left me a little bit. It was hot, and when you throw that many pitches in an inning, it’s concerning. I was very fortunate to get through seven innings.”

The Yankees spent just as much time discussing how to pitch to Haren as they did with Arizona’s position players. He has a four-hit game to his credit and two six-game hitting streaks, the second of which was extended when Haren lined a single inside the first-base bag to drive in two runs and even the score at 2-2. In all, Pettitte threw 30 pitches that inning, running his count to 45. He was fuming that Haren hit a pitch he tried to waste — “Those are daggers to the heart, man,” Pettitte said — and Girardi figured he would have to call on his bullpen sooner than he had hoped.

“You’re probably thinking he’s probably going to go about six,” Girardi said. “Thinking that he’s going to seven is probably some wishful thinking on my part.”

But from there, Pettitte set down eight in a row — until Haren singled again in the fifth. His batting average, which climbed to .452, was nearing his earned run average — in this instance, not a good thing. When the night began, it stood at 4.73, and it tended to spike when Rodriguez batted.

“It’s just timing.” Rodriguez said. “Sometimes you take a day off and you lose it all, sometimes you take four or five days off and it takes you a day or two to get back in sync. Kevin Long and I are spending long hours in the batting cage and we both feel pretty good about what’s about to happen.”

Colin Curtis, a product of Arizona State in nearby Tempe, had loads of friends in attendance Tuesday night when he recorded his first major-league hit, a two-run pinch-double to deep center that capped the Yankees’ six-run rally in the eighth inning. When he stopped at second base, Curtis wore a wide smile. “I only get one, so you might as well enjoy it,” Curtis said...Austin Romine, a Class AA catching prospect, and Hector Noesi, a Class AA right-hander, were picked for the Futures Game on July 11.
704 2010-06-23 To date no one has comprehensively studied whether, in fact, these carbohydrate alternatives are as effective as liquid calories....
705 2010-06-23 President Obama told health insurers on Tuesday not to use health care reform as an excuse to raise the cost of premiums. The warning is timely. With critics still scare-mongering about the supposed cost of reform, insurers in several states have been seeking double-digit premium increases that look hard to justify as necessary to keep up with medical inflation.

The president acknowledged that there are a lot of factors driving up the cost of care. The health insurers have certainly perpetrated a lot of abuses over the years. But at least when it comes to who is responsible for relentlessly rising health care costs, that falls more on the hospitals, doctors and other providers who charge high prices and deliver more services than are medically necessary, and on the drug- and device-makers who push their most expensive products.

Even so, it will be important to monitor insurance rate increases carefully. And the Obama administration must be prepared to push hard. Unfortunately, the reform law did not give the federal government the power to regulate premiums. It did provide some weaker tools to help keep insurance costs down: new rules requiring companies to publicly identify the reasons for unreasonable rate increases; new exchanges where insurers will have to compete for business; and a new office and grant program to help state regulators evaluate and contest proposed rate increases.

The president also unveiled new regulations effective this year that should end some of the insurance companies’ worst practices, such as rescinding policies for frivolous reasons after a person becomes sick; he thanked the industry for dropping this tactic earlier than required. He listed a number of other benefits that consumers will see soon, including a ban on lifetime coverage limits.

Mr. Obama vowed to defend the new law against Republican efforts to repeal or weaken it. He still needs to ignite strong popular support for reforms that could transform the American health care system. Requiring insurers to play fair is part of that effort.
706 2010-06-23 A tiger and two camels that were thought to have been inadvertently stolen by truck thieves in Quebec last week were recovered unharmed and in good health on Monday night not far from where they had been taken. The animals were being moved from Nova Scotia to a private zoo near Toronto when the truck and trailer carrying them disappeared from a motel parking lot early Friday. The zoo offered a $20,000 reward, and police officers, acting on a phone tip, found the trailer containing the animals abandoned on a rural road not far from the motel. The animals were driven through the night and reached the zoo early Tuesday.
707 2010-06-23 RIO DE JANEIRO (Reuters) — Torrents of floodwater devastated towns and villages in northeastern Brazil, killing at least 42 people and leaving more than 600 missing, emergency officials said Tuesday.

Days of heavy rain in the states of Alagoas and Pernambuco flooded towns, burst a dam and left more than 40,000 people without shelter, state officials said.

At least 29 people were killed in Alagoas and 607 were missing. About 500 of those missing were in the area of União de Palmeiras, which was hit by a wall of water after a dam gave in under the weight of the flooding.

“Unfortunately, some towns have been nearly 100 percent destroyed, basically wiped off the map,” said Sandro Cavalcante, a spokesman for the Alagoas Civil Defense agency.

In Pernambuco, to the north of Alagoas, 13 people were killed and nearly 18,000 people were left homeless, the national Civil Defense agency said. Alagoas had nearly 26,000 people without shelter.

Globo Television broadcast video that showed towns flattened by the flooding. Overturned cars lay among the debris from hundreds of shattered houses. Railroad tracks were torn apart.
708 2010-06-23 PHOENIX — Since establishing himself as a premier pitcher in 2008, when he won 18 games for Toronto and led the American League in strikeouts, A. J. Burnett has endured rocky stretches that reinforced the reputation that trailed him for years: immensely talented but maddeningly inconsistent. Never during this period, though, has he lurched into the sort of rut he is now, with four straight poor starts that culminated Monday night in a 10-4 loss to the Arizona Diamondbacks.

“I don’t feel like myself,” said Burnett, who gave up seven runs and three first-inning homers. “I’m not having fun right now. I mean, who would in a stretch like this? The game’s supposed to be fun, and to come out and take the air out of your team right away for a handful of starts — it gets quite frustrating.”

Victimized by shoddy fastball command and a curveball that has yet to come around, Burnett is 0-4 with a 10.35 earned run average in June. He said he felt he was rushing his delivery. He cannot summon a good pitch when he needs it. Pitching out of the windup, he said, feels particularly awkward. Burnett has a strong relationship with the pitching coach Dave Eiland, who has been away from the Yankees for personal reasons since June 4 — when Burnett’s swoon began.

The Yankees miss Eiland, who is regarded as an expert troubleshooter. In discussing C. C. Sabathia’s mechanics earlier this season, Eiland was asked how long it takes for him to spot a flaw. He did not say a word. He just snapped his fingers. But in Eiland’s absence, Burnett is the only starter who has struggled. Javier Vazquez, Sabathia and Andy Pettitte, who was to start Tuesday night against the Diamondbacks, all have E.R.A.s below 2.60 with Mike Harkey, the bullpen coach, in charge. Phil Hughes is 3-0 in that stretch.

“It’s possible, I’m not going to deny anything,” Burnett said when asked if his struggles were related to Eiland’s absence. “Not having him here is a big loss for all of us. I’m not going to point any fingers or make excuses at all. I’m out there throwing pitches, whether Dave’s in the dugout or not. He’s corrected me enough where I should have a memory of what Dave says. I’m a man, a professional athlete who’s got a big contract, who’s here for a reason, and there’s no reason why you shouldn’t be able to do that on your own.”
709 2010-06-23 Chris Welles, an award-winning business reporter and former director of a prestigious fellowship program at Columbia for business reporters, died Saturday at a nursing home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Brooklyn.

The cause was Alzheimer’s disease, his wife, Nancy, said.

Calling him “probably the premier business writer” from the 1960s to the early 1980s, Stephen B. Shepard, a former editor of BusinessWeek and now dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York, said Mr. Welles was known for his penetrating accounts of “shenanigans, abuses and downfalls” in the business community.

In 1975, Mr. Welles wrote “The Last Days of the Club.” The book, considered something of a classic in its field, detailed the demise of the old Wall Street monopoly and the rise of new institutions that would eventually dominate financial power in America.

His 1970 book, “The Elusive Bonanza,” accused the oil industry of neglecting the development of America’s vast oil-shale reserves. It was an expansion of an article he had written for Life magazine several years earlier. Life did not use the piece, and after Mr. Welles sold it to Harper’s, Life fired him.

The book had repercussions in 1977, when he was named director of the Walter Bagehot Fellowship Program in Business and Economics Journalism at Columbia (now the Knight-Bagehot Fellowship Program). For 35 years, it has provided a midcareer opportunity for business journalists to expand their expertise. Shortly after Mr. Welles’s appointment, the Mobil Oil Corporation withdrew its financial support for the fellowships, saying that while it considered the program excellent, it “didn’t have confidence in the leadership.”

Besides Life, Mr. Welles also worked for BusinessWeek, The Saturday Evening Post and The Los Angeles Times. Among his awards for business reporting were a Gerald Loeb Award and a National Magazine Award. He ran the Bagehot program until 1985.
710 2010-06-23 Iraq was also much more violent. Last year 2,259 civilians were killed in Afghanistan. Compare that with 34,500 civilians killed in Iraq in the pre-surge year of 2006 — 15 times as many. And not only was there more violence in Iraq, but much of it was concentrated in Baghdad, so it was easier to show rapid progress by flooding the zone with troops.

In Afghanistan, the violence is much more diffuse, making it harder to measure security gains. Indeed, until recently, many parts of southern Afghanistan had barely seen an American soldier, and there are still critical areas where the Americans lack sufficient troop density to impose their will.

That leaves the news media free to focus on bad news, of which there is no shortage. In recent days, we have been reading about General McChrystal’s gaffes; the continuing insecurity in Marja, which Marines entered in February; and the assassination of an important district governor.

Such concerns are valid, but as the head of Central Command, Gen. David Petraeus, recently pointed out, what the public doesn’t see is what NATO forces have been doing behind the scenes to create the right “inputs” to carry out a “comprehensive civil-military counterinsurgency campaign.” Much of this has involved making sure that troops are operating in ways that will win over, not alienate, the populace.

Top-notch American officers have also been brought in to rejigger an unwieldy NATO command structure. A three-star general, David Rodriguez, was appointed to supervise daily operations in Afghanistan, as Raymond Odierno did for General Petraeus in Iraq in 2007. (General Rodriguez would be the obvious choice for the top job if General McChrystal is fired.)

A new two-star Regional Command Southwest has also been set up to run operations in Helmand Province, enabling the existing Regional Command South to focus its attention on Kandahar. Such bureaucratic shuffling isn’t glamorous, but it can set the conditions for future success.

Just as important is the new NATO training mission, under Lt. Gen. William Caldwell, that was set up to supervise the expansion of the Afghan security forces. Thanks to its efforts, the Afghan police and army have grown from 156,000 men in January 2009 to more than 231,000 today, and their quality has improved through intensive mentoring.

The biggest difficulty in Afghanistan, as in Iraq, remains the lack of an effective, accountable government. General McChrystal is starting to address that issue, using intelligence assets to uncover corruption and setting up a new task force to monitor coalition contractors.

Some people will argue that the presence of President Hamid Karzai, who is linked to dirty dealings and predatory officials, makes this an impossible mission. But many of Mr. Karzai’s actions (like his decision to fire his interior minister and his intelligence chief, two of the most effective and pro-American members of his cabinet) can be seen as a natural reaction to Mr. Obama’s pledge to begin withdrawing troops in July 2011. If you were the president of Afghanistan and you believed that your main ally was abandoning you within a year, you too would be looking to cut deals with the Taliban and various warlords to assure your survival.

In fact, for all of the well-founded concerns about Mr. Karzai, he did display effective leadership at a meeting with local Kandahar leaders on June 13, where he raised popular support to drive the Taliban out of the largest city in the south. Mr. Karzai and other Afghans would be willing to do even more if President Obama were to make clear that our troops will stay in Afghanistan long enough to assure its success as a stable democracy.

By letting his aides mouth off to a reporter, General McChrystal has displayed a potentially fatal lack of media savvy. But he deserves credit for energizing a lethargic command and putting in place the right strategy to turn around a failing war effort. Whether or not he carries it out, his plan can work. We just need to give it a little time.
711 2010-06-23 A federal bankruptcy court judge said Tuesday that he would not approve the plan to sell the Texas Rangers unless it was modified by a newly appointed chief restructuring officer.

The decision amounted to a victory for the lenders, who have argued for months that at least two other bidders are willing to pay more for the Rangers than a group led by Chuck Greenberg and Nolan Ryan, whose $575 million offer for the team was approved by Major League Baseball in January.

The lenders are not opposed to the Greenberg-Ryan group per se but say that the team is worth more than what has been offered. They have called for a fresh auction of the team as a way to fetch a higher sale price.

In his opinion, Judge Michael Lynn of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Texas in Fort Worth did not specify what changes the independent chief restructuring officer needed to make to the plan, or whether another auction had to be held. The judge also said that the team owners did not have to obtain the maximum possible value for the team.

But Lynn suggested that the owners and the restructuring officer must come up with a revised plan that is more palatable to the lenders, who he said were the only creditors harmed by the current plan.

The modified plan could be approved by the end of July. The sale of the team to the Greenberg-Ryan group was originally supposed to be completed by opening day. Any plan to sell the team would still have to be approved by Major League Baseball.
712 2010-06-23 OTTAWA — Frank Stronach, the chairman and founder of Magna International, the successful auto parts maker and car assembler, has long been its blessing and its curse.

Unlike many companies in its troubled sector, Magna has grown and largely prospered in recent years. But Mr. Stronach’s habit of using his special voting shares to take the company off in sometimes eccentric and less than profitable directions has long depressed Magna’s share price.

But that has not stopped some of Canada’s largest investors from resisting a proposal by Magna to eliminate the dual class share structure that allows Mr. Stronach to control 54.7 percent of Magna while owning just 1 percent of its equity. The Ontario Securities Commission will hold an unusual hearing on Wednesday that could delay or even block the $863 million transaction.

“We have advocated against dual class share structures for many years,” the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan wrote in a highly critical analysis of the plan. “However, we believe Magna’s proposal is an unprecedented and excessive transfer of wealth from shareholders to the Stronach Trust.”

Like many transactions involving Mr. Stronach, the plan by Magna to collapse its supervoting shares is multifaceted.
713 2010-06-23 In effect, Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues have decided to accept an all-but-certain downside — high unemployment, for years to come — rather than risk an even worse situation — a market panic, a spike in long-term interest rates and yet higher unemployment. As the last few years have shown, market sentiment can change unexpectedly and sharply.

Still, you have to wonder if the Fed is paying enough attention to the risks of its own approach. They do exist. The recent data on jobless claims, consumer spending and home sales have been weak. On Tuesday, Britain announced a budget-cutting plan that will depress short-term growth there and spill over somewhat into the global economy. The necessary budget cuts in and other parts of won’t help global growth, either.

The main historical lesson of financial crises is that governments are usually too passive. They respond in dribs and drabs, as did in the 1990s and Europe did in 2008. Or they remove support too quickly, as did in 1937, and then the economy struggles to escape its funk.

Look around at the American economy today. Unemployment is 9.7 percent. Inflation in recent months has been zero. States are cutting their budgets. Congress is balking at spending the money to prevent state layoffs. The Fed is standing pat, too. Bond investors, fickle as they may be, show no signs of panicking.

Which seems to be the greater risk: too much action or too little?

The Fed’s benchmark interest rate, which has been near zero since late 2008, determines the overnight rate at which lend one another money. The overnight bank rate, in turn, sets other short-term interest rates. But the benchmark rate has only an indirect effect on long-term rates. That’s why the 30-year fixed rates can be near 5 percent while the Fed rate is zero.

If Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues decided to take further action, their most likely move would be to bring down long-term rates. They could do so by buying the that backed longer-term . With lower borrowing costs, households and businesses would probably spend more money. The Fed did precisely this during the , and the drop in rates seemed to help spending.

Last week, the Fed released a report analyzing interest rate policy since the crisis began. The report suggested that the effective benchmark rate — taking into account both the zero percent short-term rate and the bond purchases — was now roughly negative 2 percent.

The most notable part of the report, however, was what it showed the effective rate should be. Based on a formula that considers past Fed policy and current levels of unemployment and inflation, the effective rate today should be negative 5 percent. In layman’s terms, the report was saying that the Fed was erring on the side of timidity.

Mr. Bernanke and other Fed leaders do not quibble with these numbers. If anything, Mr. Bernanke has gone out of his way to distance himself from the presidents of some regional Fed banks who have begun publicly worrying that the Fed has pumped too much money into the economy and that inflation is about to rise. Mr. Bernanke has instead said inflation is subdued and pointed to surveys showing that economists expect it to remain so.

His worry is a different one.

In a recent appearance before the House Budget Committee, he spoke repeatedly about market confidence. Specifically, he mentioned “the potential loss of confidence in the markets” if Congress did not come up with a plan for reducing the budget deficit.

There is a direct analogy between the budget deficit and the Fed’s asset holdings. Neither is sustainable. Congress needs to demonstrate that it has a plan for reducing the deficit over the long haul so that investors will be confident enough to continue lending the United States money at low rates.

The Fed, meanwhile, has to show it has a strategy for selling the trillions of dollars of assets it bought during the crisis — without damaging the value of private investors’ holdings and without, at some point, igniting inflation. “The more we buy,” Donald Kohn, the Fed’s vice chairman said last month, “the more assets we will ultimately need to dispose of.” The more the Fed buys, the greater the risk that it will find the point at which the market becomes unnerved.

In the end, Mr. Bernanke’s dilemma has no certain solution. Taking more aggressive action might have only a modest effect on spending, and nobody — including the most passionate advocates for more government action — can really know how long the bond markets will stay calm. The decision comes down to weighing the probabilities and the possible outcomes.

Let’s just be clear about the risks and costs that the Fed has chosen. It is betting that, for once, policy makers are not underreacting to a financial crisis. And it is willing to accept a jobless rate of almost 10 percent, with all of the attendant human costs.

“About half of the unemployed have been unemployed for six months or more, which means that they are losing skills, they’re losing contact with the job market,” a prominent economist said at a public dinner in Washington this month. “If things go on and they simply sit at home or work very irregularly, when the economy gets back to a more normal state, they’re not going to be able to find good work.”

That economist happened to be Ben Bernanke, one of the few people with the power to do something about the situation.
714 2010-06-23 Using the summery picnic staple for something a little different....
715 2010-06-23 After boasting on “Empire State of Mind” that he could make it anywhere, Jay-Z was denied a first attempt to play a surprise show at the Ed Sullivan Theater, which is home to “Late Show With David Letterman.” But on a second go-round on Monday evening, Jay-Z was joined by Eminem for a three-song set performed on the theater’s roof. Last week word surfaced that Jay-Z was preparing a performance — meant to be unannounced — on the marquee of the theater. But with the city recovering from a free Drake concert last Tuesday that turned into a melee, Jay-Z’s marquee moment was halted. The crucial distinction for Monday’s team-up between Jay-Z and Eminem, which will be seen Friday on “Late Show,” was that it was staged on the roof of the theater, and not the marquee.
716 2010-06-23 WASHINGTON — A federal judge in New Orleans on Tuesday blocked a six-month moratorium on deep-water drilling projects that the Obama administration imposed after the massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. The White House swiftly vowed to appeal the ruling.

In a 22-page opinion, the judge, Martin L. C. Feldman of United States District Court, issued a preliminary injunction against the enforcement of a late May order halting all offshore exploratory drilling in more than 500 feet of water.

Citing potential economic harm to businesses and workers, Judge Feldman wrote that the Obama administration had failed to justify the need for such “a blanket, generic, indeed punitive, moratorium” on deep-water oil and gas drilling.

“The blanket moratorium, with no parameters, seems to assume that because one rig failed and although no one yet fully knows why, all companies and rigs drilling new wells over 500 feet also universally present an imminent danger,” wrote Judge Feldman, a 1983 appointee of President Ronald Reagan. The administration’s order halted 33 exploratory drilling projects and suspended new permits, but did not affect platforms that were already in production.

In a statement on Tuesday evening, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said that within days he would issue a new order imposing a moratorium on deep-water drilling that would contain additional information showing why it was necessary.

Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said the administration “will immediately appeal” the judge’s ruling to a federal appeals court in New Orleans. He said it made sense to suspend exploratory deep-water drilling until the completion of the investigation into the April 20 explosion at the Deepwater Horizon rig leased by BP and the still-flowing leak from the underwater well.

President Obama “strongly believes,” Mr. Gibbs said, “that continuing to drill at these depths without knowing what happened does not make any sense” and would jeopardize “the safety of those on the rigs and safety of the environment in the gulf.”

The immediate impact of the ruling was not clear. A White House official said the administration would likely seek a stay pending its appeal. And the decision left room for the government to assemble a stronger record in support of suspending such operations.

The ruling on Tuesday was the result of a lawsuit filed this month by a coalition of businesses that provide services and equipment to offshore drilling platforms. The coalition asked the judge to block the moratorium, arguing that there was no evidence that existing projects were unsafe. The state of Louisiana filed a brief supporting the lawsuit, arguing that the suspension would cause irrevocable harm to its economy.

Judge Feldman agreed, noting that “oil and gas production is quite simply elemental to gulf communities.” He portrayed the Interior Department’s record in support of the moratorium as inadequate and misleading, saying that a preliminary injunction was necessary because the suspension would likely be ruled “arbitrary and capricious” after a trial.

“Some of the plaintiffs’ contracts have been affected; the court is persuaded that it is only a matter of time before more business and jobs and livelihoods will be lost,” he wrote, adding, “The effect on employment, jobs, loss of domestic energy supplies caused by the moratorium as the plaintiffs (and other suppliers, and the rigs themselves) lose business, and the movement of the rigs to other sites around the world will clearly ripple throughout the economy in this region.”

Several groups critical of the ruling highlighted a financial disclosure form filed by Judge Feldman in May 2009. It showed that as recently as 2008, he owned stock in several energy-related firms — including Transocean, which owned the Deepwater Horizon rig.

A coalition of environmental groups released a statement by Catherine Wannamaker, senior lawyer at the Southern Environmental Law Center, decrying the ruling as “outrageous.”

“The tragic explosion, the unstopped gushing of oil, and resulting damage to fishing and tourism industries, cultures, wildlife and the whole Gulf Coast should be more than enough cause for pausing risky deep-water activities until safety and environmental protection is assured,” she said. “Unfortunately, today’s court decision allows short-term profit for some to trump safety, lives and the environmental health of the Gulf Coast upon which so many depend.”

Members of Congress issued warring statements over the ruling. Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican, criticized the Obama administration’s efforts to impose the moratorium as “cold and irresponsible,” saying it would put “tens of thousands of jobs” in danger because oil and gas companies could move their equipment elsewhere in the world.

Representative Bill Cassidy, a Louisiana Republican, praised the ruling against the moratorium as “welcome news for thousands of Louisiana welders, pipefitters, engineers and roustabouts whose jobs were threatened by a political decision.”

But Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, pointed out that the moratorium did not apply to the vast majority of rigs because they are already in production. He criticized resuming deep-water exploratory drilling before new safety measures are established.

“This is another bad decision in a disaster riddled with bad decisions by the oil industry,” Mr. Markey said. “The only thing worse than one oil spill disaster in the Gulf of Mexico would be two oil spill disasters. This judge’s decision flies in the face of mounting evidence that there are serious safety risks that must be examined with these 33 deep-water rigs before they start drilling again.”
717 2010-06-23 After 22 years as a pastry chef at Regine’s, TriBaKery and more recently at Blue Fin, George McKirdy finally decided to go out on his own.

His new bakery specializes in European and American pastries, from croissants and fine fruit tarts to cupcakes and chocolate chip cookies. There are tables and a simple cafe menu of breakfast items, then on to sandwiches, burgers, sliders and salads.

Coffee comes from Stone Street Coffee in Brooklyn. A dinner menu is coming.
718 2010-06-23 WASHINGTON (AP) — The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said on Tuesday that taxpayers were recovering their investment from the financial bailouts as the program was wound down. But he acknowledged there would probably be a loss from the rescue of the insurer American International Group.

Mr. Geithner told a watchdog panel that banks had repaid about 75 percent of the bailout money they received, and the government’s investments in those banks had brought taxpayers $21 billion.

Mr. Geithner also said at a hearing of the Congressional Oversight Panel that the auto industry had made significant structural changes, and that the chances that General Motors and Chrysler would repay their bailout money had improved.

The oversight panel was created by Congress to oversee the Treasury Department’s $700 billion financial bailout program, created at the height of the financial crisis in the fall of 2008. The panel has been critical of the program, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.

TARP “has helped restore financial stability at a much lower cost than anticipated,” Mr. Geithner said in his testimony.

The panel’s chairwoman, Elizabeth Warren, said that with the program’s Oct. 3 expiration approaching, “this panel must know whether Treasury has carefully monitored the financial system to measure potential risks.”
719 2010-06-23 WASHINGTON — President Obama’s top commander in Afghanistan flew to Washington on Tuesday to find out whether he would be fired for remarks he and members of his staff made that were contemptuous of senior administration officials, laying bare the disarray and enmity in a foreign-policy team that is struggling with the war.

In an article in Rolling Stone magazine, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and his aides spoke critically of nearly every member of the president’s national security team, including President Obama, and dismissing Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as “Bite Me.”

The firestorm was fueled by increasing doubts — even in the military — that Afghanistan can be won and by crumbling public support for the nine-year war as American casualties rise.

The criticism of General McChrystal’s statements was swift, and the general had apologized and prepared a letter of resignation, though President Obama had not made up his mind whether to accept it when they meet on Wednesday morning.

“I think it’s clear that the article in which he and his team appeared showed poor judgment,” Mr. Obama said after a cabinet meeting. “But I also want to make sure I talk to him directly before I make final judgment.”

Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, the general’s biggest supporter, released a statement criticizing General McChrystal for “a significant mistake” while Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was described by a senior aide as “deeply disappointed” by the comments.

Whether or not General McChrystal remains at the helm of the Afghan war effort, Mr. Obama will try to use Wednesday’s meeting to urge his fractious Afghanistan staff to pull together, said his press secretary, Robert Gibbs. The president, Mr. Gibbs said, will say that “it is time for everyone involved to put away their petty disagreements, put aside egos and get to the job at hand.”

But that may be easier said than done. At a time when violence in Afghanistan is sharply rising and several central planks of the president’s strategy to “disrupt, dismantle and defeat” the Taliban and Al Qaeda have stalled, many of the president’s top advisers have continued to criticize one another to reporters and international allies alike, usually in private conversations, and almost always off the record.

“Yes, we do hear them disparage each other,” said a senior European diplomat who works closely with the United States on Afghanistan strategy. “It’s never good to hear that.”

Bruce O. Riedel, a senior fellow at Brookings Institution who helped the administration formulate its initial Afghan policy, added, “This flap shows once again that his team is not pulling together, but is engaging in backbiting.”

The many Afghanistan team conflicts include complaints from the American ambassador, Karl W. Eikenberry, about Richard C. Holbrooke, the special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, who has been portrayed by some as disruptive and whose relationship with President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan chilled last year after difficult meetings following the August election. For his part, Ambassador Eikenberry has had his own tensions with the mercurial Mr. Karzai.

In one episode that dramatized the building animosities, Gen. James L. Jones, the national security adviser, wrote to Ambassador Eikenberry in February, sympathizing with his complaints about a visit Mr. Holbrooke had recently made to Afghanistan. In the note, which went out over unsecure channels, officials said, General Jones soothed the ambassador by suggesting that Mr. Holbrooke would soon be removed from his job.

The Jones note prompted Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to complain to Mr. Obama, and her support for Mr. Holbrooke has kept him in his job. In the article, which was posted on the magazine’s Web site on Tuesday, one of General McChrystal’s aides is quoted as referring to General Jones as a “clown.”

The infighting has been made more severe by the increasingly perilous situation on the ground. Violence in Afghanistan is on the rise. The mission to pacify Marja and Kandahar is far off track. And the effort to create a viable Afghan government is increasingly in doubt because of widespread corruption. Criticism is mounting on Capitol Hill, even among the president’s backers, and many allies have announced that they are looking for the exit, with others expected to do the same in the coming months.

As the administration struggles to manage its relationship with Mr. Karzai, General McChrystal has proved to be the one American official most able to successfully deal with him on a daily basis. Beyond that, Mr. Obama’s war strategy is in many ways a McChrystal strategy. The general devised the plan, which called for thousands of extra troops to fight the insurgency and, perhaps more important, create a sense of security for the Afghan people.

There has been vigorous debate within the administration about how to proceed in Afghanistan, but General McChrystal and his aides did not overtly criticize administration policy.

Rather, the differences were personal, and publicly aired. One administration official described Mr. Obama as being particularly furious at a McChrystal aide’s characterization of him as not seeming “very engaged” during their first White House meeting.
720 2010-06-23 TUOHY-MACKAY--Janet McCarty, born in 1919, resident of Garden City, NY, and most recently of Newburyport, MA, passed away peacefully on June 21, 2010. She is predeceased by her first husband, John J. Tuohy, former Chairman of the Long Island Light...
721 2010-06-24 Highlights of the financial regulation legislation and critics’ concerns....
722 2010-06-24 Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, spoke about President Obama's decision to dismiss Gen. Stanley McChrystal on Thursday at the Pentagon....
723 2010-06-24 House and Senate negotiators scrambled to reach final agreement on how to regulate derivatives and whether to impose restrictions on the ability of banks to trade for their own benefit....
724 2010-06-24 The House and Senate remain far apart on a variety of initiatives....
725 2010-06-24 Compared to Tim Burton's feature, which cost about $20 million to make in 1990, the Brooklyn Studio Lab production has been pruned somewhat....
726 2010-06-24 No rooftop bar has managed to stir up more getting-on-the-list finagling than Le Bain at the Standard, and the space lives up to the hype....
727 2010-06-24 Today we're releasing our latest batch of subject headings to the Linked Data Cloud....
728 2010-06-24 John Burns and Dexter Filkins answer readers' questions about President Obama's dismissal of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal....
729 2010-06-24 Paul Greenberg has a terrific article in this Sunday's Times Magazine about the end of the bluefin tuna. Three years ago, Greenberg wrote an essay in the Book Review that tried to quantify how much damage Hemingway's own prolific fishing did to st...
730 2010-06-24 Hundreds waited in line for Apple's iPhone 4, which was released early Thursday morning....
731 2010-06-24 A lawsuit filed against AT&T and Apple over the elimination of the iPad 3G unlimited data plan was amended and refiled as a class action lawsuit on Wednesday in a California district court....
732 2010-06-24 The fourth-set tie breaker between Roger Federer and Ilija Bozoljac was a microcosm of the entire match....
733 2010-06-24 Live updates on the resumption of the marathon first-round Wimbledon match between John Isner and Nicolas Mahut....
734 2010-06-24 European lawmakers and diplomats are engaged in a stand-off over rules to tighten regulation of hedge funds, Reuters reported....
735 2010-06-24 Private equity firm American Capital, which is trying to restructure its $2.4 billion in debt outside of bankruptcy court, said Wednesday that holders of 98 percent of its 2012 notes have agreed to swap their debt for cash payments and new notes, ...
736 2010-06-24 Credit Suisse said Thursday it named Eric Varvel head of its investment banking operation, replacing Paul Calello who was appointed chairman of the unit....
737 2010-06-24 Financial reform enters a crucial phase on Thursday as House and Senate negotiators begin public debate on the regulation of derivatives, the complex instruments at the heart of the financial crisis....
738 2010-06-24 Ever since the Securities and Exchange Commission charged Goldman with civil fraud over the packaging and sale of a subprime-mortgage linked security, Lloyd Blankfein and Gary Cohn have been working overtime to save the storied franchise from the ...
739 2010-06-24 A Broadway producer seeking to create a musical from Michael Jackson’s songs is suing the singer’s estate in an effort to force the executors to provide the rights to “Thriller,” “Beat It” and other hit songs and also to bar the estate from licensing song rights to another party for use in a stage show. The lawsuit, filed by Nederlander Presentations last Thursday in Los Angeles County Superior Court, came two months after the Jackson estate announced a deal with Cirque du Soleil, the acrobatic-theater company, to create two shows based on Jackson’s music. Whether the lawsuit is a direct response to the Cirque deal is unclear: James Nederlander Jr., who is pursuing the court action, declined to comment through a spokesman. A lawyer for the Jackson estate, Howard Weitzman, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday that the Cirque deal had no bearing on the Nederlander musical project because Cirque shows “are not musicals but rather big arena, circuslike spectaculars.” In 2008 Nederlander Presentations signed a contract with a production company of Jackson’s, obtaining exclusive rights through October 2011 to develop a musical based on selected Jackson songs, with an option to extend through October 2013. Mr. Nederlander is also seeking songs that Jackson may have written for the musical; the civil suit does not indicate whether he wrote any such compositions.
740 2010-06-24 Derivatives trading, a business long prized by Wall Street but little noticed by anyone else, is rapidly gaining prominence as the rare part of the nation's vast financial infrastructure that Democrats cannot agree how to regulate....
741 2010-06-24 Edith Shain, who became something of a celebrity decades after World War II, asserting that she was the nurse kissed by a sailor in Life magazine’s memorable photograph of V-J Day in Times Square, died Sunday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 91.

Her death was announced by her family.

On the 60th anniversary of Japan’s surrender, in 2005, the Times Square Alliance welcomed Mrs. Shain to its commemoration of that frenzied August day in 1945, when strangers were hugging and kissing everywhere in the throngs that came to Times Square to celebrate the war’s end.

Wearing sneakers and a nurse’s uniform, Mrs. Shain re-enacted the moment captured by Life’s renowned photographer Alfred Eisenstaedt. Many men have claimed to be the sailor who bestowed the kiss.

“The happiness was indescribable,” Mrs. Shain said of the original V-J Day celebration. “It was a very long kiss.”

Mrs. Shain was back in New York in 2008, that time as grand marshal for the city’s Veterans Day Parade.

When Mr. Eisenstaedt took his photograph, he did not get the names of the embracing sailor and the nurse, and their faces were largely obscured. A Navy photographer, Lt. Victor Jorgensen, also photographed the pair, but he, too, did not obtain their identities.
742 2010-06-24 Meanwhile, mergers of big banks, many blessed by regulators concerned with the safety of the financial system — like the JPMorgan Chase takeover of Washington Mutual — have concentrated the industry further.

This consolidation has coincided with a 10 percent annual increase since 2000 in overdraft and other fees, according to the Government Accountability Office. Meanwhile, nearly two-thirds of the domestic credit card business is controlled by three banks.

So it is no wonder that the banking industry — in particular the community bank lobby — is so opposed to letting Wal-Mart onto its turf. As part of the financial reform legislation, bankers have supported a three-year freeze on new applications for industrial loan corporations, the charter Wal-Mart would need.

That runs contrary to the supposed spirit of reform that seeks to empower and protect consumers. Greater competition, coupled with sounder regulatory supervision, would help accomplish that. And Wal-Mart could be its catalyst.

Would-be billionaires often say they are discouraged by high tax rates. For example, the private equity industry complained this week that the increase in the British tax rate on capital gains to 28 percent would damage capital formation. The latest World Wealth Report from Merrill Lynch and Cap Gemini suggests otherwise.

The research examines what used to be called rich people, who are now known as high-net-worth individuals. The cutoff is investable capital of $1 million.

The financial crisis and recession have been a little rough on those at the top of the global economic heap. From booming 2006 to busting 2009, both the headcount of millionaires and their total net worth increased by a mere 5 percent — to 10 million and $39 trillion respectively. After accounting for inflation and a generally weak dollar, it is a loss.

They are still rich and numerous enough to be worth studying. One trend is not surprising. During the period, the global millionaire mix shifted away from the finance-intensive United States and Britain toward rapidly growing China, India and Brazil. It certainly wasn’t tax rates that made the difference.

Another pattern is more surprising — the lack of correlation between the concentration of wealth and the rate of taxes. A good measure is the ratio of those wealthy individuals to billion dollars of gross domestic product, which corrects for the larger number of millionaires in richer countries.

In that count, low-tax Switzerland leads, with a ratio of 453. Low-tax (and high government-spending) Japan is second at 323. But high-tax Germany ranks third at 263. And the ratios in lightly taxed China, Brazil and India are around 100.

Tax rates are not a crucial factor for growing millionaires. Social aspects play a role. As for economic policy, two things seem necessary. First, a high savings rate. That helps explain why Germany and Japan are ahead of Britain and the United States.

Second, time. Traditionally wealthy countries are more millionaire-rich than the nouveaux riches. But China’s extraordinary savings and growth rates should enable it to catch up soon.
743 2010-06-24 Steak comes covered in some goop. Miss my gruel.

Missus is here! Hell of a surprise. Turns out it’s our 33rd wedding anniversary.

Wife wants the gang out of the hotel room. Women. Can’t live with them, can’t live without them for more than 11 months at a time.

Time for anniversary dinner. Does this country never stop eating?

Night starts on a bad note — won’t let Pinto and Otter bring in the Tequiza. Damn. Wanted to show Missus a good time. :(

Comeback kids found a bar next to the hotel. Wiped the Gucci drink specials off the chalkboard and we are diagramming up a storm. :)

Team America is partying! Bluto’s doing his impression of . Scribbles taped whole thing — get ready for laughs when we get home.

Spent the morning e-mailing back and forth with Kabul. They can’t get Karzai to come out of his room again.

Hanging out at a cafe. We’re shooting the breeze about the dingbat diplomatic corps. Except Hillary.

Pinto reminds me how intimidated Obama looked around the generals. Yeah, but the guy really trusts my judgment. :)

Found Scribbles sitting in potted plant next to our table. Kid must like nature.

Said goodbye to the Missus. Great gal. Can’t wait to see her again once the war is over.

’s the next stop, but that damn volcano has everything grounded. Can’t believe Europeans are afraid to fly in a little ash.

Got another e-mail from Holbrooke. :(

Bluto does his riff about Holbrooke as a crippled impala & I’m the lion. Scribbles really digging it.

Great news — we’ve got a bus to take us to Berlin. Nothing but Team America and a luggage rack crammed with Bud Light Lime.

Scribbles wants to come, too. Told him only if he buys the next two cases.
744 2010-06-24 Those who are following Mr. Samdrup’s predicament said the authorities were simply trying to silence him. “Even by Chinese legal standards, the prosecution’s case is thin at best,” said Nicholas Bequelin, a researcher at Human Rights Watch in Hong Kong. “Experience tells us the outcome has already been decided.”

Since rioting two years ago convulsed Tibetan areas of China, rights groups say scores of artists, intellectuals, students and businesspeople have been detained and sentenced to prison on charges of subverting state power or seeking to “split” Tibet from China.

They include Tashi Dhondup, a young folk singer who was sent to a labor camp for a song titled “Torture Without a Trace,” and Kunchok Tsephel, a government-employed environmentalist who was given a 15-year term for “disclosing state secrets” after he wrote about the riots on his Web site.

Kate Saunders of the International Campaign for Tibet said the recent arrests of about 50 poets, bloggers and songwriters represented the most concerted attack on the educated and artistic elite since the Cultural Revolution ended in 1976.

“It appears that almost any expression of Tibetan identity can be categorized as separatist or reactionary,” she said in an interview from London. “These are not angry monks raising their fists in protest but people working within the system who are engaged in work that’s essential for a healthy civil society.”

Among the more prominent people arrested is Tragyal, an editor at a state-run publishing house in Qinghai Province whose whereabouts have been unclear since April, not long after his latest book came out with contents decidedly unflattering to the Chinese government. The book, “The Line Between Sky and Earth,” was a marked departure for Tragyal, 47, more commonly known by the pen name Shogdung, who was previously derided by many Tibetans for being “an official intellectual.”

But like many moderate Tibetans, especially those in the more gently administered provinces east of Tibet, he was dismayed by the crackdown that followed the 2008 unrest and included such sentiments in his book. In one passage, he describes Tibet as “a terrifying battleground,” adding: “At the junctions of monasteries and villages, soldiers parade. Such places are full of spies. It’s so frightening.”

His daughter, Yeshi Tsomo, said the family had been unsure of his whereabouts since the police took him from their home. “We’ve been to the detention center more than 20 times, but we have never been allowed in,” she said.

Those who study Beijing’s Tibet policy say the authorities appear to have extended their deep-seated suspicions to the Tibetan educated and well-to-do, a tactic some say could radicalize a segment of the population that had come to accept the imperfections of Chinese rule.

“For the first time, we’re seeing the government attack a group of people who previously had nothing to do with politics,” said Robbie Barnett, director of the modern Tibetan studies program at Columbia University. “These are cultural products of the Communist Party, people who were brought up by the system.”

In some cases, Mr. Barnett and others say, the crackdown has prompted formerly risk-averse Tibetans to challenge the status quo through books, blog posts and poems.

Karma Samdrup was in many ways the idealized Tibetan. Fluent in Mandarin but devoted to his cultural identity, he is the subject of two Chinese-language books that lionized his role as the founder of a state-backed environmental organization in Qinghai Province.

“He’s incredibly generous, lavishing money on charitable causes,” said Tsering Woeser, a Tibetan blogger who has known him for a decade.

Mr. Samdrup was also a scrappy entrepreneur who made a fortune trading ornamental beads and caterpillar fungus, a parasite highly valued by traditional Chinese medicine. His collection of art and relics, 20 years in the making, is said to be among the most extensive in private hands.

His troubles began when his two younger brothers, Rinchen Samdrup and Jigme Namgyal, took on a police official in Chamdo Prefecture whom they accused of leading a hunting party into a nature preserve. The brothers, who had started their own environmental group, tried to bring attention to their accusations of illegal hunting and last August found themselves in jail.

Relatives say Mr. Namgyal was tortured and then sentenced to 21 months at a labor camp for “harming national security.” Rinchen Samdrup, who has also been lauded by the Chinese media in the past, is still awaiting trial on several charges, including having set up the environmental group illegally.

By jumping to his brothers’ defense, Karma Samdrup apparently angered some powerful people. In January, he was arrested far from home in Sichuan Province and taken to a small city in the far western region of Xinjiang, where in 1998 he was accused of buying artifacts from a looted tomb. According to his lawyer, Pu Zhiqiang, those charges were dropped after the police realized that he had a license to buy and sell cultural relics.

In a sign that Mr. Samdrup’s case has reached the highest echelons of power, the two books about him were recently banned by government censors in Beijing.Mr. Pu says the legal process against his client has been flawed. He was not allowed to see Mr. Samdrup for six months, and it was only on the eve of the trial that the two were allowed to meet. Their entire 30-minute exchange, he said, was videotaped by the police, making a frank exchange nearly impossible.

During the hearing on Tuesday, according to the lawyer, Mr. Samdrup pleaded not guilty and told the court his interrogation had been accompanied by daily beatings from the police and fellow prisoners. He also said he was drugged with a substance that made his eyes and ears bleed, all part of an effort to force him to sign a confession. His wife estimates he lost at least 40 pounds in custody.

Although the trial is closed to the public, Ms. Woeser said many Tibetans were nervously awaiting news of the proceedings, which continued Wednesday.

“People are very angry, but they are also afraid,” she said. “The feeling is that if someone as influential as Karma can be taken down, none of us is safe.”
745 2010-06-24 The following is the full text of the statement released Wednesday by the Federal Reserve:

Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April suggests that the economic recovery is proceeding and that the labor market is improving gradually. Household spending is increasing but remains constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth, and tight credit. Business spending on equipment and software has risen significantly; however, investment in nonresidential structures continues to be weak and employers remain reluctant to add to payrolls. Housing starts remain at a depressed level. Financial conditions have become less supportive of economic growth on balance, largely reflecting developments abroad. Bank lending has continued to contract in recent months. Nonetheless, the committee anticipates a gradual return to higher levels of resource utilization in a context of price stability, although the pace of economic recovery is likely to be moderate for a time.

Prices of energy and other commodities have declined somewhat in recent months, and underlying inflation has trended lower. With substantial resource slack continuing to restrain cost pressures and longer-term inflation expectations stable, inflation is likely to be subdued for some time.

The committee will maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent and continues to anticipate that economic conditions, including low rates of resource utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable inflation expectations, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period.

The committee will continue to monitor the economic outlook and financial developments and will employ its policy tools as necessary to promote economic recovery and price stability.

Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; William C. Dudley, vice chairman; James Bullard; Elizabeth A. Duke; Donald L. Kohn; Sandra Pianalto; Eric S. Rosengren; Daniel K. Tarullo; and Kevin M. Warsh. Voting against the policy action was Thomas M. Hoenig, who believed that continuing to express the expectation of exceptionally low levels of the federal funds rate for an extended period was no longer warranted because it could lead to a buildup of future imbalances and increase risks to longer-run macroeconomic and financial stability, while limiting the committee’s flexibility to begin raising rates modestly.
746 2010-06-24 Financial reform enters a crucial phase on Thursday as House and Senate negotiators begin public debate on the regulation of derivatives, the complex instruments at the heart of the financial crisis.

This is arguably the most important issue for big banks because real reform will crimp their huge profits from derivatives deal-making. It also is arguably the most important one for the public. The largely unregulated, multitrillion-dollar market in derivatives fed the bubble, intensified the bust and led to the bailouts. Unreformed, it will do so again.

The final bill must ensure that derivatives are traded on transparent exchanges and processed through third-party clearinghouses to guarantee payment in case of default. That would end the opacity that masks the size and risk of derivatives deals, like those that caused the bailout of the American International Group. But to be effective, the new rules must be broadly applied.

Exceptions to the rules in the Senate bill are narrowly drawn. Painstakingly negotiated and uniquely customized contracts would not need to be publicly traded, nor would derivatives deals that commercial businesses use to hedge legitimate risks. Any attempt by negotiators to expand the exceptions would be moving in a dangerously wrong direction.

Lawmakers also have to keep the definition of an “exchange” narrow. A transparent exchange is a trading facility in which many participants make bids and offers and everyone can see what prices were offered and paid. Proposed language from the House for the final bill would allow telephone deals to qualify as a proper trade, which is seriously wrongheaded.

In addition to trading through clearinghouses and exchanges, the bill must establish legal tools to stop or undo deals that have not been properly cleared or traded. Banks have been pushing hard to handcuff regulators, demanding that only egregious and intentional violations be deemed out of bounds. The new rules will be meaningless unless regulators can quickly and efficiently enforce them.
747 2010-06-24 Their words reinforce the efforts of Tea Party right-wingers and ultraconservatives to demean the president, to challenge the legitimacy of his election and to undermine the authority of the president and the government more generally.

It sends a dangerous signal to the command structure that if this top-level general can trash-talk like this, then so can every enlisted man and officer from the bottom up.

The writer is a professor of political science at SUNY Cortland.

The foreign policy disarray evidenced by the McChrystal affair is a predictable fallout where, once again, we are involved in a war we cannot win. A conflict is inevitable where, like Vietnam, the White House is trying to figure out how to end the conflict looking good, with an eye on midterm elections and beyond, and the military is still trying to win in a traditional sense.

Perhaps both sides would do better if they recognized and accepted the “cancer” for what it is, and that neither of their goals is possible.

Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal publicly lobbied for increased troop levels in the Afghan war and was successful in pushing a new president unwilling to appear weak into widening that war.

Now that same general and his aides have publicly voiced their displeasure with senior administration officials while the counterinsurgency strategy pursued by General McChrystal is being questioned among the troops on the ground.

Are we not on a road to disaster? Must we continue to sacrifice our brave men and women in a war that has lasted for almost nine years with no possibility of victory?

When will our president and military commanders have the nerve to stop this war and accept the fact that the Afghan people see us for what we are: invaders of their country who support a corrupt and unpopular Afghan government?

The United States is so bent on winning the war in Afghanistan that we don’t know what we will do there after we win it. My guess is that even if we win it, we’ll lose, as corruption, opium, civil unrest, suppression of women and political squabbles will be the rule of the day there. Rather than becoming a modern urbanized nation, Afghanistan will continue to be a backward rural nation. Rather than a shining light in this area of the world, Afghanistan will continue to be a disgrace.

As a former military guy, I take exception to Maureen Dowd’s assertion that we’ve “never gotten over the fact that civilians run the military” (“Seven Days in June,” column, June 23).

Almost all of us are pleased as punch that civilians are in charge. We may not be as smart as we think we are (who is?), but we can read the news and we see what life is like in countries without civilian control. We and our families live here before and after we serve, and we like the system just as it is.

Doris Kearns Goodwin makes a fine case for how a president may be willing to tolerate insubordination from his top general (“What Would Lincoln Do?,” Op-Ed, June 23). But a couple of points are worth expanding.

First, what Gen. George McClellan said about Abraham Lincoln in private letters to his wife would not necessarily matter to the president, since he would not have seen them; what mattered more (or not, given that he kept his job for so long) was what McClellan said that would get back to Lincoln.

Second, Lincoln’s decision to fire McClellan did indeed come in November 1862 — but only after an election in which Lincoln’s party lost some ground, partly because of the Union’s military situation, partly because of some unhappiness with Lincoln’s issuing the Preliminary Emancipation Proclamation. That document appeared only after McClellan’s narrow victory at Antietam — after which, to Lincoln’s consternation, the general failed to pursue the Confederates aggressively.

The writer is a professor of history at the College of Southern Nevada and the author of “Freedom, Union, and Power: Lincoln and His Party During the Civil War.”
748 2010-06-24 Moving to reduce air pollution, the New York State Assembly approved legislation on Wednesday that requires a drastic cut in sulfur levels in the heating oil most commonly used by households across the state.

The bill, approved in an 87-to-24 vote, limits the sulfur content of No. 2 heating oil to no greater than 15 parts per million — down from the current range of 2,000 to 15,000 parts per million — starting in July 2012. The State Senate passed the same bill last week, and Gov. David A. Paterson, whose energy plan already advocates a switch to the ultra-low-sulfur oil, is expected to sign it into law.

A plunge in sulfur content would have important health and environmental implications for areas like New York City, where soot pollution contributes to air quality that fails to meet federal standards and causes health problems like asthma among children. The No. 2 grade of heating oil is currently used by more than 70 percent of households in both the city and the state.

When heating oil is burned, the sulfur dioxide is released, producing greenhouse gas emissions and acid rain. In New York City, many large buildings burn even dirtier grades of heating oil, known as No. 4 and No. 6. In a report last year, the Environmental Defense Fund, an environmental group, found that just 1 percent of buildings in the city created 87 percent of all soot pollution arising from heating oil by relying on these more viscous oils.

The Bloomberg administration and the City Council have been weighing means to phase out the dirtiest oils but have not come up with new laws or regulations. The state legislation should help: While it applies only to No. 2 oil, it will also lead to lower sulfur content in No. 4, which is a blend of No. 2 and No. 6.

Among the supporters of cleaner heating oil is the New York Oil Heating Association, a trade group of heating oil dealers in New York City, which notes that a less polluting product allows oil to be competitive with natural gas as a heating source on the environmental front.
749 2010-06-24 There was no pique, and some apparent regret, as announced that he had fired his top commander in , Gen. Stanley McChrystal.

The president cast his decision as one of trust and military order. He rightly said that respect for civilian control and a strict military code of conduct must apply “equally to newly enlisted privates and to the general officer who commands them.”

Mr. Obama also insisted that his Afghanistan policy will not change. What he didn’t say is that the war is going badly. If there is any chance of beating back the and , he needs a commander he can trust. His choice of Gen. — the only four star with a higher profile than — should provide some reassurance to allies and Americans. But their anxieties are not going away.

The war was going badly before General McChrystal and his aides made derisive remarks to Rolling Stone magazine about Vice President and others. We hope this sorry incident will persuade Mr. Obama to end his administration’s destructive infighting. More than six months after he committed an additional 30,000 troops, the president’s aides (and his vice president) are still battling over how deeply to invest in the war.

Mr. Obama said on Wednesday that he welcomed debate among his top advisers, “but I won’t tolerate division.” We hope he is far tougher in private. He needs to think seriously about a wider housecleaning.
750 2010-06-24 According to preliminary data for May, compiled by PKF Consulting, hotels in Manhattan were about 90 percent full last month, possibly the highest occupancy rate ever for May. More important, the rates guests paid were 10 percent to 15 percent higher than in May 2009, said John Fox, senior vice president with PKF, a hotel-industry consulting firm. In the first four months of 2010, the average room rate was about $218, slightly lower than in the same period last year, according to PKF’s numbers.

Mr. Fox said that so far he had seen no sign that the falling euro had dampened enthusiasm for visiting New York.

To encourage Americans and foreigners to keep coming, the city is unveiling the latest iteration of the “This Is New York City” campaign that it began three years ago. The advertisements, which will start appearing this week, emphasize the energy and diversity of the city, using the theme “See More. Be More.” They mix images of famous attractions like the Statue of Liberty, the Brooklyn Bridge and Yankee Stadium with shots of dishes and goods that can be purchased in restaurants and stores that are among the 2,000 members of NYC & Company.

Jane Reiss, the city’s chief marketing officer, said the message was a counterpoint to the oft-quoted “What happens here, stays here” advertisements for Las Vegas. “What happens here is transformative,” she said. “It stays with you forever.”

Until a few years ago, NYC & Company was a private organization financed by dues collected from its members. But Mr. Bloomberg took control of it in 2007, installing Mr. Fertitta, a former advertising agency chief, as its manager and supplementing its annual budget with $15 million from the city. Then the mayor laid out his goal of increasing the number of annual visitors to 50 million, from 44 million in 2006. The original target for reaching that goal was 2015, but the mayor moved it up by a couple of years before the financial crisis hit.

Mr. Fertitta said he expected the new campaign would help get the city’s tourism business back on track, even though his agency is not spending a lot to get its message out this summer. He estimated that it would receive exposure worth as much as $30 million, although NYC & Company will spend only about $1.2 million — not counting the costs of producing the campaign in-house.

Instead of buying lots of airtime and space in newspapers and magazines, NYC & Company is forging partnerships with corporations that want to link up with the city. In exchange, those companies — American Airlines, American Express, AT&T, Travelocity and the Nickelodeon cable channel, using its Dora the Explorer cartoon character — are promoting travel to the city.

For example, during the first two weeks of the campaign, visitors who want to use their cellphones to gain access to the NYC & Company Web site for help finding places to eat and shop will be able to do so only if AT&T provides their service. Customers of AT&T’s competitors, like Verizon, will receive a “sorry” message during those weeks, Ms. Reiss said.
751 2010-06-24 The future of BP ’s offshore oil operations in the Gulf of Mexico has been thrown into doubt by the recent drilling disaster and court wrangling over a moratorium.

But about three miles off the coast of Alaska, BP is moving ahead with a controversial and potentially record-setting project to drill two miles under the sea and then six to eight miles horizontally to reach what is believed to be a 100-million-barrel reservoir of oil under federal waters.

All other new projects in the Arctic have been halted by the Obama administration’s moratorium on offshore drilling, including more traditional projects like Shell Oil’s plans to drill three wells in the Chukchi Sea and two in the Beaufort.

But BP’s project, called Liberty, has been exempted as regulators have granted it status as an “onshore” project even though it is about three miles off the coast in the Beaufort Sea. The reason: it sits on an artificial island — a 31-acre pile of gravel in about 22 feet of water — built by BP.

The project has already received its state and federal environmental permits, but BP has yet to file its final application to federal regulators to begin drilling, which it expects to start in the fall.

Some scientists and environmentalists say that other factors have helped keep the project moving forward.

Rather than conducting their own independent analysis, federal regulators, in a break from usual practice, allowed BP in 2007 to write its own environmental review for the project as well as its own consultation documents relating to the Endangered Species Act, according to two scientists from the Alaska office of the federal Mineral Management Service that oversees drilling.

The environmental assessment was taken away from the agency’s unit that typically handles such reviews, and put in the hands of a different division that was more pro-drilling, said the scientists, who discussed the process because they remained opposed to how it was handled.

“The whole process for approving Liberty was bizarre,” one of the federal scientists said.

The scientists and other critics say they are worried about a replay of the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico because the Liberty project involves a method of drilling called extended reach that experts say is more prone to the types of gas kicks that triggered the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon.

“It makes no sense,” said Rebecca Noblin, the Alaska director for the Center for Biological Diversity, an environmental watchdog group. “BP pushes the envelope in the gulf and ends up causing the moratorium. And now in the Arctic they are forging ahead again with untested technology, and as a result they’re the only ones left being allowed to drill there.”

BP has defended the project in its proposal, saying it is safe and environmentally friendly. It declined to respond to requests for further comment.

Extended-reach drilling has advantages. Drilling at an angle might be less threatening to sensitive habitats. But engineers say that this type of drilling is riskier and more complicated than traditional drilling because it is relatively new and gas kicks are more frequent and tougher to detect.

And because of the distance and angles involved, drilling requires far more powerful machinery, putting extra pressure on pipes and well casings.

Several companies have built artificial islands to drill offshore in the Arctic and elsewhere, in part because surging ice floes can destroy conventional floating or metal-legged offshore drilling platforms.

Critics say that such islands are so tiny that a large oil spill will quickly flow into the surrounding waters.

BP officials say that by accessing the Liberty oil field from far away, the project reduces its environmental impact in the delicate North Shore area.

The Liberty field lies about five miles from land under the shallow waters of the Beaufort Sea in an area populated during the winter by seals and polar bears and covered by thick floating ice.

During the summer, bowhead whales migrate through the region.

“The overall Liberty Project has been planned and designed to minimize adverse effects to biological resources,” BP wrote in 2007 in the development proposal to federal regulators. “Impacts to wetlands have been significantly reduced including shoreline and tundra habitat for birds and caribou.”

The project will also involve nearly 400 workers in a region where jobs are scarce, according to BP.

But concerns exist about the project’s oversight and critics say the project offers another example of dangerous coziness between industry and regulators.

For example, the federal scientists say that BP should never have been allowed to do environmental reviews that are the responsibility of the regulators. And yet, the language of the “environmental consequences” sections of the final 2007 federal assessment and BP’s own assessment submitted earlier the same year are virtually identical.

No such overlap existed in the documents for other major projects approved by the same office around the same time, a review of the documents shows.
752 2010-06-24 SAN FRANCISCO — After the deaths of five infants, California health authorities declared an epidemic of whooping cough in the state on Wednesday, urging residents — particularly those of Latino background — to get vaccinated against the disease.

The announcement came after authorities noticed a sharp spike in reports of pertussis, the scientific name for whooping cough, which often is mistaken for a cold or the flu and is highly contagious. All told, 910 cases have been confirmed, with several hundred more under investigation. If the pace keeps up, the outbreak could be the largest in the state in 50 years, the California Department of Public Health reported.

Dr. Gilberto Chavez, the deputy director of the department’s Center for Infectious Disease, said health officials had seen a fourfold increase compared with 2009. And the worst may be to come.

“The peak season starts in the summer,” Dr. Chavez said, noting that July and August usually have the highest number of cases. “And we expect to see a much larger number of cases if we don’t intervene quickly.”

For five families, however, the state’s warning has come too late. Five children — all Latino and all under the age of 3 months — have died since the beginning of the year, Dr. Chavez said.
753 2010-06-24 Nike posted quarterly profit on Wednesday that increased 53 percent to match Wall Street’s view, but shares fell in after-hours trading after revenue missed analysts’ estimates.

Nike, the largest global player in the athletic shoe and clothing market, said profit rose to $521.9 million, or $1.06 a share, for the fiscal fourth quarter that ended May 31, from $341.4 million, or 70 cents a share, a year earlier.

Results from the latest quarter matched analysts’ average estimate, according to Thomson Reuters.

Revenue rose almost 8 percent to $5.08 billion, but fell short of the analysts’ sales target of $5.15 billion. Excluding currency fluctuations, revenue rose 4 percent, Nike said.

By region, revenue in Nike’s largest market of North America increased 4 percent to $1.8 billion. Revenue also gained around Europe and China, while sales in Japan declined.

Revenue for non-Nike brands, which include Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley and Umbro, increased 9 percent to $714 million.

Orders for Nike brand shoes and apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November totaled $8.8 billion and were up 7 percent from a year earlier. Excluding currency changes, orders would have increased 10 percent, Nike said.

Orders are a main gauge of demand and the company in the third quarter turned around a year-long string of forward order declines.

Nine World Cup teams, including the United States and Brazil, are wearing Nike apparel as the company aggressively markets itself at the soccer championship, one of the world’s biggest sporting events.
754 2010-06-24 MissPrint, a London company, is introducing new wallpapers in time for summer: Leaves, the latest pattern, joins the already-popular Dandelion Mobile print, which came out last year and is now available in two additional colorways (porcelain with powder blue, shown, and mist green with white).

MissPrint’s design team, mother and daughter Yvonne and Rebecca Drury, began producing wallpaper, fabric and accessories decorated with hand-drawn patterns in 2005. The two come up with “a mood,” Mrs. Drury said, and Ms. Drury does the drawings, which are inspired by botanicals and midcentury design.

The wallpapers are made from sustainably harvested paper and printed with organic inks that are nontoxic and free of heavy metals. Each roll is 11 feet long and 20 1/2 inches wide, and costs about $81. Information: 011-44-020-8470-7896 or missprint.co.uk.
755 2010-06-24 Using the factors set by the user, Surf Watch will send an alert when ideal conditions are imminent. It will even sound a highly annoying alarm.

For surfers who don’t know the desired figures for good conditions, some online sleuthing will help, as well as a trip to a surf store, where an employee may help you dial in the specifications.

Surf Watch exploits the weaknesses of online surf forecasters like Surfline, MagicSeaweed.com and others. These sites use data to predict surf conditions, as Surf Watch does, but their methodology yields inconsistent results. And because of the sheer number of places to surf they can highlight only well-known spots.

To be fair, even if the estimates sometimes fall flat, Surfline at least signals whether a swell is coming or going and whether it is big enough to track. And Surfline has improved its wave reports in recent years, by listing wave heights that have been verified by a human at many spots.

That improvement is one of the hallmarks of Surf Report, a free app that Surfline developed with Oakley, the sports apparel and gear manufacturer.

Surf Report is ideal for those who get headaches thinking about buoy readings and swell periods. The app offers an easy-to-use menu of regions and subregions, and then lists the area’s surf spots. Each contains the day’s surf report, including water temperature and the weather — and, in some cases, an icon showing verified wave heights.

Each surf spot includes a page that breaks down the tide heights and times, the swell information and the sunset and sunrise times. The page includes the best conditions for that particular spot.

Montauk Point on Long Island, the app says, is best surfed during an east-to-southeast swell, with a northwest wind and a low incoming tide. (That is, if you can handle overhead and double-overhead waves.)

The downside to Surf Report is that it doesn’t cover more obscure spots that are fairly well known among local residents, like Matunuck Beach in Rhode Island or Lyman’s on Hawaii’s Big Island.

It also lacks webcam shots of the surfing locations, which was one of the bright spots of the Wavewatch iPhone app. Alas, Wavewatch magazine has been shut down, and the app is no longer being maintained.

Speaking of being shut out, BlackBerry users have nothing similar available, so they must rely on the mobile Web for their reports.

Android users also have a dearth of surfing apps. One useful free app is Quick Check Surf Report, which lets you keep a list of favorite spots, for fast review of the day’s surf report. The app covers a good number of spots on its own, and it includes Surfline reports. If you don’t need to ride waves to enjoy the coastline, a simple tide report is useful. Finding a reliable one, and when a cell signal is out of reach, is not so simple.

One of the best options, AyeTides, is only for the iPhone, and the $10 price tag is fairly steep. The software, though, is comprehensive enough to replace tide books that cost at least that much every year. AyeTides has calculated tidal forecasts through this century, and that includes secondary tide stations that are notoriously tricky to calculate.

It’s a fair enough price, especially given the high ratings the app has gleaned from the typically demanding iTunes community.

And BlackBerry or Android users, don’t fret: The rising tide of smartphone software development will most likely lift your boats before too long.

Word search games like Wurdle ($2 on iPhone) are among the more addictive smartphone apps, and the iPad makes the games easier for pairs of people to play. Now Boggle has joined the fray, with Boggle for iPad ($5) from Electronic Arts. Shake the iPad to make the letter cubes bounce (with great accompanying sound effects) and settle into place for the contest. ... Guitar tuning apps are common enough, but not apps that let a player strum once, to learn which strings are out of tune. The PolyTune app ($10 for iPhone) avoids the headache of plucking and replucking, and produces prompt and generally accurate readings. ... Nokia’s new E73 ($70 on T-Mobile, with a two-year contract) is among the thinnest qwerty-keyboard smartphones on the market. The phone features dual-mode software that can toggle the display between work and leisure tasks.
756 2010-06-24 Casual followers of ballet might be forgiven for thinking that American Ballet Theater has only one Russian star in its midst, as New York this spring has been aflutter over Natalia Osipova, a guest from the Bolshoi Ballet. Could it have been only a few seasons ago that the city was swept up in the arrival of another great Russian ballerina, Diana Vishneva, who joined Ballet Theater full time in 2005 as a principal?

Tuesday night at the Metropolitan Opera House Ms. Vishneva reminded why she inspires enduring adoration, when she and David Hallberg offered a ravishing performance of “Swan Lake.” The sheer beauty of their dancing astonished.

Kevin McKenzie’s production, choreographed after Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov, lets this beauty shine through in Act II, when Prince Siegfried’s restless heart finds its harbor in Odette. To watch Ms. Vishneva arch slowly back over Mr. Hallberg’s arm was to feel time itself slow down as she sank luxuriantly into the Tchaikovsky score. Her swan princess is a tragic creature, aware long before the naïve Siegfried that they cannot live happily on this earth.

And what more can be said of the endless, perfect lines into which Mr. Hallberg’s body continually reconfigures itself? He is a marvel. And his acting, which in seasons past has seemed a bit too eager, appears to be quieter and more nuanced. The classical purity of his dancing here becomes the embodiment of his character’s morality: he is noble through and through, if torn between his desire to please and his desire for freedom.

He gets his freedom in the end, paying for it with his life. The ballet’s final act should give us the full drama and beauty of the couple’s sacrifice, magnified by the swan maiden corps. But the plot’s significance is blunted by Mr. McKenzie’s theatrical decisions, which forgo substantial choreography in favor of silly chase antics among Odette, Siegfried and the evil sorcerer von Rothbart. Poor Isaac Stappas, having to throw himself about in that absurd Swamp Thing getup, which is lamely intended to reveal the sorcerer’s true nature.
757 2010-06-24 Ever ready for a cause, Upper West Side residents may have to find a new one: Executives at the Fairway grocery store have decided not to close the second-floor cafe there, according to activists who rallied in recent days to save it.

Facing competition from a new Trader Joe’s store coming just a few blocks away, the executives were leaning toward turning over the cafe space to sell more groceries and to help ease congestion, Howard Glickberg, Fairway’s chief executive, said last week.

But a small knot of loyal customers enlisted their neighbors, started savefairwaycafe.com and collected more than 1,200 signatures on a petition in an effort to keep the restaurant, on Broadway at 74th Street, open.

Mr. Glickberg did not respond to e-mail or phone messages seeking comment on Wednesday.

But Robert Sprung, who was part of the grassroots effort, said employees told him that Fairway officials had said at a recent personnel meeting that they would keep the cafe.

“I think it’s great,” Mr. Sprung said. “I don’t know how much we had to do with it, but I’m sure it was something.”

“I can keep getting Mitch’s game hen for my foreseeable future,” he added, referring to Mitchel London, the cafe’s chef, who once cooked for Mayor Edward I. Koch (who signed the petition, Mr. Sprung said).
758 2010-06-24 “This is unfamiliar territory for Apple,” said Tim Bajarin, president of Creative Strategies, who has followed Apple for nearly three decades.

The changes are a testament to the remarkable turnaround orchestrated by , who returned to Apple more than a decade ago when the company was on the verge of extinction. But those changes have also thrust the company into an unexpected and potentially perilous role as competitors start to cooperate with each other against Apple.

For all the complaining, Apple’s self-interested and quirky pursuit of innovation is not new.

Time and again, it has been willing to break with technology industry standards by doing things its way, even if it ruffled feathers. “Apple has always marched to its own drumbeat,” Mr. Bajarin said.

The company often irked suppliers and confounded pundits, for instance, when it chose to use 3.5-inch floppy disks instead of the more common 5.25-inch disks, or later, when it did away with floppy disks altogether.

But now that Apple has grown from a niche player into one that leads the fastest-growing segment of the industry — mobile computing — its actions are far more consequential and the complaints have turned to grievances.

“People used to say, ‘Apple is crazy, they are making a big mistake,’ ” said Paul Saffo, a veteran Silicon Valley technology forecaster. “Now they are saying Apple is trying to kill competition.”

The complaints are in some ways surprising because Apple, for now, is far from reaching the kind of dominant position enjoyed by Microsoft in PCs or Google in search and online advertising.

While the and iTunes lead the market for players and online distribution of music, Apple remains a small player in PC sales. It is only now entering the digital advertising business and the sale of electronic books.

Even in smartphones, it lags behind Research In Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, though its devices dominate the market for mobile applications.

Perhaps the loudest complaints this year came after Apple barred some third-party programming tools from the iPad, including Adobe’s Flash software, which is widely used to create online videos and Web applications.

The decision led to a very public war of words between Adobe and Mr. Jobs. It also prompted the Federal Trade Commission to begin asking questions about the effect of Apple’s decision on competition.

“To ignore a major component of the Internet like Flash seems a little silly,” said John Warnock, a founder of Adobe. Mr. Warnock said Mr. Jobs would have proceeded more cautiously when the company had less clout. “Apple does what it does,” he said. “But I don’t think that they would have made a decision like this 10 years ago.”

Mr. Jobs, who declined to comment for this article, has forcefully defended Apple’s decision to exclude Flash, saying it was strictly for technical reasons. He disparaged Flash for consuming too much battery power and for what critics call its security flaws.

And he said Apple was simply making a bet that the technology, while popular today, was quickly falling out of favor and would soon be overtaken by others.

Customers “are paying us to make these choices,” Mr. Jobs said during a recent public appearance.

Perhaps Apple’s swiftest and most startling transformation from underdog to looming monopolist came in the world of mobile ads, a market the company is just entering.

Only weeks ago, the F.T.C. was on the verge of blocking a merger between Google and AdMob, which specializes in placing ads inside iPhone apps.

Regulators said that the merger would give Google, the largest seller of online ads, a virtual lock on the small but fast-growing market for mobile phone ads.

The commission approved the deal, but only after Apple acquired Quattro Wireless, an AdMob rival, and announced its own iAds advertising system for mobile phones, to be included with the iPhone 4.

Then this month, Apple appeared to make the switch from excluded to excluder in the mobile ad market. New policies for the iPhone 4 bar Google and AdMob from selling ads on the device, resulting in a complaint from Google, which was in the unusual position of playing victim.

“Artificial barriers to competition hurt users and developers and, in the long run, stall technological progress,” wrote Omar Hamoui, the chief executive of AdMob.

After Mr. Hamoui’s complaint, the trade commission expanded its investigation of Apple’s practices to include iAds, according to people briefed on the matter who did not want to be identified because of the delicacy of the investigation.

The commission’s inquiry is not the only one concerning potentially anticompetitive behavior by Apple. The Justice Department recently began a preliminary investigation into whether Apple pressured music labels to exclude , its rival in digital music distribution, from certain licensing agreements. And Apple is one of many Silicon Valley companies whose hiring practices are being examined by the department.

The latest inquiry from the commission has raised eyebrows among some antitrust experts, in part because Apple currently controls less than a third of the smartphone market in the .

R.I.M., with its BlackBerry, remains No. 1, and phones based on Google’s Android software are quickly gaining acceptance with consumers and application developers. But some said the government was right to be concerned.

“Apple has gotten really aggressive in trying to flex its muscles and trying to take advantage of its position in the market,” said Andrew I. Gavil, an antitrust expert and professor of law at Howard University.

“The question is whether they have gotten significant enough in any of these markets to affect competition,” he said. “The answer appears to be yes.”

While Apple has created a large ecosystem that has made some application developers rich, many are now fretting that the company has too much control over the world it created.

When an iPhone developer at announced recently that he was moving on because of Apple’s restrictions, the influential technology blog TechCrunch ran a headline saying the person left “over Apple tyranny.”

And when the maker of a popular app pulled out of Apple’s store in frustration over delays in approving a new version, he asked in a widely read blog post, “Was your intent to shut us down by playing the waiting game?”

For Mitchell Kapor, who invests in technology start-ups including developers of mobile phone applications, it brings back memories of confronting Microsoft while running the Lotus Development Corporation in the 1980s.

“The amount of resentment is very, very large,” he said, “and reminiscent of the kind of resentment there was toward Microsoft when it was the platform an app developer had to be on.”
759 2010-06-24 “We’re more visible now than we ever have been,” said George R. Boggs, president of the American Association of Community Colleges.

But for students and professors at overstretched colleges, these are hardly the best of times. With state financing slashed almost everywhere, many institutions have cut so deeply into their course offerings and their faculty rosters that they cannot begin to handle the influx of students.

In some parts of the country, the budget stresses are so serious that the whole concept of community colleges as open-access institutions — where anyone, with any educational background, can enroll at any point in life — is becoming more an aspiration than a reality.

“We have a commitment to educate the top 100 percent of Americans, but this is a tough time,” said Martha J. Kanter, under secretary of the federal Department of Education and a former community college president. “Students aren’t getting as many classes as they want, so it’s going to take them longer to get through.”

On the sunny, hilly campus of Mount SAC (as everyone calls it) east of Los Angeles, Ashley Diaz is one of many dispirited students. In each of her three terms at the college, she has been able to get into only one academic class and one dance class, which she has taken three times.

“I came in with some Advanced Placement credits, so I don’t need that many courses before I can transfer to a four-year university,” Ms. Diaz said. “I thought I’d be in and out in a year and a half, maybe two. But it’s like working my way through quicksand.”

Many students feel stalled, whether they plan to continue at a four-year university or become a firefighter, a nurse or a welder.

Crystal Boddie, a 28-year-old child care worker, said she was just one course away from certification as a preschool teacher, which would raise her pay by about $6 an hour. But when she went to register for that class this spring, it was not offered.

The college has cut 800 course sections — more than 10 percent of its classes — over the last year, even as the number of people attending preregistration orientation sessions has grown about 10 percent.

“We want to create the illusion that we’re still open access,” said Silver Calzada, chairman of counseling at the college. “But the truth is that with all the classes that have been cut, unless you get a registration slot on the first or second day, you’re not going to get into the classes you need. Students see our banners saying ‘Dream It. Be It.’ And they feel like they’ve been duped.”

Some professors now stretch their class sizes, taking in as many students as the room will hold. When dozens of extra students showed up for a Thursday evening horticulture class with 35 registered members, for example, the professor, Dave Lannom, brought in 24 chairs from a nearby classroom and said anyone who could find a chair could stay.

“This is a terrible situation,” Professor Lannom said. “Students get discouraged and will quit when turned away.”

Because of budget cuts, California community colleges, the largest higher education system in the country, enrolled 21,000 fewer students in the 2009-10 academic year than the previous year. Some districts reported turning away about half of the new students who tried to enroll for the 2009-10 academic year, said Jack Scott, the chancellor of California’s community colleges.

“Unfortunately, we will never be able to accurately account for all of the students who had to either put their college dreams on hold or abandon them altogether because they couldn’t get the classes or training they needed,” Mr. Scott said.

Open access has passed its limits elsewhere, too. For the first time, the City University of New York and its six community colleges, whose enrollment grew by 43 percent over the last decade, started waiting lists for admission this fall.

“We capped our enrollment for the fall at 10,804, the same level as last year,” said Eduardo J. Marti, president of Queensborough Community College. “That means there will be about 200 to 500 students we might not be able to bring in.”

At Forsyth Technical Community College in Winston-Salem, N.C., where enrollment grew by a third over the last two years, the president, Gary M. Green, said he had no room for hundreds of students who wanted to register.

“I’ve been in community colleges since 1976, and the door has always been open,” he said. “But now, we just don’t have the capacity.”

Even in flush times, completion rates at community colleges are shockingly low, in part because so many students hold jobs and attend classes only part time. Over all, only about a quarter of community college students complete their degree in six years, said Ms. Kanter, the education under secretary. Then, too, most need some remedial courses before they can begin college-level work, further lengthening their course of study. And at Mount SAC and many other community colleges, remedial math and English classes fill up rapidly.

Recently, foundations like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and Lumina have been pouring money into community colleges to increase completion rates, in part by improving remedial education.

Almost everywhere, anatomy and physiology classes, and others required for students of health professions, fill up almost instantly. And admission to health-related programs can take years.

Mount SAC, for example, has 986 students on the waiting list for its nursing program, which was cut by a third because of reduced financing. The radiologic technology program, which accepts 38 students a year, has a waiting list of 300.

Giovanni Davalos, an aspiring X-ray technician, said he had expected to spend three years on the waiting list. But his first hurdle was getting into the remedial classes he needed.

This spring, Mr. Davalos took a counseling department class, College Success Strategies. He said he did not necessarily want to take it, but students in that class, which teaches how to plot a sequence of courses leading to a degree, are guaranteed a seat in a remedial English class.

“All together,” he said, “it might take me seven years.”
760 2010-06-24 The picture that emerged in the Rolling Stone article, he noted, was of an “undisciplined, jocular” group of top advisers, spending their days spitting out bitter asides about their compatriots in the fight — including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., the American ambassador to Afghanistan, Karl Eikenberry, and the oft-mocked special envoy, Richard Holbrooke.

In war, that’s nothing new. President Lincoln wrote a searing letter to Gen. Joseph Hooker when the general told a New York Times correspondent in 1863 that “nothing would go right until we had a dictator, and the sooner the better.” (Lincoln kept him, suggesting that generals who wanted to set up dictatorships might start by winning a few battles.)

But for all his problems, Lincoln did not have to deal with a 24-hour news cycle that can reveal dissension in the ranks in real time. And what led to General McChrystal’s recall to Washington, one administration official said, was the urgency of conveying a message that the culture created in the general’s headquarters “undercuts the unity of effort.”

General McChrystal and his staff, in other words, crossed that fine line between Mr. Obama’s encouragement of dissent and his no-drama management style.

Of course, that was one of the complaints about MacArthur as well. “It’s not just that MacArthur disagreed about policy,” said Eliot A. Cohen, a professor at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins and the author of “Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen and Leadership in Wartime” (Simon and Schuster, 2002). “He mouthed off to the press, but by and large MacArthur did exactly what he was told. The problem was that he let disagreements become clearer than they should have been.”

In the end, that may have been General McChrystal’s mistake as well. In a speech in London last fall, while the president was deciding between General McChrystal’s call for a long counterinsurgency effort and Mr. Biden’s preference for dealing with the war from afar with drone strikes, the general suggested that trying to fight the war from afar was a “plan called Chaosistan.”

The result was a 25-minute conversation aboard Air Force One with Mr. Obama, who suggested that the general keep his differences limited to the Situation Room debate.

General McChrystal survived that incident, and it was quickly subsumed by the bigger debate over Afghan strategy. But the context of these comments is entirely different. The battle for Marja, a town of 60,000, ended up a huge disappointment — and General McChrystal’s confident-sounding statement that as soon as the town was taken from the Taliban there would be a “government in a box, ready to roll,” providing services to the residents, turned out to be wildly optimistic. It is too early to tell how General McChrystal’s strategy will play out in Kandahar, but it is clear that the operation there will take far longer than the White House anticipated.

Changing commanders now could slow the progress even more, even if one of General McChrystal’s deputies is chosen. (While impressive, many in the Pentagon fear they fall short of General McChrystal.) Some in the White House speculate that if Mr. Obama decides to keep General McChrystal in place, he will, from this day forward, have the most compliant, careful commander in the United States Army. “When you guys go to visit him,” one official said Tuesday night, “you’d be lucky to hear his name, rank and serial number.”

But the underlying problem, Mr. Cohen notes, is going to have to be addressed sooner or later. “The good thing would be if Obama took this as an opportunity to shake up the Afghanistan team,” he said. “Each of the individuals is very good and bright. Collectively, they have been a disaster,” especially when it comes to teamwork.

So that is Mr. Obama’s choice. MacArthur was tossed, and the war that started 60 years ago this Friday remains the running sore of Asia, a conflict as unresolved today as it was the day the armistice was signed. Hooker remained in place, and the war was won. But there are no perfect comparisons. After all, Lincoln did fire George McClellan, his own top general, for showing neither proper deference nor much fight.
761 2010-06-24 The Karzai administration laid out the case for looking beyond the disparaging remarks recounted in an article in Rolling Stone magazine. Seeking to take a longer view, Afghan officials pointed out General McChrystal’s achievements, the trust he had built with the Afghan people and the possible damage to relationships and trust if he is dismissed.

“We are asking the decision makers to send him back to Afghanistan, this is the request of all people of the south,” said Ahmed Wali Karzai, the president’s half brother. “He is the kind of person who says little but does much, and his replacement would not be like him. We want him back in Afghanistan. If he is not back in Afghanistan, I think the ongoing work will remain incomplete and obviously there would be a big vacuum.”

General McChrystal was recalled to Washington on Tuesday after disparaging remarks made by him and his staff about other members of the administration became public. They included much of President Obama’s civilian leadership, including Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; the special representative for Afghanistan, Richard C. Holbrooke; and Gen. James L. Jones, the national security adviser.

Mr. Karzai’s defense of the American commander was testament to General McChrystal’s effort to build trust against formidable odds. Mr. Karzai has had a rocky relationship with almost every other Western government figure here. He fears a departure of the coalition because it would make him vulnerable but also hates being tainted by military mistakes such as bombings that go astray and kill civilians.

Sensing Mr. Karzai’s vulnerability, General McChrystal has not only apologized personally for all the major civilian casualty incidents, but also followed through with changes in military rules with the goal of diminishing the chance they would happen again.

Rather than criticizing Mr. Karzai for what he had failed to do, he attempted to build him up as the country’s leader. He accompanied Mr. Karzai on trips to tribal meetings in different parts of the country, providing the kind of robust Western security that gives the president confidence.

These trips bring Mr. Karzai out of the palace, giving him a chance to show that he is trying to reach out to his people, and also helped him to hear the complaints of his people. While ultimately this is unlikely to be enough to shore up Mr. Karzai’s teetering political support or make him a popular figure, it has softened his image as a remote and isolated man who listens only to an inner circle.

“General McChrystal creates an environment of trust among Afghans,” Ahmed Wali Karzai said.
762 2010-06-24 WASHINGTON — President Obama on Wednesday fired his top Afghanistan war commander after only a brief meeting in the Oval Office, replacing Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal with his boss and mentor, Gen. David H. Petraeus, and sending a clear signal that the current war strategy will continue despite setbacks and growing public doubts.

Two hours later, an angry Mr. Obama privately reprimanded members of his bickering national security team, adopting a “stern” tone during a meeting in the Situation Room and ordering them to put aside “pettiness,” and not to put “personalities or reputation” ahead of American troops who have been put in harm’s way, administration officials said.

Speaking in the Rose Garden to reporters, Mr. Obama said he did not fire General McChrystal for critical comments about him and his staff in Rolling Stone magazine, nor “out of any sense of personal insult.” Rather, the president cited the need for his team to unite in pressing the war effort.

“I don’t think we can sustain that unity of effort and achieve our objectives in Afghanistan without making this change,” he said.

Even by the standards of a capital that has seen impeachment and scandals in recent years, the drama surrounding the firing of a wartime commander was palpable.

Generals have come and gone in disputes over policy and execution — indeed, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates fired General McChrystal’s predecessor, Gen. David D. McKiernan, just a year ago. But the removal of General McChrystal culminated a remarkable public waiting game, with White House and top military officials trying to guess what the president would do, and Mr. Obama keeping his cards close to his vest until the very end.

While publicly rebuking him Tuesday, Mr. Obama had said he would not decide the general’s fate until they met face to face. But as early as Monday night, officials said, when Mr. Obama first learned of the Rolling Stone article in which General McChrystal and his staff criticized administration officials, the president and his advisers were discussing the likelihood that the general would have to go.

“A lot of us were arguing that the message of letting McChrystal’s comments roll off our backs would be enormously harmful,” one administration official said.

By Tuesday, when the president met with the general’s biggest supporter and a powerful one, Secretary Gates, White House and Pentagon officials were already discussing General Petraeus as the most likely replacement.

It has been nearly 60 years since President Harry S. Truman fired Gen. Douglas MacArthur in the midst of the Korean War, the last time a president directly stepped in to remove the senior commander in a war zone for disrespect toward the White House. For Mr. Obama, this was a MacArthur moment, a reassertion of civilian control.

The president also used the moment to emphasize that the policy in Afghanistan would not change, even as his own party and international allies display strong doubts about the way forward, including whether the United States can ever navigate a troubled relationship with Afghanistan’s president, Hamid Karzai.

General Petraeus is taking a step down. As head of United States Central Command, he has oversight for Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and the entire region. He has supported General McChrystal’s point of view during internal administration strategy debates. His appointment is meant in part to calm the nerves of NATO allies and Mr. Karzai.

Mr. Obama called Mr. Karzai Wednesday to try to get the Afghan president on board — Mr. Karzai made a personal appeal to Mr. Obama on Tuesday night to keep General McChrystal — and Mr. Obama received at least an initial public statement that “President Karzai respects President Obama’s decision.”

Gen. James L. Jones, the national security adviser, whom one of General McChrystal’s aides had dismissed in the article as a “clown,” called his counterparts in Europe to assure them that Mr. Obama was not abandoning his approach. He repeated Mr. Obama’s line that this was a change in personnel, not in policy.

The president chose General Petraeus, a media-savvy, ambitious officer, instead of lesser-known figures who might have had more trouble stepping in to such a volatile situation. “The one person you could have inserted in there to calm those nerves was Dave Petraeus,” said one senior administration official.

General Petraeus will have to relinquish the top job at Central Command to assume command in Afghanistan. White House officials said no decision had been made on who would succeed him.
763 2010-06-24 Apricot yogurt, my favorite French yogurt, was the inspiration for these parfaits. The presentation transforms the mixture of apricots and plain yogurt into a beautiful dessert.

1. Make the apricot purée as directed. If desired, add to it 1/8 to 1/4 teaspoon almond extract.

2. Spoon 1/4 cup thickened yogurt into the bottom of each of four tumblers or parfait glasses. Top with 2 tablespoons of the apricot purée. Make another 1/4 cup layer of yogurt on top of the apricot purée, and finish with another 2-tablespoon layer of apricot purée. Cover tightly and chill for at least one hour. Just before serving, sprinkle finely chopped almonds over the top.

Advance preparation: The assembled parfaits will hold in the refrigerator for a day. Sprinkle on the almonds just before serving.
764 2010-06-24 Chris Welles, an award-winning business reporter and former director of a prestigious fellowship program at Columbia for business reporters, died Saturday at a nursing home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Brooklyn.

The cause was Alzheimer’s disease, his wife, Nancy, said.

Calling him “probably the premier business writer” from the 1960s to the early 1980s, Stephen B. Shepard, a former editor of BusinessWeek and now dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at the City University of New York, said Mr. Welles was known for his penetrating accounts of “shenanigans, abuses and downfalls” in the business community.

In 1975, Mr. Welles wrote “The Last Days of the Club.” The book, considered something of a classic in its field, detailed the demise of the old Wall Street monopoly and the rise of new institutions that would eventually dominate financial power in America.

His 1970 book, “The Elusive Bonanza,” accused the oil industry of neglecting the development of America’s vast oil-shale reserves. It was an expansion of an article he had written for Life magazine several years earlier. Life did not use the piece, and after Mr. Welles sold it to Harper’s, Life fired him.

The book had repercussions in 1977, when he was named director of the Walter Bagehot Fellowship Program in Business and Economics Journalism at Columbia (now the Knight-Bagehot Fellowship Program). For 35 years, it has provided a midcareer opportunity for business journalists to expand their expertise. Shortly after Mr. Welles’s appointment, the Mobil Oil Corporation withdrew its financial support for the fellowships, saying that while it considered the program excellent, it “didn’t have confidence in the leadership.”

Besides Life, Mr. Welles also worked for BusinessWeek, The Saturday Evening Post and The Los Angeles Times. Among his awards for business reporting were a Gerald Loeb Award and a National Magazine Award. He ran the Bagehot program until 1985.
765 2010-06-25 Nearly two years after the American financial system teetered on the verge of collapse, Congressional negotiators reached agreement early Friday morning to reconcile competing versions of the biggest overhaul of financial regulations since the Gre...
766 2010-06-25 David Gillen reports on how Wall Street fared in the financial reform bill
767 2010-06-25 Personal Finance Reporter Tara Siegel Bernard discusses how consumers benefit from financial reform
768 2010-06-25 Wisdom, insights and observations from this weekend's Arts & Leisure section...
769 2010-06-25 Banks are expected to find ways to offset the impact of the new financial regulations on their earnings, though they face a potentially complex process of adapting to the new requirements, analysts say....
770 2010-06-25 Doodle Jump, a highly popular game for the iPhone, reached five million downloads on Friday. Additional features, like an animation series and an iPad application, are in the works, too....
771 2010-06-25 The prospect of trading futures contracts based on box-office revenue appears dim, as the financial overhaul bill approved early this morning includes language that bans the trading of those contracts....
772 2010-06-25 Shares in the nation's biggest banks were still trading higher in midday trading on Friday, after Congressional negotiators hammered out a compromise on a proposed overhaul of financial regulation....
773 2010-06-25 After the Mets' Chris Carter hit his first major league home run in Baltimore two weeks ago, an Orioles fan in the right-field bleachers caught the ball and made a few requests of his own....
774 2010-06-25 How will banks and regulators react to all of the new rules in ways that legislators did not expect?...
775 2010-06-25 Hedge funds use the Cayman Islands to hide conflicts of interest from their investors, William D. Cohan writes on Opinionator....
776 2010-06-25 The House and Senate are so far apart on variety of initiatives intended to help small business that it is not clear that they will be able to agree on a bill that contains more than just a few ideas from President Obama's small-business agenda....
777 2010-06-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
778 2010-06-25 China's central government has begun a series of investigations this week into how much debt was incurred by local governments last year as part of economic stimulus programs undertaken in response to the global financial downturn....
779 2010-06-25 The House-Senate conference committee is working overnight on completing the final version of the financial regulatory bill....
780 2010-06-25 Talks have collapsed between the European Parliament and national governments over new controls for hedge funds due to a continuing dispute over licensing for funds from outside the bloc, Reuters reported....
781 2010-06-25 Gas will eventually replace some of the coal used to make electricity, the study predicts, and gas will be the benchmark against which other carbon-saving technologies like wind or nuclear will be measured. But those other technologies will eventually be needed.

Some companies that make equipment for coal- and gas-fired generating stations say that the switch to gas from coal has already begun. One reason is that switching to gas will make it easier to meet air quality standards for conventional pollutants, like smog and mercury.

The study noted that the only natural gas car sold by a major car company in the United States, the Honda GX, costs an extra $5,500, while the VW Passat TSI Eco-fuel, sold only in Europe, costs only $3,700 extra. Converting a gasoline vehicle to natural gas is also much more expensive here than in Europe, the report said, and it suggests that the reasons be examined.

High-mileage fleet vehicles, like taxis, could be economically converted to natural gas, the study said. But the recent history of natural gas vehicles in the United States suggests that buses and small delivery vehicles are more likely candidates for conversion than the great mass of privately owned vehicles.

Natural gas vehicles emit about three-quarters as much carbon dioxide per mile as gasoline-powered ones. The switch would not have a large impact on carbon — only about a ton per vehicle per year for a typical American car, according to the report.

“There is no longer any doubt that we have the capacity to repower our electricity sector and move away from dirtier fuels,” said Gregory C. Staple, the chief executive of the American Clean Skies Foundation, in a statement.

T. Boone Pickens, the Texas oilman, said that the study paid too much attention to the electricity sector and not enough to using natural gas as a substitute for gasoline and diesel in transportation.

“You’ve got plenty of gas to do both,” he said.

Natural gas has an erratic price history, which has made some American electric utilities nervous about overreliance. But “abundant global natural gas resources imply greatly expanded natural gas use,” the study concluded.

Globally, the average projection of the amount of recoverable gas represents about a century and a half’s supply at current rates of consumption, the report noted. In the United States, the amount of recoverable gas is equal to 92 times the consumption last year, the study said.

Especially in the United States, one reason for new optimism about supplies is the success that drillers have had exploring shale formations for natural gas. Shale drilling requires fracturing the rock, a technique called “fracking.” The method has raised concern about damage to underground water supplies and faces opposition from environmental groups, especially in areas that do not now have oil and gas drilling.

Somewhat like oil, natural gas deposits are disproportionately concentrated in the Middle East. Natural gas can be chilled until it turns into a liquid and then shipped by tanker, and the American capacity to import such gas has grown, but a long supply chain for natural gas could come to represent another energy vulnerability, the report said.
782 2010-06-25 “Homosexuality is a controversial subject,” Mr. Jefferson said. “It is troubling that so many now want the government to take sides in this issue by endorsing a Gay Pride Month.”

The pastor’s remarks received roughly the same amount of applause as the proclamation had received.

Bishop Bordisso later said that Mr. Jefferson had “rained on our parade.”

But rain is an improvement compared with the thunderstorm that hit Vallejo’s gay men and lesbians last fall. In an interview in November with The New York Times, Mayor Davis, who attends an Assemblies of God church, said of gay people, “They’re committing sin, and that sin will keep them out of heaven.”

The comment led to protests — both from the gay community and its supporters, and from religious groups who defended the mayor — and became the top story on Bay Area television news broadcasts.

When the mayor said his remarks had been taken out of context, The Times released the audio recording of the full interview, which further polarized the city when residents heard Mr. Davis say: “You hope one day the person will see the error in their ways. That is the same for someone who is a drug addict or child molester or someone who is a murderer.”

Eventually, the news media moved on, but the city remained divided. Mario A. Saucedo, manager of a downtown thrift store that raises money for AIDS charities, said some residents had been hostile. “If you’re out in the street and they know that you’re gay, you have to be careful,” Mr. Saucedo said.

But in recent months there had seemed to be more tolerance. The two groups that formed — Better Vallejo, which Mr. Bordisso helped establish, and Vallejo Together, where Mr. Jefferson is said to play a crucial role — both pledged to heal the city’s rifts.

On May 21, Better Vallejo showed “Milk.” When Mayor Davis arrived for the event, there was excitement, a feeling that a civic mending was truly under way.

But the mayor stayed only a few minutes and saw none of the movie. “I went,” he said later. “I wasn’t able to stay because I had another commitment.”

Some viewed the mayor’s departure as an insult, according to Marc Garman, editor of The Vallejo Independent Bulletin, an online newspaper. “It was almost worse than if he hadn’t shown up at all.”

Because of that perceived slight, combined with the pastor’s remarks at the proclamation ceremony, there are now questions about how much healing is under way.

Mr. Jefferson did not respond to repeated requests for an interview. Web pages under his name on both Facebook and MySpace feature videos that portray homosexuality as a condition that can be cured.

Mayor Davis has said his views on homosexuality are personal. “I don’t have any more comments,” he said. “You understand that I’m going to be really closed-mouthed.”

Mr. Garman said the divisions caused by the mayor’s remarks in the fall had distracted residents from Vallejo’s other issues: the city is bankrupt, the state took over its schools, and there has been a spike in violent crime.

“We have so many other things to concentrate on,” he said. “It’s such a waste of energy.”

Bishop Bordisso said most gay men and lesbians in Vallejo also wanted to get beyond the controversy. “Largely,” he said, “we want to move forward.”
783 2010-06-25 SHANGHAI — China won praise last year for reviving domestic growth with aggressive bank lending and a $586 billion economic stimulus package. But now the nation’s top auditor is warning that the mounting debt of local governments could undermine the recovery in some parts of the country.

Liu Jiayi, head of the National Audit Office, said in a report to the legislature this week that borrowing by local governments had created public debt burdens totaling hundreds of billions of dollars. The report questions whether those governments have the resources to pay down the loans.

The warning is the latest indication that a portion of the government-backed loans and stimulus money could eventually be categorized as bad loans.

Much of that money went to huge local infrastructure projects that are now being scrutinized by the national government. Less than two weeks ago, China’s State Council, or cabinet, ordered state banks and local governments to clean up the way they finance such projects. The council said many projects were being financed through quasi-independent companies that were sometimes being created to subvert restrictions on lending to local governments.

It is unclear how serious a threat local government debt is to China’s booming economy. Some economists say the nation’s debt pales in comparison with that of the United States and Europe and that worries about record bank lending last year turning into mountains of bad debt are exaggerated.

Nicholas Lardy, an economist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, said in a column this week in The Wall Street Journal that many of the worries were misplaced. He said that China was smart to invest in infrastructure projects last year and that if debts mounted, local government could service the debt by raising fees on water and subways.

But on Thursday Fitch Ratings, the credit rating agency, warned that record loan growth and aggressive efforts by state-run banks to repackage and sell debt to investors had raised credit risks in the country and could “lead to another financial crisis,” according to a report published by Bloomberg News.
784 2010-06-25 Natasha Watley’s run-scoring single in the seventh inning helped the United States to a 1-0 victory over China in both teams’ opener at the world softball championship in Caracas, Venezuela. Cat Osterman threw a complete game for the United States with 11 strikeouts. The United States has won the event six straight times.
785 2010-06-25 LONDON (AP) — The British buyout fund Resolution Ltd. said Thursday that it had agreed to acquire several British businesses from the French insurer AXA in a deal worth £2.75 billion ($4.1 billion).

Resolution said it would merge the AXA businesses with another British insurance company, Friends Provident, doubling Resolution’s share of the British life and pensions market.

It said it expected to save about $112 million a year in costs within three years by combining the operations.

Resolution is paying $3.35 billion in cash and as much as $744 million in deferred compensation. “We believe this is a sensible deal that will further enhance the management’s historic track record of buying undervalued assets, restructuring them and selling them on to create value for shareholders,” said Jonathan Jackson, head of equities at Killik & Company in London.

Mr. Jackson says the acquisition is the second step in Resolution’s UK Life Project, which is intended to expand its life and asset management business to nearly $15 billion on an embedded value basis by the middle of next year.

Embedded value, used for evaluating insurance companies, reflects expected cash flows from sales in the year and updating assumptions based on experience.

The deal is subject to the approval of Britain’s Financial Services Authority and Resolution’s shareholders.
786 2010-06-25 ConAgra Foods said on Thursday that its quarterly profit fell 48 percent, hurt by higher costs in its potato products unit and continued weakness in its commercial foods business.

The company also forecast that earnings for the current fiscal year would be at the low end of analyst estimates.

ConAgra, which makes Banquet, Chef Boyardee, Peter Pan and other brands, reported that it earned $90.6 million, or 20 cents a share, down from $174.7 million, or 39 cents a share, a year earlier.

Revenue in the period, which ended May 30 and was the fourth quarter of ConAgra’s fiscal year, fell 5 percent, to $3.06 billion from $3.22 billion.

Excluding one-time items, the company earned 39 cents a share, falling short of the 40 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters, and ConAgra’s stock fell 48 cents, to $24.21.

ConAgra benefited as consumers ate at home more often during the recession, but the trend has pinched its commercial foods business, which supplies restaurants and other institutional customers.
787 2010-06-25 Outside of the conference committee chambers, discussions took place throughout the afternoon between Mrs. Lincoln’s staff and groups that have been seeking to produce a compromise derivatives proposal, including other Senate negotiators, Treasury and White House officials, and a group of House members led by Representative Melissa Bean, an Illinois Democrat.

The House group, known as the New Democrat Coalition, has opposed the derivatives legislation, saying that the bill’s broader proposal to restrict proprietary trading by banks — known as the Volcker Rule — achieves the same effect.

Representatives from the New Democrats met on Thursday with White House officials, according to a House aide, and later presented a proposal to Mrs. Lincoln, who as the chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee is the lead negotiator on matters involving the Commodities Future Trading Commission.

At 9:10 p.m., Mrs. Lincoln returned to the conference committee room after a long absence and huddled with Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, who shepherded the financial bill through the Senate for the Democrats. Mr. Dodd also has been unsupportive of the derivatives measure, fearing that it would make it more difficult to retain the 60 votes needed to pass the revised bill through the Senate.

Soon thereafter, she left the room, pausing on her way out to say to Mrs. Bean: “We’re going to go back and read what ya’ll gave us.”

Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, said the negotiations were making progress. “They are a lot closer than they were and I think we’ll get agreement,” he said of the derivatives discussion.

Senate negotiators also submitted for debate a proposal on the Volcker Rule, which would strictly limit the ability of federally insured banks and most Wall Street firms to trade for their own financial benefit. The basic restrictions on proprietary trading have been fiercely opposed by banks and large Wall Street firms since they were proposed by Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, for whom it is named, and endorsed by President Obama early this year.

“One goal of these limits is to reduce participation in high-risk activity that can cause significant losses at institutions which are central to the financial system,” Mr. Dodd said. “A second goal is to end the use of low-cost funds — to which insured depositories have access — to subsidize high-risk activity.”

The Senate proposal would limit banks’ investments in hedge funds or private equity funds to no more than 3 percent of the fund’s capital; those investments could also total no more than 3 percent of a bank’s tangible equity.

Many Wall Street firms, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and others, have long engaged in significant amounts of trading for their own accounts, a practice that commercial banks and their parent companies were traditionally less inclined to adopt.

The Wall Street institutions might not have been subject to the new rules except for their decisions during the 2008 financial crisis to convert themselves into bank holding companies to gain access to the emergency lending authority of the Federal Reserve.

Earlier Thursday, Representative Frank of Massachusetts pushed numerous minor provisions of the 1,500-page financial bill toward agreement.

Among the provisions approved by representatives of both the House and the Senate was one that would give the Securities and Exchange Commission the authority to require stockbrokers to protect their clients’ interest when recommending investments, potentially subjecting brokers to the same fiduciary duty as financial advisers.

Members of the committee from both houses of Congress adopted a proposal that would require the S.E.C. to complete a study within six months of the financial bill’s enactment to evaluate the effectiveness of current rules governing those who give financial advice to or sell securities to consumers.

Under current law, financial advisers are required to act in the best interests of their clients, while brokers are held to a looser standard, under which they are required only to consider whether an investment is “suitable” given the time horizon, goals and appetite for risk of a client.

The compromise calls for the S.E.C. to take the results of the study into account when making any rule, but it also gives the commission the authority to impose a fiduciary standard on stock and insurance brokers. The commission may also require brokers to disclose that they are offering only proprietary products and to reveal how much they are being paid for particular products.

The conference committee has set a goal of completing work on the reconciled bill this week, allowing them to present the final package to the full House and Senate for approval next week. Legislators have said they hope to deliver a bill to President Obama for his approval before Congress leaves town for its Independence Day recess. But by Thursday night, work had been completed on no more than seven of the bill’s 15 titles.

Among the issues still to be resolved is how Congress would pay for the bill. Mr. Frank said the Congressional Budget Office had estimated that the various provisions would cost about $19 billion in the first 10 years.
788 2010-06-25 Mr. Samdrup’s lawyer, Pu Zhiqiang, complained that the trial was plagued by irregularities, including altered evidence and the sudden appearance on Wednesday of a mysterious witness. He also said the judge refused to delve into Mr. Samdrup’s claims that he was beaten and drugged during his six months in custody.

“The court completely ignored the facts, trampled on the legal system and violated Karma’s humanity,” Mr. Pu said.

The sentence also included a $1,500 fine and the deprivation of Mr. Samdrup’s political rights for five years after his release.

Named “philanthropist of the year” in 2006 by the state broadcaster CCTV, Mr. Samdrup was once embraced by the Chinese Communist Party for his environmental work and his willingness to give the government pieces from his art collection.

But his fortunes turned last year after his brothers, both environmentalists, were detained for their public campaign against a police official in Chamdo Prefecture who had a fondness for hunting protected animals. One brother was sentenced to 21 months in a labor camp for “harming national security.” The other is still awaiting trial.

After visiting the men in detention and hearing their tales of mistreatment, Mr. Samdrup began agitating for their release. Last January, he, too, was arrested and accused of buying a carpet, clothing and a wooden coffin that had been pilfered from an ancient tomb in the far western region of Xinjiang. The accusations, however, stemmed from a 1998 charge that the police had declined to pursue at the time.

Even with a high-profile lawyer from Beijing, Mr. Samdrup did not stand much of a chance, his wife, Zhenga Cuomao, said in a telephone interview from Xinjiang, where the hearing took place. “I felt like this was not a real trial, but that they just went through the motions to reach a predetermined verdict,” she said.

Ms. Cuomao, who was allowed into court but not permitted to speak to her husband, said he told the judge about enduring days without food or sleep and said his interrogators soaked him in cold water in the dead of winter. “He never signed the confession because he knows he is innocent,” she said.

She said she had yet to tell the couple’s two daughters, 8 and 10, that their father was in jail. Since his arrest, she had said he was studying abroad. “I won’t tell them the truth anytime soon,” she said. “I can’t bear to break their hearts.”

Nicholas Bequelin, a researcher at Human Rights Watch, agreed with Ms. Cuomao’s evaluation of the trial, noting that the 10-page verdict released Thursday night came several hours after the end of the trial, strongly suggesting that the decision was preordained.

“This conviction is not only a huge blow for the Chinese legal system but for Tibetan-Chinese relations,” Mr. Bequelin said.
789 2010-06-25 Traders were concerned that some provisions of the bill would cut into bank profits. Large banks were lobbying to strike a proposal that would make the industry cover costs to dismantle the mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Bank of America dropped 2.7 percent and JPMorgan Chase lost 2.2 percent.

Stocks of health care and consumer products companies rose, another sign that investors are anxious and looking for investments considered reliable in a weak economy.

Economic news didn’t help. The government said initial claims for unemployment benefits fell last week but remained above the level that would signal employers are ramping up hiring. A second report indicated that orders for durable goods fell last month for the first time in six months. Orders for big-ticket goods fell 1.1 percent in May. Analysts predicted a 1.3 percent drop.

The latest reports showed there are “substantive holes in the economic recovery story,” said Tom Samuels, portfolio manager of the Palantir Fund in Houston.

The Dow fell 145.64 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 10,152.8. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropped 18.35 points, or 1.7 percent, and the Nasdaq composite lost 36.81 points, or 1.6 percent.

Interest rates were mixed in the Treasury market. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 3.14 percent from 3.12 percent late Wednesday. The yield had fallen to a 13-month low of 3.07 percent.

The recent drop in rates is good news for borrowers. Freddie Mac said Thursday that the cost of a home loan has fallen this week to the lowest level on record. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to 4.69 percent from 4.75 percent last week.

Crude oil rose 16 cents to settle at $76.51 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

The slump in stocks made clear that anxiety is still ruling the market, after appearing to have waned last week. The Dow and other major stock indexes fell to their 2010 lows early this month, then regained some ground as fears about a debt blowup in Europe began to ease.

The government is set to release an updated reading Friday on gross domestic product for the first quarter.

More than three stocks fell for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.3 billion shares, compared with 1.1 billion Wednesday.

Major European markets fell on worries that Greece will have problems containing its debt problems. Britain’s FTSE 100 fell 1.5 percent, Germany’s DAX index dropped 1.4 percent, and France’s CAC-40 fell 2.4 percent. Japan’s Nikkei stock average rose 0.1 percent.
790 2010-06-25 MANILA — A major witness to the November massacre of 57 people in the southern Philippines has been killed, three months after seeking government protection in exchange for testifying about the worst eruption of political violence in this country’s history, Human Rights Watch said Thursday.

The witness, Suwaib Upham, was a member of the militia that carried out the Nov. 23 killings of a convoy of journalists and supporters of a political rival to the powerful clan in Maguindanao Province. The group was traveling to file election papers when Mr. Upham and the other militiamen herded everyone to a hilltop, shot the victims and buried them in mass graves. Among the dead were the wife and sister of the challenger, Esmael Mangudadatu. Mr. Mangudadatu won the race for governor in the aftermath of the massacre.

The main defendant in the killings, Andal Ampatuan Jr., is a member of the powerful Ampatuan clan, whose members controlled the political landscape in Maguindanao for the past decade and had ties to the departing president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. Mr. Ampatuan is in jail awaiting trial for multiple murder charges, and nearly 200 others have also been charged.

On June 14, Mr. Upham was shot and killed by an unknown gunman in Parang, a town in Maguindanao. He never got the government protection he had requested, Elaine Pearson, acting Asia director at Human Rights Watch, said in a statement.

“Massacre witnesses are dying while the government sits on its hands,” Ms. Pearson said in a statement. “Suwaib Upham took enormous personal risks by agreeing to testify against Ampatuan family members, yet the government, knowing full well he was in danger, did nothing. This sends the worst possible message to other witnesses thinking of coming forward.”

Other witnesses and their families have also been threatened and, in at least two instances, killed, according to police officials and human rights groups. Justice officials and prosecutors involved in the case could not be reached for comment.
791 2010-06-25 ALCASABAS--Filemon B. It is with great sadness that the Board of Directors, the Administration, medical staff, employees and volunteers of Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center mourn the passing of our long time friend, and peer Filemon B. A...
792 2010-06-25 Russian natural gas resumed flowing through Belarus to Europe at normal levels on Thursday, as Belarus and Russia announced a tentative truce in their four-day energy dispute. Russia's government-owned gas company, Gazprom, said Belarus had settle...
793 2010-06-25 WASHINGTON -- House and Senate negotiators were still trying to reconcile competing versions of a financial regulatory bill late Thursday.     By 10:15 p.m., the members of a House and Senate conference committee had been officially meeting for al...
794 2010-06-26 This cryptic crossword ineffectively deals with topless Pennsylvania people and the French....
795 2010-06-26 President Obama urged swift passage of the final version of the financial regulatory overhaul, as Republicans hammered his party for fiscal irresponsibility....
796 2010-06-26 The Americans' stated goal was to qualify for the second round of the World Cup. Now that they've done that and face Ghana in the round of 16, how does the team redefine success?...
797 2010-06-26 “It is in the nation’s best interest to leverage the investments made in Constellation over the last five years, into a beyond low-Earth orbit exploration program, today,” said the letter writers, which included representatives of both political parties from states far beyond Texas, Alabama and Florida, which are home to the major NASA centers.

The basis for the latest Constellation upheaval is a clause in the contracts of Lockheed Martin, Alliant Techsystems Inc. and Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, which states that the companies are responsible for setting aside contract money to pay for termination costs if the Constellation program were canceled.

In response to letters from NASA this year, Lockheed Martin and Alliant, more commonly known as ATK, said that for decades the space agency paid for termination costs like severance pay for workers and that the companies had not reserved money to cover that. Lockheed Martin has estimated its cancellation costs at $350 million, ATK at $500 million.

Two contracts with Boeing, another of the companies working on Constellation, were modified in late January so that NASA, not Boeing, set aside $81 million to pay for termination costs. Those changes were made less than two weeks before the administration announced its desire to cancel Constellation.

In a letter this month to leaders of key Congressional committees, Maj. Gen. Charles F. Bolden Jr., the NASA administrator, cited the Anti-Deficiency Act — a law that prohibits federal agencies from spending more money than has been allocated by Congress — in announcing that the agency was scaling back Constellation to cover termination costs.

Lockheed Martin, the prime contractor for the Orion crew capsule that Mr. Obama has proposed turning into a lifeboat for the International Space Station, threatened to shut down the program if it had to set aside the termination costs. NASA has now sped up payment of $80 million to the company and then added $83 million to the contract to help Lockheed Martin manage the termination costs.

“We don’t want these contractors to go out of business if we can,” said Andrew Hunter, a NASA budget official. “They were going to shut down work on the 27th. We’re keeping them alive.”

ATK is still holding to the position that NASA is responsible for termination costs, and it has not aside money or prepared layoffs. As planned, ATK is receiving $160 million for the rest of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.

Despite the infusion of money, Lockheed Martin is still moving 600 jobs off Orion, including 300 among its subcontractors. Boeing has also announced that layoffs are in the works. And with the shifting of money among the prime contractors, NASA is cutting so-called support contracts.

The entire layoff brunt so far is landing on people like Mr. Smith and not NASA government employees. In Huntsville, Ala., often called the Rocket City, Mayor Tommy Battle said he had heard that 700 people could be affected in his city. Nationwide, NASA has estimated that 2,500 to 5,000 jobs could be lost.

For Bastion Technologies, that means layoff notices went to 86 of the 190 employees working on the company’s NASA contract for analyzing potential safety issues with the Constellation program’s Ares rockets. Bastion’s workers get 60 days’ notice under federal law, but that law does not apply to all of the contractors.

That gives Mr. Smith time to look for work somewhere, but he is not optimistic.

“Given the scope of the layoffs and the fact there are more than a thousand people out there now looking,” Mr. Smith said, “I really don’t know.”
798 2010-06-26 Merck lost a second trial to reach a verdict over claims that its osteoporosis drug Fosamax caused so-called jaw death. The jury in New York set damages at $8 million in the case of Shirley Boles, 72, of Fort Walton Beach, Fla., who said she developed osteonecrosis of the jaw by taking Fosamax. With osteonecrosis, a bone is no longer alive and cannot regenerate because of a lack of blood supply, according to the National Osteonecrosis Foundation’s Web site. The first Fosamax case resulted in a Merck victory in May. United States District Judge John F. Keenan, who is overseeing federal Fosamax litigation, scheduled three bellwether trials that might point the way to out-of-court settlements and show each side the other’s strategy. The third case is to be tried in November. “We believe the jury verdict was a result of plaintiff’s counsel’s inflammatory and prejudicial remarks,” Paul F. Strain, a lawyer for Merck, said in a statement.
799 2010-06-26 HUNTSVILLE, Ontario — Canadians discovered Friday that the Group of 20 summit meeting in Toronto has brought not only world leaders but also a temporary suspension of some of their own civil rights, at least in the core of downtown Toronto.

A 31-year-old Toronto man arrested Thursday discovered that the province of Ontario enacted regulations earlier this month allowing police to stop, question, search and seize property from anyone who passed within 16 feet of temporary security fences that had been set up for the summit meeting and that snaked through the downtown area. Those who refuse to identify themselves or cooperate with the police face arrest, a $500 fine or two months in jail.

“It creates an island of unconstitutionality in Toronto,” said Nathalie Des Rosiers, general counsel for the Canadian Civil Liberties Association. “This is a tool to effect mass arrest.”

The provincial cabinet, at the request of the Toronto Police Department, approved the powers by adding new regulations to a law introduced in 1939, the year Canada entered World War II. That law apparently was intended to deal with potential saboteurs lurking around government buildings and sensitive sites like power stations. The new regulations went into effect on June 21, five days before the start of Saturday’s summit meeting, and expire Monday.

Appearing agitated at times, Totonto’s police chief, Bill Blair, said at a news conference on Friday that the powers were not new and were not introduced without notice. “These are not new powers, they’re not sweeping powers, they’re powers that are clearly defined,” he told reporters. “It’s not a secret law."

Ms. Des Rosiers disagreed. She said that her group and others had repeatedly asked Mr. Blair over the past few months if his force had been given extraordinary powers during the summit meeting, and he indicated that was not the case.
800 2010-06-26 Over the next few days, three things happened, all of them completely predicable. The Interior Department vowed to appeal. Gulf state politicians, starting with Bobby Jindal, the governor of Louisiana — whose state has suffered tremendously as a result of the BP accident — pleaded with the federal government to drop the appeal and allow drilling to continue. And environmentalists derided Judge Feldman’s decision.

Noting that Judge Feldman's district is in the Fifth Circuit for appeals "which is the go-to court for the oil and gas industry,” Elgie Holstein, the oil spill response coordinator for the Environmental Defense Fund said: “I fully expect it to be overturned on appeal.”

Robert F. Kennedy Jr., the president of Waterkeeper Alliance, told The Mobile Press-Register that drilling deepwater wells right now, “when we don’t even know what caused this accident, seems insane.” He added, “I don’t think anybody responsible would advocate more drilling right now.” And so on.

A simple six-month drilling moratorium. It sounds like such a sensible, obvious, uncontroversial thing to do in the wake of the worst environmental disaster in this nation’s history, doesn’t it? Turns out, it’s anything but.

As a percentage of the world’s oil production — some 84.5 million barrels a day — the 1.75 million barrels a day that is extracted from the Gulf of Mexico is not a huge number. (That’s why oil prices haven’t risen as a result of the Deepwater Horizon disaster.) But in terms of the country’s domestic production, it is extremely important. According to Gibson Consulting, a third of all United States oil production comes from the Gulf of Mexico.

What’s more, virtually every new well being drilled in the gulf is a deepwater well — because, after all, that’s where the oil is. “Oil from shallow waters peaked in the 1990s,” said Cutler Cleveland, a professor of geography and environment at Boston University. “And deepwater peaked five or six years ago. So now we are moving into ultra deepwater — over 5,000 feet.” And, he adds, 80 percent of the reserves that remain in the gulf are either in deep or ultra deepwater.

So the first point is: Until that glorious day comes that our cars are fueled by batteries and our homes are heated by solar power, we need as much domestic oil as we can get our hands on, oil that exists in the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Shutting down drilling in the gulf — even temporarily — means we’ll be importing even more oil from other countries than we already do.

Nor is it clear, if the moratorium went into effect, the pullback would be all that temporary. For one thing, the moratorium is contingent on a special commission making yet more safety recommendations in six months, but there is no guarantee they’ll be done by then. Meanwhile, there are only so many floating rigs in the world, and Brazil, for instance, has just embarked on a $200 billion drilling program. (You read that right: $200 billion.) It takes a month to move an idle rig from the Gulf of Mexico to Brazil, where it will likely stay for years. So a six-month moratorium would quite likely have far greater effect on American oil production that it would seem at first glance.

Which also leads to a great irony: importing more oil via tankers will actually create more risk, not less. Between 1964 and the Deepwater Horizon accident, a grand total of 1,800 barrels of oil were lost from rig accidents — an average of 45 barrels a year. That is an astonishing record. Ken Arnold, an expert who consulted with the Interior Department right after the BP spill — and a big critic of the moratorium — told me that much more oil is spilled in tanker accidents annually than from drilling rig accidents.

What’s more, he added: “The oil in those tankers was produced somewhere — somewhere that most likely has less regulation and less oversight than we have. We are not lessening the chance of a spill; we’re just transferring that risk to Nigeria and Brazil. We are not helping the world. We are just saying, ‘Brazil, we prefer to despoil your beaches, but not ours.’ ”

Then there are the battered gulf economies. It is easy enough, sitting here in New York, to argue that we should shut down oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico for as long as it takes, to be absolutely sure we’ll never have another accident like the one we’ve just had. I hear Rachel Maddow making that point most every night these days.

But a shutdown doesn’t really affect our daily lives up here on the East Coast. In the gulf, one mainstay of the economy — fishing — has already been devastated. Do we really want to finish off the rest of the Gulf Coast economy by sidelining its other pillar, oil drilling? There is a reason politicians like Mr. Jindal are pleading for drilling to continue, despite the spill’s terrible effect on his state. They’re desperate. When an airplane crashes, and several hundred people die, the government doesn’t ground every airplane until it is sure all airplanes are safe. It would be too disruptive to the economy. Shouldn’t the same logic apply here?

What has become obvious in the aftermath of the accident is not so much that offshore drilling — even deepwater offshore drilling — is inherently unsafe. It is, certainly, risky, but so are many activities, like mining or flying an airplane. One reason there have been so few accidents over the years is that the incentive for doing things safely is enormous: mistakes can lead to death.

None of which is to say that the Deepwater Horizon disaster hasn’t pointed to problems with drilling, or that new safety measures don’t need to be added. Most of all, it shows the utter inadequacy on the part of both industry and government in containing accidents when they do happen. Precisely because of the industry’s incredible safety record over the years, everyone got complacent. But a six-month moratorium isn’t going to fix that either. What are needed are new ideas that can be debated and then enacted into regulation. One appealing idea I’ve heard is that deepwater rigs should be required to drill a relief well at the same time the exploratory well is being drilled. But that would also, of course, increase the cost of drilling for oil in the gulf.

In the end, the real problem with the six-month moratorium is that it allows us to continue to kid ourselves. It helps us create the illusion that, by regulatory fiat, we can make the extraction of fossil fuels a riskless endeavor. But that can never be true. Six months from now, whether or not the Interior Department succeeds getting Judge Feldman’s decision overturned on appeal, deepwater drilling will still be risky. Drilling thousands of feet into water, searching for dangerous natural gas and oil, contained in the earth under immense pressure, is inherently risky.

We would all be better off facing that fact squarely, instead of wishing it away under the guise of a moratorium.
801 2010-06-26 Jazz has a long tradition of heroism, both in practice and reception, in the acts of musicians and how they are understood. For the last few generations, hard-core jazz audiences have spent a lot of time worrying that the academic might be riding up on the intuitive, and that the sense of heroism might be slipping away. But this is never a problem at the Vision Festival, where American free jazz has its annual rites.

Thursday night’s Vision Festival bill at the Abrons Arts Center on the Lower East Side included a panegyric for the living, in the form of a lifetime-achievement celebration for the pianist and composer Muhal Richard Abrams; a eulogy for the deceased, in the form of a 10-minute silence for the saxophonist Fred Anderson, who died earlier in the day; and a handful of performances that were all at least reaching for something beyond formal excellence. It wasn’t all great, but there was a lot beyond notes to consider. Each part of the night — including the silence — contained stamina and resistance and a kind of morality.

Now 79, Mr. Abrams helped found the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians in Chicago in 1965. (After moving here, he started up the New York chapter in 1983.) It was and is a collective, nonprofit organization, urging the writing of original music, challenging any perceived boundaries of what jazz can be or include, creating performance opportunities for its members and educating young musicians from the South Side of Chicago in an alternative academy.

On a more basic level, he’s a father figure. “Muhal is the boss!,” the saxophonist Joseph Jarman sang, over free-rhythm accompaniment, toward the end of his set with the tenor saxophonist John Tchicai. “He showed the way to free music, free joy, free happiness of the sound,” he went on. “He pushes the button in your head and says gogogogogogogo!”

Mr. Abrams started the night with a solo piano set, disciplined and continuous and thoroughly improvised. He kept both hands on the keyboard for nearly an hour, with pulsating rhythm and ambiguous tonal centers. He kept the sustain pedal down a fair amount, and sometimes let his bass-clef locomotive figures press on without development.

This could get fatiguing. (But it didn’t grow torrential or cathartic or suggest physical movement, like Cecil Taylor’s solo shows; Mr. Abrams is a constitutionally drier guy.) Toward the end he started containing the harmony and the dynamics, narrowing the music down, and he ended with a banged, two-handed cluster.
802 2010-06-26 The French-Cambodian choreographer Emmanuèle Phuon, fondly known as Manou during her time as a dancer with Mikhail Baryshnikov’s White Oak Dance Project, digs into her past in “Khmeropédies I & II.” She began training at 5 at the Royal Ballet of Cambodia; in her new two-part work, which opened on Thursday night at the Baryshnikov Arts Center, she applies Western ideas to traditional Cambodian dance.

Ms. Phuon explores the idea of prayer in “Khmeropédies I,” a solo for Chumvan Sodhachivy. An agile dancer who maintains a sensual dreaminess in contrast to the rigidity of her positions, she performs in front of a grainy image that, over time, appears to be the stone face of a deity. She is also a mesmerizing actress and assumes different characters to tell a story, as a program note explains, “to amuse the gods.”

Hunching her back while coughing excessively, Ms. Chumvan Sodhachivy is suddenly elderly; a sweeter voice, yet somehow insincere, transforms her into a coquette. Dialogue is not translated — Ms. Phuon relies on the language of the body. As Ms. Chumvan Sodhachivy plays with dynamics, darting across the floor with her long hair flying or holding a pose, you begin to see how the merging of Western and Cambodian dance could work — at least kinetically — within a more potent concept.

In the second part of “Khmeropédies,” the idea starts to crack. Sam Sathya, as a teacher, finds herself at odds with her students — Chey Chankethya and Phon Sopheap join Ms. Chumvan Sodhachivy — who are eager to push the boundaries of Cambodian dance. She leads her three dancers in a series of exercises; eventually Mr. Phon Sopheap breaks away to practice his signature role, the monkey.

This time Ms. Phuon uses subtitles. As the women stand, swishing their arms backward and forward with hypnotic efficiency, Mr. Phon Sopheap, literally bouncing off the floor in his effort to flip like a silky animal, says: “Look at the women. They have it so easy.”
803 2010-06-26 Both the Senate and the Assembly have objected to the proposal to allow groceries to sell wine, a provision fiercely opposed by the liquor-store lobby but one the Paterson administration estimates would bring in about $150 million in one-time franchise fees.

While Senate Democrats have favored a flat property tax cap similar to Mr. Paterson’s, the idea is anathema to Assembly Democrats, who prefer a cap that excludes wealthy homeowners, suggesting that Mr. Paterson is seeking additional leverage as he goes into negotiations this weekend.

Earlier on Friday, Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, and John L. Sampson, the Senate Democratic leader, said that Democrats in the Legislature had already reached a consensus on how to close what remains of a more than $9 billion budget gap but that Mr. Paterson had declined to adopt their approach for reasons they said were unclear.

Asked whether he thought Mr. Paterson was negotiating in good faith, Mr. Silver answered, “I think we’ll find that out over the weekend.”

The governor is also proposing to expand a plan to allow the state and municipalities to borrow from the state pension fund. Under a tentative deal reached earlier this month, the administration and lawmakers said they would approve a plan to borrow nearly $6 billion from the pension fund over the next three years. The modified proposal, if approved, would increase that borrowing period to six years and more than double the amount of borrowing allowed.

While the property tax cap is something of a poison pill and may well be dropped by the end of the weekend, Mr. Paterson’s emergency bill includes a number of concessions to the Legislature.

He is substantially modifying a proposal that would allow SUNY and CUNY schools to raise their tuition without legislative approval.

The revision would lower the rate at which tuition could rise under the plan while expanding the state’s financial aid program, changes that appear to be intended to sway the Assembly Democrats, who have opposed the plan for fear that it would make public colleges less accessible to the poor.

The new emergency bill also includes a proposal to bring in $100 million by reducing the deductibility of charitable gifts to 25 percent from 50 percent for individuals making $10 million or more.

The administration will also reduce cuts by using about $200 million in higher-than-projected tax revenue for the first quarter of the fiscal year.

“We need three sides to agree,” said Mr. Sampson, speaking to reporters on Friday morning. “We’re getting close — extremely close.”
804 2010-06-26 Now, let me be clear. Our economic growth and prosperity depend on a strong, robust financial sector, and I will continue to do what I can to foster and support a dynamic private sector. But we've all seen what happens when there's inadequate oversight and insufficient transparency on Wall Street.

The reforms making their way through Congress will hold Wall Street accountable so we can help prevent another financial crisis like the one that we're still recovering from.

We'll put in place the toughest consumer financial protections in our history, while creating an independent agency to enforce them. Through this agency, we'll combine under one roof the consumer protection functions that currently are divided among half a dozen different agencies. Now there will be one agency whose sole job will be to look out for you.

Credit card companies will no longer be able to mislead you with pages and pages of fine print. You will no longer be subject to all kinds of hidden fees and penalties, or the predatory practices of unscrupulous lenders.

Instead, we'll make sure that credit card companies and mortgage companies play by the rules. You'll be empowered with easy-to-understand forms so you know what you're agreeing to. And you'll have the clear and concise information you need to make financial decisions that are best for you and your family.

Wall Street reform will also strengthen our economy in a number of other ways. We'll make our financial system more transparent by bringing the kinds of complex deals that help trigger this crisis, like trades in a $600 trillion derivatives market, into the light of day. We'll enact the Volcker Rule to make sure that banks protected by the safety net of the FDIC can't engage in risky trades for their own profit. And we'll create what's called a resolution authority to help wind down firms whose collapse would threaten our entire financial system. No longer will be have companies that are "too big to fail".

Over the last 17 months, we passed an economic Recovery Act, health insurance reform, education reform, and we are now on the brink of passing Wall Street reform. And at the G20 summit this weekend, I'll work with other nations not only to coordinate our financial reform efforts, but to promote global economic growth while ensuring that each nation can pursue a path that is sustainable for its own public finances.

As the main forum for international economic cooperation, the G20 is the right place to discuss such issues. And over the last few days, I hope we can build on our past progress and strengthen the global economy for a long time to come.

Thank you very much, everybody.

Q: Can you get the bill through the Senate?
805 2010-06-26 Then, in May 2009, Ms. Jones-Ludwick’s husband needed emergency gall bladder surgery. The new policy covered only $1,000 a day for any type of hospitalization. As a result, the couple was left to pay $20,000 in medical bills.

The new policy was canceled, too, and now the couple is completely without insurance.

“I can’t pay off the debt, pay for my medicine and pay insurance premiums,” said Ms. Jones-Ludwick. “I owe more in medical bills than I make in a year’s salary.”

Ms. Jones-Ludwick is hoping insurance in the new high-risk pools not only will have premiums affordable enough that she can resume coverage but also will help eliminate out-of-pocket expenses for asthma medication, regular mammograms and other health care costs.

Even as the deadline for their debut approaches, however, questions remain about the new risk pools.

The law mandates that premiums for the new coverage must be the same as the standard rate for a healthy adult in that state. (Currently insurance for someone with a pre-existing condition, when available at all, can cost as much as 200 percent of the standard rate.)

That sounds reasonable, but it’s not necessarily affordable. Depending on where you live, premiums could still be several hundred dollars a month.

In addition, many experts worry that the $5 billion won’t be enough to last until 2014. The federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has estimated that the $5 billion will last for only two years.

“We just don’t know how many people will sign up for the new pools,” said Deborah J. Chollet, a senior fellow at Mathematica Policy Research, a public policy research company, who has studied existing state risk pools and the new plan. “Until we see what happens, there’s no way to know how long the money will last.”

Another concern is that only people who have been uninsured for six months or longer are eligible for the new pools. That means the newly unemployed or those paying exorbitant premiums because of a pre-existing condition — perhaps in their state’s existing high-risk pool — cannot simply switch to the more affordable high-risk pools.

The idea was to provide the stopgap measure for the neediest until 2014. If everyone took advantage of the new pools, it was feared, the government would have even more trouble financing the program.

“There’s an inherent unfairness there that’s going to be difficult to explain to consumers,” said Sandy Praeger, state insurance commissioner of Kansas.

But for those who may, at long last, have a chance to get decent coverage for a relatively good rate, one question is more pressing than any other: How do I sign up? Here’s information on how the new risk pools are expected to work and what you should do if you think you might benefit from this new coverage.

WHO’S IN CHARGE? Under the new law, each state can decide whether it wants to run the new high-risk pool or have the federal government run the program instead. At last count, about 30 states have opted to run their own programs.

Those states have filed a proposal with the government outlining a list of pre-existing conditions that will help define who is eligible for each pool. Many states already have high-risk pools that provide an infrastructure; nevertheless, the existing risk pools will be run independently of the new ones.

Most states are waiting for approval of these guidelines from the federal Department of Health and Human Services, which is administering most of the health law changes.

About 18 states have opted for the federal government to run the high-risk programs instead. The department has not yet provided details about how these pools will work.

GET THE PLAN DETAILS Even with so few details, it’s not too early to contact your state insurance department for information on your state’s proposed plan. Some states may be taking applications as soon as July 1, although many are expected to miss that deadline and begin taking applications in August or even in the fall.

The Web site of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, www.naic.org, has a directory of state insurance departments under “States and Jurisdictions Map.” Even states that are opting for the federally run pools are expected to post information on their insurance department Web sites to help consumers apply, said Ms. Praeger.

Also on July 1, the Department of Health and Human Services is expected to introduce an online portal at www.hhs.gov that will include information on available health insurance in each state, including coverage provided by high-risk pools, Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program.

GATHER YOUR RECORDS While you are waiting for the deadlines to kick in, get copies of your medical records, advised Cheryl Fish-Parcham, director of health policy at Families USA, a consumer advocacy group. You may need them to show that you have a pre-existing condition and are therefore eligible for the pool.

APPLY EARLY Each state has been allocated a portion of the $5 billion, but just about everyone agrees that the money will not be enough to last until 2014. Down the road, Congress may appropriate more money for the program, said Ms. Praeger — but there’s no guarantee. As a result, if some states receive a deluge of applicants, they may establish waiting lists until they determine they have enough funding. That is why it is important to sign up as soon as your state or the federal program allows.

CONSIDER AN ALTERNATIVE If you have recently lost your job, your Cobra coverage has run out or you’re without health insurance for any other reason, waiting six months until you are eligible for the new risk pools may not be your best option.

Under a federal law known as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, your health cannot be taken into account if you are moving from one qualified insurance plan to another, as long as you have no more than a 62-day gap in coverage.

The new premiums may be higher, but many people would be better off finding another policy before that 62-day deadline passes than they would continuing without coverage for a full six months.
806 2010-06-26 The Nasdaq and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose modestly on Friday on relief that the financial regulation bill would not crimp Wall Street profits as badly as feared. Strong results from Oracle also revived hopes about business spending.

Despite the rally, the main stock indexes fell for the week after two consecutive weeks of gains and recorded their weakest performance in five weeks.

Bank shares climbed after lawmakers agreed on rules that did not make drastic changes to derivatives and proprietary trading, two highly profitable businesses that had been in lawmakers’ cross hairs. The bill still requires approval by both chambers of Congress before it can be signed into law.

JPMorgan Chase rose 3.7 percent, to $39.44, while Bank of America gained 2.7 percent, to $15.42.

The S.& P. financial sector, which is down 8.4 percent over the last quarter, rose 2.8 percent.

“Regulation is less onerous than people’s fears, so you’re seeing a bit of a relief rally in the financials today, which obviously is helping,” Michael James, senior trader at Wedbush Morgan in Los Angeles, said.
807 2010-06-26 WEISS--Lucille L. The Staff of Weiss Realty Co.,Inc. offer their heartfelt condolences to the family of Lucille L. Weiss of Long Beach, NY. Lucille was a very strong woman who enjoyed 97 years with her wonderful family and friends. Lucille will be...
808 2010-06-26 WEISS--Lucille. The Officers, Board of Trustees, membership and staff of Congregation Gesher Shalom of Fort Lee, NJ express their deepest sympathies to our member, Jaime Weiss and his entire family on the passing of his beloved mother, Lucille Wei...
809 2010-06-26 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner and the founder of Prasada Capital.     The only reason we invest in stocks is to earn more than we would get from cash or bonds. The amount you are supposed to earn by taking the additional risk of o...
810 2010-06-26 WEISS--Lucille L. (nee Ashkenazy), of Long Beach, NY. Beloved wife of the late Arthur W. Weiss. Loving mother of Jaime (Susan) and Mitchell. Cherished grandmother of Matthew, Jordan, Allison, Stephen, Sara and Hayley. Devoted sister to the late Al...
811 2010-06-27 What exactly was McChrystal fired for? A closer read of Rolling Stone's article shows bad judgment. But insubordination?...
812 2010-06-27 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
813 2010-06-27 Daniel Brands of Germany has played impressively at Wimbledon, especially during tense tie breakers....
814 2010-06-27 Here are some creative cost-saving strategies we've recently found online....
815 2010-06-27 “I don’t want people to get complacent,” Mr. Cannon said, referring to the aftermath of a Burge verdict. He wants new hearings for more than 20 people incarcerated in Illinois who also claim they were tortured.

Indeed, Mr. Cannon and many others touched by the case will probably have a hard time finding closure. The verdict will not change what many involved in the case — police officers, activists, and Burge supporters and opponents —believe about police torture in Chicago.

The jury was not told about the finding of a four-year, $6 million investigation by special prosecutors who found that the police abused suspects at Area 2. Jurors were also not told about a report issued by the Office of Professional Standards that called for accusations of excessive force by Mr. Burge to be sustained. That report led to Mr. Burge’s firing in 1993.

One of the authors of the report, Francine Sanders, said she did not think a conviction would bring her any deep satisfaction.

“No matter which way the verdict goes, there’s no happy ending here for anyone,” Ms. Sanders said. “This case is not about Jon Burge. It’s about a system, a culture, a sickness in human nature that allows things like this to happen.”

The Burge case has brought shame to public officials, including Mr. Daley, who was the Cook County state’s attorney during the 1980s, and Richard Devine, his first assistant who eventually became state’s attorney.

A doctor who saw Andrew Wilson’s injuries wrote a letter to Richard Brzeczek, then the Chicago police superintendent, asking for an investigation into a case of possible police brutality. Mr. Brzeczek forwarded the letter to Mr. Daley, but charges were never brought against the officers who interrogated Mr. Wilson.

Supporters of Mr. Burge — like Jim Knightly, a retired police captain, and relatives of Officer William Fahey, who was killed in 1982 by a man who later claimed he was tortured — observed parts of the trial.

An end to the Burge case would be meaningful to officers who worked with Mr. Burge and officers on duty today, Mr. Knightly, 66, said. “The morale is low now as it is,” he said. “If you want these guys out doing the job with the federal government harassing people 20 years after something allegedly happened.” He said the trial was a waste of money.

Mike Fahey, 51, a Water Department dispatcher, has supported Mr. Burge since he caught the men accused of killing his brother in 1982. Mr. Fahey said he believed Mr. Burge had been wrongly accused by career criminals.

“Who are you going to say something bad about?” Mr. Fahey said. “The person who arrested you. One talks to another.”

Four prosecution witnesses who said they had been tortured by Mr. Burge or by officers under him had criminal histories.

Mr. Cannon did not testify. He said Area 2 detectives beat him, staged mock executions and administered electric shocks to his testicles and penis, and he drew sketches of the alleged abuse. But, like some of the others who testified, he had no photographic evidence or witnesses to corroborate his account.

Mr. Burge, who was accustomed to giving court testimony during his years as a high-ranking police officer, appeared to be an effective witness in his own defense, calmly denying each accusation. He cried openly before the jury when talking about the investigation into the killing of two fellow officers.

Mr. Taylor, who has represented Mr. Burge’s accusers for two decades, was in court when Mr. Burge broke down.

“I cross-examined Burge on several occasions in the ’80s,” Mr. Taylor said, “and he never shed a tear.”

Jo Ann Patterson, the mother of a man who has said he was tortured, said that attending the trial would have been too painful.

“I just can’t stand to see him in person,” Ms. Patterson said of Mr. Burge. “Hopefully, a conviction will send a clear signal to the rest of the department.”

Her son, Aaron Patterson, and three others won part of a nearly $20 million settlement with the city. Mr. Patterson was later sentenced to prison after being convicted on separate federal weapons and drug charges.

If Mr. Burge is found guilty but does not receive lengthy jail time, it would not help the black community feel a sense of vindication, said Larry Kennon, a retired civil rights lawyer.

“If he is convicted, that means there is a modicum of honesty in an otherwise completely flawed criminal justice system,” Mr. Kennon said.

Mr. Burge’s lawyers intended to tell the jury about what they have called the “DC effect,” named for Mr. Cannon. They claimed that, after Mr. Cannon made accusations of torture, other defendants concocted similar stories to secure their own freedom. But Judge Joan Lefkow would not allow the jury to hear the Cannon theory, though a brief mention of it was made by a defense witness. The defense still said that men who knew each other made up the allegations of police torture.

At his house five blocks from Area 2 police headquarters, Mr. Cannon said he still was haunted by his interrogation.

“I’ve lived this nightmare every day,” he said. “Even before he was indicted, I thought about what had been done to me and others. Every night.”
816 2010-06-27 “It’s out of the public eye, so a natural advantage that we benefit from — public outrage — we lose that a little,” said Cristina Martin Firvida, a lobbyist for AARP, which advocates for older Americans. “We know there’s still a lot here left to do.”

The legislation is intended to expand federal oversight of the financial industry to police risks to the broader economy and to protect consumers of financial products. It would also impose federal regulations for the first time on the trading of derivatives, the complex financial instruments that can be used to make large bets. But Brett P. Barragate, a partner in the financial institutions practice at the law firm Jones Day, estimated that Congress had fixed in place no more than 25 percent of the details of that vast expansion.

“Congress is doing this in broad strokes,” said Scott Talbott, a lobbyist for the Financial Services Roundtable. “Where the rubber meets the road is the regulatory process.”

President Obama hopes to sign the bill into law by the Fourth of July. In his weekly address on Saturday, Mr. Obama said, “I urge Congress to take us over the finish line, and send me a reform bill I can sign into law, so we can empower our people with consumer protections, and help prevent a financial crisis like this from ever happening again.”

His signature will start the clock on dozens of deadlines embedded in the legislation for regulators from a host of agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, to make those decisions.

Interest groups have been preparing for months. When the Consumer Bankers Association convened its annual meeting in early June, there was still plenty of time to lobby Congress. But the group’s president, Richard Hunt, told his board that the group should shift its focus to the rule-making process. The board voted to increase the group’s budget and staff.

“Now we hope to have a good give and take with the regulators on the best interests of the consumer and the industry,” said Mr. Hunt.

Shaping regulations is a different game than shaping legislation. Political considerations carry less weight. Instead, regulators crave data that can be used to justify decisions.

Consider the new restrictions on the fees that merchants must pay to banks when customers swipe debit cards. The Nilson Report, a trade publication, estimated that last year, those fees averaged 1.63 percent of the transaction amount.

The legislation directs the Federal Reserve to cap those fees at a level that is “reasonable and proportional” to the cost of processing transactions. It gives the Fed nine months to gather data and decide.

Trade groups for retailers, which want a lower cap, and banks, which want a higher one, are standing by to weigh in.

“We have the data ready and we have the right people ready to go to the Fed, and we’ve had an ongoing dialogue with the Fed,” said John Emling, a lobbyist for the Retail Industry Leaders Association.

The debit card regulations are unusual, however, in pitting the interests of two industries against each other. Many more of the new regulations pit the interests of consumer groups against financial companies.

Historically, industry groups have dominated these information wars, plying regulators with exhaustive studies and detailed analyses of the options at hand. Trade groups have more money and more people, and they often produce and control the relevant information about their business and customers.

Seeking an equalizer, the AARP decided several months ago to begin preparing research that could be presented to regulators on several parts of the bill that it favored. The group was gambling that the provisions — like a requirement that investment brokers act in the interest of their clients — would end up in the final bill.

“We took a risk,” said Ms. Firvida, the group’s government affairs director for financial issues. “Success will depend on how much quality information is in front of the rule makers.”

The legislation would hand consumer groups a series of important victories, most notably the creation of a consumer protection bureau inside the Federal Reserve. But Ms. Firvida and others said there could be a sharp distinction between the authorities granted by the legislation and the results.

Affected companies are nervous as well and are banding together. In the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis, trade groups lost members as banks cut back on spending. That trend has now reversed. The Consumer Bankers Association has added seven members in recent months, bringing its total to 60.

Mr. Hunt, the group’s president, said its role was expanding in direct response to the plan to create the consumer protection bureau, which would focus on regulating his membership.

“The entire financial services industry understands that what happens in Washington affects them,” he said. “It’s something other industries found out many years ago, and we’re finding it out now.”

In a recent letter to the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, the American Bankers Association estimated that banks had been hit with 50 new or expanded federal regulations in the last two years. A single example, the credit card bill that passed Congress last year, landed on the desks of bankers as 252 pages of new regulations.

And that count does not include the impact of the new legislation. “It’s a massive compliance burden,” said Edward L. Yingling, the group’s president. “And there is going to be massive uncertainty in the financial industry about how all of this will play out.”

One clear consequence is a surge in the demand for lawyers with expertise in financial regulation, particularly those who have worked for regulatory agencies. Most of the major trade groups are hiring lawyers. The major banks say they are employing more, too.

“I don’t know that there has been a bill that has touched as many different substantive areas as this one,” said A. Patrick Doyle, a partner at Arnold & Porter who has worked on financial issues for three decades. “Clearly there’s going to be a lot of work.”

The surge in hiring has sent a joke bouncing around Washington: Congress finally passed a jobs bill — full employment for lawyers.
817 2010-06-27 Richard B. Sellars, a former chairman and chief executive of Johnson & Johnson who resisted abandoning the company’s hometown in New Jersey and then helped revitalize its downtown, died on Friday at his home in Osterville, Mass. He was 94.

His death was confirmed by his son, Richard Jr. Joining the company in 1939 as a junior salesman for its new Ortho Pharmaceutical division, Mr. Sellars worked for Johnson & Johnson for 40 years. He became the company’s chairman and chief executive in 1973, the second person outside of the founding Johnson family to head the health care conglomerate.

Mr. Sellars is credited with persuading Johnson & Johnson to keep its headquarters in New Brunswick, N.J., despite the city’s decline. Although the company was founded in the city, in 1886, some executives discussed relocating, but Mr. Sellars was instrumental in convincing the board to stay.

“It was apparent even then that we had a commitment to New Brunswick that we couldn’t run away from,” Mr. Sellars said in a 1984 interview. “The survival of our country depends on the survival of its cities, so we’d all better get involved in cleaning them up.”

Mr. Sellars became active in developing plans to revitalize the city’s downtown. He chaired the New Brunswick Development Corporation, a tax-exempt organization, and helped to recruit the architecture firm of I. M. Pei to redesign the business district. The same firm would later design the Johnson & Johnson corporate headquarters building.

“He was so committed to the needs of the city,” said John Heldrich, a former executive at Johnson & Johnson who worked with Mr. Sellars.
818 2010-06-27 The DNA showed otherwise, indicating that many of the dogs were related. The July raids have yielded at least 17 guilty pleas, and while the DNA evidence did not conclusively prove a relationship among defendants, it certainly suggested one. Investigators caution, however, that DNA evidence alone will rarely make a case, though many juries have come to expect it.

“There is definitely a C.S.I. effect,” Dr. Merck said. “Juries want to know that if you have evidence you’ve run every possible test. The DNA is just one more tool in our kit that can bolster our cases.” She added, “I do think it’s something that is going to make the dog-fighting world very nervous.”

Illegal in all 50 states, dog fighting gained national attention in 2007 when Michael Vick, then the star quarterback for the Atlanta Falcons, pleaded guilty to federal dog-fighting conspiracy charges and went on to serve 21 months in prison.

Investigators say the multimillion-dollar industry is often associated with other illicit activities like drug trafficking and gambling. But the real money, they say, comes from breeding the animals, which can fetch up to $50,000 for a champion fighter.

“There’s a lot of money that’s made on the fight purses and the side wagering, but the goal for these dog fighters is to breed a champion or a grand champion,” Mr. Rickey said. “It’s not uncommon to get $5,000 for a puppy. Over a dog’s lifespan, that can be in the tens of thousands if not hundreds of thousands of dollars.”

Researchers say the database, which contains the genetic profiles of nearly 400 of the dogs recovered in the raid, will become more useful as it grows.

Beth Wictum, who directs the forensic unit at the University of California, Davis, where the database is stored, hopes to “identify other lineages that are in the West.”

Investigators add that the database may also prove useful in forensic investigations of blood samples found at a dog-fighting site, allowing them to establish the presence of a particular dog.

“One of the challenges in a lot of these fighting pits is that the losing dogs are often executed and dumped along the side of the road somewhere,” Mr. Rickey said. “This database may provide a useful tool for tracking down where the animal was bred, and maybe the owner.”

Nearly 250 of the animals recovered during the July 2009 raid have been rehabilitated and are now pets or service and therapy dogs.

“These animals were horribly mutilated — missing ears, missing eyes, missing parts of their legs,” said Jeane Jae, a spokeswoman for the Humane Society of Missouri, which housed the animals that contributed to the database. “But when given a choice, many will choose not to fight — that’s an animal that’s capable of rehabilitation.”

One such animal, a brown and white pit bull that now goes by the name Reggie, still bears a web of fight scars across his face. The dog cowers at the sound of cheering crowds, which his owner, Gale Frey, believes he associates with the roar of the fight pit.

Nevertheless, Ms. Frey says, Reggie has made great strides and is being trained to work as a therapy dog in St. Louis-area hospitals.

“We’re moving forward,” said Ms. Frey, who runs Phoenix Pack, a nonprofit dog rescue service in St. Louis. “The pit’s in the past.”
819 2010-06-27 To be sure, this year’s moves have put only a “dent into last year’s devastation,” noted Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P., in a recent report. He added that it might take years for the market to fully recover from the dividend damage.

But over all, the resumption of dividend payments can be seen as a sign of improved financial strength and confidence. “Usually, boards of directors won’t declare dividends or certainly won’t increase them if they feel that the companies need those resources for other purposes,” said Robert Zagunis, chairman of the investment committee at Jensen Investment Management in Lake Oswego, Ore.

As corporations have tried to cut debt and improve their finances, they have been amassing a mountain of cash. A recent S.&P. report showed that nonfinancial companies in the S.& P. 1500 index — which includes large-, midsize and small-company stocks in the United States — have more than $1 trillion sitting in cash and short-term investments on their balance sheets.

David R. Kotok, chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors in Sarasota, Fla., said that despite this seemingly good news, investors might be reluctant to embrace this group of stocks. Many people, he said, were hurt by financial companies’ dividend reductions during the recent credit crisis — and by the poor performance of those shares in the recent bear market.

Dividend-paying stocks lost more than the broad market in the bear market of October 2007 to March 2009, even though investors typically expect these stocks to hold up better in a downturn because of their yields.

But the picture is more complex than this. “If you take the financial stocks out of the equation, and look at the rest of the market — the dividend record has been relatively good,” Mr. Kotok said.

Brian G. Belski, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer, added that after periods when dividend payments hit a trough — as they did at the end of 2009 — the broad market has historically rallied. Since 1970, the S.& P. 500 has returned an average 9.7 percent annually during periods of dividend recoveries.

What’s more, those rallies tend to last several years. Over the last 40 years, in the first year after dividend recoveries, stocks have returned 10.6 percent, on average, Mr. Belski said. The second years of such rallies have had smaller gains, of 3.4 percent on average, followed by gains of 10.8 percent in the third year and 20.1 percent in the fourth.

ARE there signs that dividend-paying shares are starting to rally?

Yes. While dividend payers started the year running about neck and neck with the broad market, they’ve held up better in recent weeks as global markets have become volatile because of the European debt crisis.

So far this year, the Dow Jones Select U.S. Dividend index is up 1.9 percent, while the S.& P. 500 is down 2.5 percent, including dividends.

And this is before the market enters the third and fourth quarters, periods when shares of companies with rising dividends tend to perform better than in the first half of the year, according to Oppenheimer research.

“The past is never a perfect predictor of the future, but this portends a potential upside for the market,” Mr. Belski said. “More than anything, it’s a sign that the economy and the markets are in a sustainable recovery mode.”
820 2010-06-27 There is much to applaud in the financial regulatory reform bill announced last Friday by House and Senate negotiators. It would limit some of the riskiest activities of banks and regulate the multitrillion-dollar market in over-the-counter derivatives. It would give federal regulators the tools, if they need them, to shut failing large banks and financial firms instead of bailing them out.

In significant ways, the bill would also protect Americans directly. Consumers would be shielded from many forms of abusive and predatory lending, and investors could be empowered to influence corporate boards that have long been impervious to shareholder concerns.

The bill is a considerable accomplishment. It is the final version. Congress should pass it quickly.

At the same time — and in the months and years ahead — lawmakers must acknowledge the bill’s shortcomings and be prepared to take corrective action. Many of the bill’s provisions come with exceptions or exemptions that could, in practice, swallow the new rules.

The reforms are also vulnerable to being weakened in the painstaking process of translating new law into actual regulations and procedures. Special interests — think Wall Street — have the resources and time to monitor and influence that process. The public does not. Lawmakers have to ensure the carrying out of the rules does not veer widely from what Congress has promised.

Take for example, the so-called Volcker rule, intended to reduce risk and speculation in the financial system. The Obama administration proposed banning banks from using their capital to invest in hedge funds and private equity funds. The final bill would let banks invest up to 3 percent of their high-quality capital in such funds, a big exception. Congress has to be prepared to reduce the percentage to control risks in the system.

Derivatives regulation also bears watching. The bill would require most transactions to occur on regulated exchanges, rather than as private contracts. Regulators and lawmakers must strictly monitor derivatives that trade off-exchange and stop that market from growing ever larger.
821 2010-06-27 But critics point out that Canada’s security expenses are several times larger than those of other recent summit meeting hosts.

The security costs for the Group of 20 meeting last year in Pittsburgh, for example, was about $95 million, slightly over a tenth of Canada’s budget, according to a study by Canada’s Parliamentary Budget Officer.

Until this weekend, the highest security cost for a Group of 20 summit meeting was $345 million for the 2008 meeting in Hokkaido, Japan, the report said.

Government officials have defended the costs as necessary. “The cost is expensive, but the security is worth it,” Public Safety Minister Vic Toews told Parliament last month.

“Nobody has written a blank check,” Ward P. D. Elcock, the federal government’s summit meeting security coordinator, told the newspaper The Globe and Mail.

They point out that Canada’s hosting of two summit meetings — the Group of 8, which ended here on Saturday, and the Group of 20, which began later that day in Toronto — was unprecedented and required unprecedented levels of security.

And they say other countries may have undercounted their costs. The estimate for Pittsburgh, for example, did not account for some costs that Canada included, like the purchase and leasing of equipment and security-related transportation.

Mr. Davies said those amounts may have added another $100 million, but would still leave the total a fraction of what Canada is spending.

Since Seattle, other summit meeting hosts have sought to cut costs and improve security by holding the meetings in remote resort areas that are difficult to reach and easy to seal off. Security for the 2002 Group of 8 meeting in the Canadian resort of Kananaskis, Alberta, for instance, cost only $217 million. The 2004 meeting on Sea Island, Ga., separated from the mainland by four miles of marsh, cost about $135 million to secure.

Canada initially sought the same kind of advantages when it invited the Group of 8 to Huntsville, a town in the Muskoka tourist region known for its lakes, summer cottages and, this time of year, bloodthirsty swarms of mosquitoes and black flies.

But last September, the leaders of the wealthiest nations decided to add a meeting of the Group of 20, which includes major developing countries. Huntsville was too small for the larger group, Toronto was offered, and officials say that is when security costs began to compound.

The cost in Canadian currency is $930 million, a figure newspapers and angry politicians have rounded up to a billion. While that figure may be closer to the truth once the final bill is reckoned, it has also encouraged use of the alliterative aspersion “billion-dollar boondoggle.”

By far the largest chunks are for personnel. The security force for the two meetings includes 20,000 soldiers, intelligence agents and police officers drawn from across Canada, a draft of about 13 percent of all available police officers and troops in the country.

The Public Safety Department has budgeted $438 million for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Another $285 million was designated to reimburse local and provincial police departments for the officers borrowed by the federal government. The military gets $72 million.

Beyond these general categories, the government has offered little information about how the money is being spent, citing national security concerns. But the lack of information has provoked loud demands for explanations.

“No Canadian begrudges them spending an appropriate amount on security and we also understand that with security there’s lots we can’t be told,” Mr. Davies said. “But having said that, we should know an awful lot more.”

Governments “justify any and all spending for any reduction in security risk,” the parliamentary report said, making it extremely difficult to determine “what is necessary and what is less than necessary.”

The parliamentary report, for instance, found that the salaries per police officer, adjusted for inflation, were four times higher than those at the Kananaskis meeting. Why? No explanation.

The security system received its first big test on Saturday in Toronto, and at least a few residents were unimpressed.

A group of militant protesters broke away from a peaceful demonstration and vandalized two police cars, set two others on fire and smashed store windows on Yonge Street, the city’s main commercial avenue.

The police officers appeared to retreat into the security area, and then disappear.

“Where were the police, the fire?” asked Juavon Herbert, a passerby. “You have businesses beside that and the fire could have spread.”

The disruptions for residents and businesses also have done little to assuage the criticism over costs.

A $5.5 million, four-mile-long fence of perforated steel sheeting, a material favored by prisons because it resists climbing, encircles the Toronto conference zone, dividing the city in remarkably inconvenient ways. Businesses within the fence, including the head offices of some of Canada’s largest banks, closed or relocated late last week. Because the main railroad station is on the edge of the zone, intercity trains are now ending their trips in distant suburbs.

Downtown theaters went dark. The Toronto Blue Jays wore their home uniforms at a game that was shifted to Philadelphia on Saturday.

Drowning one’s frustration is not an option: government-owned liquor stores are closed, their windows boarded with plywood. And although a stylized image of the CN Tower, icon of the Toronto skyline, is the Group of 20 meeting’s logo, sightseeing is banned atop the tower because it looms directly above the meeting site.

Another security cost, critics say, is the suspension of civil liberties in and around the meeting zone. The province of Ontario has handed the police extraordinary powers to stop and search anyone near the fence.

Julian Fantino, the commissioner of the Ontario Provincial Police, said such curbs on constitutional rights were necessary.

“With these things you plan for the worst and you hope for the best,” he said, taking a break from shaking hands with bystanders on Huntsville’s Main Street on Friday. “All I can tell you is that were it not something the police felt necessary to have in place, it would not have happened.”
822 2010-06-27 Bill Hudson, an Associated Press photographer whose powerful images of the civil rights era documented police brutality and helped galvanize the public, died Thursday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 77.

The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Patricia. He lived in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.

Mr. Hudson worked in photojournalism for more than three decades, beginning as an Army photographer in the Korean War. Covering the civil rights movement in the 1960s, he photographed protests in Birmingham and Selma, Ala., where the police turned dogs and fire hoses on demonstrators.

His most enduring photograph of the era, taken on May 3, 1963, shows an officer in dark sunglasses in Birmingham grabbing a young black man by his sweater and letting a police dog lunge at the man’s stomach. The man, Walter Gadsden, with his eyes lowered, has a passive look.

The photograph appeared across three columns at the top of the next day’s front page of The New York Times.

In “Carry Me Home,” a 2001 book about the civil rights era in Birmingham, Diane McWhorter wrote that the photograph helped move “international opinion to the side of the civil rights revolution.”

Mr. Hudson’s wife said he encountered a great deal of animosity from those who did not want him documenting the treatment of the protesters. “Sometimes people were throwing rocks and bricks at him,” she said.

Mr. Hudson was born Aug. 20, 1932, in Detroit and began his career in the Army in 1949. He later took photographs for The Press-Register of Mobile, Ala., and The Chattanooga Times in Tennessee before joining The Associated Press in Memphis in 1962. He left The A.P. in 1974, joining United Press International.
823 2010-06-27 Elizabeth Rachel Flisser and Adam Lawrence Rosman are to be married Sunday in Rye, N.Y. Rabbi David Burstein, Mr. Rosman’s brother-in-law, is to officiate at the Westchester Country Club.

The bride, 36, will be taking her husband’s name. She and a partner are starting a business, Message Protocols, in New York that is developing a mobile device application that assigns priorities to e-mail messages. She graduated from Barnard.

She is the daughter of Miriam L. Flisser and Harvey L. Flisser of Scarsdale, N.Y. Her father is a physical science and earth science teacher at Scarsdale Middle School. Her mother, a pediatrician in private practice in Bronxville, N.Y., is known professionally as Dr. Miriam Levitt. She is also the medical director of the Bronxville School District, a trustee on the village board of Scarsdale and the village’s police commissioner.

The bridegroom, 45, is the group deputy general counsel in the New York office of Willis Group Holdings, a British insurance brokerage. From May 2000 until January 2001, he was the deputy staff secretary to President Bill Clinton. He graduated from Union College and received a law degree from Stanford.

He is a son of Syrille Rosman and Dr. N. Paul Rosman of Weston, Mass. His mother owns an interior design business there. His father, a pediatric neurologist, is a professor of pediatrics and neurology at Boston University Medical Center.
824 2010-06-27 Emily H. Murphy and John R. Zedlewski were married Saturday at St. Paul’s Church in Cambridge, Mass. The Rev. Michael Drea, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.

The bride, 30, is an assistant principal at Marlborough Middle School in Marlborough, Mass. She graduated from Duke and received a master’s degree in education policy and management from Harvard. She received a second master’s degree, in school administration, from Trinity University in Washington.

She is the daughter of Jane Murphy and Daniel F. Murphy of New York. Her father is the managing partner at the New York law firm Putney, Twombly, Hall & Hirson. Her mother is a mathematics teacher at Summit High School in Summit, N.J.

Mr. Zedlewski, also 30, is a doctoral candidate in business economics at Harvard, where he received a master’s degree in economics. He graduated from Princeton.

He is a son of Sheila Rafferty Zedlewski and Edwin Zedlewski of Arlington, Va. His mother is the director of the Income and Benefits Policy Center at the Urban Institute in Washington. His father works in Washington as the senior scientific adviser to the director of the National Institute of Justice.

The couple met in September 2007 while studying at Harvard. Mr. Zedlewski and a friend posted an online advertisement seeking a third roommate, and Ms. Murphy immediately responded.
825 2010-06-27 Emily Dora Rogath and Jeremy Milton Steckler were married Saturday evening in Beverly Hills, Calif. Rabbi Steven Carr Reuben officiated at the Beverly Hills Hotel.

Next month, Mrs. Steckler, 29, is to become an account director at Terry Hines & Associates, a marketing and advertising firm in Burbank, Calif. She graduated from New York University, from which she also received a master’s in visual arts administration.

She is the daughter of Caryn Miller of New York and David Rogath of Greenwich, Conn., and the stepdaughter of Leslee Rogath. The bride’s father and stepmother own Chalk & Vermilion Fine Arts and also Martin Lawrence Galleries in Greenwich. The bride’s mother is a compliance officer in New York with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

Mr. Steckler, 35, is the executive vice president for production at Imagine Entertainment, the film and television production company in Beverly Hills. Until April, he was a senior vice president for production at Fox Searchlight Pictures, a movie studio in Los Angeles, where he helped oversee “Juno,” “Crazy Heart” and other films. He graduated cum laude from Duke.

He is a son of Enid Steckler and Len Steckler of Los Angeles. His father is a photographer and painter in Los Angeles; the business is managed by the bridegroom’s mother. In February, the bridegroom’s father unveiled previously unpublished photographs, from 1961, of Marilyn Monroe with the poet Carl Sandburg.

The couple met in January 2007 at the Sundance Film Festival.
826 2010-06-27 “As a small businessperson in town, I understand the struggles and how hard it is to get things done,” said Diane Parsons, a photographer based in Coventry who has been shopping at the market for years, and signed up for the business partnership this year. “You do need co-marketing with other businesses.”

This year, the Coventry market is expanding its cooperative marketing efforts with a monthly insider tour. The June tour, on farming without chemicals, was conducted by the executive director of the Connecticut chapter of the Northeast Organic Farming Association. On July 11, Scott Miller, executive chef of Max’s Oyster Bar in West Hartford, will explore local cheeses. Heirloom tomatoes will be the subject on Aug. 29.

The insider’s tour is not about direct funding; it’s more about good will and loyalty. These are critical components in keeping markets alive, if not flourishing, given their inconvenient hours — they’re usually open only one day a week — and their prices, which are generally higher than those at farm stands and Community Supported Agriculture programs.

“As consumers seek things that are good and authentic and local, it’s the back story,” Ms. Caplanson said. “Fall in love with the story, fall in love with the product.”

“There’s a lot more to this,” she added. “In the same way people who buy a C.S.A. share say, ‘That’s my farm; that’s the guy who grows my vegetables.’ ”

That sense of ownership is crucial, especially this year, said Rick Macsuga, a marketing representative for the Connecticut Department of Agriculture who oversees farmers’ markets. For the first time since the state’s local food movement exploded, about six years ago, the number of markets has decreased: There are about 115 this year, down from more than 125 last year. It was a winnowing that Mr. Macsuga had been expecting.

Markets have run short of vendors as farmers opt for easier economic models like community-supported agriculture, in which they are paid up front, or farm stands right on their property. Some markets have failed after situating themselves too close to one another.

Market organizers have had to be creative. To boost interest, Coventry allows nonagricultural craft booths, a policy that few other markets embrace, though many hire musicians for entertainment or provide chef demonstrations and other educational perks.

“There are well-established areas with successful markets, but they still have to reinvent themselves,” said Mr. Macsuga, noting that market masters are turning to extensive e-mailing, opening earlier in the year and closing later. To succeed, he said, markets need a diverse selection of high-quality products at competitive prices in a convenient location. And, he said, the farmer had better be there to answer questions from customers.

He said he thought programs like Friends of the Market would be important sustaining tools. “It keeps your customer base very loyal,” he said. “And membership has its privileges.”

The Hill-Stead Museum’s farmers’ market in Farmington, in its second year without the advantage of its opening year grant, opted for Coventry’s model for Friends of the Market. Peggy Hall, the market manger, is trying to attract sponsors as well, especially restaurants, and has decided to make last season’s “Dinner on the Hill” — an al fresco feast of local food — an annual fund-raising event; it will be held this year on Sept. 19.

CitySeed, the nonprofit group that runs four farmers’ markets in New Haven, has added a Friends of the Market pilot project to one market this year. And the farmers’ market in Lebanon, unusual in that it charges no vendor fees and has a grant from the state agriculture department, has added a $5 V.I.P. program, similar to Friends.

The Westport market also went with the Coventry model, along with a two-tier business sponsorship program. Lori Cochran Dougall, Westport’s new market manager, said her goal was to “have enough in the bank account to have market start-up money next year.”

But at the Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, also part of a nonprofit group, Kay Carroll, lead market master, is not convinced the Coventry model is the way to go. “Our customers are happy, our vendors are happy,” she said, noting that her market had many educational components and was always looking for ways to improve.

“Bigger isn’t necessarily better,” said Ms. Carroll, who worries that a Friends of the Market-style program might create too much work for vendors. And being busy has its challenges, as Coventry customers found out on opening day.

“I’m here for Bridgid’s Abbey,” said Annie Perkins of Mansfield as she arrived at the Cato Corner Cheese booth with her Friends pin and pointed out the posted special: $1 off a pound of Bridgid’s Abbey cheese.

“We just sold out,” said Chris Batt, who admitted that it had really taken only 20 minutes.

“I don’t care,” Ms. Perkins said with a laugh. “I’m here because I love this farmers’ market. I’m really not here for the deal.” Still, she had managed several: a free six-pack of marigolds, a free bag of chips from a salsa seller, and $1 off pesto from Bear Pond Farm.

Less than halfway through the three-hour market, Paul Desrochers, owner of 18th Century Purity Farm in Moosup and Plainfield, was down to 4 quarts of strawberries. He had brought 250 with him (Friends of the Market got a discount).

“Friends of the Market is a good deal for the customer,” Mr. Desrochers said. “What it does for the market, it gives us a really good amount of cash to do things that we really need to do without charging the vendors for it.”

Carole Miller of Topmost Herb Farm in Coventry was giving primrose plants to Friends of the Market members. “I don’t think it’s about the stuff,” she said. “I think it’s about talking to the vendors, hearing the stories.”

Laura Stone of Coventry agreed. “I guess I could just go and patronize the booths and not give it a further thought,” she said. “But there’s something about the sense of community, and with community comes participation.”
827 2010-06-27 “The taxes are breathtaking,” said Scott Hazen Mueller, who with his wife, Marty Mueller, recently bought a three-bedroom ranch in the Rock Spring neighborhood as a short sale from a bank for $280,000, taking on an annual tax bill of $13,000.

“We would not have moved here, because the taxes would easily have priced us out,” Mr. Mueller said, “except that it was the perfect house for us, and we were able to get a deal since it needed significant repair.”

Mr. Mueller, a systems administrator for Google in Manhattan, walks several blocks in the mornings to catch a town-sponsored jitney to the commuter rail station in South Orange.

In the same West Orange neighborhood, Adam and Ruth Kraemer own a four-bedroom house they bought six years ago, newly built, for $699,000. It is worth perhaps $500,000 now, Mr. Kraemer said. They paid $25,972 in taxes this year. Taking into account the newly adopted town budget, they expect to pay $27,300 next year.

In April, Mr. Kraemer ran for a spot on the school board and spoke at the Town Hall “tax-revolt” event. He came out against any tax increase, despite Gov. Christopher J. Christie’s slashes in state aid to public schools, and despite the fact that he is a parent of triplets who attend the West Orange public schools.

“West Orange taxpayers carry too heavy a burden,” he said, adding that two houses on his block are up for sale, and his next-door neighbor, a recently widowed mother, is struggling to pay taxes on a home equivalent to his.

Mr. Kraemer says he believes that many West Orange homeowners pay more in taxes each month than they do in mortgage and interest payments.

On the other hand, said Mayor John F. McKeon, who is nearing the end of his tenure, the municipal part of the town budget has been flat in 6 of the last 12 years on his watch, and staffing has been reduced by 17 percent.

Concerning the steady increases in school taxes, he said, “We have the best students in the state here, and also some of the most challenged.”

West Orange does have a deserved reputation for serving special education students, and for the quality of its high school Advanced Placement classes, Mr. Kraemer agreed.

Earlier this month, in a letter to homeowners, the town announced that a reassessment of property values would begin this fall. It has been nearly 30 years since the town undertook its last revaluation, Mr. Kraemer noted.

“Hopefully this will bring some sense to things,” said Beverly Meaux, a Towne Realty Group agent who lives in West Orange.

“Right now, when you see a house in West Orange,” she said, “you have to expect the unexpected in terms of taxes. On a $400,000 house, they might be $9,000 or they might be $18,000.”

Ms. Meaux, who works with her husband, Bob, described one of their current listings, a three-bedroom Cape Cod at 13 Beech Road, whose sellers bought it in 1952. “When we looked into it,” she said, “we discovered that their tax bill was $14,800 on a house valued at about $300,000 — crazy, right?”

The agents made sure a tax appeal was filed; they inform prospective buyers that a reduction is most likely pending, in addition to the planned revaluation. Even so, “buyers typically look at what their monthly ‘nut’ is going to be,” Ms. Meaux said. “We can’t give a guarantee that the bill will go down by X number of dollars. So that hurts our buying pool.”

Jeffrey G. Otteau, who heads the market research firm that calculated inventory levels, did a calculation to illustrate the heavy impact that this tax burden can have on home value:

The monthly tax bill on a $350,000 house in West Orange would be $286 greater than in Livingston. The yearly tax bill would be $3,432 greater — $10,012, as opposed to $6,580. Assuming the house had a 30-year mortgage, that would mean $48,000 more in taxes over the life of the loan.

“Theoretically, at least, that means that much off the market value for the West Orange home,” Mr. Otteau said.

Mayor McKeon of West Orange, however, called a comparison with Livingston illogical, since it is a newer community and has more affluent residents.

Mr. Kraemer said he felt the middle class was being forced out of West Orange, which also has some exclusive sections, including the historic gated community of Llewellyn Park, where the comedian Whoopi Goldberg bought a house earlier this year. (Mr. Kraemer looked up her tax bill: $72,000 a year.)

“I love my neighborhood, and I love my town,” he said. “But with our equity declining, and tax bills like this, my wife periodically sits me down in the kitchen, and asks, ‘Can we really afford to stay here?’ ”
828 2010-06-27 Buyers at the Shelton can make no more than 175 percent of the area median income, or $124,075 for a family of four. Apartments will most likely cost $127,000 to $443,000, though prices still require state approval.

Those prices might seem steep for income-restricted housing in Bedford-Stuyvesant, where market-rate condos sold for similar prices in the last year — at an average of $388,441 for 34 properties, according to Halstead Brooklyn.

But, “you’re competing for people who might otherwise buy brownstones in the neighborhood,” said Tony Von Meyers, a Halstead broker who is handling sales. “You have to make the units attractive.”

To make a profit on affordable housing, developers typically need to obtain cheap land, and in 2008 TNS struck a deal with St. Philips Christian Church to buy a 20,000-square-foot parcel next to the church for about $650,000, which works out to $30 a square foot, according to city records. TNS also agreed to repair the church’s roof, build an adjacent community center and name the co-op for the Rev. Magdalen Shelton, the former pastor. Otherwise, empty lots in the neighborhood sell for about $90 a square foot, local developers say. Public loans also help. In the Shelton’s case, the Housing Development Corporation, a city bond-issuing agency, tapped its Cooperative Housing Program, which since 2003 has lent about $260 million for 25 projects. The Shelton is the 26th, but possibly the last, as a continuing deep freeze with banks has forced the city to suspend the program, according to Marc Jahr, the president of the Housing Development Corporation.

The fate of Noel Pointer Court, a residence planned for Lafayette Avenue across from the Shelton, further demonstrates the tight financing for less expensive apartments. Named for a local jazz musician, the 23-unit income-restricted building, which is to have a large garden and meet silver LEED energy-efficiency standards, started out as a condo before a bank withdrew the loan, saying the foreclosure rate in Bedford-Stuyvesant was too high, said Rhonda A. Lewis, the president of Bridge Street Development Corporation, the building’s nonprofit developer.

Pointer Court was reconfigured as a rental — though tenants, whose income limit is 60 percent of the area median income, can lease to own, Ms. Lewis said. “This would have been a no-brainer in the past” as an income-restricted condominium, she said.

Though the road may be bumpy and the profit margins slim, some developers say they are not compromising on quality, like Vincent Riso, the chief executive of the Briarwood Organization, a for-profit company in Bayside, Queens.

The Solara, a two-building co-op with 160 units that Briarwood is developing in the South Bronx, has higher-quality Sheetrock walls, Energy Star dishwashers and ceramic-tiled kitchens, as well as common areas decorated with works by local artists. Also developed with financing from the Housing Development Corporation, the building has one- to three-bedrooms priced from $134,000 to $202,000. Ninety-six percent are sold.

Mr. Riso, who has been building low-cost units since the ’80s, measures success by more than sales. At the Solara, he said: “I was kissed by a home buyer. She was crying, and saying, ‘I never thought this would happen to me.’ ”
829 2010-06-27 Here We Go Magic

Luke Temple could be talking to himself in a song called “Collector” on Here We Go Magic’s second album, “Pigeons” (Secretly Canadian), when he sings, “You find the Lord in repetition.” His kind of repetition is the ceaseless, clockwork patterns of New York City art-rock and 1970s Krautrock; the electric-organ tones are the direct link. In Here We Go Magic’s songs, the Minimalist patterns can be a foundation, a calm pulse, a motor, a vocal chorale, a gauzy swirl of guitars or a circusy tootle, swelling within a song or racing all around it. Mr. Temple brings his wispy, androgynous voice to lyrics full of modesty and qualifications — “It’s casual, not heartbreaking/ So casual, not mind-shaking” — but the songs are absolutely confident that every repetition is worthwhile.

Virtuosity leads to a temptation: to write music that’s complex enough to need every bit of skill. Led by Chris Thile on mandolin and lead vocals, Punch Brothers have the unplugged lineup of an old-fashioned string band, and they recorded their second album, “Antifogmatic” (Nonesuch), live in the studio. But their music is as radical as progressive bluegrass (or newgrass, or new acoustic music) can be, with chord progressions that can veer sideways at any moment, changeable meters and interludes that can hint at hoedowns or turn as contrapuntal and dissonant as chamber music. Luckily, there are limits. Punch Brothers tuck their instrumental prowess into songs, behind or between the arching melodies carried by Mr. Thile’s high, aching voice. And he brings something unexpected to the pickin’ party: angst, which in these songs often happens to revolve around the dangerous lure of available women: “Too hot, too sweet, too bad, too late.” Emotion still outweighs technique.

Fashion can be cruel. The programmed, pumped-up bombast of current R&B is less flattering to Macy Gray’s voice than the human-scale instrumentation of her old retro-soul was. But her underrated 2007 album, “Big,” didn’t get far commercially. So she capitulates on her honestly titled new one, “The Sellout” (Concord): “I won’t fight you no more,” she sings in the title song. Drums go boom or use brittle, artificial tones, and arrangements come out of computers; the songs are written with more than a dozen collaborators. Her scratchy charm gets her through some of the stompers, like “Kissed It” and “Still Hurts,” and her old humor surfaces now and then. But the desperation rings all too true in “Help Me,” where the producer Rodney Jerkins reconstitutes 1960s soul as Ms. Gray wonders, “If I switch up my delivery/Will you, my love, remember me?”

The producer Mark Ronson loves analog-era rock and soul, especially as delivered by unruly women like Lily Allen and Amy Winehouse. Now he’s found a four-woman garage-rock band: the Like, from Los Angeles. The Like’s members have music-business dads — the lead singer, Z Berg, is the daughter of the producer Tony Berg, and Tennessee Thomas, on drums, is the daughter of Pete Thomas, Elvis Costello’s drummer — and a flop 2005 debut album of glossy California pop. On their second album, “Release Me” (Downtown), they’re backdated and riled up, playing 1960s equipment and coming up with songs that give errant boyfriends what they deserve: “If I could smack some sense into his senses I might feel all right.” With fuzzed guitar answered by jabs of organ, the songs go hurtling forward, racing through melodic ideas. The tough girl group is hardly a new concept — ask Blondie or the Donnas — but done right, like this, it’s irresistible.

Early adopters risk being overtaken. Anna-Catherine Hartley, who calls herself Uffie, is an American based in Paris who has been releasing singles since 2006 on the French dance-music label Ed Banger. Applying Auto-Tune to her deadpan rapping, she anticipated the sound that helped make Kesha’s “Tik Tok” an international hit in 2009. Now her debut album, “Sex Dreams and Denim Jeans” (Ed Banger/Because/Elektra), has to play catch-up. Not that she’d admit it. Her posture is arrogant nonchalance: “I’m an entertainer, not a lyricist,” she chants in “M.C.’s Can Kiss,” adding, “I’m the least working girl in show business.” Older singles like “Pop the Glock” and “Brand New Car” are sparse, synthetic and amusing, striking ludicrous gangsta and rock-star postures, while “Give It Away” tucks a bitter breakup song amid its blips. But her next move looks shakier; rapping over the Velvet Underground and remaking Siouxsie and the Banshees don’t suggest any path forward.

Anthems for the afterlife fill “The Five Ghosts” (Soft Revolution/Vagrant), the fifth album by the Canadian band Stars. On past albums Stars’ lead singers, Torquil Campbell and Amy Millan, have traded male and female perspectives on romance via epic metaphors. Now, they’re contemplating mortality; one song declares, “I Died So I Could Haunt You.” But death in these songs is a journey, not an ending. The music brims with optimism, full of major chords, sparkling synthetic sounds and tireless electronic beats. Thinking about forever, Stars envision a foreboding but ultimately blissful unknown.
830 2010-06-27 Cayne, it turns out, was right to be wary of Greenberg’s book, since he comes across not just as the obsessed bridge-playing Machiavellian of “House of Cards,” but as a fabulist to boot: for Cayne, Greenberg says, the truth is “a trivial inconvenience.” (For those keeping track of the allegations and denials, Greenberg claims to have personally witnessed Cayne smoking marijuana.)

Greenberg is more credible than Cayne on all fronts, and infinitely more likable; his plainspoken voice shines through this chatty and anecdotal book. If there’s artistry here, it’s well hidden: the New Yorker writer Mark Singer is credited as co-author but has made himself invisible.

The contrast between Greenberg and Cayne is particularly striking because the two men so perfectly encapsulate the types of people who used to run Wall Street’s partnerships, and those who went on to run the much bigger and more exciting public companies that those partner­ships became. Bear Stearns was one of the first investment banks to go public, in 1985; Greenberg says that he went along with “the clear sentiment among my partners” but personally “wasn’t crazy about the idea.” He certainly could never have guessed at the time just how transformative the decision would end up being, both at Bear Stearns and on Wall Street more generally.

That story has been turned by Suzanne McGee into something of a morality tale in her assiduously researched “Chasing Goldman Sachs: How the Masters of the Universe Melted Wall Street Down . . . and Why They’ll Take Us to the Brink Again.” The title is sensational, but the book itself isn’t. McGee, a contributing editor at Barron’s, has interviewed hundreds of Wall Street professionals and observers, and has pored over an enormous number of primary documents. All this material is then marshaled in support of two big ideas.

The first is that Wall Street is, or should be, a public utility, operating the “money grid” in much the same way that Con Edison operates the electricity grid. McGee talks of the money grid throughout the book while never really bothering to define it, but at the heart of the idea is the notion that banks exist to take money from investors looking to put their cash to work, and to funnel it productively to companies that need to raise capital.

McGee’s other idea is that once all the big banks went public, their shareholders demanded that they maximize their return on equity and try to become as successful, on that front, as the insanely profitable Goldman Sachs. When Goldman’s competitors took on ever-increasing amounts of risk and leverage in an attempt to replicate Goldman, they sowed the seeds not only of their own destruction, but of the entire global financial system as well.

There is nothing original about these two ideas: commentators have been urging a return to “utility banking” and bemoaning the end of investment-banking partnerships ever since the crisis began. But McGee has taken it upon herself to make the case less through assertion or argument than through anecdote and appeal to authority: she goes into great detail about individual deals and personnel moves, and regularly quotes grand old men of the banking industry when they say something she agrees with.

The result is a book that is longer and drier than it needs to be and that covers a lot of very well-trodden ground. It’s unlikely to teach professionals on Wall Street anything new or to change their minds, and there’s little to grip the interest of the lay reader.

McGee also has a tendency to try to force messy facts into her arguments, even when they don’t really fit. She tells of two bond-fund managers at T. Rowe Price, for instance, who were turned down by JPMorgan Chase when they asked to buy some leveraged loans. For McGee, the lesson is that the money grid had failed, and that Wall Street was turning away from the business of matching investors to companies in need of capital. It could make more money turning those loans into collateralized loan obligations and selling those obligations to hedge funds, which were ready to pay the banks millions of dollars in fees.

In reality, however, the lure of the collateralized loan obligations was the way they transformed risky assets into seemingly ultra-safe triple-A-rated assets, which got bought not by risk-hungry hedge funds but by very boring investors indeed. T. Rowe Price got the cold shoulder because it expected to be paid for taking on risk; JPMorgan Chase had found a way of hiding that risk and selling it to investors who were looking no further than the triple-A rating. An insatiable appetite for safe investments was as important a part of the financial crisis as the banks’ appetite for ever more risk.

Alan C. Greenberg was one of the dupes: he “took at face value the ratings on the bonds,” he writes. “When our most experienced traders surveyed the marketplace and decided to acquire bundles of pooled mortgages rated AAA, we could confidently assume that AAA meant what it always had.” It was an assumption that proved fatal, one made less out of greed than out of an inability to understand just how much the rules of the game had changed.

McGee’s proposed solution to this problem is a radical one: If Wall Street can’t run the money grid effectively, she says, then Washington is going to have to crack down on it so hard that it becomes just another utility, where even “the most junior bankers and traders understand in their bones that Wall Street is there not to enrich them but to serve its users.”

That might have been possible back when Greenberg first set foot in New York, but it’s clearly a pipe dream now. As a result, as McGee’s subtitle implies, this is not going to be the last financial crisis we see.
831 2010-06-27 In 2003, a German computer expert named Armin Meiwes advertised online for someone to kill and then eat. Incredibly, 200 people replied, and Meiwes chose a man named Bernd Brandes. One night, in Meiwes’s farmhouse, Brandes took some sleeping pills and drank some schnapps and was still awake when Meiwes cut off his penis, fried it in olive oil and offered him some to eat. Brandes then retreated to the bathtub, bleeding profusely. Meiwes stabbed him in the neck, chopped him up and stored him in the freezer. Over the next several weeks, he defrosted and sautéed 44 pounds of Brandes, eating him by candlelight with his best cutlery.

Hold on a minute. Why does this story appear in “How Pleasure Works,” a book whose jacket copy promises a “new understanding of pleasure, desire and value”? If this is a “new under­standing,” maybe we’ll just stick with the old one, thank you very much. For heaven’s sake, we’re only on Chapter 2, and already we’re deep into cannibalism, compounded by a suicidal-masochistic impulse. Still to come are such topics as rubber vomit, human grimacing contests and monkey pornography.

But stick with it and trust the author, Paul Bloom, to use these weird digressions to get us someplace interesting. Bloom, a professor of psychology at Yale, has written a book that is different from the slew already out there on the general subject of happiness. No advice here about how to become happier by organizing your closets; Bloom is after something deeper than the mere stuff of feeling good. He analyzes how our minds have evolved certain cognitive tricks that help us negotiate the physical and social world — and how those tricks lead us to derive pleasure in some rather unexpected places.

“Many significant human pleasures are universal,” Bloom writes. “But they are not biological adaptations. They are byproducts of mental systems that have evolved for other purposes.” Evolutionary psychologists like Bloom are fond of explaining perplexing psychological attributes this way. These traits emerged, the argument goes, as accidental accompaniments to other traits that help us survive and reproduce.

Our most puzzling sources of pleasure, according to this view, are side effects of our inborn “essentialism,” the idea that “things have an underlying reality or true nature . . . and it is this hidden nature that really matters.” It was to our ancestors’ advantage to be essentialists, so they could categorize the plants and animals in their environment into “dangerous” and “harmless” and thereby know which ones to avoid. Today, our ability to recognize the essence of things explains, for instance, why someone would be willing to pay $48,875 for a tape measure once owned by John F. Kennedy.

Pornography is another example of pleasure via essentialism. Why do some men spend more time looking at Internet porn than interacting with flesh-and-blood lovers? There may be “no reproductive advantage” to liking pornography, Bloom writes, but there is an advantage to its source: an urge to look at real-world “attractive naked people,” which makes us want sex, which in turn is good for continuation of the species. Pornography uses the same pleasure mechanism as actual sex, which is handy since “there aren’t always attractive naked people around when you need them.”

Then there are the (sometimes) more G-rated pleasures of the imagination: the joys of fiction, movies, television, daydreaming. “Surely we would be better off pursuing more adaptive activities — eating and drinking and fornicating, establishing relationships, building shelter and teaching our children,” Bloom writes. But when we retreat into an imagined world, it’s almost like experiencing the pleasure for real. Bloom calls it “Reality Lite — a useful substitute when the real pleasure is inaccessible, too risky or too much work.”

Bloom’s ideas go against the traditional view of pleasure as purely sensory: that is, that we get pleasure from food because of how it tastes, from music because of how it sounds, from art because of how it looks. The sensory explanation is only partially true, he writes. “Pleasure is affected by deeper factors, including what the person thinks about the true essence of what he or she is getting pleasure from.” When we pay good money for tape measures that famous people have touched, or treasure our children’s clumsy kindergarten art, it is because we believe that something about the person’s essence exists in the object itself. How else to explain Jonathan Safran Foer’s collection of blank sheets of paper? These are not just any blank sheets: they are the sheets that were about to be written on next by Paul Auster, Susan Sontag and David Foster Wallace, who sent them to Foer at his request.

And what about the seamier sides of pleasure, like the performance artist who sold 90 cans of his own feces, half of which were improperly autoclaved and would eventually explode, for as much as $61,000 a can? Bloom writes about them without judgment; they just help prove his point, albeit in some grotesque ways. Remember the cannibal Armin Meiwes and his victim, Bernd Brandes? Meiwes believed he was eating Brandes’s essence. “With every bite, my memory of him grew stronger,” Meiwes told the authorities. He also noted that Brandes had been fluent in English — and that since eating him, his own English had much improved.
832 2010-06-27 Car crashes happen in different ways, but they all end the same, with the rest of us looking on in sympathy and prurience: I hope they’re O.K., but I’d like to get a look if they’re not.

Rear-end collisions, multicar pileups and head-on highway nightmares — they all merit our drive-by attention. Then there’s the single car rollover. A lone vehicle, propelled by physics and social conventions, is supposed to hew to its path when suddenly, through human intervention or lack of it, it tumbles in self-contained violence. Even before the wheels stop spinning in the air, we wonder about the driver’s role. Did he fall asleep, take his eyes off the road, intentionally point his destiny toward the ditch?

Unfortunately, the answers are rarely as remarkable as the spectacle itself. One thing, it generally follows, led to another. Things went wrong. And so it is with “Portrait of an Addict as a Young Man,” a memoir by Bill Clegg, a young literary agent in New York who rose quickly in a crowded field and then almost as quickly yanked the wheel hard into the abyss of addiction. For gawkers, it will provide reliable thrills because the cliff Clegg went off was so high, the fall so steep. But at bottom, why the addict does what he does is necessarily reductive: because he is an addict.

In the taxonomy of crack addiction, Clegg would be considered a binger. But describing his typical foray into smokable cocaine as a binge is a bit like describing God­zilla as a gecko. After dallying with drugs in college, and building a very successful practice with some bright literary lights, Clegg turned on a dime and stuffed tens of thousands of dollars, a nascent career and his most significant relationships into the end of a glass tube, then put a lighter to it. He did this over and over, until it was all gone, in many of the pricier hotels in Manhattan, in bathroom stalls, in porn stalls, and in and behind Dumpsters.

If that sounds far-fetched, Clegg is equal to accounting, providing an endless tick-tock of the bags of crack, the rent boys, the A.T.M. withdrawals and hotel lobbies that served as a portal to the temporary crack dens he set up, with many, many bottles of room-service vodka to take the edge off.

Addicts tend to dwell in the ecstasy of ignition, that moment when endorphins are first beckoned and the show begins, but in a more sober, retrospective light, the fact remains that addiction’s primary aspect is boredom — the getting and using of the same substance over and over until death, jail or recovery intervenes. The chronic nature of any activity, even one involving powerful narcotics, renders it prosaic over time.

As the author of my own memoir about crack addiction, I don’t pretend to know how to avoid the numbing narrative aspects of drug use. But certainly a numerical autopsy is not sufficient. Even the most sweeping tale of debauchery — and Clegg lived through a doozy — has to find texture and resonance in other matters. As his book progresses, Clegg himself seems bored by even the most piquant episodes.

After barely getting through an important business lunch at La Grenouille, he finds a running buddy simply by asking a guy on the street “if he parties.” Trying to hail a cab, the ad hoc pair end up in the van of another stranger, who takes them to the hotel where Clegg is staying.

Then it’s on. “The afternoon and night play out. We don’t have sex, though I want to. Rico comes at 10 with more, and it is all gone by 4 in the morning. My pal gets restless and disappears. He asks for $50 for a cab up to Harlem and I give him $40. Alone, I smoke down the few crumbs I’d hidden. Alone, I scrape the broken stem for the last resin and burn the pipe black as charcoal trying to suck the last drop of venom out of it. Alone, I look at the window and wonder if I am high enough up to die if I crawl through and jump into the air shaft. Fourth floor. Not even close.”

Clegg’s trek from one fancy New York hotel to another, fleeing his apartment and his steady boyfriend so he can drown himself in self-seeking, is a persistent motif here, as is his wish that death will stop what he cannot. He is up against the math that cannot be solved — “just one more” is never enough — but his crisis arrives rather oddly when he becomes so disheveled and paranoid that he can no longer check into the Gansevoort Hotel or 60 Thompson, the W or the Maritime. He tries the Mercer and is turned away.
833 2010-06-27 Mr. Ward’s company has been cloning Toyota’s FJ series, a line of S.U.V.’s introduced in the 1960s, for the last four years. Now Icon is casting a wider net, reaching beyond the cult of followers who paid as much as $180,000 for a custom-built FJ — they start at $105,000, Mr. Ward said — with a model based on the Jeep CJ3B introduced in 1953.

The Icon CJ3B will start around $80,000. While that luxury-car price tag may seem high for a vehicle that lacks even a head unit for an audio system, Mr. Ward does not need a large market: only about 60 FJs have been sold so far. And in any case, the price is beside the point for the customers he envisions. These would be idealists and design purists like himself who, when making any acquisition, seek out the finest.

Mr. Ward refers to Icon as a restoration business, but that does not begin to describe the effort behind his products or the makeup of the finished vehicles. Each one starts with an actual vintage truck, which donates a handful of parts (and an identity that makes it possible to license the completed project).

But it is mostly new. The CJ3B’s frame is made in Washington and much of the body sheet metal is stamped in the Philippines. The engine is a 4-cylinder General Motors Ecotec that produces 210 horsepower. The axles are modified versions of the units in today’s Jeep Rubicon; most of the driveline comes from well-established industry suppliers.

All of the modern components make the Icon a more reliable, repairable vehicle than any restoration of a 50-year-old could be — and a more usable off-roader than a straight replica of the original Willys would be. Gone are trouble spots from the original design like the leaf springs (which can limit the wheel travel needed to negotiate rough terrain), a balky choke cable (electronic fuel injection assures quick starting) and weak drum brakes (there are discs at all four corners).

Still, a list of improvements does not reveal the whole story. That lies in the telling of how those bits and pieces were chosen and procured, which is a direct reflection of Mr. Ward’s character — or, some would say, his obsession for perfection in all details.

Describing himself as a “bit of a technical geek,” Mr. Ward enthusiastically leaps into a briefing of what it took to make the CJ. Calling on skills developed as a stage actor, he detailed the process of machining the billet aluminum dashboard knobs, procuring a NASA-grade LED reverse light and protecting every body panel in a durable military-grade powder-coat finish. Ask about the soft top and you receive a deep technical briefing on what it takes to find the world’s best zippers, strongest snaps and most durable fabrics.

The CJ3B is available in Old School and New School versions, which vary in the design of their rollover bars, suspensions and tire size. Further variations are sure to follow. But the restless mind of Mr. Ward is already plotting out other automotive icons — can’t avoid the word — to replicate. Next up could be a Ford Bronco or a battery-powered Volkswagen Thing.

Whatever his next “inspired by” product is, Mr. Ward said, it will be made to last, not a disposable consumer item. “Something already in our culture,” he said, “and not made for a short shelf life.”
834 2010-06-27 Charles Siebert discusses empathy and how children’s capacity for it can be impacted by their own maltreatment and by witnessing the abuse of animals. While it is critical to implement therapies to“heal” people who have been thus affected, prevention strategies, like educating children about the humane treatment of animals, can help protect even more people and animals from harm. Teaching empathy and nurturing that quality from an early age is invaluable in helping children develop into humane adults.

By educating the public and helping government agencies, we acknowledge the link of violence and encourage empathy and compassion in our children. People and animals alike will reap the benefits.

Siebert deftly explores the connection between violence against animals and other forms of violence, but he avoids the implications. The article mentions that children who witness violence toward their family pet “suppress their own feelings of kindness and tenderness toward a pet because they can’t bear the pain caused by their own empathy for the abused animal.” That would appear to be exactly what people do whenever they sit down to eat. No matter how hard people pretend not to, we all know what happens to the animals who end up on our plates. What does our willing ignorance of this violence toward billions of animals do to us as a culture?

As someone who deals with dozens of animal-cruelty cases every week, it’s encouraging that awareness of the link between cruelty to animals and violence to humans is growing and that more law-enforcement officials are treating cruelty to animals with the seriousness it deserves. PETA is leading this effort by pushing for aggressive prosecution and strong sentences for people accused of or convicted for animal abuse and providing officials with informational booklets detailing the animal-human cruelty link. I urge readers to help us protect animals from abuse by reporting any known or suspected cruelty to animals to the police and animal-control officials immediately. Protecting animals protects us all.

MARTIN MERSEREAU

Director, Emergency Response TeamCruelty Investigations DepartmentPeople for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA)

Norfolk, Va.

As a veterinarian in clinical practice and as the president of an animal-protection organization, I have witnessed the indifference and cruelty that many people have toward their animal companions. Not only the obviously abusive and cruel individuals whose family members brought in the neglected and victimized dog but also those who brought their dogs to my office asking me to put them “to sleep,” not because they were aggressive or ill but because they “shed too much” or “bark too much.” For me, this attitude is due in part to their seeing pets as no more than disposable property. Until more people come to view themselves not as “owners” of their pets but as “guardians” of their animal companions’ well-being, the current cycle of violence, neglect, abuse and abandonment will continue to increase, passed on from one generation to the next.
835 2010-06-27 WEISS--Lucille L. The Staff of Weiss Realty Co.,Inc. offer their heartfelt condolences to the family of Lucille L. Weiss of Long Beach, NY. Lucille was a very strong woman who enjoyed 97 years with her wonderful family and friends. Lucille will be...
836 2010-06-27 WEISS--Lucille. The Officers, Board of Trustees, membership and staff of Congregation Gesher Shalom of Fort Lee, NJ express their deepest sympathies to our member, Jaime Weiss and his entire family on the passing of his beloved mother, Lucille Wei...
837 2010-06-28 Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, one of two Democrats to vote against the financial regulatory bill, said he would also vote against the final version of the bill....
838 2010-06-28 Much emphasis - too much emphasis - is placed upon what is supposedly the England football team's greatest asset, its passion. Readers of the domestic news media, and in particular its tabloids, are regularly assured that few if any footballers ar...
839 2010-06-28 Exchanges potentially stand to win big from the financial regulatory bill because of new rules on the trading of certain derivative contracts, gaining possibly billions of dollars in new revenue....
840 2010-06-28 In New York Online: A boy and his underwear, bars and their names, better times for bankers and the discovery of an old trend....
841 2010-06-28 Afghan newspapers suggest that General McChrystal's support for President Karzai's decisions could have been a factor in President Obama's decision to switch pull the switch on American leaders....
842 2010-06-28 Money flowed out of hedge funds in the first quarter of the year as investors grew skittish about parking their money in alternative investments....
843 2010-06-28 Apple said the release of the iPhone 4 was its most successful product introduction yet....
844 2010-06-28 How should cities and states alter their gun control policies given the Supreme Court decision on the Second Amendment?...
845 2010-06-28 International soccer results appear to affect stock market returns, a study finds....
846 2010-06-28 AAA has estimated that the number of Americans traveling at least 50 miles over the holiday weekend will increase to 34.9 million from 29.8 last year....
847 2010-06-28 The Supreme Court issued a ruling that provides an enormous symbolic victory for supporters of gun rights, and Elena Kagan begins her confirmation hearings in the Senate....
848 2010-06-28 Roger Federer is raising the level of this game as Wimbledon's second week begins....
849 2010-06-28 Merchant organizations see a victory, albeit one diminished by compromise....
850 2010-06-28 Elena Kagan's Supreme Court confirmation hearings haven't even begun, and the score is already 1-0 against her....
851 2010-06-28 A financial overhaul and the hearings on a Supreme Court nominee dominate the week's agenda for Congress....
852 2010-06-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
853 2010-06-28 There was the Long Depression, then the Great Depression, and now we are in the early stages of a third depression. This one is primarily a failure of policy....
854 2010-06-28 The New York Times's Sunday Book Review takes a look at two works of credit crisis literature: Alan C. Greenberg's "The Rise and Fall of Bear Stearns," and Suzanne McGee's "Chasing Goldman Sachs: How the Masters of the Universe Melted Wall Street ...
855 2010-06-28 Your Jokes | Bob Dylan: "Like a Rolling Stone"Stanley McChrystal: "I Don't Like a Rolling Stone" -- Paul Feehan, Key Biscayne, Fla....
856 2010-06-28 Well before Congress reached agreement on the details of its financial overhaul legislation, industry lobbyists and consumer advocates started preparing for the next battle: influencing the creation of several hundred new rules and regulations....
857 2010-06-28 Until fairly recently, Dylan Ratigan hosted a stock-picking show. Now he rails against the "vampire" banks who "have assumed control of our government."...
858 2010-06-28 The future of BP's trading unit is uncertain as oil spill costs mount and rival firms try to lure away traders....
859 2010-06-28 ST. LOUIS (AP) — Boeing workers in St. Louis have accepted a contract with the plane manufacturer, avoiding a strike that would have gone into effect on Monday if the deal had been rejected.

The union representing the employees, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, said the contract passed Sunday by a vote of 1,237 to 838. The union had said its workers in St. Louis were prepared to strike starting at midnight if the vote had failed.

The main contention against the proposal was a clause that would place workers hired after January 2012 in a retirement plan based on company contributions instead of in a traditional pension.

A union spokesman, Tom Pinski, said that clause remained in place. The newly approved four-and-a-half year contract, however, removes language that would have dropped an employee’s dependent health care coverage if the worker took a medical leave of absence for more than six months. The new contract allows for 30 months of coverage.

Boeing said in a statement that it was pleased the contract was passed. The contract covers more than 2,500 Boeing workers, most of them in St. Louis, as well as operations in Maryland and other locations. The workers make the F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jet, EA-18G Growler electronic attack aircraft and the F-15 Strike Eagle ground attack strike fighter as well as parts for the C-17 Air Force cargo plane.

Earlier this month, a monthlong strike by Boeing workers at the Chicago-based company’s C-17 plant in Long Beach, Calif., ended after workers approved a contract there. The strike had shut down production of the military cargo jets.
860 2010-06-28 ¶Mazda North America, Irvine, Calif., part of Mazda Motor of Japan, chose a team of agencies owned by WPP to handle the creative duties on its account, which had been handled since 1997 by Doner, Southfield, Mich. Spending was estimated at more than $150 million. WPP also handles Mazda advertising in Europe. Mazda had been the largest account at Doner, which created the “Zoom-Zoom” campaign for the brand.

¶Peter Walker will join Univision Communications, New York, on July 12, as president at Univision Local Media, a new division. He had most recently been president at Auvergne Holdings and before that worked for 17 years at the Tribune Company in local operations and sales posts.

¶Two WPP health care agencies are being combined, CommonHealth and the Ogilvy Healthworld unit of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, to form Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide. Matt Giegerich, president and chief executive at CommonHealth, will be chairman and chief executive at the merged agency.

¶GroupM, part of WPP, increased its forecast for growth this year in advertising spending in measured media. The previous forecast, for a gain of 1 percent compared with 2009, has been revised upward to a gain of 3.5 percent. For 2011, GroupM is predicting an increase of 4.5 percent compared with 2010.

¶Arbitron, Columbia, Md., said it had acquired assets of Integrated Media Measurement Inc., known widely as IMMI, that include patents and the trade name. Financial terms were not disclosed. IMMI technology allows data about media usage to be captured through cellphones.

¶Members of the Worldcom Public Relations Group, New York, said in a survey that they believed services like social media would increase in importance in the next three years at the same time that services like media relations, advertising and direct mail and marketing would decrease in importance.
861 2010-06-28 Both channels are owned by NBC Universal. MSNBC, which leans left in prime time, epitomizes a very different view of the world than CNBC, which is sometimes mistaken for the captain of the stock market cheerleading squad.

The financial crisis and subsequent bailouts have already had a powerful effect on American politics, helping to start the Tea Party movement and putting some proponents of government action on the defensive. The financial crisis also tested cable television’s lucrative financial news channels, which have strained to balance the corporate interests of their audience with government intervention and rising populist anger.

Mr. Ratigan underwent a “Lou Dobbs-like transformation,” from sober-minded journalist to all-out advocate, said Andrew Leckey, the president of the Donald W. Reynolds National Center for Business Journalism at Arizona State University.

In a nod to his old network, Mr. Ratigan said that CNBC “does more good than bad,” because it “still shines the light on the debate about ideas in the financial markets.” But MSNBC seems to be a better platform than CNBC for a political crusade against corruption, said Mr. Ratigan, 38, whose one-year anniversary at MSNBC will come on Tuesday.

On Monday, Mr. Ratigan will begin “Fix-It Week,” proposing solutions to problems like the federal budget deficit and dependence on foreign oil. “Dylan wants to change the world. He’s a crusader,” said Phil Griffin, the president of MSNBC.

There are risks for crusaders, and one is that they can potentially turn into Howard Beale, Peter Finch’s character in the 1976 movie “Network.”

“You can become almost a stereotype of yourself,” Mr. Leckey said.

Still, it makes for good television. More than ever, cable news is a political perch, and “The Dylan Ratigan Show” is just one example of Mr. Griffin’s effort to build a bench of opinionated hosts. This month, he announced that the Democratic political analyst Lawrence O’Donnell would be the host of a show at 10 p.m., starting this fall.

There are early signs that viewers are responding favorably to Mr. Ratigan. His show, which is on at 4 p.m. on weekdays, had an average of 330,000 viewers each afternoon in May, up 20 percent from the straightforward newscast that ran on MSNBC in that time slot last year — yet another viewer vote for opinion over old-fashioned news.

But in the battle for second place behind Fox News, MSNBC still loses to CNN in the daytime — including Mr. Ratigan’s hour — even though it wins at night..

Mr. Ratigan went to work at CNBC in 2005 after spending his 20s at Bloomberg Television as a journalist and a manager, a job he won after getting to know Michael Bloomberg’s ex-wife and daughters. They recommended him for an entry-level job, Mr. Ratigan said. He agrees with the gossip column claims that he fought all the time with his bosses at CNBC about the structure of “Fast Money,”but he says the disputes had nothing to do with his exit in early 2009.

He traces his midcareer conversion to fall 2008, when he says he came to see the corrupt practices of banks, special interests and politicians.

At MSNBC, Mr. Ratigan was initially given a midmorning time slot, but he made no dent in the ratings. Mr. Griffin concluded that “he plays better in the afternoon,” closer to the channel’s evening lineup of point-of-view hosts like Chris Matthews and Ed Schultz.

Mr. Ratigan does not just have a point of view, he has a point — one that he repeats relentlessly and feverishly, sometimes with props like buckets and Monopoly money. To hear Mr. Ratigan tell it, the American people are being held hostage by a banking system that acts like a government subsidized casino. His analogy: “My mother is paying taxes to the government. The government is giving her money to the banks. The banks are gambling like they’re watching ‘Fast Money.’ But my mother didn’t sign up for that.”

Mr. Ratigan said flatly, “As long as there’s been banks and governments, banks and governments have been conspiring to take money from the people.” What has changed now, he said, is that “we have the ability to engage it directly,” through fair elections and a free press. The first step in his playbook, then, is to end the denial about it through his show.

He made headlines online in December when he cut off an interview with a congresswoman after fighting with her over what he called the “private insurance monopoly” that stood to benefit from an overhaul of health care.

“You’re asking your own questions and answering them. You could be your own guest,” Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Democrat of Florida, said on the show (Mr. Ratigan later apologized). Most of the time he reins himself in, recognizing, he says, that anger distracts from productive conversations.

Of course, in the bailout era, going after greed is arguably an easy way to “get a lot of people behind you,” Mr. Leckey said, calling it “an almost fail-safe position to be in.”

What has changed, perhaps, is that, while an anchorman like Mr. Dobbs fought to express his opinions on CNN, Mr. Ratigan is being emboldened by his bosses. Mr. Griffin likened Mr. Ratigan to a “wild mustang,” and said, “I don’t want to change him. I want to tame him a little bit,” so that the audience can keep up.

His advice to Mr. Ratigan: “If you want to create a movement, take it a little slower,” he said.
862 2010-06-28 Recessions are common; depressions are rare. As far as I can tell, there were only two eras in economic history that were widely described as “depressions” at the time: the years of and instability that followed the Panic of 1873 and the years of mass unemployment that followed the of 1929-31.

Neither the Long of the 19th century nor of the 20th was an era of nonstop decline — on the contrary, both included periods when the economy grew. But these episodes of improvement were never enough to undo the damage from the initial slump, and were followed by relapses.

We are now, I fear, in the early stages of a third depression. It will probably look more like the Long Depression than the much more severe Great Depression. But the cost — to the world economy and, above all, to the millions of lives blighted by the absence of jobs — will nonetheless be immense.

And this third depression will be primarily a failure of policy. Around the world — most recently at last weekend’s deeply discouraging meeting — governments are obsessing about inflation when the real threat is deflation, preaching the need for belt-tightening when the real problem is inadequate spending.

In 2008 and 2009, it seemed as if we might have learned from history. Unlike their predecessors, who raised interest rates in the face of financial crisis, the current leaders of the and the slashed rates and moved to support markets. Unlike governments of the past, which tried to balance budgets in the face of a plunging economy, today’s governments allowed deficits to rise. And better policies helped the world avoid complete collapse: the brought on by the financial crisis arguably ended last summer.

But future historians will tell us that this wasn’t the end of the third depression, just as the business upturn that began in 1933 wasn’t the end of the Great Depression. After all, unemployment — especially long-term unemployment — remains at levels that would have been considered catastrophic not long ago, and shows no sign of coming down rapidly. And both the and are well on their way toward -style deflationary traps.
863 2010-06-28 “The value became less than the headache,” said Abdel Monem Said Aly, chairman of Al Ahram, a state-owned media group, publishing house and research organization. “The whole cabinet decided to forget it.”

The announcement had little practical impact, in part, because it formalized what had already occurred. In the past four years, Egypt sold only seven companies while actually buying back seven from investors, said the Ministry of Investment, which oversees the process.

“I am surprised they announced it openly, even though de facto there had been a suspension for a while,” said Ragui Assaad, an expert on Egypt’s economy at the Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs of the University of Minnesota. “That, to me, seems an attempt to make a concession to all the protesting workers, with the government saying, ‘We are protecting your rights.’ ”

Indeed, it appeared as though the statement was the equivalent of a white flag waved by Prime Minister Ahmed Nazif’s cabinet. Having been appointed in 2004 with the mandate to repair a moribund economy, Mr. Nazif’s team has “lost momentum,” said Mr. Said Aly of Al Ahram. “Now it seems they don’t know what to do next.”

The government made a fundamental mistake, experts say, in failing to reset public expectations fashioned decades ago when the state was the primary provider. Even today, there are about six million civil service employees, Mr. Assaad said.

“That is the brake on reform,” said a government official who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to offend the public. “They have grown up with the state doing everything: ‘You educate me, give me a degree, you give me a job, when I die you bury me — and I do nothing.’ ”

The uneven nature of Egyptian reform meant, for example, that while the government worked on the economy it neglected retooling an inadequate education system that at its best was intended to prepare graduates to work for the government. One consequence is a shortage of qualified workers in a country with high unemployment.

“Mismanagement is the essence of the problem,” said Amr El-Shobaki, a political scientist at the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies. “People aren’t genetically incapable of working.”

Mr. Shobaki and others said that privatization was a way for the friends of the rich and powerful to grow more rich and powerful. Even the government acknowledges that the economic changes have had little impact on average lives.

Privatization began in earnest in 1991, when Egypt agreed to work with international lenders on an economic restructuring plan to help it repair a failing economy. This represented an effort to accelerate changes started in the 1970s by President Anwar el-Sadat, who began the process of dismantling the state-controlled economy fashioned by President Gamal Abdel Nasser in the 1950s and early ’60s.

The 1991 effort started off easily enough when the state readily found buyers for assets like its beer and cement industries. But over time, the state said it was left with difficult-to-sell assets, outdated factories producing cars, instruments for textile manufacturing and other things that are either obsolete or unwanted. At the same time public pressure became intense as workers complained that their rights were being auctioned off.

The goal was originally to sell off 314 companies. There are still 150 left: the rest have been sold to investors, gone public on the stock market, dissolved or merged with other state industries.

“There is always a cost for reform, but the problem here is that people now have the impression that those who always pay the cost of every reform are the simple people, while businessmen are never held accountable for corruption and while privatization of companies takes place in secret, without the knowledge or participation of the people,” Mr. Shobaki said.

Faced with so many obstacles, the government took another approach, trying to open the door to foreign investment while quietly allowing state industries to wither. In the Egyptian context, economists say it is a victory that this work force has shrunk, to about 300,000 from about 1.3 million in 1978.

The government also adopted a law that allowed state-owned companies to deal with employees in the same way as private-sector companies. This year it began to carry out a new law allowing the private firms to build infrastructure, including sewage plants and hospitals, another unpopular move intended to whittle away the state-dominated system.

But even those in a position of authority acknowledge that these moves are, at best, incremental. They understand that the next big change that will probably occur is a new president to succeed Hosni Mubarak, 82, who has served for nearly 30 years.

The president recently returned to work from a long convalescence in Sharm El Sheik after gallbladder surgery in Germany. His health crisis forced a very public discussion over who would come next. So far, the answer has been that there is no consensus candidate.

So the government hunkers down, and waits.

And the protesters carry on.
864 2010-06-28 There are already signs that trading partners are becoming wary of BP’s financial outlook; one market participant, , is halting long-term contracts with BP. The company’s deteriorating rating — on June 15, it was downgraded by to one notch above junk — makes it harder for traders to cheaply deploy vast amounts of cash. And with its stock down by more than half since the blowout in the gulf, BP can only watch as rival firms try to poach its best traders.

“A lot of the swagger comes from the amount of money they have to trade with,” said Craig Pirrong, a director at the ’s Management Institute. “And traders realize they don’t have the capital they had just a couple of weeks ago.”

It is a humbling moment for a secretive unit that earns the company $2 billion to $3 billion annually and has long inspired fear and envy among rival traders.

BP declined to comment for this article.

For all its influence, BP’s trading unit is something of an anomaly in the staid world of drillers and refiners.

While other oil giants like and shy away from big market wagers, BP employs a diverse array of bets as part of its strategy. Its market wagers on crude oil, gasoline or can use both physical supplies as well as paper petroleum — in the form of futures contracts and other .

Even in the outsize world of Wall Street, this is a huge market. More than 137 billion barrels of oil changed hands on the exchange last year, making it a multitrillion-dollar market, while energy derivatives on the more lightly regulated over-the-counter markets account for a trillion dollars more, according to the Bank for International Settlements.

BP and Shell, another major trader, declined to disclose the size or profitability of their trading units, but experts say BP’s operation is twice Shell’s size and much more active in the American market. In a 2005 filing, BP disclosed that it earned $2.97 billion from overall trading in 2005, with $1.55 billion coming from the oil market and $1.31 billion from bets on natural gas.

Analysts estimate that BP’s trading profits have remained in the $2 billion to $3 billion range since then, which would be slightly less than 20 percent of the company’s $16.7 billion in earnings in 2009.

“They are the 800-pound gorilla in their market and the perception is they don’t let you forget it,” said Stephen Schork, president of the Schork Group, an industry trading and research firm.

But that swagger has faded since the April 20 accident in the gulf.

With their bonuses likely to be decimated by the company’s financial problems, many BP traders are eyeing opportunities at Wall Street firms or with companies overseas. They are among the most sought-after professionals in the sharp-elbowed world of energy trading desks.

At least a dozen have quit since the disaster, with BP losing crucial traders in , and , according to other traders. Several have joined Brightoil, a Chinese oil trading and logistics company, in Singapore.

“Everyone is hovering over that company right now,” said Stein, managing director of Commodity Talent, an executive search firm in New York.

BP’s size and ability to make huge bets was at the heart of the 2007 case, which resulted in $303 million in fines.

According to the government complaint, traders in amassed short-dated futures contracts on 5.1 million barrels of propane stored in pipelines in February 2004 — 800,000 barrels more than existed in the system. As prices steadily rose, BP refused to sell, driving prices steadily higher until they could force buyers to accept the asking price.

“How does it feel taking on the whole market, man?” one BP trader asked another, according to tapes of conversations cited as evidence in the case. “Whew! It’s pretty big, man,” was the answer.

Although one trader did plead guilty, four others had their indictments dismissed last September after a judge said the trades were exempt under federal law because they took place on the lightly regulated over-the-counter-market, not on an open exchange.

The government is appealing to have the indictments reinstated, but the Houston judge’s ruling underscores how difficult it is to prove commodity fraud cases — as well as how what might be manipulation to one observer is smart trading to another.

According to people familiar with the 2007 case, investigators also found evidence that BP traders had previously engaged in a more sophisticated effort to manipulate the much-larger crude oil market, by moving oil in and out of its gigantic storage facility in Cushing, Okla. Prosecutors did not pursue the case because the statute of limitations had nearly expired.

Experts point out that BP’s huge physical empire of wells, pipelines, refineries and storage facilities gives it an edge that is perfectly legal. For example, if traders see oil piling up in storage facilities or aboard supertankers in the BP fleet, it is a signal to bet oil prices will fall. Similarly, if BP refineries are low on gasoline, traders can scoop up gas futures.

“If you are actually dealing in the physical market, you have an informational advantage over purely financial traders,” said Neill Morton, an analyst with in London, who covers BP.

In addition, until the Deepwater Horizon spill in the gulf, BP’s solid financial position and physical infrastructure meant it could safely take on huge positions and hold on until they paid off. The physical assets are still there, of course, but the long-term financial picture is not so secure.

“Everyone says nothing has changed, but I’m sure they have their running shoes on,” Mr. Pirrong said. “People think if it starts to go, I want to be able to get away as fast I can.”
865 2010-06-28 Ms. DeLarverie fought the police in 1969 at the historic riot at the Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village that kicked off the gay rights movement. The first gay pride parade in 1970 was not a parade at all but a protest marking the one-year anniversary of the Stonewall uprising.

Some writers believe Ms. DeLarverie may have been the cross-dressing lesbian whose clubbing by the police was the catalyst for the riots (the woman has never been identified). While others are adamant that Ms. DeLarverie was not that woman, no one disputes that she was there, and no one doubts that the woman who had been fighting back all her life fought back in the summer of 1969.

At one point on Sunday, she said she was not struck by the police. At another moment, she said a police officer had hit her from behind. “He wound up flat on his back on the ground,” said Ms. DeLarverie, a member of the Stonewall Veterans’ Association. “I don’t know what he hit me with. He hit me from behind, the coward.”

Ms. DeLarverie has struggled in recent years with a confluence of housing, mental health and legal issues. In 2009, a social services group, the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, was appointed her legal guardian by a judge. In March, she was hospitalized after she was found disoriented and dehydrated at the Chelsea Hotel, her home for decades. No one occupies her room on the seventh floor of the hotel, but it remains unclear if she will ever return.

A small group of friends, including some of her neighbors at the Chelsea Hotel, visit her regularly. A social worker with the nonprofit group SAGE, which provides services to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender older people, has been assisting Ms. DeLarverie since 1999, when she was at risk of eviction from the hotel.

Some of her friends said they had been frustrated by the way she was treated by the authorities and others, and they expressed disappointment that Ms. DeLarverie’s troubles have not been a widespread concern for many gay and lesbian activists.

“I feel like the gay community could have really rallied, but they didn’t,” said Lisa Cannistraci, a longtime friend of Ms. DeLarverie’s who is the owner of the lesbian bar Henrietta Hudson, where Ms. DeLarverie worked as a bouncer.

“The young gays and lesbians today have never heard of her,” Ms. Cannistraci said, “and most of our activists are young. They’re in their 20s and early 30s. The community that’s familiar with her is dwindling.”

Ms. DeLarverie’s friends said they were disturbed because she spent most of her days inside the nursing home and they had not been allowed to take her outside, even for walks.

Leah Ferster, chief services officer for the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, said she was not aware that that was a concern among her friends. “We have to make sure she’s medically capable and able, and if that was true, then we would be glad to speak with her friends and see if we can come up with a safe plan and have her go out for a few hours,” she said.

Ms. DeLarverie’s first name is pronounced STORM-ee, like the weather, but in Room 609 on Sunday, she was calm, chatty, graceful. Her life has been flamboyant, boundary-breaking, the stuff of pulp fiction.

Friends say she worked for the mob in Chicago. The drag-queen group she performed with decades ago, known as the Jewel Box Revue, regularly played the Apollo in Harlem (she dressed as a man and the men dressed as women). She was photographed by Diane Arbus. She carried a straight-edge razor in her sock, and while some merely walked to and from the gay and lesbian bars in the Village, friends said, she patrolled.

Sitting at the edge of her bed, her mind turned again to the parade, where, in the past, she had been a fixture. She said she had a message for those who took part in the celebration. “Just be themselves, like they’ve always been,” she said. “They don’t have to pretend anything. They’re who they are.”

Ms. DeLarverie asked what time it was, and what time the march started. At one point, she took off her slippers and seemed to look for her shoes. “I think they started already,” she said. “They’re probably wondering where I am.”
866 2010-06-28 “Kagan’s hearings are probably going to be dominated by civil rights issues and the Second Amendment,” said Paul M. Collins Jr., an assistant professor of political science at the University of North Texas and one of the study’s authors.

“We’re going to see her pressed very similarly to Sotomayor about judicial philosophy,” Professor Collins said, “especially by Republican senators, who have taken a kind of issue ownership of that issue. Republicans have won the rhetoric war. They own phrases like ‘judicial activism’ and ‘judicial restraint.’ ”

At her hearings, Justice Sotomayor often responded to questions about her judicial philosophy with a simple verbal formula, saying she would apply the law to the facts. Walter Dellinger, an acting solicitor general in the Clinton administration, said he hoped Ms. Kagan would give nuanced answers to such questions.

“It would be valuable to have a nominee talk more candidly and acknowledge that judging involves the exercise of judgment,” he said, “rather than just the application of mechanical logic.”

Rachel Brand, a former Justice Department official who helped prepare Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. for their confirmation hearings, ticked off a list of topics Ms. Kagan might hear about.

“The experience issue is likely to come up,” Ms. Brand said, referring to Ms. Kagan’s lack of judicial service and a career spent mostly in the government and academia. “Abortion always comes up. Then of course the Solomon Amendment,” a law concerning military recruiting that Ms. Kagan opposed as dean of Harvard Law School. “And gun rights.”

Not all questions yield answers, of course.

“There are a thousand ways to say nothing,” said the study’s other author, Lori A. Ringhand, an associate professor of law at the University of Georgia.

Still, a second recent study by two political scientists found that “the overall level of candor has actually been fairly high.”

Most nominees answer “between 60 and 70 percent of their questions in a fully forthcoming manner,” the study, by Dion Farganis of Elon University in North Carolina and Justin Wedeking of the University of Kentucky, concluded.

The confirmation hearing is in any event a constitutional dialogue between two branches, and a look at the topics on senators’ minds can provide insights whether or not nominees give candid answers. “This really is the way that people, through their elected representatives, are claiming ownership of constitutional meaning,” Professor Ringhand said.

Though Roe v. Wade, recognizing a constitutional right to abortion, was decided in 1973, the first questions concerning it and sexual privacy more generally did not arise until the 1981 confirmation hearings of Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. Discussion of abortion rights since then has accounted for only 5 percent of all dialogue between senators and nominees.

“Abortion as a hearing issue both took some time to gain traction and failed to dominate the hearings after it did,” the study found. “Racial and gender discrimination, speech and religious freedom and even non-abortion-related privacy have all played larger roles.”

Questions about the Second Amendment’s guarantee of the right to keep and bear arms also first surfaced at Justice O’Connor’s confirmation hearings. By last year, the issue had taken a central role.

Almost 9 percent of the dialogue at Sonia Sotomayor’s hearings concerned the Second Amendment, no doubt prompted in part by the Supreme Court’s 2008 decision recognizing an individual right to own guns.

The court will almost certainly hand down an important follow-up decision on Monday, meaning the issue will very probably play an important role in the Kagan hearings, too.

The five women and minority members who have served on the court — Justices O’Connor and Sotomayor (whom the study counted in both categories), and Justices Thurgood Marshall, Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg — were asked more substantive question than nominees who were white men.

“Female and minority nominees are being pressed more on their judicial philosophies than white male nominees,” Professor Collins said. “There might be a concern that they would bring their unique backgrounds to the bench.”

Ms. Kagan is likely to get questions about her article in The University of Chicago Law Review, in which she celebrated the 1987 confirmation hearings of Robert H. Bork for their extensive exploration of his understanding of the Constitution.

“The ratio of posturing and hyperbole to substantive discussion was much lower than that to which the American citizenry has become accustomed,” Ms. Kagan wrote. But Judge Bork’s candor hurt him, and the Senate rejected his nomination.

Ms. Kagan may therefore wish to follow Chief Justice Rehnquist’s example with regard to her critique.

In 1959, a dozen years before his first confirmation hearings, to become an associate justice, Mr. Rehnquist complained that the 1957 confirmation hearings of Justice Charles Evans Whittaker had revealed nothing about his views on the pressing issues of the day, including racial segregation and communism.

Instead, the Senate Judiciary Committee learned, Mr. Rehnquist wrote, that Justice Whittaker had paid for some of his schooling with money made by trapping skunks and that “since he had been born in Kansas but now resided in Missouri, his nomination honored two states.”

The role of the Supreme Court is unique in the American judiciary, Mr. Rehnquist went on, since the Constitution means what the justices say it does. Given this, he said, “what could have been more important to the Senate than Mr. Justice Whittaker’s views on equal protection and due process?”

At his own confirmation hearing in 1971, Mr. Rehnquist largely disavowed his article.

“I think I did not fully appreciate,” he told the Senate Judiciary Committee, “the difficulty of the position that the nominee is in.”
867 2010-06-28 This year’s auction houses have seen no shortage of high-priced Michael Jackson memorabilia, and this weekend, on the anniversary of his death, collectors once again showed they were willing to pay tribute to the pop star. Among the 200 items being auctioned by Julien’s Auctions at the Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas, The Associated Press reported, were a Swarovski crystal-studded glove, above, he wore on his 1984 Victory Tour (estimated at $20,000 to $30,000) that sold for $192,000, including buyer’s premium, to Wanda Kelley of Los Angeles. “Let’s just say I wasn’t walking out of here without that glove,” Ms. Kelley, who also bought numerous albums at the auction, told The A.P. A similar glove sold for $350,000 in November at an auction by Julien’s in New York. A pair of signed black loafers worn by Jackson on stage sold for $90,000, though they were listed at $2,000 to $3,000, and a custom jacket he wore during an interview with Barbara Walters, estimated at $6,000 to $8,000, went for $120,000. Perhaps one of the most poignant items was one of the last autographs signed by Jackson, dated June 24, 2009, which sold for $18,750.
868 2010-06-28 The 120-board final of the open trial to select the U.S.A.-1 team for next year’s Bermuda Bowl ended in Chicago late on Sunday. After 90 boards, John Diamond, Brian Platnick, Eric Greco, Geoff Hampson, Fred Gitelman and Brad Moss led Martin Fleisher, Michael Kamil, Bobby Levin, Steve Weinstein, Chip Martel and Lew Stansby, 185 international match points to 182.

In the semifinals Diamond ended the run of the No. 20 seed, Jonathan Weinstein, Franco Baseggio, Bob Etter, Alex Kolesnik, Clement Jackson and Josh Sher, winning 305 imps to 216. (More about the event is at usbf.org.)

Fleisher defeated the top-seeded Nick Nickell, Ralph Katz, Bob Hamman, Zia Mahmood, Jeff Meckstroth and Eric Rodwell, 244 imps to 231. With 30 boards to be played, Fleisher led by 20 imps. Then Fleisher gained 31 imps in the penultimate session. Nickell staged a patented rally, taking the final set by 46 imps to 8, but fell just short.

The auction was the same in both rooms.

Meckstroth (West) led the diamond king because his partnership played ace from A-K-x. Rodwell (East), thinking his partner had the king-queen of diamonds, encouraged by playing his six, using upside-down signals. When West continued with the diamond ace, it announced that he had started with ace-king-doubleton. Now East, called upon to make a suit-preference signal to show where his entry lay, played his eight. Meckwell, as they are known, also use upside-down suit-preference signals.

However, at Trick 3, Meckstroth shifted to the club king. Martel (South) won with his ace, cashed dummy’s top trumps and called for a heart. East won with his ace and led a club, but declarer ruffed and claimed.

At the other table Kamil (West) led the diamond ace because his partnership played king from A-K-x. Fleisher (East), thinking his partner had led an unsupported ace to look at the dummy, discouraged by playing his nine, using upside-down count and attitude signals. But when Kamil continued with the diamond king, showing that he had begun with ace-king-doubleton, Fleisher smartly played his jack, a normal suit-preference signal for hearts. Getting the message, West shifted to the heart ten. East won with his ace and gave his partner a diamond ruff to defeat the contract.
869 2010-06-28 In early 2009, Igor and Marko Pusenjak, two brothers originally from Croatia, decided they wanted to build an application for the iPhone that would enable them to make extra money on the side.     They set out to build a game that included a rabbi...
870 2010-06-29 Credit: Ira Lippke for The New York Times
871 2010-06-29 No matter how unstrung her characters become, Helen Mirren holds something in reserve. An awareness of the weaknesses of the flesh and the pleasures of surrendering to those weaknesses flickers in her eyes and in the faint half-smile that plays around her lips. She knows.

That bone-deep sensuality lends her portrayal of Grace, the hard-bitten madam of a Reno, Nev., brothel in “Love Ranch,” an empathy and toughness that have little connection to Mark Jacobson’s prosaic screenplay. In Ms. Mirren’s first film to be directed by her husband, Taylor Hackford, since “White Nights” in 1985, her formidable dramatic resources can’t camouflage flat writing that eventually veers into gloppy sentimentality. At times even Ms. Mirren, who adopts a regionless American accent, seems uncomfortable.

Love Ranch is the name of the brothel — a tacky configuration of pink trailers behind a chain fence, with a guard tower — inspired by the real-life Mustang Ranch, which in the early 1970s became Nevada’s first licensed whorehouse. Joe Pesci and Ms. Mirren play Charlie and Grace Bontempo, fictionalized screen versions of Joe and Sally Conforte, who were the proprietors of the Mustang Ranch.

Charlie and Grace’s marriage is primarily a business arrangement in which it is understood that Charlie can have free sex with the prostitutes whom Grace, the house den mother, keeps on a very short leash. She is not happy about the arrangement; the screenplay unconvincingly portrays her as still in love with the rat she married.

Mr. Pesci’s Charlie is a slightly softened variation of the monstrous thugs he portrayed in “Casino” and “Goodfellas.” A little guy with a big ego, he likes to smoke cigars with hundred-dollar bills wrapped around them. He has the local sheriff in his pocket and goons to do his dirty work. Charlie’s soulless rat-a-tat-tat delivery acquires a semblance of feeling only when he is wheedling Grace to follow his wishes. But as the movie drags along, any sympathy you might have had for him melts away as he gives in to his worst instincts.
872 2010-06-29 The Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday charged two Web-savvy advisers with fraud for pumping up penny stocks that they were also selling -- for at least $2.4 million in profit....
873 2010-06-29 Standard & Poor's said it was likely to cut its credit ratings for Moody's, its biggest competitor, warning that the financial regulatory bill would increase the risks that Moody's -- and itself -- could be sued....
874 2010-06-29 Under Army rules, General McChrystal would have to retire as a three-star general because he served only a year as a full general and not the three years required to retire at that rank....
875 2010-06-29 The Economix blog covers a new study that finds people take bigger financial risks when they're hungry....
876 2010-06-29 Maybe what Wall Street's risk-seeking bankers really need is a better diet....
877 2010-06-29 Why do New York City dwellers have better health than most people?...
878 2010-06-29 Congressional negotiators agreed to eliminate a proposed tax on big banks and hedge funds and replaced it with a new plan to pay for the projected $20 billion cost of the financial regulatory bill....
879 2010-06-29 What aspects of your personal finance should you automate? Here's a look at two major schools of thought on the subject....
880 2010-06-29 Oxygen will carry a reality show (or at least a series of specials) about a casting call for new singers on "Glee."...
881 2010-06-29 Sun once planned to tackle Intel head-on in the server chip market by making its own x86 chip....
882 2010-06-29 Agricultural Bank of China expects to reap up to $23.2 billion in the world's largest share listing after capping the price range for its shares at a much lower level than originally expected, The Associated Press reported....
883 2010-06-29 Takeovers backed by private equity in Britain are running far ahead of last year's totals, despite a decline in activity in the second quarter, The Associated Press reported....
884 2010-06-29 Recession-hit New York could raise an extra $50 million a year by collecting income taxes from people who work for hedge funds in the state, but live elsewhere, according to a legislative plan to raise revenue....
885 2010-06-29 International soccer results appear to affect stock market returns. In particular, losses lead to significant national market decline, according to a 2006 study....
886 2010-06-29 A community of hoboes, or the district in which they live; the life of the hobo....
887 2010-06-29 OMAHA (AP) — The senior right-hander Blake Cooper allowed three hits in eight-plus innings and Bobby Haney drove in a career-high three runs Monday night, putting South Carolina a win from its first national title with a 7-1 victory over U.C.L.A. in Game 1 of the College World Series finals.

Pitching on three days’ rest for the second straight time, Cooper (13-2) struck out 10 and carried a one-hitter into the ninth before running into trouble.

South Carolina fans cheered a drawn-out “Cooooop” as Cooper left after 136 pitches and the bases loaded with no outs in the ninth. Reliever John Taylor finished.

Gerrit Cole (11-4) pitched seven innings and took the loss. The Gamecocks (53-16) and the Bruins (51-16) play Game 2 on Tuesday night.
888 2010-06-29 Tesla Motors said Monday that shares for its initial public offering were priced at $17 each, above what it expected.

The start-up will begin trading stock on Tuesday. The company is offering 13.3 million shares, meaning it raised $226.1 million at the $17-a-share price. It had earlier estimated the shares would sell between $14 and $16 each.

The company, which is based in Palo Alto, Calif., plans to trade on the Nasdaq stock exchange under the ticker “TSLA.”

Tesla currently sells a single car, the two-door $109,000 Roadster, but has plans to introduce a next-generation electric car called the Model S starting in 2012. That car is expected to cost less than $50,000 after federal tax credits and get 300 miles on a charge.

But the company has lost $290.2 million since it was founded in 2003 and has never had a profitable quarter. It does not expect that to change until it starts selling the four-door Model S in large volumes.

Tesla’s eventual goal is to build 20,000 Model S sedans a year. That is roughly the number of vehicles that Porsche sold in the country last year.
889 2010-06-29 “The public cynicism for the capacity of an agency like the Port Authority to build on time, or on budget, is pretty high,” said Christopher O. Ward, the executive director of the authority, which operates the airport. “Failure would have been unacceptable.”

The repairs are expected to reduce delays at the airport and save millions of dollars in long-term maintenance. The lifespan of the runway, the second longest in the country, is expected to be extended by 40 years.

Its newly widened span can now accommodate the most advanced aircraft in the world (including the space shuttle). And its murky asphalt surface has been replaced by bright white concrete, producing a beaming strip along Jamaica Bay.

Just before noon on Monday, a JetBlue airplane taxied to the repaired runway and took off for Tampa, Fla. It was the first aircraft in four months to take flight from the landing strip, which was finished days ahead of schedule.

To choose which airline would be the first to try out the restored airstrip, airport officials picked a name out of a hat. But that may have been the only unplanned component of an ambitious renovation that was nearly four years in the planning stages before a shovel ever hit the ground.

The goal, at the start, was simple: to restore a heavily used runway that was overdue for a spruce-up. Long known as the Bay Runway, the airstrip was in operation when Kennedy, then called New York International Airport, opened for commercial flights in 1948. But its last overhaul was in 1993.

The airport built two and a half miles of barbed-wire fencing to isolate the construction area, to conform with federal security regulations. It paved a new access road to give machinery a direct path onto the airfield. And a cement plant, capable of producing 4,000 cubic yards of it daily, was built on the premise of saving travel costs and time.

The project was timed to coincide with springtime’s drier air and lighter travel load, but officials had to deal with a major variable: the fickle weather of New York City in March, April and May.

“Every week we hit the milestones was a week of relief,” Mr. Ward said.

A nail-biter took place on March 13, when winds swept through the airfield at upward of 65 miles per hour. About noon, the airport was forced to close all but one of its four runways, and those runways stayed closed for most of the day. Mr. Ward described his team as “pretty darn anxious.”

About 24 percent of departing flights at the airport were delayed in March, up from 16 percent a year earlier, according to data from the federal Bureau of Transportation Statistics. But in April, only 16 percent of flights were delayed, down from 21 percent a year ago.

Concrete is a more durable substance than asphalt, which saves repair costs in the long run. But it takes much longer to install and is not commonly used for runway rehabilitations.

The airport used a machine that paved 1,000 feet a day, but contractors still found themselves working more weekends than expected.

Airport officials had hoped to install a new design feature on the taxiways that would allow planes to overtake one another in the queue, a method for speeding departures. But the plan was not approved by the Federal Aviation Administration, which worried that pilots might be confused by lack of signs, a F.A.A. spokeswoman said.

About two-thirds of the 14,572-foot-long runway is now back in operation. A final, smaller segment will be repaired in September, which will require the closing of an intersecting runway for two weeks.

But Mr. Ward said the project was over its biggest hump. “And we don’t have to think about it for another 40 years,” he added.
890 2010-06-29 Frank Rich, writing about Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal’s being removed from Afghanistan, observed that “the present strategy has produced no progress in this nearly nine-year-old war, even as the monthly coalition body count has just reached a new high.”

Pretty soon, we’re going to have to start comparing Vietnam to Afghanistan, instead of vice versa.

In “The Culture of Exposure” (column, June 25), David Brooks essentially blames the 24/7 news media whose job it is to feed a scandal-hungry public for Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal’s fall from military grace.

No one is to blame but the general himself. It was not the media that showed a callous disrespect for the president, the vice president and the national security adviser, nor was it the media that undermined America’s mission in Afghanistan. Those words came from General McChrystal. Michael Hastings, the Rolling Stone reporter, simply did his job in reporting them.

If high-level government and military officials like General McChrystal truly wish to avoid embarrassing public relations nightmares and retain their positions, then perhaps, especially in this constant news cycle, it is incumbent on them to muzzle their public “kvetching.”

The writer is a contributor to The Huffington Post.

Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and his aides have a right to kvetch. But as our top-level tacticians in a complicated war, they also have a duty to assess every situation. Michael Hastings is not their spouse, clergyman, psychiatrist or even trusted friend; he is a journalist for a national publication. They should have known the difference.

Even though I never liked Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal and am happy that he is gone, the fault here is with the journalist. He should never have published these private conversations between the general and his senior staff. They were not for publication.

Journalists have the obligation to be sensitive to the moment and to know what should go to print and what to leave behind.

It seems obvious to me that an experienced general with political savvy knew exactly what he was doing when he made inappropriate comments requiring his resignation. He did not want to be remembered as the general who lost the war in Afghanistan.
891 2010-06-29 The old argument that health reform will lead to rationing of care has resurfaced in the debate over Dr. Donald M. Berwick’s nomination to run Medicare and Medicaid (“Tough Confirmation Battle Looming for Medicare Nominee,” news article, June 22).

The truth is that health care gets rationed every day by insurance companies that put profits ahead of patients. In contrast, Dr. Berwick has focused his entire career on improving the value of health care services.

Dr. Berwick is not merely a commentator or an academic. For years, he’s been on the ground, working with hospitals to help them improve care, prevent medical errors and save consumers money. He understands the need to provide doctors and patients with good information about their treatment options so they can make informed decisions.

As a nonprofit consumer organization that has been pushing for better health care for more than 70 years, we think that Dr. Berwick is a good choice to improve the safety and quality of health care for all Americans.

The writer is president and chief executive of Consumers Union, the publisher of Consumer Reports magazine.

If rationing means stopping 100,000 deaths from hospital-acquired infections every year, and another 100,000 deaths from preventable medical mistakes, I’m all for it. What better definition of wasteful government spending can there be than the billions of dollars of taxpayer money spent that rewards a system that every health care insider knows causes too much harm?

The writer led national quality and safety initiatives at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation for 16 years and is co-author of “The Treatment Trap: How the Overuse of Medical Care Is Wrecking Your Health and What You Can Do to Prevent It.”
892 2010-06-29 In the user manual for the new phone circulated in Germany, Apple says it reserves the right to forward data like the geographic location of individuals to other companies.

German privacy laws are among the strictest in Europe, giving individuals, including convicted felons, virtually total control over the use of their personal information.

Several Internet companies, like Google, Facebook and now Apple, have become ensnared in German regulations as they try to carry out business models that rely in part on the use of private information. On June 6, the German consumer protection minister, Ilse Aigner, threatened Facebook with fines if it did not improve the protection of information provided by German users of the social networking site. Ms. Aigner also said she planned to delete her own Facebook entry.

At the request of a data protection supervisor in Hamburg, Google disclosed in May that it had improperly collected 600 gigabytes of personal data, including fragments of e-mail messages and unencrypted passwords, on individuals around the world as it scanned home Wi-Fi networks while it gathered information for its Street View map archive.

The disclosure set off investigations in 12 countries and territories, including Germany, the United States, France and Spain. European regulators are pressing the company to hand over the data it improperly collected on their citizens.

Ulrich Staudigl, a spokesman for the German justice minister, said Ms. Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger had not threatened to fine Apple but had merely asked the company to inform state officials. Privacy laws are enforced at the state level in Germany.

Stefan Köpsell, an instructor in data protection at the Technical University in Dresden, said Apple could probably settle the controversy surrounding the iPhone 4 by obtaining the consent of German users before the data was forwarded.

“I think there is probably a fundamental conflict between some Internet business models and German privacy law,” Mr. Köpsell said. “But in general, evidence shows that most Germans are willing to participate if there’s a benefit.”

For example, 60 percent of households in Germany use a retail bonus card called Payback, owned by Loyalty Partner of Munich, which gives them points that can be used toward future purchases. By participating, consumers give the company the right to collect and market data on their purchasing habits, as well as send them advertising. “I would think the same would be possible for Apple,” Mr. Köpsell said.
893 2010-06-29 WASHINGTON — Federal food regulators took a tentative step Monday toward banning a common use of penicillin and tetracycline in the water and feed given cattle, chickens and pigs in hopes of slowing the growing scourge of killer bacteria.

But the Food and Drug Administration has tried without success for more than three decades to ban such uses. In the past, Congress has stepped in at the urging of agricultural interests and stopped the agency from acting.

In the battle between public health and agriculture, the guys with the cowboy hats generally win.

The F.D.A. released a policy document stating that agricultural uses of antibiotics should be limited to assuring animal health, and that veterinarians should be involved in the drugs’ uses.

While doing nothing to change the present oversight of antibiotics, the document is the first signal in years that the agency intends to rejoin the battle to crack down on agricultural uses of antibiotics that many infectious disease experts oppose.

Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, the agency’s principal deputy commissioner, refused at a news conference to give details about when the agency would take more concrete steps.
894 2010-06-29 I would like to begin by thanking my family, friends, and students who are here with me today. I thank them for all the support they've given me during this process and throughout my life. It's really wonderful to have so many of them behind me.

I said when the president nominated me that the two people missing were my parents, and I feel that deeply again today. My father was as generous and public-spirited a person as I've ever known, and my mother set the standard for determination, courage, and commitment to learning.

My parents lived the American dream. They grew up in immigrant communities; my mother didn't speak a word of English until she went to school. But she became a legendary teacher and my father a valued lawyer. And they taught me and my two brothers, both high-school teachers, that this is the greatest of all countries, because of the freedoms and opportunities it offers its people. I know that they would have felt that today, and I pray that they would have been proud of what they did in raising me and my brothers.

To be nominated to the Supreme Court is the honor of a lifetime. I'm only sorry that, if confirmed, I won't have the privilege of serving there with Justice John Paul Stevens. His integrity, humility, and independence, his deep devotion to the court and his profound commitment to the rule of law -- all these qualities are models for everyone who wears, or hopes to wear, a judge's robe. If given this honor, I hope I will approach each case with his trademark care and consideration. That means listening to each party with a mind as open as his to learning and persuasion and striving as conscientiously as he has to render impartial justice.

I owe a debt of gratitude to two other living justices. Sandra Day O'Connor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg paved the way for me and so many other women in my generation. Their pioneering lives have created boundless possibilities for women in the law. I thank them for their inspiration and also for the personal kindnesses they have shown me.

And my heart goes out to Justice Ginsburg and her family today. Everyone who ever met Marty Ginsburg was enriched by his incredible warmth and humor and generosity, and I'm deeply saddened by his passing.

Mr. Chairman, the law school I had the good fortune to lead has a kind of motto, spoken each year at graduation. We tell the new graduates that they are ready to enter a profession devoted to "those wise restraints that make us free." That phrase has always captured for me the way law, and the rule of law, matters. What the rule of law does is nothing less than to secure for each of us what our Constitution calls "the blessings of liberty" -- those rights and freedoms, that promise of equality, that have defined this nation since its founding. And what the Supreme Court does is to safeguard the rule of law, through a commitment to even-handedness, principle, and restraint.

My first real exposure to the court came almost a quarter-century ago, when I began my clerkship with Justice Thurgood Marshall. Justice Marshall revered the court and for a simple reason. In his life, in his great struggle for racial justice, the Supreme Court stood as the part of government that was most open to every American and that most often fulfilled our Constitution's promise of treating all persons with equal respect, equal care and equal attention.

The idea is engraved on the very face of the Supreme Court building -- Equal Justice Under Law. It means that everyone who comes before the court -- regardless of wealth or power or station -- receives the same process and the same protections. What this commands of judges is evenhandedness and impartiality. What it promises is nothing less than a fair shake for every American.

I've seen that promise up close during my tenure as solicitor general. In that job, I serve as our government's chief lawyer before the Supreme Court, arguing cases on issues ranging from campaign finance to criminal law to national security. And I do mean argue.

In no other place I know is the strength of a person's position so tested and the quality of a person's analysis so deeply probed. No matter who the lawyer or who the client, the court relentlessly hones in on the merits of every claim and its support in law and precedent.

And because this is so, I always come away from my arguments at the court with a renewed appreciation of the commitment of each justice to reason and principle, a commitment that defines what it means to live in a nation under law.

For these reasons, the Supreme Court is a wondrous institution. But the time I spent in the other branches of government remind me that it must also be a modest one, properly deferential to the decisions of the American people and their elected representatives.

What I most took away from those experiences was simple admiration for the democratic process. That process is often messy and frustrating. But the people of this country have great wisdom, and their representatives work hard to protect their interests.

The Supreme Court of course has the responsibility of ensuring that our government never oversteps its proper bounds or violates the rights of individuals. But the court must also recognize the limits on itself and respect the choices made by the American people.

I am grateful -- I am grateful beyond measure for the time I spent in public service. But the joy of my life has been to teach thousands of students about the law and to have had the sense to realize that they had much to teach me.

I've led a school whose faculty and students examine and discuss and debate every aspect of our law and legal system. And what I've learned most is that no one has a monopoly on truth or wisdom. I've learned that we make progress by listening to each other, across every apparent political or ideological divide.

I've learned that we come closest to getting things right when we approach every person and every issue with an open mind. And I've learned the value of a habit Justice Stevens wrote about, more than 50 years ago, of understanding before disagreeing.

I will make no pledges this week other than this one -- that if confirmed, I will remember and abide by all these lessons. I will listen hard to every party before the court and to each of my colleagues. I will work hard.

And I will do my best to consider every case impartially, modestly, with commitment to principle and in accordance with law.

That is what I owe to the legacy I share with so many Americans.

My grandparents came to this country in search of a freer and better life for themselves and their families. They wanted to escape bigotry and oppression, to worship as they pleased and work as hard as they were able.

They found in this country and they passed on to their children and their children's children the blessings of liberty. Those blessings are rooted in this country's Constitution and its historic commitment to the rule of law.

I know that to sit on our nation's highest court is to be a trustee of that inheritance and if I have the honor to be confirmed, I would do all I can to help preserve it for future generations.

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you members of the committee.
895 2010-06-29 “Forty days and nights it’s rained and rained hard,” he intones. “Them Mississippi’s tears: he still weepin’ for the arms of his daughter. And soon he will rise on a tide of them tears to embrace this land.”

No sooner has Old Lucas concluded this peroration than the waters have indeed risen and swept him away, as calamity threatens. Meanwhile LeRoy Percy (a crustily genteel Michael Siberry), the town’s leading civic leader and landowner, is hosting a party. He, too, has a bent for poetry.

“You hear that cry in the distance?” he asks his loyal housekeeper, Queen (Harriett D. Foy). “It’s the river’s song. I remember it from back when I was a boy. It’s blues: long and full of longing. Just listen. He says he wants to put his song in my ear and flood me.”

He is as good as his word, of course, but not before Mr. Gardley has introduced the rest of the play’s too ample cast of characters: LeRoy’s sensitive son, Will (Seth Numrich), who is actually a poet but whom his father will unwisely entrust with the management of the post-flood relief effort; L’Amour Mason (Stephen Plunkett), a handsome local bachelor on whom the gay Will has a secret crush; Joe Gooden (Dion Graham), the Percys’ obsequious bootblack, in love with Queen; his ladykiller son, James (Amari Cheatom), who runs a local juke joint; and the two women he is entangled with, the lighter-skinned Nana Pearson (Shelley Thomas) and the preacher’s daughter, Puddin Birdsong (April Matthis).

Once disaster has struck — symbolized awkwardly by the hoisting of various bits of furniture presumably swept up by the raging waters — the characters move through a series of choppy scenes detailing the personal hardships that follow the chaos unleashed by the flood. Mr. Gardley underscores how the mercenary interests of the white landowners subverted attempts to help the black population reach safety. If the workers were evacuated to safe territory, the landowners feared they would not return, and their workforce would be devastated. Will Percy, his humanitarian impulses at odds with the prerogatives of his father, is caught in the middle.

The cast is uniformly excellent, but the characters are too numerous to be drawn in depth. As a result, their tribulations have little emotional resonance, even on the unusual occasions when Mr. Almond’s songs are not merely decorating the story with gospel and blues but delving into the characters’ interior lives.

And the intertwining story lines prove too much for Ms. deBessonet, whose staging tends to be plodding, flat and unclear. Trying to marshal some assistance in depicting a disaster of this scope onstage, Ms. deBessonet also employs video sequences by Jeremiah Thies, featuring the familiar silhouettes of the well-known artist Kara Walker. But these “shadow film” sequences are often as indistinct as the storytelling and do little more than interrupt the confused proceedings.

Most compelling is some historical footage from the actual flood, which has a crude, raw power. These grainy glimpses of the rampaging waters inevitably recall the horrific images that blanketed the airwaves in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. The creators of “On the Levee” certainly had honorable intentions in seeking to explore a tragic historical antecedent of that more recent calamity, but the resulting play is more reductive than illuminating, history drawn in crude, dramatic strokes that do not so much amplify as obscure it.

By Marcus Gardley; music and lyrics by Todd Almond; conceived and directed by Lear deBessonet; sets by Peter Ksander; costumes by Emily Rebholz; lighting by Justin Townsend; sound by Leon Rothenberg; music direction by Mr. Almond; movement by Tracy Bersley; projections by Jeremiah Thies; art by Kara Walker; stage manager, Jane Pole; general manager, Adam Siegel; production manager, Jeff Hamlin. Presented by Lincoln Center Theater/LCT3, under the direction of André Bishop and Bernard Gersten. At the Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, Manhattan; (646) 223-3010. Through July 11. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes.

WITH: Amari Cheatom (James Gooden), Brian D. Coats (Buford), Chuck Cooper (Old Lucas/Rev. Booker), Maria Couch (Petulia Croserie), Harriett D. Foy (Queen Black), Dion Graham (Joe Gooden), April Matthis (Puddin Birdsong), Jacob Ming-Trent (Cephus), Seth Numrich (Will Percy), Stephen Plunkett (Foreman/L’Amour Mason), Michael Siberry (LeRoy Percy) and Shelley Thomas (Nana Pearson).
896 2010-06-29 Criminal complaints filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan on Monday read like an old-fashioned cold war thriller: Spies swapping identical orange bags as they brushed past one another in a train station stairway. An identity borrowed from a dead Canadian, forged passports, messages sent by shortwave burst transmission or in invisible ink. A money cache buried for years in a field in upstate New York.

But the network of so-called illegals — spies operating under false names outside of diplomatic cover — also used cyber-age technology, according to the charges. They embedded coded texts in ordinary-looking images posted on the Internet, and they communicated by having two agents with laptops containing special software pass casually as messages flashed between them.

Neighbors in Montclair, N.J., of the couple who called themselves Richard and Cynthia Murphy were flabbergasted when a team of F.B.I. agents turned up Sunday night and led the couple away in handcuffs. One person who lives nearby called them “suburbia personified,” saying that they had asked people for advice about the local schools. Others worried about the Murphys’ elementary-age daughters.

Jessie Gugig, 15, said she could not believe the charges, especially against Mrs. Murphy. “They couldn’t have been spies,” she said jokingly. “Look what she did with the hydrangeas.”

Experts on Russian intelligence expressed astonishment at the scale, longevity and dedication of the program. They noted that Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian prime minister and former president and spy chief, had worked to restore the prestige and funding of Russian espionage after the collapse of the Soviet Union and the dark image of the K.G.B.

“The magnitude, and the fact that so many illegals were involved, was a shock to me,” said Oleg D. Kalugin, a former K.G.B. general who was a Soviet spy in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s under “legal” cover as a diplomat and Radio Moscow correspondent. “It’s a return to the old days, but even in the worst years of the cold war, I think there were no more than 10 illegals in the U.S., probably fewer.”

Mr. Kalugin, now an American citizen living outside Washington, said he was impressed with the F.B.I.’s penetration of the spy ring. The criminal complaints are packed with vivid details gathered in years of covert surveillance — including monitoring phones and e-mail, placing secret microphones in the alleged Russian agents’ homes, and numerous surreptitious searches.

The authorities also tracked one set of agents based in Yonkers on trips to an unidentified South American country, where they were videotaped receiving bags of cash and passing messages written in invisible ink to Russian handlers in a public park, according to the charges.

Prosecutors said the “Illegals Program” extended to other countries around the world. Using fraudulent documents, the charges said, the spies would “assume identities as citizens or legal residents of the countries to which they are deployed, including the United States.

Illegals will sometimes pursue degrees at target-country universities, obtain employment, and join relevant professional associations” to deepen false identities.

One message from bosses in Moscow, in awkward English, gave the most revealing account of the agents’ assignment. “You were sent to USA for long-term service trip,” it said. “Your education, bank accounts, car, house etc. — all these serve one goal: fulfill your main mission, i.e. to search and develop ties in policymaking circles and send intels [intelligence reports] to C[enter].”

It was not clear what the intelligence reports were about, though one agent was described as meeting an American government employee working in a nuclear program. The defendants were charged with conspiracy, not to commit espionage, but to fail to register as agents of a foreign government, which carries a maximum sentence of 5 years in prison; 9 were also charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering, which carries a maximum penalty of 20 years. They are not accused of obtaining classified materials.

There were also hints that Russian spy bosses feared their agents, ordered to go native in prosperous America, might be losing track of their official purpose. Agents in Boston submitted an expense report with such vague items as “trip to meeting” for $1,125 and “education,” $3,600.

In Montclair, when the Murphys wanted to buy a house under their names, “Moscow Center,” or “C.,” the S.V.R. headquarters, objected.

“We are under an impression that C. views our ownership of the house as a deviation from the original purpose of our mission here,” the New Jersey couple wrote in a coded message. “From our perspective purchase of the house was solely a natural progression of our prolonged stay here. It was a convenient way to solving the housing issue, plus ‘to do as the Romans do’ in a society that values home ownership.”

Much of the ring’s activity — and the F.B.I. investigators’ surveillance — took place in and around New York. The alleged agents were spotted in a bookstore in Lower Manhattan, a bench near the entrance to Central Park and a restaurant in Sunnyside, Queens.

Secret exchanges were made at busy locations like the Long Island Rail Road’s station in Forest Hills, where F.B.I. watchers in 2004 spotted one defendant who is not in custody, Christopher R. Metsos, the charging papers say.

The arrests made a splash in neighborhoods around the country, as F.B.I. teams spent all Sunday night hunting through houses and cars, shining flashlights and carting away evidence.

In Cambridge, Mass., the couple known as Donald Heathfield and Tracey Foley, who appeared to be in their 40s and had two teenage sons, lived in an apartment building on a residential street where some Harvard professors and students live.

“She was very courteous; she was very nice,” Montse Monne-Corbero, who lives next door, said of Ms. Foley. The sons shoveled snow for her in the winter, Ms. Monne-Corbero said, but they also had “very loud” parties.

Lila Hexner, who lives in the building next door, said Ms. Foley told her she was in the real estate business. “She said they were from Canada,” Ms. Hexner said.

Another of those charged, Mikhail Semenko, was a stylish man in his late 20s who drove a Mercedes S-500, said Tatyana Day, who lives across the street from him in Arlington, Va. He had a brunette girlfriend and the young couple spoke to one another in Russian and “kept to themselves,” Ms. Day said.
897 2010-06-29 GlaxoSmithKline, Merck and Novartis have taken the top three spots again on the Access to Medicine Index, which ranks pharmaceutical companies on how readily they make their products available to the world’s poor.

It was the second time the rankings, which were created in 2008, have been issued. This time, 95 percent of the brand-name companies approached by the Dutch foundation that started the index agreed to provide information; two years ago, only about half did.

European companies slightly edged out American companies in the rankings, while the four Japanese companies ranked were at or near the bottom.

The companies are graded on many factors, including whether they offer lower prices or donate drugs in poor countries, whether they license generic versions of their products or fight to prevent them, whether they donate expertise or money to struggling health systems and whether they do research on neglected diseases.

Gilead Sciences and Pfizer rose several ranks from 2008.

Those falling in rank were Novo Nordisk, Bayer, Bristol-Meyers Squibb and Merck KGaA (a German company no longer connected to the Merck based in New Jersey).

The index, which is supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Dutch and British governments, Oxfam and other donors, also issued detailed “report cards” on 20 companies.
898 2010-06-29 Re “A Craving For Ice is a Sign of Anemia” (Really, June. 22): I am a retired pathologist and recall hearing of this association during my residency. However, as I remember it the pagophagia was felt to be the cause of the anemia.

One of the most common causes of iron deficiency anemia is continued microscopic GI blood loss, such as might be caused by continued minimal trauma to the gums and oral mucosa by the pagophagia. However logical that might seem, apparently it is the other way around. Interesting.
899 2010-06-29 People with high blood levels of the amino acid homocysteine are at increased risk for heart disease and strokes. But it has never been clear whether reducing homocysteine will cut the risk, and whether the substance actually causes vascular disease.

A paper published in The Journal of the American Medical Association says it does not.

The paper is based on a large, randomized, controlled clinical trial in Britain from 1998 to 2008. More than 12,000 heart-attack survivors were randomly assigned to take either a combination of folic acid and vitamin B 12, which reduce homocysteine levels, or a placebo.

After seven years, patients who were taking the vitamins had lowered their homocysteine, but did not reduce their risk of heart attack or stroke. They had the same rates of heart attack and death from vascular causes as those taking placebos, the study found.

The research “conclusively shows that these vitamins do not prevent heart attack and strokes as we had previously hoped they might,” Dr. Jane Armitage, professor of clinical trials and epidemiology at the University of Oxford, and one of the authors of the paper, said in an e-mail message. The study was financed by Merck, which makes both cholesterol-lowering drugs and vitamins; Merck supplied the vitamins used in the trial.
900 2010-06-29 Toddlers who get a vaccine that combines the measles-mumps-rubella and chickenpox immunizations are at twice the usual risk for fevers that lead to convulsions, a new study reports.

The risk for a so-called febrile seizure after any measles vaccination is less than 1 seizure per 1,000 vaccinations; but among children who received the combined vaccine, there is 1 additional seizure for every 2,300 vaccinated, said Dr. Nicola Klein, the study’s lead investigator and director of the Kaiser Permanente Vaccine Study Center.

The reactions, which occur a week to 10 days after vaccination, are not life-threatening and usually resolve on their own. The fever-related convulsions can be frightening, but they are brief and not linked to any long-term complications or seizure disorders.

To do the analysis, published this week in the journal Pediatrics, Kaiser Permanente researchers used the government’s Vaccine Safety Datalink, a safety surveillance system that compiles data on nine million members of eight managed-care organizations.

They compared seizure and fever reactions among 83,107 1-year-olds who had combined M.M.R. and chickenpox vaccinations with reactions of 376,354 toddlers who received separate vaccines.

“Unless parents have a strong preference for the combination vaccine, providers should use a separate vaccine,” Dr. Klein said.
901 2010-06-29 Doubts about Avandia’s safety have been growing since May 2007, when a study co-authored by Dr. Steven E. Nissen, chairman of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic, found that it increased the risks of heart attacks by 43 percent. An investigation revealed that the company had known about the possible increased risks for nearly two years, and the F.D.A. for at least a year, but neither had informed the public.

Since then, a debate has raged inside the agency about what to do, with some officials arguing that the drug should be withdrawn and others saying that it remains an appropriate option for doctors and patients.

A committee of independent experts found in 2007 that Avandia might increase the risk of heart attack but recommended that it remain on the market, and an F.D.A. oversight board voted 8 to 7 to accept that advice. Avandia was once one of the biggest-selling drugs in the world. Driven in part by a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign, sales were $3.2 billion in 2006. Last year, sales were $1.19 billion, and more than 2 million prescriptions were filled.

The study in the Journal of the American Medical Association was co-written by Dr. David Graham, an F.D.A. drug safety expert who has advocated for Avandia’s withdrawal. Using records for 227,571 patients in the federal Medicare program who were given either Avandia or Actos, Dr. Graham found that patients given Avandia had higher risks of stroke, heart failure and death compared with those given Actos, made by Takeda.

Dr. Graham’s study suggests that more than 47,000 people taking Avandia suffered a heart attack, stroke, heart failure or death from 1999 to 2009 who, if they had been taking Actos, would have been spared such health issues.

In an interview, Dr. Graham said that the only reason Avandia remained on the market was that those at the F.D.A. who had approved the drug in the first place “are going to defend their original decision.”

“We need to split up the people who approve a drug from those who oversee its safety” once it is on the market, he said. The agency is in the midst of an internal study of its safety decision-making process, Dr. Sharfstein said in response.

The second study, published in the Archives of Internal Medicine and co-written by Dr. Nissen, is an updated version of his 2007 study. Both were meta-analyses, in which information from multiple trials are combined into a single data set.

The study published Monday used information from more trials and more patients but came to roughly the same conclusion as the 2007 study — that Avandia increased the risks of heart attack by 39 percent and the risks of heart-related death by 46 percent. “It is really impossible to argue that this drug has benefits that exceed its hazard,” Dr. Nissen said.
902 2010-06-29 Indeed, over the course of 200 pages of opinions, the court did not even decide the constitutionality of the two gun control laws at issue in the case, from Chicago and Oak Park, Ill. The justices returned the case to the lower courts to decide whether those exceptionally strict laws, which effectively banned the possession of handguns, can be reconciled with the Second Amendment.

In Chicago, Mayor Richard M. Daley said he was disappointed by the ruling because it made the city’s handgun ban “unenforceable.”

“Across the country, cities are struggling with how to address this issue,” Mr. Daley said. “Common sense tells you we need fewer guns on the street, not more guns.”

Justice Alito, who was joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony M. Kennedy and, in large part, Clarence Thomas, acknowledged that the decision might “lead to extensive and costly litigation,” but said that was the price of protecting constitutional freedoms.

The majority offered the lower courts little guidance about how much protection the Second Amendment affords. In a part of his opinion that Justice Thomas declined to join, Justice Alito reiterated the caveats in the Heller decision, saying the court did not mean to cast doubt on laws prohibiting possession of guns by felons and people who suffer from mental illness, laws forbidding carrying guns in sensitive places like schools and government buildings, or laws regulating the commercial sale of firearms.

The important point was a broad one, Justice Alito wrote: that the Second Amendment, like other provisions of the Bill of Rights, must be applied to the states under the 14th Amendment.

Justices John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Sonia Sotomayor dissented. They said the Heller decision remained incorrect and added that they would not have extended its protections to state and local laws even had it been correctly decided.

“Although the court’s decision in this case might be seen as a mere adjunct to Heller,” Justice Stevens wrote, “the consequences could prove far more destructive — quite literally — to our nation’s communities and to our constitutional structure.”

Though the majority agreed on the outcome, its members differed about how to get there.

The Second Amendment, like the rest of the Bill of Rights, originally restricted the power of only the federal government. The Supreme Court later ruled that most of the protections of the Bill of Rights applied to the states under the due process clause of the 14th Amendment, one of the post-Civil War amendments.

Many constitutional scholars had hoped that the court would use Monday’s decision, McDonald v. Chicago, No. 08-1521, to revise its approach to how constitutional protections are applied to, or “incorporated against,” the states.

They argued that the court should rely not on the due process clause but on the 14th Amendment’s “privileges or immunities” clause, which says that “no state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States.” There is evidence that the authors of the clause specifically wanted it to apply to allow freed slaves to have guns to defend themselves.

But only Justice Thomas signed on for that project. Justice Scalia, in a concurrence, acknowledged misgivings about using the due process clause to apply Bill of Rights protections to the states but said he would go along with the method here “since straightforward application of settled doctrine suffices to decide it.”

Five justices wrote opinions in the case, with many pages examining the history of the Second and 14th Amendments. The justices in the majority said that history supported both finding a fundamental individual right and applying it to state and local laws.

The dissenters drew different conclusions from the historical evidence.

“The reasons that motivated the framers to protect the ability of militiamen to keep muskets available for military use when our nation was in its infancy, or that motivated the Reconstruction Congress to extend full citizenship to freedmen in the wake of the Civil War, have only a limited bearing on the question that confronts the homeowner in a crime-infested metropolis today,” Justice Stevens wrote in his final dissent before retiring.

He said the court should have proceeded more cautiously in light of “the malleability and elusiveness of history” and because “firearms have a fundamentally ambivalent relationship to liberty.”

In a dissent joined by Justices Ginsburg and Sotomayor, Justice Breyer said that history did not provide clear answers and that the empirical evidence about the consequences of gun control laws are mixed. But there was evidence, he said, that firearms caused 60,000 deaths and injuries in the United States each year and that Chicago’s handgun ban had saved many hundreds of lives since it was enacted in 1982.

All of that, Justice Breyer wrote, counseled in favor of deference to local elected officials in deciding how to regulate guns.

Justice Alito responded that many constitutional rights entail public safety costs, including ones limiting the use of reliable evidence obtained through police misconduct.

He also acknowledged that the majority decision limited the ability of states to address local issues with tailored gun regulations. “But this is always true,” he said, “when a Bill of Rights provision is incorporated.”
903 2010-06-29 The door to the patent office should remain open to those who create methods of doing business, the Supreme Court said in a long-awaited decision announced on Monday.

Many legal analysts had anticipated that the court would substantially narrow the rules regarding patents on business methods. The questions the justices raised during oral arguments in November made it clear that several were skeptical of the course of modern patent law.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor, for example, asked whether there could be a patent on a method of speed dating. Justice Stephen G. Breyer asked whether he should be able to obtain a patent for his “great, wonderful, really original method of teaching antitrust law” that “kept 80 percent of the students awake.”

The decision, however, closed off no options to patent seekers, though the justices unanimously declared that the process at issue in the case could not be patented.

The plaintiffs in the case, Bernard L. Bilski and Rand A. Warsaw, tried to patent a system that institutions like businesses and schools could use to hedge the seasonal risks of buying energy. The United States Patent and Trademark Office denied their 1997 application for a patent, and they filed suit.

The narrow question at issue in the case was whether a patent should be granted on processes that did not meet what was known as the “machine-or-transformation” test — that is, the process was not tied to a particular machine or did not change a particular article into a different state or thing.

The case, argued on Nov. 9, was among the decisions released on the last day of the Supreme Court’s term. The justices differed somewhat in their view of the legal reasoning in the decision.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who wrote the 16-page majority opinion, was joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. in saying that the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit was wrong to declare in 2008 that the “machine or transformation” test was the only appropriate test for patenting a process.

Justice Kennedy, however, wrote that “a business method is simply one kind of ‘method’ that is, at least in some circumstances, eligible for patenting.” Still, he added, the law “does not suggest broad patentability of such claimed inventions,” and so “we by no means foreclose the Federal Circuit’s development of other limiting criteria.”

Four other justices — Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, John Paul Stevens and Justice Sotomayor — argued in a concurring opinion written by Justice Stevens that a broader shift in patent law was called for.

“The court is quite wrong, in my view,” Justice Stevens wrote, “to suggest that any series of steps that is not itself an abstract idea or law of nature may constitute a ‘process’ ” under the law that may be patentable. The court’s logic, he said, “can only cause mischief.” The better result, he said would have been to declare flatly that “business methods are not patentable.”

The scale was apparently tipped by Justice Antonin Scalia, who joined in parts of the majority opinion, and also in a concurrence written by Justice Breyer.

Court analysts suggested that Justice Stevens wrote his 47-page opinion in anticipation of its serving as the majority view, but lost to those who favored a narrower result. “He was swinging for the fences to have something to be remembered for many, many decades to come,” said Yar R. Chaikovsky, a former patent lawyer for Yahoo.

The court, by pursuing a moderate path, has left much unresolved, said James R. Myers, an intellectual property lawyer in Washington. “The Supreme Court’s division generates a significant set of disputes about where the boundaries ought to be drawn,” he said, “and this case does not — and explicitly refuses — to draw the boundary.”

Manny W. Schecter, chief patent counsel for I.B.M., which holds business process patents but has urged the court to tighten the rules concerning them, said that the ruling did provide a measure of guidance.

“Because of this ruling, we know there are limits to business method patents,” Mr. Schecter said. “But the court declined to take an extreme position.”

That measured middle ground, Mr. Schecter added, was “exactly what I.B.M. argued for.”

The lawyer who represented Mr. Bilski and Mr. Warsaw, J. Michael Jakes, said that he and his clients were “disappointed by today’s decision” because they believed that the hedging method should have been patentable. “We are pleased,” he continued, with the broader message of the case — that business methods could be patented, and that process patents would not be limited to the machine-or-transformation test.

He said the patent application from Mr. Bilski and Mr. Warsaw would be reworked and resubmitted to the patent office.
904 2010-06-29 Doubts about Avandia’s safety have been growing since May 2007 when a study co-authored by Dr. Steven E. Nissen, chairman of cardiology at the Cleveland Clinic, found that it increased the risks of heart attacks by 43 percent. An investigation revealed that the company had known about the possible increased risks for nearly two years, and the F.D.A. for at least a year, but neither had informed the public.

Since then, a fierce debate has raged inside the agency about what to do, with some officials arguing that the drug should be withdrawn and others saying that it remains an appropriate option for doctors and patients.

A committee of independent experts found in 2007 that Avandia might increase the risk of heart attack but recommended that it remain on the market, and an F.D.A. oversight board voted 8 to 7 to accept that advice. Since then, the F.D.A., under the Obama administration, has expressed an increased concern over medical risks.

Avandia was once one of the biggest-selling drugs in the world. Driven in part by a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign, sales were $3.2 billion in 2006. Last year, sales were $1.19 billion, and more than 2 million prescriptions for the drug were filled.

The study in the Journal of the American Medical Association was co-written by Dr. David Graham, an F.D.A. drug safety expert who has advocated for Avandia’s withdrawal. Using records for 227,571 patients in the federal Medicare program who were given either Avandia or Actos, Dr. Graham found that patients given Avandia had higher risks of stroke, heart failure and death compared to those given Actos, made by Takeda.

Dr. Graham’s study suggests that more than 47,000 people taking Avandia suffered a heart attack, stroke, heart failure or death from 1999 to 2009 who, if they had been taking Actos, would have been spared such health issues.

In an interview, Dr. Graham said that the only reason Avandia remained on the market was that those at the F.D.A. who had approved the drug in the first place “are going to defend their original decision.”

“We need to split up the people who approve a drug from those who oversee its safety” once it is on the market, he said. The agency is in the midst of an internal study of its safety decision-making process, Dr. Sharfstein said in response.

The second study, published in the Archives of Internal Medicine and co-written by Dr. Nissen, is an updated version of his 2007 study. Both studies were meta-analyses, in which information from multiple trials are combined into a single data set.

The study published Monday used information from more trials and more patients but came to roughly the same conclusion as the 2007 study — that Avandia increased the risks of heart attack by 39 percent and the risks of heart-related death by 46 percent.

“It is really impossible to argue that this drug has benefits that exceed its hazard,” Dr. Nissen said.
905 2010-06-30 The House adopted legislation to revamp the nation’s financial regulatory system, in a party-line vote that illustrated how the partisan bitterness in Congress prevented cooperation even on the shared goal of averting future financial crises....
906 2010-06-30 Goldman Sachs has changed its tune, becoming more responsive to information requests from the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission since being subpoenaed, the heads of the F.C.I.C. said Tuesday, according to a report from Bloomberg News....
907 2010-06-30 Credit: Johan Spanner for The New York Times
908 2010-06-30 It's official: the players in the Nike ad have all bombed out of the World Cup. Write the Future? I'd be worried.......
909 2010-06-30 The co-founders of Getco, a big high-frequency trader, argue that the May 6 flash crash was a "wake-up call" for the securities industry to support stronger rules to ensure adequate liquidity in the equity markets....
910 2010-06-30 Oreo cookies is giving its Facebook page a global look. Another brand, Wheat Thins crackers, is starting a campaign to reward fans of the brand who discuss it on Twitter....
911 2010-06-30 Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann, the chancellor at the University of California, San Francisco, sold her stock in Altria after questions were raised about it....
912 2010-06-30 Rafael Nadal beat Robin Soderling to reach the semifinals at Wimbledon....
913 2010-06-30 Black playwrights raising money to create a festival to showcase their work...
914 2010-06-30 The bill appears designed to win bipartisan support - or at least enough Republican support to clear the 60-vote procedural hurdle to bringing legislation to a final vote....
915 2010-06-30 Winnie O'Kelley, Deputy Business Editor, and Graham Bowley, Business Reporter, analyze the Labor Department's June jobs report and the sluggish economic recovery.
916 2010-06-30 Andy Murray wins in a variety of ways, with superb defense and counterpunching, with deceptive speed and a knack for going on the offensive at just the right time,...
917 2010-06-30 Credit: Jakob Dall for The New York Times
918 2010-06-30 His new album does better than the next four on the chart combined, including new releases from Miley Cyrus and Ozzy Osbourne....
919 2010-06-30 With its new Mint Goals feature, Mint.com is expanding beyond budgeting and tracking tools to helping people figure out how to achieve their long-term financial goals....
920 2010-06-30 From The Caucus: The Senate will not be able to complete legislation to overhaul the nation's financial regulatory system this week, Senator Harry Reid said on Wednesday....
921 2010-06-30 All match long Roger Federer seemed to be searching for a consistent game plan against Tomas Berdych....
922 2010-06-30 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, conceded that he would not be able to schedule a vote this week without the unanimous consent of Republicans....
923 2010-06-30 The Interior Department has fined BP America $5.2 million for filing false reports about energy production on Indian tribal lands in southwest Colorado....
924 2010-06-30 The insurers' trade organization didn't join in supporting Donald M. Berwick, the nominee to head Medicaid and Medicare....
925 2010-06-30 A secretary for the Prince of Wales said the prince considers it his role to represent "the views of ordinary people" on architecture and urban planning....
926 2010-06-30 The aircraft maker will buy Argon ST to expand its capabilities in warfare and intelligence gathering....
927 2010-06-30 A TV news analyst says CNN depended for too long on Larry King and his once-formidable audience....
928 2010-06-30 U.S. companies could face as much as $1 trillion in additional costs as a result of new laws designed to reduce risks in the $450 trillion, privately traded derivatives market, a derivatives trade group said on Tuesday....
929 2010-06-30 Were regulators overly punitive toward American International Group and too forgiving of banks during the bailout? Recently disclosed documents indicate that may have been the case....
930 2010-06-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
931 2010-06-30 The labor market is recovering and will continue to do so, but slowly, an economist writes....
932 2010-06-30 A group of Lehman Brothers Holdings' creditors, including the largest U.S. pension fund and a prominent hedge fund, said they object to the investment bank's Chapter 11 bankruptcy plan, Reuters reported....
933 2010-06-30 A plan by Gov. David A. Paterson and New York legislative leaders to tax hedge fund managers from Connecticut and New Jersey could open up fund managers to double taxation and take some of the shine off New York as a hedge fund destination....
934 2010-06-30 Fears that the global economy will worsen gripped the financial markets again Tuesday, with downbeat economic news that investors might have shrugged off in calmer times sending the broad stock market tumbling to its lowest level this year....
935 2010-06-30 Investors took Tesla Motors on a joy ride Tuesday, with shares in the electric carmaker closing up more than 40 percent in its first day of trading....
936 2010-06-30 To undeceive, disabuse....
937 2010-06-30 The wave of selling that sent the world's stock markets sharply lower on Tuesday continued in Asia on Wednesday, with the Nikkei 225 down more than 2 percent by lunchtime in Tokyo....
938 2010-06-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
939 2010-06-30 Later victories included negotiating a voluntary school desegregation plan in St. Louis in the 1980s as well as deals with other school systems. In a statement Tuesday, the N.A.A.C.P. called Mr. Taylor “a staunch advocate for educational equity throughout his storied legal career.”

Starting in 1982, Mr. Taylor used his position as vice chairman of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights to help renew and strengthen some of the major civil rights legislation of the 1960s.

He headed a team of lawyers assembled by the conference that evaluated civil rights enforcement in the first year of the Reagan administration. In a 75-page report, the lawyers found that the administration had “repudiated” constitutional interpretations by the Supreme Court that protected rights and that it had attacked lower courts for protecting minorities.

“For more than half a century, Bill Taylor’s voice was synonymous with equality,” Representative George Miller, the California Democrat who is chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, said in a statement.

Mr. Taylor is also credited with helping to devise a strategy by liberals to defeat President Ronald Reagan’s nomination of Robert Bork to the Supreme Court in 1987, partly by recruiting well-known law professors to criticize him.

Mr. Taylor could sometimes be unpredictable, as when he openly supported President George W. Bush’s No Child Left Behind law to overhaul education. Liberal critics called the measure punitive, poorly financed and too oriented toward standardized tests.

William Lewis Taylor was born on Oct. 4, 1931 to first-generation immigrants from Lithuania in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn. In speeches over the years he said that as a Jewish teenager he had experienced anti-Semitism in a neighborhood that Jews shared mainly with Italians.

“I remember being pushed around as a kid and being called a ‘Christ killer,’ ” he once said.

He became aware of prejudice against blacks, he said, when he saw whites harass Jackie Robinson when he broke baseball’s color line in 1947.

Mr. Taylor attended Brooklyn College, where he was editor of the college newspaper. The college president suspended him for printing an article that the president had objected to; it said a professor had been denied tenure because of his political views.

A decade later, when Mr. Taylor was applying for a job with the federal government, Brooklyn College officials urged the government not to hire him. According to his F.B.I. file, college officials said that as a student he had “espoused liberal causes such as the rights of the Negro in the South,” The New York Times reported in 2001.

That year, in a gesture of both contrition and pride, Brooklyn College awarded Mr. Taylor an honorary degree. Christoph M. Kimmich, the college president, called him “a person who represents what this institution is about.”

Mr. Taylor graduated from Brooklyn College in 1952 and Yale Law School in 1954, wrote many articles and two books, and taught at the law schools of the Catholic University of America, Stanford and Georgetown.

His wife, the former Harriett Elaine Rosen, a trial judge in Washington for 17 years, died in 1997. In addition to his son, Mr. Taylor is survived by his daughters, Lauren and Deborah Taylor; his brother, Burton; and three grandchildren.

In the 1950s, Mr. Taylor was a popular contestant on the game show “Tic-Tac-Dough,” his son said. When producers offered him answers, which would have guaranteed his earnings, he refused. He later testified to a grand jury investigating quiz show fraud.The jury foreman, who had heard the testimony of other “Tic-Tac-Dough” contestants, informed Mr. Taylor that he had won more money than anyone else who had not taken answers. His son said that was a lasting source of pride.
940 2010-06-30 At the end of the American International Group ’s annual meeting last month, a shareholder approached the microphone with a question for Robert Benmosche, the insurer’s chief executive.

“I’d like to know, what does A.I.G. plan to do with Goldman Sachs?” he asked. “Are you going to get — recoup — some of our money that was given to them?”

Mr. Benmosche, steward of an insurer brought to its knees two years ago after making too many risky, outsize financial bets and paying billions of dollars in claims to Goldman and other banks, said he would continue evaluating his legal options. But, in reality, A.I.G. has precious few.

When the government began rescuing it from collapse in the fall of 2008 with what has become a $182 billion lifeline, A.I.G. was required to forfeit its right to sue several banks — including Goldman, Société Générale, Deutsche Bank and Merrill Lynch — over any irregularities with most of the mortgage securities it insured in the precrisis years.

But after the Securities and Exchange Commission’s civil fraud suit filed in April against Goldman for possibly misrepresenting a mortgage deal to investors, A.I.G. executives and shareholders are asking whether A.I.G. may have been misled by Goldman into insuring mortgage deals that the bank and others may have known were flawed.

This month, an Australian hedge fund sued Goldman on similar grounds. Goldman is contesting the suit and denies any wrongdoing. A spokesman for A.I.G. declined to comment about any plans to sue Goldman or any other banks with which it worked. A Goldman spokesman said that his firm believed that “all aspects of our relationship with A.I.G. were appropriate.”

Unknown outside of a few Wall Street legal departments, the A.I.G. waiver was released last month by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform amid 250,000 pages of largely undisclosed documents. The documents, reviewed by The New York Times, provide the most comprehensive public record of how the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Treasury Department orchestrated one of the biggest corporate bailouts in history.

The documents also indicate that regulators ignored recommendations from their own advisers to force the banks to accept losses on their A.I.G. deals and instead paid the banks in full for the contracts. That decision, say critics of the A.I.G. bailout, has cost taxpayers billions of extra dollars in payments to the banks. It also contrasts with the hard line the White House took in 2009 when it forced Chrysler’s lenders to take losses when the government bailed out the auto giant.

As a Congressional commission convenes hearings Wednesday exploring the A.I.G. bailout and Goldman’s relationship with the insurer, analysts say that the documents suggest that regulators were overly punitive toward A.I.G. and overly forgiving of banks during the bailout — signified, they say, by the fact that the legal waiver undermined A.I.G. and its shareholders’ ability to recover damages.

“Even if it turns out that it would be a hard suit to win, just the gesture of requiring A.I.G. to scrap its ability to sue is outrageous,” said David Skeel, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. “The defense may be that the banking system was in trouble, and we couldn’t afford to destabilize it anymore, but that just strikes me as really going overboard.”

“This really suggests they had myopia and they were looking at it entirely through the perspective of the banks,” Mr. Skeel said.

Regulators at the New York Fed declined to comment on the legal waiver but disagreed with that viewpoint.

“This was not about the banks,” said Sarah J. Dahlgren, a senior vice president for the New York Fed who oversees A.I.G. “This was about stabilizing the system by preventing the disorderly collapse of A.I.G. and the potentially devastating consequences of that event for the U.S. and global economies.”

This month, the Congressional Oversight Panel, a body charged with reviewing the state of financial markets and the regulators that monitor them, published a 337-page report on the A.I.G. bailout. It concluded that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York did not give enough consideration to alternatives before sinking more and more taxpayer money into A.I.G. “It is hard to escape the conclusion that F.R.B.N.Y. was just ‘going through the motions,’ ” the report said.

About $46 billion of the taxpayer money in the A.I.G. bailout was used to pay to mortgage trading partners like Goldman and Société Générale, a French bank, to make good on their claims. The banks are not expected to return any of that money, leading the Congressional Research Service to say in March that much of the taxpayer money ultimately bailed out the banks, not A.I.G.

A Goldman spokesman said that he did not agree with that report’s assertion, noting that his firm considered itself to be insulated from possible losses on its A.I.G. deals.

Even with the financial reform legislation that Congress introduced last week, David A. Moss, a Harvard Business School professor, said he was concerned that the government had not developed a blueprint for stabilizing markets when huge companies like A.I.G. run aground and, for that reason, regulators’ actions during the financial crisis need continued scrutiny. “We have to vet these things now because otherwise, if we face a similar crisis again, federal officials are likely to follow precedents set this time around,” he said.

Under the new legislation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will have the power to untangle the financial affairs of troubled entities, but bailed-out companies will pay most of their trading partners 100 cents on the dollar for outstanding contracts. (In some cases, the government will be able to recoup some of those payments later on, which the Treasury Department says will protect taxpayers’ interest. )

Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the F.D.I.C., has said that trading partners should be forced to accept discounts in the middle of a bailout.

Regardless of the financial parameters of bailouts, analysts also say that real financial reform should require regulators to demonstrate much more independence from the firms they monitor.
941 2010-06-30 “The only thing I look back on is that hole, really,” said Johnson, whose round of 82 was the highest in the past 99 years by a 54-hole leader of an Open. “I think that hole kind of sets the tone for the tournament. If I hit a good shot in there and have a decent look at birdie, I think it’s a totally different golf tournament.”

Perhaps it would have been. But Johnson learned things from the loss that he might not have learned from a victory. He received dozens of calls of support from friends and acquaintances, including Greg Norman — who knows the feeling — but whom Johnson knew only casually.

“I’ve only spent a little bit of time with him,” Johnson said, “but I got to spend some time with him down at the Shark Shootout last year, and obviously he’s been in my situation a few times. So it was nice just to hear to get a call from him.

“All of them told me that they learned more from times that they’d lose than they did from when they’d win. Golf is a learning process nonstop.”

That is a fact. June has been the cruelest month for 54-hole leaders. Four weeks ago, Rickie Fowler, 21, led by three strokes after three rounds at the Memorial Tournament, but shot 74 and lost to a charging Justin Rose. At the St. Jude Classic in Memphis three weeks ago, Robert Garrigus, 32, had a three-stroke lead going into the last hole, made a triple bogey and lost a playoff.

Then Johnson squandered six shots in three holes and never recovered at the Open. And last week at the Travelers Championship in Cromwell, Conn., Rose lost his three-stroke lead in a few holes Sunday, and Bubba Watson won his first event in a playoff over Scott Verplank and Corey Pavin.

In Memphis, Garrigus could not find a scoreboard and, thinking his lead was just two strokes, chose to hit a hybrid rather than a 4-iron off the 18th tee. His ball wound up in the water, and after a drop he hit a tree and wound up with a triple bogey. He lost a playoff and said he knew what Johnson went through.

“When you’re concentrating on hitting a shot and you hit one that’s completely out of your realm that you didn’t even expect to hit, your mind just starts spinning,” he said. “As soon as that happened, I was like, ‘O.K., slow down, take a few deep breaths, try and get back on track,’ and I really couldn’t get back on track after that.”

Johnson did not get it back on track at the Open, but he is back now. He said once he took off on a flight for his home in Columbia, S.C., he was thinking about things he had done right and moving forward.

“Yeah, I mean, it was gone when I left California,” he said. “It was a tough day, but golfers have tough days. It’s how quick you can get over them.”
942 2010-06-30 “All the Wes rumors are untrue, and he will not be at the meetings,” Maverick Carter, James’s longtime business manager, said Tuesday. “Wes has nothing to do with where he goes.”

Efforts to reach Wesley on Tuesday were unsuccessful. Carter will attend the meetings with James, as will Leon Rose, James’s agent.

What makes 2010 stand out is the number of teams that cut their payrolls in anticipation of this year’s free-agent class. At least a few of those teams are looking to sign not just one free-agent star, but two. And the efforts to pare payroll continued Tuesday, with the Nets trading Yi Jianlian to the Washington Wizards and the Heat waiving James Jones.

“There are so many potential free agents, there are so many more teams that have the ability to sign large contracts with free agents, we’ve never had anything like this in my time that I can remember,” said Rod Thorn, the exiting Nets president, who will remain around long enough to help the team try to recruit some of those free agents.

As Thursday approaches, the speculation mounts, along with the rumors. There were several news media reports that James and Bosh met with Wade in Florida over the weekend to discuss the possibility of joining him on the Heat. Those close to James denied that the Miami meeting took place; in fact, James was in New York at least part of the weekend. The Miami Herald reported that Wade had spent the weekend in Chicago.

Still, it was hardly unthinkable that such a meeting occurred. The three players entered the league together. Only of one of them, Wade, has won a championship, but that was with another franchise player, Shaquille O’Neal, as a teammate. James has reached the N.B.A. finals once but Bosh has never even made it to the second round of the playoffs. They have all been around long enough to learn one of the enduring lessons of the N.B.A.: even the best players need great supporting talent to win a title.

And even if James, Bosh and Wade did not meet in person, they could have talked things over in any number of ways.

“I think it would be naïve on anybody’s part to think that players don’t talk to each other, because they do,” Thorn said on Tuesday. “They text, they talk on a virtually daily basis. As to what they’re talking about, obviously, they’re talking about their futures.”

Wade has said that any number of the free agents would discuss their collective futures at some point as they explored their options. That drew a response during the N.B.A. finals from Commissioner David Stern, who said: “I was wondering whether they would get together, eight players, and they’ll all look at D-Wade’s ring. They’d be better off watching these finals to see how you construct a team and how you play and the like.”

Since free agency does not officially begin until midnight, a Miami meeting of James, Bosh and Wade raised the question as to whether it would constitute tampering on the part of the players. In the view of the league, it’s not an issue worth addressing.

“We have a rule that prohibits players from tampering with other players,” the N.B.A. spokesman Tim Frank said in a statement. “With that said, we understand that players talk and interact with each other all the time and there’s no real way to regulate that. We therefore reserve discipline only for the most egregious player-tampering cases.”

Meanwhile, as free agency approached, two players who have not been part of all the frenzied speculation made decisions about their futures. One of them, center Yao Ming, chose not to opt out of his contract with the Houston Rockets. The other, forward Dirk Nowitzki, did decide to opt out of his contract with the Dallas Mavericks, according to several news media reports. He is expected to re-sign with the team.
943 2010-06-30 One good measure of the intensity with which phone and cable companies dislike the Federal Communications Commission’s plan to extend its regulatory oversight over access to broadband Internet is the amount of money they are spending on political contributions.

Last month, 74 House Democrats sent a letter to the F.C.C.’s chairman, Julius Genachowski, warning him “not to move forward with a proposal that undermines critically important investment in broadband and the jobs that come with it.” Rather than extend its authority over telecommunications networks to broadband under the 1996 Telecommunications Act, they demanded that the F.C.C. wait for Congress to pass specific legislation.

The message parroted views held by AT&T, Comcast and Verizon — the biggest broadband service providers in the country. (Comcast warned that the F.C.C.’s efforts could “chill investment and innovation.”) Their executives and political action committees have been among the top 20 campaign contributors to 58 of the 74 lawmakers in the past two election cycles.

As the F.C.C. proceeds with its plan to regulate broadband access, it seems likely we can expect more of this resistance from members of Congress.

Political contributions from AT&T in the current election cycle reached $2.6 million by May 16, on the way to exceeding the total in each of the last three elections. The company has contributed to the campaigns of every Republican and all but three Democrats on the subcommittee that deals with the Internet in the House Energy and Commerce Committee. It has given money to more than half the members of the equivalent Senate panel.

Comcast has spent more than $2 million on campaign donations; Verizon has given $1.2 million. The National Cable and Telecommunications Association — the industry’s collective lobbying group — has spent about $1 million more. And just in case that isn’t persuasive enough of the ills of government regulation, telephone and cable companies spent $20.6 million lobbying the government in the first quarter of the year.
944 2010-06-30 MANILA — President Benigno S. Aquino III announced on Tuesday that he was forming a “truth commission” to look into allegations of corruption and human rights abuses by the administration of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo.

Mr. Aquino, who made fighting corruption his main campaign theme, was sworn in Wednesday. He said the commission, to be led by Hilario Davide Jr., a former chief justice of the Philippine Supreme Court, would pursue “any and all issues, including extrajudicial killings,” and “prosecute cases to make sure those who committed crimes against the people will be made to pay.”

He cited allegations against the Arroyo administration of vote-rigging and improper campaign financing in the 2004 election.

Human rights advocates have accused her counterinsurgency campaign of attacking peaceful leftists and causing the deaths of more than 1,200 activists.

A spokesman for Mrs. Arroyo said she “remains confident of once again being exonerated from these incessant charges.”
945 2010-06-30 The votes were again on party lines, with Democrats in favor and Republicans opposed. Senate negotiators voted 7 to 5 to approve the revised package, and House negotiators voted 20 to 11.

Democrats expressed frustration, saying they were adjusting the bill to meet the demands of centrist Senate Republicans only to face stiff criticism from Republicans on the committee.

“Frankly, I’m caught in the middle of an intra-Republican debate here,” said Representative , Democrat of and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, who presided over the conference proceedings with Senator , Democrat of and chairman of the banking committee.

The need to reopen negotiations was slightly embarrassing for Democrats and represented a price they had paid for rushing to complete the legislation.

had requested that the package be completed by the end of last week so that it could be sent to his desk before Congress went home for the Fourth of July. The proposed tax on banks was one of the provisions included as Democrats completed the bill shortly before daybreak on Friday.

But the Democrats were forced to change the bill after Senator , the Massachusetts Republican who had supported the Senate bill, said he would oppose the final version because it contained the tax on banks. Other senators who had supported the original Senate version also said they were unhappy with the levy on financial institutions.

Senate Democrats cannot advance the measure without the cooperation of at least some Republicans, and the death on Monday of Senator , Democrat of , who had supported the bill, further complicated the legislative math.

With the changes, Democrats said they were confident they would be able to muster the needed votes in the Senate, at least on the procedural motion to end debate. The vote on final adoption of the conference report requires only a simple majority.

But some Republicans who oppose the larger bill reacted furiously to the idea of using spending authority freed up by ending the Troubled Asset Relief Program before its scheduled Oct. 3 expiration.

Senator , Republican of and a member of the conference committee, noted that the asset relief program money was borrowed in the first place.

Mr. Gregg called the plan “pure deception” of taxpayers, who he said were promised that any money left from the program would be paid back to the . “I know this because I wrote it,” he said. “As this money comes back, we shouldn’t spend it.”

Mr. Frank said the full House could vote on the adjusted final bill as soon as Wednesday. But given procedural hurdles it seemed unlikely that the Senate could approve the measure before the holiday recess.

The Obama administration supported the change in the final bill, in part because of concern that the proposed fee on big banks in the financial regulatory measure would complicate Mr. Obama’s efforts to impose a separate, larger $90 billion bank tax over 10 years.

“We support the action taken by the conference committee today and we are committed to helping pass this bill,” said Amy Brundage, a spokeswoman. “The bill has been strengthened throughout this process.”

Mr. Brown was one of four Republicans to support the Senate version of the financial regulatory bill, which did not include the fee on banks and hedge funds. And he said he was frustrated that it was added to the bill by the conference committee.

In a letter sent Monday to Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank, Mr. Brown wrote: “If the final version of this bill contains these higher taxes, I will not support it.”

Senator , Republican of , who also supported the Senate version, made the same complaint on Monday but said she had not decided if it was reason to switch her vote.

Mr. Brown’s opposition to the bank fee may put him in an awkward position given that there were few popular options to pay for the legislation.

Democrats had argued that the fee on big banks and hedge funds meant that the wealthiest players on Wall Street would bear responsibility for the new regulatory environment necessitated by the past mistakes of financial institutions.

Mr. Brown, in his letter, complained that a tax on banks would be passed along to consumers. But using money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program opens him to criticism that he forced taxpayers to pick up the tab.

Heather Booth, director of Americans for Financial Reform, said she believed Mr. Brown’s reasons for opposing the bank fees missed the point of overhauling the regulatory system.

“Not passing this bill will cost taxpayers more,” Ms. Booth said. “It increases the risk in the economy over all.”

She said her organization believed the biggest banks — approximately 30 with assets of more than $50 billion that would be subject to the assessments — had fanned the opposition.

Senate Democrats need 60 votes to close debate on the conference report and move to a final vote. There are now 58 senators in the Democratic caucus, including two independents.

One Democrat, Senator of , has said he will oppose the regulatory overhaul because he does not believe the bill is tough enough.

Senator , Democrat of , who also opposed the bill, has not said how she will vote, but she could agree to help Democrats overcome a Republican by supplying the 60th vote on procedural grounds but then oppose the final measure.
946 2010-06-30 The story has all the elements of a thriller or, considering some of the details described in court documents, a sitcom about people who had fraudulent passports and used code words. The suspects had learned enough American slang to get by — enough, anyway, to start a sentence with the words “Everything is cool.” They had also been taught lines to recite, lines that only another spy was supposed to recognize and respond to, although some of those lines apparently came from an undercover F.B.I. agent who was pretending to be an employee of the Russian Consulate in New York.

The undercover F.B.I. agent told one of the suspects, Anna Chapman, to listen for this greeting at a rendezvous about a passport: “Excuse me, but haven’t we met in California last summer?”

“And you will say to her, ‘No, I think it was the Hamptons,’ ” the undercover F.B.I. agent instructed her.

The government said the suspects all worked for the S.V.R., the successor to the Soviet K.G.B. And for whatever they knew about the technology of spying — and the Justice Department says they knew a lot — they were well schooled in other tricks to avoid drawing attention. They took ordinary names: Ms. Chapman of Manhattan; Mr. Heathfield and Ms. Foley of Cambridge, Mass.; the Murphys of Montclair, N.J., where young neighbors realized the Murphys would put them in the spotlight. On Facebook, Joelle Capone, 12, wrote, “My neighbors were arrested for spying for Russia!!!! I’m going to be famous on TV!!!!”

And in Yonkers, there were Vicky Pelaez and Juan Lazaro. She was a columnist for El Diario-La Prensa, the Spanish-language newspaper in New York, and had earned acclaim in her native Peru as a television reporter. A colleague at El Diario-La Prensa, where employees said they were not authorized to talk about the case, said that Ms. Pelaez had written critical commentaries on American foreign policy. Mr. Lazaro taught a course in politics in Latin America and the Caribbean at Baruch College, and his students said he was a professor like none other.

The reason? His passionate denunciation of American foreign policy. He maintained that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were a money-making ploy for corporate America. He praised President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela and disparaged President Álvaro Uribe of Colombia as a pawn for paramilitary groups that have broad control over drug trafficking.

“He challenged us intellectually,” said one student who graduated in May. “He criticized a lot about what happens in the United States, and that’s what I think got some people upset.”

Someone was so upset that he or she complained about Mr. Lazaro, students said, adding that Mr. Lazaro had been let go at the end of the semester. Some students signed a petition seeking his reinstatement, but they said it had had no effect.

Thomas Halper, the chairman of the political science department at Baruch, said that Mr. Lazaro had been hired as an adjunct professor “at the last minute” for the 2008-9 academic year. He taught for a single semester because his instruction was not up to standard, Dr. Halper said. He added that he did not recall any brouhaha about Mr. Lazaro’s anti-American views or remember a student petition to keep him.

“We had someone observe his class, and that person didn’t think he did a very good job,” Dr. Halper said, noting that all new adjuncts were monitored.

El Diario quoted the couple’s 17-year-old son as saying the federal agents who took his parents into custody had interrogated him about their political affiliations and their finances — and about whether there were hidden places in the house.

“They knew my nickname,” he told El Diario. “They knew absolutely everything.” They knew, he said, that he was an aspiring pianist who was considering applying to music school, adding, “They asked me if I’d looked at conservatories in Russia, if I spoke Russian or German.”

One neighbor said they never seemed to rake the leaves in the backyard, a no-no among suburbanites who pride themselves on tidy landscaping. But they tried to make things right when there was trouble: One neighbor said that when a limb from one of their trees crashed into her yard, Ms. Pelaez stopped by to apologize. Ms. Pelaez even hired someone to remove the limb.

The Murphys in Montclair also fit right in.

When they moved in more than a year ago, they told people they had lived in Hoboken, N.J. The move to Montclair, they assured their bosses in Moscow, “was solely a natural progression of our prolonged stay here. It was a convenient way to solve the housing issue, plus to ‘do as the Romans do’ in a society that values home ownership.” Not that they themselves owned the house: “We didn’t forget that the house was bought under fictitious names,” the criminal complaint quoted them as telling Moscow. The price was $481,000.

The Murphys hired Mary Chalek to design the landscaping for their front yard, but after paying for Ms. Chalek’s preliminary designs, they hired someone else, Ms. Chalek said. Mrs. Murphy explained to Ms. Chalek that her family had run into some unexpected expenses while renovating the house.

Ms. Chalek said she had told Mrs. Murphy, “I get a lot of complaints from people because I charge what I feel I’m worth.”

Ms. Chalek said Mrs. Murphy had replied, “I get the same complaint all the time from people when I tell them the same thing.”

Ms. Chalek said she had asked Mrs. Murphy what she did for a living. Mrs. Murphy replied that she worked in the financial services industry.

She had told Elizabeth Lapin, who lives a few doors from the Murphys’ house, the same thing. And Ms. Lapin said that just last week, she had considered going to Mrs. Murphy for financial advice.

“But the F.B.I. got there first,” she said. “For someone who grew up during the cold war, this feels very strange. It’s suddenly my childhood breathing down my neck four doors away.”

It was Ms. Chalek who saw the wood in the living room. She described the rest of the house as “sparse.”

She said that Mrs. Murphy wore stylish clothes and left for a bus to Manhattan every morning, returning around 7:30 p.m. Ms. Chalek said she assumed that Mr. Murphy was a stay-at-home father because she saw him walking their two elementary-school-age daughters to and from the bus stop.

“We would talk about gardening and dogs and kids,” said Corine Jones, who lives nearby. “We would complain about contractors because they never got the work done.”

Neighbors said the F.B.I. descended on the house — 15 to 20 agents in black vans. The Murphys, led out in handcuffs, were put in separate cars. Neighbors said their younger daughter was home; their older daughter, who enter middle school in the fall, was at a friend’s birthday party. She was driven home by a friend while the raid was going on. She and her sister later left the house, carrying sleeping bags.
947 2010-06-30 Each side seems determined to channel public outrage over the Gulf of Mexico spill into local issues and larger ideologies. Already, the spill has become a potent subject in at least a dozen states, including some far removed from the disaster’s immediate effects.

In Michigan’s First Congressional District, for example, Gary McDowell, a Democrat, is campaigning for a permanent state ban on drilling in the Great Lakes. Though federal and state law already prohibits such drilling (Canada has 513 natural gas wells in Lake Erie), Mr. McDowell has argued that without greater protection, “Michigan’s waters could become the next victim of a tragic oil spill disaster like the one caused by BP.”

Farther south, in the Kentucky Senate contest, Rand Paul, the Republican nominee and Tea Party favorite, has run into trouble for the opposite extreme: Democrats and some Republicans have scolded him for calling President Obama’s criticism of BP “un-American.”

Meanwhile, oil company ties — however thin — have become pressure points for both parties. In Illinois, the Democratic Senate candidate, Alexi Giannoulias, has come under fire because an unpaid adviser once lobbied in Chicago for the arm of BP that builds gas stations.

In the Pennsylvania Senate race, Representative Joe Sestak, the Democrat, is accusing his Republican opponent, Pat Toomey, of putting “Big Oil ahead of the American people” after receiving $96,050 from the oil and gas industry since 1989. (Or roughly one-sixth of what Mr. Toomey has received from retirees.)

And, surprisingly, some of the most forceful television advertisements about the spill are appearing not in Louisiana but in Missouri. Secretary of State Robin Carnahan, a Democrat in a close race for the United States Senate, has combined horror-movie sound effects, oil spill video and a few comments from her Republican opponent, Representative Roy Blunt, in an advertisement that accuses him of supporting a “Big Oil bailout.”

Factcheck.org found the claim to be false, but the argument against Big Oil is now standard; the story line is also playing out in California, Pennsylvania, Texas and wherever else energy industry influence can be found.

Still, the spill is most clearly transforming races in and around the Gulf of Mexico. In Florida and other states that regularly deal with hurricanes, voters put a premium on disaster response. Emotion matters almost as much as policy, and candidates are scrambling to stand out.

Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida has gained more than most with a high-profile platform at a perfect time, soon after he abandoned the Republican Party to run as an independent for the United States Senate.

Mr. Crist has shown up repeatedly at Pensacola Beach, in short sleeves, with and without Mr. Obama, often with his hands on his hips and outrage in his voice.

Marco Rubio, now the lone Republican candidate, is still a strong opponent for Mr. Crist, along with the eventual Democratic nominee, either Kendrick B. Meek, a South Florida congressman, or Jeff Greene, a self-financed real estate mogul. Both Democrats have demanded billions from BP for cleanup.

But the spill has put Mr. Rubio on defense. He has repeatedly had to explain his support for drilling off the coast of Florida — a position now at odds with most Floridians, according to a recent Quinnipiac poll that showed a significant rise in opposition to drilling.

The spill may also realign Florida’s governor race. A month ago, Attorney General Bill McCollum seemed nearly nonexistent in his run for the Republican nomination. His self-financed primary opponent, Rick Scott, a former hospital chain executive, had been hammering him from the right, on immigration and other issues. Mr. Scott has outspent Mr. McCollum 16 to 1 on television advertisements, and become the front-runner.

Since the spill, however, Mr. McCollum’s campaign has been more energized. The attorney general has used his position as attorney general to dispatch a handful of officials to help Florida businesses with their legal claims against BP.

Mr. McCollum has also appeared several times in the Panhandle. At one point, at a news conference with a local Republican congressman, he held up a glass jar of brown, slimy tar.

“I’m frustrated,” Mr. McCollum said in an interview, asking why the Obama administration had not hired a Florida company offering oil-eating microbes, or why every available boat was not being used for cleanup.

“The overall impact is going to continue for a long time,” Mr. McCollum said.

Mr. Scott, the only candidate for governor who supports drilling for oil off Florida’s coast, declined requests for interviews.

He seems to be betting that Floridians will hand him a victory on the basis of his outsider status and his demand for stricter enforcement of immigration laws.

The spill and the response to it have also been a central focus for Alex Sink, the Democratic candidate for the Florida governorship. Ms. Sink, currently the state’s chief financial officer, has used the toxic mess to channel her inner, angry populist. When a BP executive appeared before her and other members of the Florida cabinet on June 8, she told him that the claims process was moving far too slowly.

“I don’t think speed is in your vocabulary,” Ms. Sink said.

All of these candidates have nearly bumped into one another on Florida’s soiled beaches. One local columnist, Howard Troxler of The St. Petersburg Times, even fashioned a satirical shoving match among politicians competing for attention along the oil-soiled coast.

Many politicians have expressed outrage over the spill, but a Senate candidate, Representative Charlie Melancon, Democrat of Louisiana, has also shed tears, when lamenting in a Congressional subcommittee hearing that “everything I know and love is at risk.” (A YouTube clip has been viewed more than 53,000 times.)

Mr. Melancon’s Republican opponent, Senator David Vitter, who is seeking a second term, has responded by claiming, incorrectly, that Mr. Melancon supports the moratorium on drilling that has cost Louisiana thousands of jobs.

More of this dramatic back and forth is likely to emerge.

“This is going to be used as the driving issue that defines the difference between Republicans and Democrats,” Senator Menendez said.

Thomas M. Davis III, a former congressman from Virginia who led the National Republican Congressional Committee from 1998 to 2002, put it more simply: “Politicians love to jump in front of a parade.”
948 2010-06-30 This morning brings us one of those slap-your-forehead moments, as we witness the head of a major sporting event grasp something so ridiculously obvious that if we didn’t slap our foreheads, we might be stuck for days with this dumbfounded look on our faces. So, read the story of Sepp Blatter, the president of FIFA, suddenly agreeing that there should be goal-line technology and admitting that the World Cup refereeing has stunk and just go slap yourself silly.

Up until now, Blatter has argued vehemently that incompetent refereeing is part of the charm of his global spectacle. He loved that fans can debate and agonize over the most blatant gaffes for years, and he loved it right up until the debate turned to whether anyone would hire Blatter to run a parks-and-rec league, much less FIFA. Graham Poll of the Daily Mail is clearly falling on the side of “no” in that debate and Poll is a former (and highly respected) World Cup referee.

Blatter’s apologies to Mexico and England are a good step, writes Dan Wetzel on Yahoo.com, as was his acknowledgment that goal-line technology is a no-brainer. Blatter did fail to mention that FIFA’s lack of brainpower is why goal-line technology isn’t already in place. Oh, and video replay? That’s still crazy 21st century thinking.

Changes cannot come too soon for people like SI.com’s Jack McCallum, who writes that the bumbling officials are ruining a great tournament.

That tournament, if you can still see it through all the forehead slapping, is quickly becoming all about Argentina and Brazil. On Monday, the Brazilians took their turn making another really good team (Chile) look like a parks-and-rec team, and although they are getting some criticism for playing a bit less-beautiful game than usual, Jeff Bradley writes on ESPN.com that the new style is working and that’s all that matters to Brazil.
949 2010-06-30 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Eight militants, including an Egyptian allied with Al Qaeda, were killed Tuesday in what residents and a Pakistani security official said was a United States drone strike in the South Waziristan tribal area near this country’s Afghan border.

The United States has intensified its campaign of drone attacks against suspected militants in the border areas of Pakistan, but most have been concentrated in North Waziristan, an area that Western officials consider the most important refuge for militants with Al Qaeda and the Taliban.

Tuesday’s attack was the second within a few weeks in South Waziristan after a lull that lasted months. Last October, Pakistan invaded part of South Waziristan to drive out militants; many who fled north are now returning south.

The drone was believed to have fired two missiles at a compound in a village near Wana, the regional capital. The Egyptian, Hamza al-Jufi, had lived in Wana for many years, said a fighter in the area who visited the site after the attack and spoke by telephone. Most of the other militants killed in the strike lived nearby, though two came from another province, Punjab, the fighter said.

The fighter said that the eight bodies were mutilated beyond recognition but that no one else was wounded in the strike, which leveled the compound in the village, Ghwakhwai. According to some accounts Mr. Jufi was leading a group called Jundullah, or Army of God, which Pakistani security officials said was involved in sectarian violence around the port city of Karachi.

On June 19, militants affiliated with Jundullah barged into the city courts there and freed three of their members from police custody while one arrested militant and a policeman were killed in an exchange of fire. The freed militants had been arrested by the police and were suspected of involvement in episodes of sectarian violence in Karachi.
950 2010-06-30 But investors have plenty of other things to worry about, too, perhaps none more pressing than the fragile state of the economy in the United States and the simmering financial crisis in Europe. This year has already been full of surprises. The economic collapse in Greece, the battles over financial regulation in Washington, the harrowing “flash crash,” the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico — all of this has frayed the nerves of Wall Street professionals and workaday investors alike.

The exuberance of 2009 — when a remarkable 23 percent rally seemed to bind up some of the wounds from the financial crisis — has long since faded. It has been replaced by a sense of economic uncertainty that many cannot quite seem to shake. In this atmosphere, just about the only thing the experts agree on is that this roller-coaster ride isn’t over yet.

“We have come through one of the worst downturns in most peoples’ investment lifetimes,” said Stephen F. Auth, chief investment officer at Federated Investors. “The market and the economy both pretty much crashed, and that was a searing experience for most people. So I think investor sentiment and psychology is very fragile.”

There have been few places to hide in the markets lately. Stocks, bonds and commodities are making big moves. A decline in Asia, as happened on Tuesday, quickly spills over to Europe and then the United States.

Peter Cardillo, the chief market economist for Avalon Partners, said the storm clouds that began to gather in the first quarter built into a thunderhead in the last few months. “Sovereign debt was present before the second quarter but the climax of it, the depth of it, actually exploded in the second quarter,” he said. “We did have a very dramatic market during the second quarter.”

According to Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst for Standard & Poor’s, as the broad stock market has declined, six S.& P. stock indexes that track particular sectors of the market have fallen 15 to 19 percent — nearly bear market territory. “So the question is: if new money doesn’t come in for bargains, should we set a place for the Bear at the Fourth of July barbecue?” Mr. Silverblatt wrote in a statement.

On Tuesday, the Dow Jones industrial average ended down 268.22 points, or 2.65 percent, at 9,870.30. The S.& P. 500 fell 33.33 points, or 3.10 percent, to 1,041.24, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 85.47 points, or 3.85 percent, to 2, 135.18.

Earlier Tuesday, the Conference Board reported that its consumer confidence index this month fell to 52.9, a decline of nearly 10 points. And the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller index of home prices posted just a slight rise in April, providing no signs of a sustained housing recovery.

All 30 of the stocks in the Dow industrials were lower. Boeing fell $4.26, or 6 percent, to $63.04 a share. Caterpillar was down $3.55, also 6 percent, at $60.85. Microsoft fell 99 cents, or 4 percent, to $23.32.

BP, whose shares have fallen more than 50 percent since the April 20 explosion of its Deepwater Horizon rig, actually bucked the trend. Its stock rose 2 percent.

With stocks in distress, investors rushed to the relative safety of bonds. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.95 percent, from 3.02 percent late Monday. It was the first time since April 2009 that yields had fallen below 3 percent. The price rose 19/32, to 104 22/32.

“I think it all goes back to this deflation trend that seems to be taking place,” said Tom di Galoma, the United States head of fixed-income rates trading at Guggenheim Partners. “The economic slowdown has created this deflationary environment and they don’t see how to get out of it,” he said, referring to investors.

The economic uncertainty pushed oil lower. The spot price for crude oil dropped $2.31, to $75.94 a barrel. Gold rose, with spot prices gaining $1.70, to $1,240.65.

Some analysts pinned their hopes for improvement on the coming corporate earnings season, or at least some prospect for economic growth in the second half of the year.

Sam Stovall, the chief investment strategist for Standard & Poor’s Equity Research, said investors were worried by financial reform and the environmental impact of the gulf spill, among other troubles. Hanging over all of this is the risk, however remote, that the American economy will stall again in a double-dip recession.

“What people are now worried about is whether this correction will morph into a bear market,” Mr. Stovall said. “If history is any guide it doesn’t look all that great.”
951 2010-06-30 At the end of the American International Group's annual meeting last month, a shareholder approached the microphone with a question for Robert Benmosche, the insurer's chief executive.     ''I'd like to know, what does A.I.G. plan to do with Goldm...