1 2009-03-01 Rescue groups deal with the fallout as horse owners struggle with the costs of trying to maintain their animals....
2 2009-03-01 No businesses appear to be immune from the global economic downturn, except perhaps the world's wealthiest soccer teams....
3 2009-03-01 The Knicks also missed the chance to select their point guard of the future: Duke’s Chris Duhon. He was taken in the second round.

The Knicks’ Nate Robinson recently achieved a new level of fame. He got his own Twitter impersonator.

“Tweeter?” Robinson said with a confused look.

Robinson was unfamiliar with the text-messaging service and unaware of his online impostor until two reporters mentioned it last week. But since Feb. 13, NateGreat has been sending tweets about everything from the slam-dunk contest (which Robinson won) to video games (which Robinson loves) to Pacific-10 basketball (he played at Washington).

The tone and content were convincing. NateGreat complained about the busy promotional schedule at All-Star weekend and dumb questions from reporters. He carried on extensive conversations with other Twitterers. His page included a link to Robinson’s official biography.

But Robinson was not, in fact, the one at the keyboard or keypad. The ruse was discovered by a Los Angeles-based blogger (jonesonthenba.com) who does work for Aaron and Eric Goodwin, Robinson’s agents.

Twitter suspended the account last week after being contacted by the Goodwins. The page has since been restored, with all tweets still there, but under the name NotNateGreat — and with all photos of Robinson removed. Twitter also suspended fake accounts linked to Dwight Howard and Kevin Durant, two other Goodwin clients.

Celebrity impersonation on Twitter has become common. In November, Shaquille O’Neal started The_Real_Shaq, in response to a fake Shaq, who was doing a brilliant O’Neal impersonation.

In November, the Nuggets traded Allen Iverson to Detroit for Chauncey Billups. The move has worked out well for Denver, with the Nuggets going 37-18 since the trade and leading the Northwest Division by two games through Friday.

Billups has done a nice job replacing Iverson’s production, averaging 18.5 points and 6.1 assists, and has also allowed the rest of the team to play well. Carmelo Anthony, the face of the franchise, has had his numbers dip from past years. But he is averaging more than seven rebounds a game for the second consecutive season and has provided needed leadership. NenÊ, the team’s center, has averaged 14.9 points and 7.9 rebounds after starting just one game last season.

On Tuesday, the Nuggets travel to Detroit to face Iverson and his struggling team. Pistons fans will get a chance to see Billups quietly leading his team to the postseason, just as they did for his last six years in Detroit. BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

Pistons fans have to hope that when Rasheed Wallace was ejected for throwing a towel into the stands during last Wednesday’s loss to the Hornets that it was not a metaphor for Detroit’s throwing in the towel this season.

Since ALLEN Iverson’s arrival, the Pistons have been largely up and down, but in February they seemed to find consistency — the wrong kind. Detroit went 3-9 last month, and lost eight games in a row before pulling out a victory in Orlando on Friday night.

One of the most glaring aspects of the slide has been the play of the second-year point guard Rodney Stuckey, who entered the starting lineup soon after the Iverson deal. In February, he averaged only 8.5 points (down from 17.3 in January) and shot 35.6 percent from the floor (down from 47.5 percent in January).

Coach Michael Curry said he would stick with Stuckey in the starting lineup, but if the Pistons are to make a push down the stretch, they will need him to be more aggressive on the offensive end.

Stuckey’s play is not the only thing that has hurt the Pistons. Other youngsters, like Amir Johnson and Jason Maxiell, have had disappointing seasons as well. As a result there are a lot of questions about the future.

How much faith does General Manager Joe Dumars have in his young players? Will veterans like Iverson and Wallace leave over the summer? In the meantime, the Pistons will square off against the Celtics on Sunday in Boston in a nationally televised game. FRED BIERMAN

Clemson civil-engineering students have devised a way to rate slam dunks. To the frame of the backboard they mounted a small box housing two accelerometers, which measure nongravitational acceleration and force. The results are broadcast on the scoreboard within 15 seconds.

N.B.A. fans may someday have the chance to see how a Dwight Howard dunk rates on this system. FRED BIERMAN
4 2009-03-01 Last Tuesday, Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, predicted that 2010 “will be a year of recovery.” On Friday, Americans learned that the gross domestic product fell 6.2 percent in the last quarter of 2008, suggesting that the recession may be deeper than anticipated. So when, exactly, will the misery end? When can we expect to see the economy turn around? The Op-Ed editors asked 11 experts to hazard a guess.
5 2009-03-01 THIS recession, which began in December 2007, has already lasted longer than the average postwar recession. If it turns out to be as bad as the most protracted of the postwar downturns, we will touch bottom next month.

But my strong suspicion is that we are now in something more like a Great Recession. It won’t produce as steep a fall in American output as the Depression did, but it may prove to be as prolonged.

The depression that began in August 1929 did not hit its nadir until 43 months later. The one that started in October 1873 was shallower but lasted 65 months. If the economy were to keep shrinking for that long, we wouldn’t start coming out of this until after May 2013.

Is that possible? This is a crisis of excessive debt, the end of the Age of Leverage. It will take longer than a few more months to resolve bank and household insolvency, especially with asset prices continuing to fall so rapidly. Even with zero interest rates and huge deficits, Japan suffered a “lost decade” in the 1990s — and that was when the rest of the world was doing well. This recession is taking place as the rest of the world is doing even worse than the United States. The collapse of trade as measured by East Asian export data is petrifying.

So far in this recession, remember, we have had only two consecutive quarters of declining gross domestic product. At the moment, I find it quite easy to imagine two consecutive years of contraction. And I don’t rule out two more lean years after that.
6 2009-03-01 THE fundamental causes of this recession, unique in the experience of the United States, were mortgage defaults and the consequent insolvency of major financial firms. These insolvencies, and especially fear of them, damaged normal credit mechanisms.

The self-correcting nature of markets will ultimately prevail. We should not underestimate the power of monetary policy; with the sharp increase in the nation’s money stock starting in September, monetary policy is now extraordinarily expansionary. I believe, though without great confidence, that the recession will end in the second half of this year.

Federal policy is damaging the economy’s prospects. It fails to provide the needed tax incentives for investment in factories and equipment, incentives that were central to efforts to revive the economy during the Kennedy-Johnson era and under Ronald Reagan. But government spending can’t lead the way to sustained recovery, because its stimulating effect will be offset by anticipated higher taxes and the need to finance the deficit.

Heavy-handed federal intervention into the management of companies from banks to auto makers will also delay recovery. And misguided efforts to help distressed homeowners by permitting courts to rewrite the terms of mortgages will cause banks to limit mortgage lending, which will prevent housing from contributing to the recovery.

The unrelenting anger across the country over bailouts of corporations and households that made unwise and even irresponsible financial decisions is influencing federal policy. Punitive measures, like forcing companies receiving federal dollars to cancel employee events, will increase uncertainty over where the government will strike next in its effort to deflect public outrage. Instead of more bailouts, we need a clear and consistent path to fundamental reform of our financial system.
7 2009-03-01 DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP) — Bangladesh’s military said 72 officers were still missing on Saturday after a two-day mutiny by border guards in which at least 76 people died.

Firefighters were still searching shallow graves and sewers at the border guards’ headquarters in the capital, Dhaka, where the bodies of senior officers had been dumped. Workers also scoured nearby areas, including a pond, in a search for more victims.

An army spokesman, Brig. Gen. Mahmud Hossain, said at least 33 officers had survived the carnage. He promised a thorough investigation and the prosecution and punishment “of the killers.”

The insurrection apparently erupted over the guards’ long-standing complaints that their pay had not kept pace with that of soldiers in the army or with the increase in food prices that has accompanied the global economic crisis. The guards make about $100 a month.
8 2009-03-01 “We watched the recession worsen by watching contributions day by day,” said Jack Rosenthal, president of the Times Company Foundation. “For two months, they stayed level or even a little ahead of last year. In the final month, they steadily declined, just as hunger and other needs increased. Now, by supplying funds from the Neediest endowment, we aim to raise the level of support for people in distress.”

From Nov. 9 until Feb. 6, articles in The Times and on its Web site encouraged readers to donate by mail or online at NYCharities.org. Donations were accepted through Feb. 10.

Though there was a 4 percent drop in total donors and a 5 percent drop in the amount given online this year, the number of donors giving online continued to rise, by 8 percent.

A portion of this online giving includes part of an annual drive conducted by young analysts from eight Wall Street firms. In January, several analysts from Goldman Sachs and Citigroup also delivered an envelope full of cash, checks and change to the offices of the Times Company Foundation. In all, the drive raised $140,706, of which $122,872 came from Goldman Sachs.

“Last year was a very, very different year,” said Ruben Salinas, a risk specialist at Goldman Sachs, referring to the amount raised by analysts in the previous drive, $189,260. “Everyone was doing well. That we came at all close this year speaks to our commitment to the fund.”

Anticipating a challenging fund-raising year, Mr. Salinas and his colleagues reached out earlier and more persistently to the firm’s first-year analysts, ultimately involving more than 130 volunteers — more than double the roughly 60 who were recruited the previous year.

Volunteers held a Nintendo Wii tournament in which, for an entrance fee, participants competed in bowling, tennis and boxing matches. They also arranged for employees to buy casual-dress days and conducted a “Biggest Loser” competition, in which, also for a fee, analysts vied to lose the most weight. “I won’t say we all lost weight, but we all signed up,” Mr. Salinas said.

The Neediest Cases Fund also received donations from a number of trusts and estates. Contributions of $100,000 or more from trusts and estates are invested in the Neediest Cases endowment.

Last year, $1 million from the endowment went to help families affected by the subprime mortgage crisis. The Subprime Neediest Cases Fund — which the Children’s Aid Society administered on behalf of all seven participating agencies — has come to the aid of 60 families, helping 23 homeowners and 23 tenants to relocate after foreclosure or eviction, and saving 14 homes from foreclosure.

Qiana Haywood, 29, and her grandmother, Doris Canales, 73, are one such family. When an article about them ran in November, they had not yet heard whether their bank would accept a modification of their mortgage — the Subprime Neediest Cases Fund paid the modification fee — that would lower their monthly payments to an amount they could afford. Less than two months later, word came that their bank had forgiven their second mortgage and cut their interest rate, allowing them to keep their home.

While many homes were saved by the Subprime Neediest Cases Fund, which continues through 2009, one was kept intact by a donor. The day an article about her appeared, Tracy Young, 37, died of colon cancer. Ms. Young’s greatest concern had been that her two sons — Jamal Perry, 16, and Andre Steinberg, 19 — stay in the family’s apartment. The rent is subsidized by Section 8, leaving the boys responsible for $192 a month. After reading the article, a donor offered to pay the boys’ rent for a year.

The campaign also changed lives in ways transcending a dollar amount.

Patrice Mbekeli, 35, who had won political asylum after fleeing repression in his native Cameroon, could not find work, despite a degree in mathematics and computer science. Soon after an article about him appeared, Mr. Mbekeli was offered a position as a maintenance man at an apartment complex in Odessa, Tex. He is there now, sharing an apartment with another employee and making steady contributions to a savings account, with the intention of bringing his wife and four children to join him before the end of the year.

“My hope to make my dreams come true is more powerful than ever,” Mr. Mbekeli said in a telephone interview. “And I see that when my family will be here, we will be happy here together.”
9 2009-03-01 LAKELAND, Fla. — With five weeks of spring training remaining, Johan Santana’s left elbow is already generating regular-season intrigue. Santana skipped his first exhibition start on Friday because of tightness in his elbow, and on Saturday morning, he cast doubt on his status as the Mets’ opening day starter.

“If it’s going to be me or somebody else, it’s tough to say,” he said. “But right now, on paper, I’m supposed to be the one.”

Santana said that he was receiving treatment, but that he had not been sent for a magnetic resonance imaging scan. He is scheduled to throw a light bullpen session Sunday — perhaps 30 to 35 pitches at a reduced intensity — before team doctors determine their next course of action to deal with his triceps tendon.

“We talked about taking everything easy and not going crazy,” Santana said, referring to a 40-minute discussion with Manager Jerry Manuel and General Manager Omar Minaya. “Jerry will make a decision on when I will pitch again, and in the meantime, I’m going to get myself ready. He doesn’t want me to put myself in any situation where it gets any worse.”

Since Friday, Manuel has played down any possible injury and has insisted that he has the time and responsibility to handle Santana’s discomfort slowly. Manuel added that as long as an injury did not decrease the total number of starts he made this season, then it hardly mattered whether Santana could pitch the first game, April 6 in Cincinnati.
10 2009-03-01 In 2005, George Mason became one of the first American universities to open a branch campus in the United Arab Emirates — but in May, it will become the first to close its campus there, never having graduated a single student.

“Our partners there changed their policy three months ago with regard to the amount of subsidy they were willing to provide,” said Peter N. Stearns, the university’s provost. “They did not tell me directly, ‘We’re getting hit, you have to understand our situation,’ but given the timing, I think it’s fair to say this was about the economy.”

George Mason has struggled since it opened its branch in Ras al Khaymah, an emirate with neither the dazzle of Dubai nor the oil wealth of Abu Dhabi.

It never attracted many students, with about 120 in degree programs and 60 in its English-language program. None of the faculty members came from the home campus, there was constant turnover in the leadership, and the branch had not completed the lengthy process of gaining local accreditation.

In recent years, many American universities have been drawn to the Persian Gulf by lucrative deals in which a local entity — in this case, a government-supported foundation — provides all of the infrastructure and financial support, and the American university oversees the academic program.
11 2009-03-01 “The performance has been horrible, which is why the dividends are so great,” said Rob Ivanoff, an E.T.F. and mutual fund analyst for the Financial Research Corporation, explaining that high dividend yields can also indicate high risk (as in high-yielding junk bonds).

Scott Burns, the director of E.T.F. analysis at Morningstar and the editor of Morningstar ETFInvestor, offered a similar observation and called the real estate sector right now “a speculative investment, at best.”

“Usually when the yield climbs above 7 or 8 percent it starts to mean distress,” Mr. Burns said, which also means that such a yield may not be sustainable. There’s always the possibility, for example, that the companies in the fund may cut or suspend their dividends, or, worse, cease operations.

Mr. Burns noted that in contrast, the SPDR S & P 500 E.T.F., which has the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index as its benchmark, is yielding just 3.3 percent.

Share prices of real estate-focused E.T.F.’s, which trade like individual stocks, have fallen sharply in recent months, largely because of the steep losses sustained by real estate investment trusts, or REITs, that make up the bulk of their holdings. Most REITs have been hurt by the slumping commercial real estate market and the continuing credit crisis. The dividend yields (for equity REITs) have shot up as well, to an average of 9.9 percent as of Thursday, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts.

Real estate E.T.F.’s posted negative returns of 59 percent, on average, in 2008, and negative 28 percent from Jan. 1 through Thursday, according to Morningstar. By contrast, the average loss for all equity E.T.F. SPDRs (pronounced “spiders”) was 32 percent last year, and 16 percent so far this year.

Not surprisingly, the best-performing real estate E.T.F. has been ProShares UltraShort Real Estate, which bets against the indexes. It is up 57 percent so far this year, according to Morningstar, though last year it was off 16 percent.

The iShares FTSE Nareit Mortgage REITs Index fund also fared better than most, down 16.5 percent so far this year, though it was off 42 percent for 2008. This E.T.F. holds a portfolio of REITs that invest in mortgages; it includes Annaly Capital Management, which has benefited from the government bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

The largest real estate E.T.F by assets, iShares Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate, which holds shares of REITs like the Simon Property Group, Annaly Capital and Vornado Realty Trust, is down 31.9 percent so far this year. (IShare E.T.F.’s are managed by Barclays Global Investors.)

Despite the speculative nature of real estate E.T.F.’s, not all market watchers are ready to dismiss them, especially when they consider the investment alternatives — or lack thereof.

“Look at the historically low interest rates, and things like money market funds and what they’re paying,” said Tom Lydon, the editor of ETF Trends and author of “iMoney: Profitable ETF Strategies for Every Investor.”

“If you have the staying power and room to have real estate in your portfolio, this is something to consider,” he said of E.T.F.’s.

Simon Maierhofer, a co-founder of ETFguide.com, agreed. “If you’re going to invest in equities right now, it definitely makes sense to invest in something that pays a cash incentive,” he said, “but also be aware that the highest cash incentive comes with risk and if it sounds too good to be true, it often is too good to be true.”

Mr. Burns called the E.T.F.’s “a shot-in-the-dark sector right now,” but added, “Everyone has to assess what their risk tolerance is; that’s the big learning lesson of 2008.”

That said, those who are still willing to take a gamble should choose their funds carefully.

First, there are expenses to consider. One advantage of owning an E.T.F over, say, a similarly focused index mutual fund is lower fees. The average expense ratio for all exchange-traded funds is 0.58 percent, or $5.80 for each $1,000 invested, according to Morningstar. (The numbers, though, can vary — in some cases from as low as 0.07 percent to as high as 4.33 percent, which is often the case with more specialized funds.)

By comparison, the average expense ratio is 0.80 percent for an index mutual fund and 1.26 percent for an actively managed mutual fund.

Investors must also decide how specialized they want to be. E.T.F.’s represent a basket of securities that track an index, like the S.& P. 500 or, in the case of the real estate funds, the Dow Jones U.S. Real Estate Index. (They are not actively managed and behave much like index mutual funds, trying to match the performance of various indexes.)

While many E.T.F.’s follow broad indexes, some focus on specific niches. Those funds include iShares FTSE Nareit Residential Index, iShares FTSE Nareit Industrial/Office Index and SPDR S.& P. Homebuilders, which tries to replicate the performance of the S.& P. Homebuilders Select Industry Index.

With share prices low, “these could be good vehicles,” Mr. Lydon said, “at that point in time when you think that real estate may have hit its bottom.”
12 2009-03-01 “Think of it as your Plan B,” said Ernest M. Ankrim, senior markets adviser for Russell Investments. “It’s a subdued asset relative to stocks but which has the possibility of giving me decent returns if the economy improves.”

To be sure, corporate bonds could still lose money, especially if an economic recovery doesn’t materialize quickly. This is particularly true among so-called high-yield or junk bonds, non-investment-grade debt of companies with worrisome balance sheets. Last year, the average high-yield bond fund lost a whopping 26 percent, according to the research firm Morningstar.

That’s why some strategists emphasize higher-quality debt. Even so, the average intermediate-term investment grade bond fund fell by nearly 5 percent in 2008, and many portfolios lost more than 15 percent. Still, in relative terms, that was a far cry from the 37 percent loss suffered by stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, Mr. Ankrim said.

This strategy is timely, he added, because falling stock prices and rising market volatility continue to deter investors from rebalancing portfolios by shifting more heavily into equities.

“Rebalancing may be too much to ask of some investors who’ve lost more than 50 percent,” he said.

Moreover, there are some unusually good values among investment-grade corporate bonds — assuming, of course, that the economy is on track for a recovery sometime soon.

As corporate bond prices have sunk, their yields have soared. How much? Since 1989, the difference in yields between 10-year Treasury securities and 10-year corporate bonds with a Baa-rating — the lowest rung among the so-called investment-grade bonds — has averaged about 1.9 percentage points, Mr. Ankrim noted. But thanks to the heightened fear in the financial markets, this yield spread jumped to as 7.4 percentage points late last year. So far this year, it remains well above six points.

With 10-year Treasury notes yielding 3.0 percent, this means you can find some high-quality corporate bonds yielding 9 percent, around the historical return of blue-chip stocks.

Now, consider the possibility that the recession ends fairly soon. In that case, the spread between Treasury and corporate bond yields would likely narrow — and corporate bond prices would generally rise.

The combination of price appreciation and healthy yields would lead to solid total returns for corporate bond investors, said Robert D. Arnott, chairman of the investment management firm Research Affiliates.

Of course, there’s also a substantial possibility that the economy will look bleaker in the months ahead.

“Suppose the economy turns out to be worse than the Great Depression,” Mr. Arnott said. In that case, he said, “stocks fall in half again, but the bonds will hold up better.”

Why? As long as the bond issuer stays in business, you’re likely to get generous payouts regardless of economic conditions. And should the company go under, you’ll still recoup more of your assets than equity investors because bondholders enjoy preferential status under bankruptcy laws.

This is only a tactical strategy based on current market conditions. Once the economy starts showing signs of real improvement — and as corporate bond spreads narrow — investors must reassess their appetite for risk and think about moving this ersatz allocation back into equities, Mr. Ankrim and Mr. Arnott said.

INVESTORS should also consider the risk in keeping too much of this money in corporate bonds for too long.

Robert L. Rodriguez, chief executive of First Pacific Advisors and co-manager of the FPA New Income fund, warns that with all the monetary and fiscal stimulus being deployed, inflation is likely to make a significant comeback sometime within the next three to five years.

And though many stock investors fear inflation, bondholders traditionally hate it even more. That’s because rising prices can eat away at a greater portion of the modest returns that bonds typically deliver.

So if investors are planning to rebalance into corporate bonds instead of stock, they should select a fixed-income manager who favors shorter-term securities.

“Or, if you buy the bonds directly, keep your maturities no longer than about five years,” Mr. Rodriguez said.

“If I’m correct, and inflation is coming back,” he said, “then you want to be defensive.”
13 2009-03-01 Boro went ahead after 32 minutes when Stewart Downing’s cross hit Xabi Alonso’s thigh and flew in for an own goal.

The second goal came after 64 minutes, when Jeremie Aliadiere cut the ball back for striker Tuncay Sanli, who converted.

FERGUSON SPARKS RANGERS Barry Ferguson kept Glasgow Rangers on top of the Scottish Premier League with his first goal of the season in a 1-0 win at his hometown club Hamilton.

Ferguson scored 10 minutes before halftime for Rangers, who are tied with Celtic at the top with 60 points but hold a slim edge on goal differential. Celtic thrashed St. Mirren, 7-0, as the Japanese international Shunsuke Nakamura scored three goals.

Madjid Bougherra knocked down a cross from the Northern Ireland midfielder Steven Davis, and Ferguson, the Rangers’ captain and a member of Scotland’s national team, struck a left-foot drive into the bottom corner to score his first goal since last May.

Hamilton would have found itself down two goals by the break were it not for the heroics of goalkeeper Tomas Cerny, who palmed a Kenny Miller header onto the crossbar.

Hamilton put on the pressure after the break, but it could not turn territorial advantage into clear chances, and Rangers were able to hold out.(AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

BOARD SUPPORTS MORE REFS International soccer officials, meeting in Newcastle, Northern Ireland, agreed to have one of the world’s top leagues experiment with having an extra assistant referee behind each goal beginning next season.

Italy and France have already volunteered to host the trial approved by the International Football Association board, which is composed of members from the four British associations (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) and four from FIFA.

Even as the board moved ahead with the plan to rule on disputed goals, it also agreed to revive investigations into whether technology would be a better solution — a year after halting all experiments.

The board rejected proposals to allow a fourth substitute in extra time and to look at implementing a penalty box sin bin for yellow card offenders.

FIFA’s proposal to extend halftime to 20 minutes, from 15 minutes, was also dropped from the agenda. (AP)
14 2009-03-01 Instead, overall crime has dropped nearly 30 percent in the last seven years, he said, and in 2007 the lowest number of killings was recorded since the city started keeping what it considers reliable records, about four decades ago.

“There’s a lot of predictions that crime is going to go up as a result of the economic crisis,” Mr. Kelly said on Friday during a news conference to announce an arrest in the fatal beating of an Ecuadorean immigrant in December.

“The fact of the matter is that hasn’t happened,” Mr. Kelly said. “The fact is we’re down 14 percent, and we’re down in every category across the city.”

Criminologists warn that it can be misleading to analyze crime data for short periods of time and say that clusters of murders can occur during periods of overall crime decreases.

Still, after the first two months of 2009, Paul J. Browne, the department’s chief spokesman, said that murders in the city are down slightly. As of Feb. 25, there were 55 homicides in the city, Mr. Browne said, compared with 66 in the same period a year go, a 17 percent decrease.

Despite a recent surge in violence, crime in East New York, which is part of the 75th Precinct, is mirroring the citywide trend: It is down 14 percent.

“It is flat in every category,” Mr. Kelly said. “It is actually flat, as far as homicides are concerned. It is down as far as shootings are concerned.”

But crime statistics and people’s feelings about public safety “are not perfectly correlated,” Professor Smith said.

“People have had this longtime misconception that crime came down in New York City because the economy improved, and I have been telling people that it is just the reverse — the economy improved after crime went down,” Professor Smith said. “Hotel occupancy went up after crime went down. Airport arrivals went up after crime went down. Employment went up after crime went down.”

Thomas A. Reppetto, a police historian and a retired commander in the Chicago Police Department, said a city becoming less safe because of a sputtering economy was not something that would occur quickly. Even if stores were going out of business and being boarded up, reversing the revitalization of certain neighborhoods, it would not happen “overnight.”

A key issue is whether the city, facing a multibillion-dollar budget deficit, would be able to sustain the Police Department’s size or be able to provide money for hiring or overtime costs. Mr. Kelly said he would like to have more officers, and expressed hope that the federal stimulus package would contain grant money for new hires.

Mr. Reppetto said he believed crime would continue declining this year. “For 2009, if the police receive some additional things because of federal money, and if they continue to carry out the strategies they have carried out, you will not see a significant rise in crime; indeed, it will probably go down,” he said. “But if there is going to be a prolonged depression, recession, then we have to think about other scenarios.”

Mr. Reppetto said predictions about “the fall of the Big Apple” were made in 1990, when homicides hit their peak at 2,245, and, “murder gangs with machine guns” roamed the streets.

“I got calls galore,” Mr. Reppetto said. “Is this the end of New York? Is New York finished? The BBC wanted to know what was going on.”

In Bedford-Stuyvesant, outside 117 Van Buren Street, where two people were killed late Thursday, residents said it was hard to tell if they were at the threshold of a new era of lawlessness. But they spoke of their anger over crime and those responsible.

“The kids around here don’t feel like they have any other choice,” said Renee Taylor, 21, who works as a security guard. “There’s definitely more robberies lately. That’s getting popular now. People will knock right on the door with a gun. You can tell them some sob story about being broke, but they’re just going to get mad at you.”

A friend, Jessica Paige, 21, offered a simple theory about why people turn to crime: “It’s a money thing.”
15 2009-03-01 “Socialism is something new for us to hit Obama over the head with,” said Joshua Bolin of Augusta, Ga., who founded a Web site, “Reagan.org,” which he calls a conservative analog to the liberal MoveOn.org.

Of course, there is nothing remotely new about “socialism,” or the willingness of conservatives to hit the opposition over the head with the term, just as the name callers among the liberals have bludgeoned conservatives as “fascists,” “fundamentalists” and “plutocrats” and whatnot for decades.

But the socialist bogey-mantra has made a full-scale return after a long stretch of relative dormancy.

The contemporary era of socialist demonizing dates to the general election campaign between Mr. Obama and John McCain. Mr. McCain and his running mate, Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, repeatedly accused Mr. Obama of wanting to “spread the wealth,” an offshoot of Mr. Obama’s caught-on-tape exchange with an Ohio plumber (i.e. “Joe the,” last seen signing copies of his new book at CPAC).

“Socialism” became a star of subsequent McCain and Palin rallies in the same way that a dead bull is the star of a bullfight — an object of slings, spears and overall bloodlust.

The early fiscal activism of President Obama has provided a heap of new fodder for anti-socialists, effectively turning a useful label meant to inspire fear into a we-told-you-so taunt. Last week’s blizzard of economic developments — the administration’s new budget, its partial takeover of another major bank — was fortuitous timing for CPAC, which ran from Thursday to Saturday, giving conservatives an opportunity to give full-throated voice to this re-fashioned refrain.

“The right would use ‘socialist’ against Franklin Roosevelt all the time in the 1930s,” said Charles Geisst, a financial historian at Manhattan College in the Bronx. “To hear him referred to as Comrade Roosevelt during that period was not unusual.” But while socialism is being invoked repeatedly now, Mr. Geisst said, it is a less potent slam than it once was.

Vermont’s Bernie Sanders — an actual real-life, self-identified socialist in the United States Senate — agrees, saying that “socialism” used to carry a ready-made stigma given its association with Soviet-style Communism.

But since there are so few Communist regimes left today, and generations have grown up since the end of the cold war, that stigma has been muted.

Mr. Sanders said he was encouraged that even some conservative critics — he mentions Newt Gingrich — seem to be equating Mr. Obama’s economic agenda to “European-style socialism,” as if to consciously distinguish it from the old Soviet vintage of the term.

“I think this country could use a good debate on what goes on in places like Sweden, Norway and Finland,” said Mr. Sanders, saying that notions like universal health care, more funding for education and a greater tax burden on the wealthy have accessible models in those countries.

Still, when Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, denounced “European-style socialism,” in his speech at the conference on Thursday, the jeers from the crowd did not exactly signal an openness to debate it on the merits.

Or for that matter, any eagerness to differentiate the Swedish, Soviet and San Francisco flavors.

“The word is most resonant in places where no one is going to discriminate between the various meanings of the term,” Mr. Geisst said.

And one of those places might be CPAC. “Socialism is a bold color concept for conservatives,” said one CPAC celebrity, the commentator Bay Buchanan, who had just finished scribbling autographs for a small cluster of young fans. She contrasted the “bold color” distinctions with the “pale pastels” that conservatives have drawn for too long.

Ms. Buchanan said that while “socialist” has largely been on hiatus as a put-down in recent years, it was an effective instrument in defeating Bill Clinton’s effort to overhaul the country’s health-care system in the early 1990s. “ ‘Socialized medicine’ was a great argument for us,” she said, noting that the term will surely gain even more of a hold when the Obama administration unveils its own health care proposal, probably sometime this year.

“Americans are just genetically opposed to socialism,” said Matt Kibbe, president of FreedomWorks, a conservative advocacy group headed by Dick Armey, the former House Republican leader.

Mr. Kibbe had just finished moderating a CPAC panel in a packed ballroom on Friday morning called “Bailing Out Big Business: Are We All Socialists Now?”

After four speakers took turns whacking the S-beast, Mr. Kibbe ended the proceeding with a quick survey:

“If anyone here is not a socialist, raise your hand,” he said, before heading off to a reassuring mass of palms.
16 2009-03-01 Republicans have their work cut out for them.

Americans identifying themselves as Democrats outnumber those who say they are Republicans by 10 percentage points, the largest gap in party identification in 24 years.

The gap has widened significantly since President George W. Bush’s re-election in 2004, when it was a mere 3 percentage points. But by the time Mr. Bush left office in January, less than a quarter of Americans approved of his performance.

These days, 38 percent of Americans say they are Democrats, 28 percent call themselves Republicans, and another 29 percent identify as independents, according to an average of national polls conducted last year by The New York Times and CBS News.

Whether President Obama is able expand that gap to favor his party will probably depend mostly on Americans under the age of 30 who have yet to form strong partisan ties.

Ronald Reagan’s presidency underscores the power of a popular incumbent to win over young voters. When he was elected in 1980, only 20 percent of young Americans identified as Republicans. By 1989, the number had grown to 37 percent, a significant factor in the expansion of the Republican Party during those years.

The year-by-year trends are based on party identifications from all national surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News and averaged by year.
17 2009-03-01 “The whole political system is based on back scratching and getting things for your friends,” said Robert Whitcomb, editorial page editor of The Providence Journal. “That’s true for every place, but more so here because of the intimacy — you keep bumping into people you know.”

As the lyrics of University of Rhode Island’s fight song suggest — “We’re Rhode Island born and we’re Rhode Island bred, and when we die we’ll be Rhode Island dead” — natives of the state, including lawmakers, rarely cast a curious eye outside it, Mr. Whitcomb and others said.

“They focus primarily, if not exclusively, on us and on the here and now,” said Leonard Lardaro, an economics professor at the university. “We need to be looking at a lot of other states — what they do and how we compare.”

One striking difference is that Rhode Islanders are less educated than much of the country. The state has the lowest high school graduation rate in the Northeast and ranks 38th nationally. Its average private-sector salary in 2007 was $39,827, compared with $55,819 in Massachusetts and $59,174 in Connecticut.

Unlike its neighbors, Rhode Island continues to rely heavily on blue-collar and service-industry jobs. Its largest employment sectors are health care, manufacturing and retail, which pay $27,000 to $46,000 a year on average.

“In that way, we look more like a rust belt state than Connecticut or Massachusetts,” said Laura Hart, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Labor and Training.

Rhode Islanders also tend to cling to old stereotypes about the state, like its mob culture and corrupt politicians, others said.

“A lot of Rhode Islanders overestimate how uniquely bad we are,” said Scott Wolf, executive director of Grow Smart Rhode Island, a nonprofit group, “and underestimate how uniquely good we are.”

Gov. Donald L. Carcieri, a Republican, and the overwhelmingly Democratic General Assembly have often found themselves at loggerheads, with the legislature more focused on supporting social programs and Mr. Carcieri on shrinking government since he took office in 2003. Organized labor remains a powerful force, and the state’s unfunded pension liability, $7 billion, is among the worst in the country.

Mr. Carcieri has proposed a minimum retirement age of 59 for government workers and eliminating 3 percent annual increases in their pensions. The proposals are part of his plan to close a $357 million gap in this year’s budget, one of the largest in the country as a percentage of state spending.

But several people said Mr. Carcieri should be more focused on the private sector, particularly on creating more high-paying jobs. More than a quarter of Rhode Islanders who earned more than $100,000 in 2006 claimed an out-of-state tax credit, indicating that they might work for companies based elsewhere.

Mr. Carcieri does want to change the tax structure, which is generally considered uncompetitive with those of neighboring states. State leaders cringed last fall when Jack Welch, the former chairman of General Electric, said on Fox News that Rhode Island’s tax structure made it “the 48th-most-acceptable state for business.”

In fact, a study last fall by the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan group in Washington, ranked Rhode Island’s business climate the fifth-worst in the nation.

Notwithstanding its northern neighbor’s reputation as “Taxachusetts,” Rhode Island’s top personal income tax rate is higher, 9.9 percent. The top rate in Massachusetts is about 5.3 percent, and in Connecticut, 5 percent.

Mr. Carcieri, whose spokeswoman said he was too busy to be interviewed, wants to phase out Rhode Island’s corporate tax. The rate, 9 percent, will soon be higher than in Massachusetts, where it is 9.5 percent but will drop to 8.75 next year. Connecticut’s rate is 7.5 percent.

“People sell their businesses and leave because the taxes are so punitive,” said Dan Shedd, president of the Taylor Box Company in Warren, which has laid off more than half its employees since Thanksgiving and faces, he said, “a nonstop challenge to try to stay relevant.”

As in other New England states, manufacturing used to be the pillar of Rhode Island’s economy, but the state has lost jobs to lower-cost Southern states and other countries. Unlike some of its neighbors, however, Rhode Island has not found lucrative replacements.

Health care is Rhode Island’s largest employment sector and one of the few expected to grow in the short term, driven in large part by the state’s aging population. About 14 percent of Rhode Island’s one million residents are over 65, compared with 12.4 percent nationally.

Rhode Island Hospital is the state’s largest private employer, followed by the CVS drug store chain, which has its headquarters here; Citizens Financial Group; Bank of America; and Brown University.

A number of people interviewed said the state had focused on recruiting large corporations at the expense of the kind of small businesses that employ most Rhode Islanders. Two major corporations that Rhode Island courted with tax breaks, Bank of America and Fidelity Investments — which built the largest office complex in the state — recently announced layoffs.

Mr. Wolf, of Grow Smart, said the state should capitalize more on its 11 colleges and universities, including Brown and the Rhode Island School of Design, and give their graduates more incentives to stay.

“State government hasn’t been aggressive enough about saying to the universities, ‘What’s your research right now, and how can we make it easier to use it to grow businesses in Rhode Island?’ ” he said.

Mr. Kaplan, who now heads a nonprofit group in Providence that encourages entrepreneurs to exchange ideas, said he saw boundless energy in what he called the “geek community” — young, technology-savvy entrepreneurs who are quietly opening small companies.

Jack Templin, a consultant who founded Providence Geeks, a networking group for people in digital media and information technology, said the energetic group could help shape a new economic development model. Over dinner recently, several of its members echoed the view that the state is small enough for individuals to effect change.

“I don’t think there’s a lot of places where you can pick up the phone and talk to the governor or the mayor,” said Allan Tear, who moved to Providence from Atlanta after making a spreadsheet about the pros and cons of eight cities around the country.

Many of those interviewed said the innovative spirit that fueled the Industrial Revolution here must return if the state is to bounce back. Perhaps most crucially, many existing companies need to reinvent themselves to survive. Mr. Shedd’s company has done just that: it first provided boxes for the state’s once-dominant jewelry industry, then for the software industry, and most recently for gift cards.

He stays, he said, because he loves the state’s beauty and its quirkiness, both of which keep drawing people like Marjory Garrison, a 30-year-old consultant to nonprofit groups.

Ms. Garrison moved to Providence last summer from Brooklyn and became so captivated that she started her own recruitment campaign, plastering neighborhoods in Atlanta, Boston, Brooklyn and Seattle with posters that shout “Move to Providence!”

“It has so much going for it, and so much of that is still under the surface in a lot of ways,” she said. “I think people here believe that once you crack that open, anything is possible.”
18 2009-03-01 Kathryn Charlotte Fleming and Garrett Paul Ederle were married Saturday at the Ritz-Carlton in Sarasota, Fla. The Rev. Dr. Roger M. Kunkel, a Presbyterian minister, officiated.

The couple, both 27, met at the University of Florida and began dating at the University of Virginia, where the bride is a third-year law student and from which the bridegroom received an M.B.A. last year.

This fall, Mrs. Ederle is to become an associate at the Atlanta law firm of Kilpatrick Stockton.

She is a daughter of Charlotte S. Fleming of Orlando, Fla., and Dr. Carlos L. Fleming of Mexico Beach, Fla. Her father, a general practitioner, retired from the Air Force with the rank of lieutenant colonel. He was last stationed at Tyndall Air Force Base in Panama City, Fla. Her mother retired as a special-education teacher of middle and high school students at the Gateway School in Orlando.

Mr. Ederle is a senior associate at Liberty Street Real Estate Group in Atlanta, where he manages real estate assets.

He is a son of Mona M. Ederle and Paul H. Ederle of Boca Raton, Fla. His mother, a civil engineer, owns Cornerstone Engineering and Inspections in Boca Raton. His father is a partner in and the director of new construction and renovation projects at Priderock Capital Partners, a real estate management and investment company in West Palm Beach, Fla.
19 2009-03-01 Melissa Kristen Frey and Malcolm Andrew Levine were married Saturday evening at the Powerhouse, an event space at the American Museum of Natural History in New York. Rabbi David H. Lincoln officiated, with Cantor David Lefkowitz assisting.

Mrs. Levine, 26, is a fourth-year medical student at Weill Cornell Medical College in New York. She graduated magna cum laude from Duke.

She is a daughter of Lynne Greenberg Koeppel and a stepdaughter of Caleb D. Koeppel of New York. Until last year, her stepfather was a partner in the Koeppel Companies, a real estate investment and management company in New York. Her mother is the secretary of the board of the UJA-Federation of New York.

The bride is a granddaughter of Alan C. Greenberg of New York, who was the chairman of Bear Stearns until 2001 and then the chairman of its executive committee until last year.

Mr. Levine, also 26, is an associate at Apollo Management, an investment firm in New York, where he specializes in leveraged buyouts and investing in bonds and other forms of debt. He graduated from Stanford.

He is the son of Nancy S. Levine and Alan Levine, both of New York. He is the stepson of Alison Newman. His mother works in New York as a patient advocate in private practice. She retired as the director of patient relations at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. His father is the partner in charge in the New York office of the law firm Cooley Godward Kronish. He is also the chairman of the Legal Aid Society and a trustee of the Jewish Theological Seminary, both in New York.
20 2009-03-01 The literal meaning of antipodes is two bodies pressed together, foot to foot.

In less than a year it was done. Our parents’ marriages split and began to re-form. My mother, sister and I followed Jenny’s father to Washington, and my father soon resumed his diplomatic path with Jenny and her mother and sister.

Pictures show the last hours my sister and I spent with our father. The three of us posed by Lake Burley Griffin, where he knelt like a suitor and clasped one of us in each arm, earnest hope straining his thin face while I covered my mouth and giggled. Soon after, we left and flew to Washington.

Surely the four parents had needed to move quickly. Yet their need and ability to imagine a new world and step into it dazzles me; they were just 31, 32. And how to resist the miraculous neatness? No one would be left out. Everything would be even.

But surely everyone was stunned. The adults, for having done something so astonishing so fast — in those years divorce wasn’t common, and these divorces were entwined with the men’s professional lives and their roles representing countries.

And the four girls were stunned — we younger two especially — but the way children are: a quiet, numb shock, like a crack in a stone, not enough to split it but inside, silently fissuring. We may have seemed like ordinary girls kicking balls and learning to write and getting our hair cut and skinning our shins. But inside, I think, a mass of fantasy, jealousy and longing was crystallizing that was crucial and would define us.

These things happen: a father vanishes overnight and turns into paper. Another man appears, his face rough and smelling of cigarettes and Scotch when we kiss him, but he’s not ours, this is understood, he belongs to a pair of girls somewhere else — girls we can’t see but this new non-father can. He looks through our eyes straight to them.

During the years after the split, we changed not just fathers but last names, countries and accents, trading so much with those invisible girls as we moved from Washington to South America, and that mirror family moved through Asia.

Letters and gifts flew between my stepfather and his girls and between our father and us. But we never talked on the phone, and I do not know why. Perhaps because it was expensive and no one made such calls in those days, or no one thought of it, or maybe because a live line between the two households seemed dangerous, like fire.

But pictures came from that other family, photos of our father with his new girls. I don’t know what we thought when we first saw them. A flare of jealousy so cold it must be stifled at once: you have been replaced.

I imagined Jenny, on the other side of the world, growing up like me: picking up a letter from her father that my father had brought home from the embassy, sliding her finger under the seal, reading it on her stomach in the bedroom, putting the paper down on the pillow, staring at the palm tree out the window. She would wonder what to do with the ache, the panic that feels like your insides might slip out, the unvoiced question of whether she would see her father again, and what would happen when she did, and the haunting sense of that other girl over there, the one like her who now had him.

Then Jenny and her older sister did something novel. They included a tape with the letters to their father. We gathered in the living room to listen. Suddenly, the girls’ voices broke into the air. “Hello, Father,” they said with bright Aussie accents that had once been ours. There was giggling, then music, and they began to sing: “Imagine there’s no heaven ...”

My stepfather’s face grew hard, one hand gripping his Scotch glass.

He looked then at the alien world around him, the women and girls who had displaced his real ones. My mother’s face stiffened. Sooner or later something unfortunate was said, and my stepfather got up, switched off the recorder and took it to his study.

That night and for days, we heard the girls’ voices and that song through the door. And all I could think was: Why hadn’t we thought of doing that? Why had we let those other girls do it first?

The rivalry only increased as the years passed, especially after we finally met our father and those girls in New York; rivalry rooted in wondering how it had happened, which couple had been the first to do what they’d done — because one of them must have been first, one father must have been more ready to leave his daughters behind. And this mattered. It would tell us what we were worth.

In a Miami garden I once saw a slim tropical tree into which someone had stabbed a spade when it was young. Over the years it had kept growing, layering tissues and xylem and phloem around the blade, so that the tree’s smooth flesh had closed around the spade until only the wooden handle showed. It needed that spade now; you could not draw it out.

That is how I grew up, and how I imagine Jenny did, with our parents’ split at our core, our tissues growing around it, around the fact that we’d each been replaced. I think it lay at our core as we tried to make ourselves valuable — writing, dreaming, trying to earn our own father’s love.

Or as we tried instead to feel nothing at all, through drinking, cutting, men and sex. I think that split lay at our core as we tried over the years to make ourselves seen and loved or just disappear, until Jenny fell into a long addiction to heroin, and eventually overdosed and died.

IN the end I am left with the same question, the impossible question: What makes one woman, one packet of flesh and the being inside it, so drenched in value as to make a man leave a woman he loved, leave even his own daughters?

I don’t understand what love is, how its object is contained in a single skin, how that object exerts irresistible pull.

Or, I understand it when I feel the closest thing to love that I feel. It is this: That other person has become home, and to be apart from him is to be in exile, helplessly gravitating toward wherever he is, having no center of your own.

And another question I keep asking myself, and as I grow older the problem only grows worse, is this: Why is jealousy obliterating?

Why is the vision of another woman taking your place ruinous? You don’t die. You’re still there. Your forearms are there with the light hair on them, your stomach sucked in at the jeans. You haven’t been obliterated.

Yet it feels as if you have. You’ve just made the mistake, again, of granting your existence to someone else’s eyes.

Lucretius, like Epicurus, said: limit your wants, and you will limit the pain of not getting. Want less and you will not suffer: plug up the leaky jar.

But you cannot plug up the jar and still live. You have no choice but to be porous and leak, to want and love, and need to be wanted and loved.
21 2009-03-01 Last fall, with signs that revenues were declining, the town froze all job vacancies and ordered a 10 percent reduction in expenditures other than salaries. But when they learned that the decline in revenues from the conveyance taxes, building permit fees and interest income would total $8 million to $10 million this year, town officials decided to take more drastic measures. And after making the cuts last month, now First Selectman Peter Tesei has said that Greenwich may have to cut an additional 31 positions before this fiscal year ends if negotiations with the town’s unions over a proposed wage freeze and possible voluntary retirement incentives fail.

Until recently, a job with the town of Greenwich meant job security. “Most people who work for any municipality assume stability, but this economy is not like anything we have seen in 50, 70 or 80 years,” said John Crary, Greenwich town administrator.

The elimination of the jobs — 19 full-time and 19 part-time — “will not affect services in a meaningful way,” Mr. Crary said.

Layoffs are a last resort, he said. “There is also a belief in a lot of people’s minds that this is a longtime problem and we need to get smaller,” he said.

Mr. De Vita said that when he was escorted from his office the day of his layoff, Feb. 12, he was unable to say goodbye to coworkers. Because he had driven to work in his town-owned car, he needed a ride home from a colleague and had to make an appointment the next day so that he could listen to his phone messages.

“It’s easy to lay off people, but hard to do it with class,” said Mr. De Vita, 74, who won an Award of Excellence from the town in 2002 and earned close to $90,000 a year as manager of field operations.

Lynn Mason, business manager for Laborers International Union of North America Local 136, said she wasn’t surprised that there were layoffs, “but I was surprised by the way they were handled,” she said. “There was no compassion for the employees. Ennio was never offered a chance to retire. He gave his life to this town, and he deserved better,” she said.

Greenwich now has 2,400 employees, with about 1,400 of those in the school district. The school board might eliminate 22 1/2 positions, Mr. Crary said

The state budget deficit for the current fiscal year, as much as $1.3 billion by some estimates, is the big unknown for municipalities that rely on state aid to pay for certain programs. State officials say they have not yet determined how much of Connecticut’s estimated $2.8 billion over three years in federal stimulus money will be going to cities and towns. But those funds are meant for infrastructure work, like highways and waterways. “It will not affect city operating budgets that much,” said Richard Moccia, mayor of Norwalk.

Norwalk, already facing the possible loss of 30 city positions in the 2009-10 budget, just learned it will lose $525,000 in state aid, said Thomas Hamilton, director of finance. Revenue from interest income, real estate conveyance taxes, building permits and clerk recording fees is $2 million short, and he predicted that figure would stretch to $3.2 million next year.

Norwalk officials have proposed voluntary retirement incentives. “We are trying to work compassionately and with understanding,” Mayor Moccia said. “I think our layoffs will be minimal.”

The intent is to reduce job cuts as well as “bumping,” whereby senior employees can bump someone with less seniority out of a job. Bumping can cause departments to lose key people in key positions, Mr. Hamilton said. “It’s a pretty disruptive process,” he said.

The targeted positions would include an assistant library director, a highways supervisor and a fire inspector. He said that the only other layoffs he knew of were in the 1990s and were spread out over several years.

In Bridgeport, which has a $20 million deficit, layoffs started last year, and the town clerk and city clerk have reduced public office hours so that their smaller staffs have time to process mounting paperwork. In the zoning department, two computer operators lost their jobs, one because her position was eliminated, the other from bumping. “The challenge for me is to keep the department operating in such a manner that the public doesn’t feel we’re shortchanging them on our service,” said Dennis Buckley, head of zoning enforcement. In New Haven, Mayor John DeStefano Jr. has said that without $10 million in concessions from workers, nearly 241 positions will be cut, as many as 166 of them full time.

New Canaan, which like Greenwich is one of the state’s wealthiest communities, is not immune either. Cheryl Jones, human resource director, said the town laid off four nonunion workers, is leaving five openings vacant and has offered a couple of public works employees a voluntary retirement package to try to close the growing budget gap of just over $1 million. She anticipates next year’s finances will be worse, “but it’s hard to know until we see who’s paying what,” she said, referring to property tax payments due July 1.

Will there be more layoffs? “I sincerely hope not, but the picture changes every week,” she said.

A delicate balancing act is occurring from one end of the state to the other. “Loss of services will be on the table in just about every community,” Mr. Jaskot said. “They will have to weigh that against layoffs.”
22 2009-03-01 Sam Chandan, the president of Real Estate Economics, a research company in New York, said the fact that people were forfeiting such large deposits was “indicative of the degree of uncertainty in the market.”

Given how difficult it has become in recent months to get a mortgage, he said, even buyers at the high end may be concerned about getting financing to complete their deals.

And because the volume of sales has dropped to a trickle in the luxury market, “there are so few comps that it’s hard to even know what a property is worth,” he said, referring to comparable-sales data. “That uncertainty undermines people’s sense of what the actual value might be, so they’re taking actions designed to limit their exposure.”

In some cases, agents say, buyers who signed contracts before the market started to fall have managed to renegotiate the sales prices to reflect the current market more accurately.

Frederick W. Peters, the president of Warburg Realty, said his agency had had two multimillion-dollar deals in which buyers had forfeited six-figure deposits. “In both cases,” he explained, “the buyers felt that any renegotiation wasn’t going to satisfy them and they preferred to remove themselves from the market for a while.”

Their decisions, he added, were “driven by the fact it’s a new world and they were not sure what they wanted to do with their resources in the face of that.” When they re-enter the market, Mr. Peters said, they will very likely be able to buy similar properties at prices low enough “that they will still have saved money, even after walking away from their deposits.”

Other walk-away buyers, though, have not given up on the current market and are already searching for other properties to buy.

Penny Toepfer-Guttman, an agent at Brown Harris Stevens, represented someone who gave up more than $1 million in a deposit on an apartment in a new development in Manhattan. She said her client had decided that the original apartment was too unusual a space and that he was now looking for something more conventional.

The first unit, she said, had a huge amount of outdoor space, and because it was priced above $10 million, “he would have been paying more per square foot than anyone else in the neighborhood.” The developer, whom Ms. Toepfer-Guttman would not name, refused to renegotiate the price, so the buyer walked.

Ms. Toepfer-Guttman, who has been an agent for 17 years, said, “I have never seen numbers like this being left in deposits; this is new territory.”

At 304 Spring Street last August, a buyer went into contract on a three-bedroom three-bath penthouse with three terraces, for $7.8 million. But when the market ground to a near-standstill in October, the buyer, a professional basketball player, backed out of the deal and gave up his deposit, said Richard Orenstein, an executive vice president at Halstead Property.

The penthouse, which first went on the market in October 2007 at $9.25 million, has since been appraised at $6.5 million, and its owner has decided to offer the property in a sealed-bid auction-like process in March, with a starting bid of $4.995 million.

Mr. Orenstein says the owner decided on this process because he plans to move soon to Italy with his wife and baby. “This is a seller — and it’s rare — who is really being realistic,” he said. “He feels this is the best way to get the best offer for the apartment quickly and to close the deal.”

The starting bid has been set below the appraised value to generate interest. “Somebody is going to get a very good deal on this,” Mr. Orenstein said. “If someone wants value, they’re not going to get better than this in downtown Manhattan.”
23 2009-03-01 An expanded regional bus system would mean more frequent service, longer hours of service and, possibly, additional routes, officials said.

But the plan, based on a report released in December by a state commission of finance and transportation experts and generally endorsed last week by the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, comes with new taxes and tolls to finance a regional bus system and the authority’s operations and capital expenses. The tax and toll proposals are already facing opposition from some local officials and legislators.

A regional bus authority would provide funding for, and possibly operate, suburban bus systems in the area. It might also provide more service across county lines and the potential for increased buying power.

“We need to get better express bus service from the suburbs into New York City,” said Richard Ravitch, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in the 1970s and early ’80s and head of the recent state commission.

Fare receipts pay for less than half of suburban bus companies’ operating expenses; the rest comes from a patchwork of federal, state and local revenue that varies year to year.

“If the M.T.A. is going to spend this money on expanded regional bus activity, the incentive to Westchester and Nassau is that they are relieved of the operations,” Mr. Ravitch said. “If you buy a thousand buses, you will pay less than if you buy 50 buses, and there are efficiencies in negotiating labor contracts as well.”

Westchester County is endorsing Mr. Ravitch’s proposal but is not willing to give up control of the Bee-Line system to the regional bus authority, said Lawrence C. Salley, commissioner of the Westchester Department of Transportation.

“It is primarily an issue of efficiency,” he said. “There are some areas where they bring efficiencies to the table, and some where we do. Theirs are offset by our ability to meet our local needs.”

On Long Island, the issue of control was decided years ago when, in 1973, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority took over operation of Nassau County’s bus system.

Despite the differences in management, the Westchester and Nassau bus systems have many similarities. Nassau’s fleet is 328 buses; Westchester’s is 365. Nassau had 33 million riders last year; Westchester had 32 million.

The most significant difference between the systems is how they covered their 2008 operating deficits: $85 million for Nassau and $79 million for Westchester.

During the past three years, Nassau County has gotten $48 million in assistance from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, while Westchester, Mr. Salley said, has received none. The rest has been covered by the state and county government.

State aid for the two bus systems was comparable in 2006, but in the last two years Nassau has gotten more than Westchester — almost $10 million more in 2008. Westchester has had to pick up the difference, according to financial data the companies provided.

“The $64 question is, ‘Why do Nassau taxpayers pay less?’ ” Mr. Salley said.

One big savings for Nassau taxpayers comes from Metropolitan Transportation Authority subsidies, said Jeremy Soffin, an authority spokesman. It does not give money to Westchester, he said, because the authority does not “pay operators to run service over which we have no control.”

In 2008, Nassau contributed $10 million to its bus system, while Westchester taxpayers spent almost $31 million. At the same time, the operating budget was $140 million for Nassau’s bus system and $124 million for Westchester’s.

“Our fight is not with Nassau,” Mr. Salley said, “it is with how transportation is funded in the M.T.A. region.”

The Ravitch plan would address the counties’ chronic problems in financing bus service. It proposes two new sources of revenue: tolls on the East River and Harlem River bridges to Manhattan, which are now free, and a mobility tax of 33 cents on every $100 in salaries and wages that would be levied on all employers, public and private, in the 12 counties the authority serves. For example, a company with a $1 million payroll would pay $3,300 in mobility tax.

“Long Island Bus has been underfunded for all of these years from a county and a state perspective,” said Joseph J. Smith, president of Long Island Bus. “If our budgets were guaranteed, we could invest in new technology.”

In the current economic climate, however, passage of the Ravitch plan is uncertain.

Assemblyman David G. McDonough, a Republican from Merrick, in Nassau County, is the ranking member of the Assembly’s Transportation Committee and an opponent of the plan.

“Considering the times we are in right now, that payroll tax is going to hurt small businesses tremendously — it could be the straw that breaks their back,” Mr. McDonough said. “The tolls on the bridges are like the congestion pricing plan, it just makes it more difficult for people.”

In Westchester, George S. Latimer, a Democratic assemblyman from the eastern part of the county who is also a member of the Transportation Committee, said he had heard very little about the plan from constituents. He said he did hear his first complaint in mid-February, at a public hearing in Larchmont, from a Mamaroneck School District official who said the mobility tax could be a hardship to the district.

“The tax is unpopular, but the question is, are there any other strategies that are more popular?” Mr. Latimer said. “The M.T.A. budget is filled with unpopular choices. If there was something easy to do, we would have done it by now.”
24 2009-03-01 3.Make the sauce: In a saucepan, melt the butter over medium-low heat. Add the shallots and sauté until caramelized, about 4 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute. Add the apple juice, chicken stock, star anise and ginger. Bring to a boil, lower the heat and simmer until reduced by one-quarter. Add the maple syrup, vanilla pod and seeds and agar and simmer for 3 minutes. Remove from the heat. Discard the star anise and vanilla pod. Purée the mixture in a blender or food processor, then pass through a fine-mesh sieve into a pan. Season to taste with salt and pepper.

4.Prepare a charcoal or gas grill to medium-high heat. Rinse the meat and pat dry with paper towels. Brush the chops with the infused oil, then sprinkle lightly with salt. Grill to medium doneness, or until the internal temperature reads 135 to 140 degrees on a thermometer and the middle is light pink, about 6 minutes per side. Let sit for 5 minutes before serving. Drizzle with warm sauce and serve. Serves 6. Adapted from Jonathan Justus and Jeffrey Scott at Justus Drugstore.

Note: Berkshire organic pork is available to order through heritagefoodsusa.com. Agar is available at most health-food stores.
25 2009-03-01 An expanded regional bus system would mean more frequent service, longer hours of service and, possibly, additional routes, officials said.

But the plan, based on a report released in December by a state commission of finance and transportation experts, comes with new taxes and tolls to finance a regional bus system and the authority’s operations and capital expenses. The tax and toll proposals are already facing opposition from some local officials and legislators.

A regional bus authority would provide funding for, and possibly operate, suburban bus systems in the area. It might also provide more service across county lines and the potential for increased buying power.

“We need to get better express bus service from the suburbs into New York City,” said Richard Ravitch, chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in the 1970s and early ’80s and head of the recent state commission.

Fare receipts pay for less than half of suburban bus companies’ operating expenses; the rest comes from a patchwork of federal, state and local revenue that varies year to year.

“If the M.T.A. is going to spend this money on expanded regional bus activity, the incentive to Westchester and Nassau is that they are relieved of the operations,” Mr. Ravitch said. “If you buy a thousand buses, you will pay less than if you buy 50 buses, and there are efficiencies in negotiating labor contracts as well.”

Westchester County is endorsing Mr. Ravitch’s proposal but is not willing to give up control of the Bee-Line system to the regional bus authority, said Lawrence C. Salley, commissioner of the Westchester Department of Transportation.

“It is primarily an issue of efficiency,” he said. “There are some areas where they bring efficiencies to the table, and some where we do. Theirs are offset by our ability to meet our local needs.”

On Long Island, the issue of control was decided years ago when, in 1973, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority took over operation of Nassau County’s bus system.

Despite the differences in management, the Westchester and Nassau bus systems have many similarities. Nassau’s fleet is 328 buses; Westchester’s is 365. Nassau had 33 million riders last year; Westchester had 32 million.

The most significant difference between the systems is how they covered their 2008 operating deficits: $85 million for Nassau and $79 million for Westchester.

During the past three years, Nassau County has gotten $48 million in assistance from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, while Westchester, Mr. Salley said, has received none. The rest has been covered by the state and county government.

State aid for the two bus systems was comparable in 2006, but in the last two years Nassau has gotten more than Westchester — almost $10 million more in 2008. Westchester has had to pick up the difference, according to financial data the companies provided.

“The $64 question is, ‘Why do Nassau taxpayers pay less?’ ” Mr. Salley said.

One big savings for Nassau taxpayers comes from Metropolitan Transportation Authority subsidies, said Jeremy Soffin, an authority spokesman. It does not give money to Westchester, he said, because the authority does not “pay operators to run service over which we have no control.”

In 2008, Nassau contributed $10 million to its bus system, while Westchester taxpayers spent almost $31 million. At the same time, the operating budget was $140 million for Nassau’s bus system and $124 million for Westchester’s.

“Our fight is not with Nassau,” Mr. Salley said, “it is with how transportation is funded in the M.T.A. region.”

The Ravitch plan would address the counties’ chronic problems in financing bus service. It proposes two new sources of revenue: tolls on the East River and Harlem River bridges to Manhattan, which are now free, and a mobility tax of 33 cents on every $100 in salaries and wages that would be levied on all employers, public and private, in the 12 counties the authority serves. For example, a company with a $1 million payroll would pay $3,300 in mobility tax.

“Long Island Bus has been underfunded for all of these years from a county and a state perspective,” said Joseph J. Smith, president of Long Island Bus. “If our budgets were guaranteed, we could invest in new technology.”

In the current economic climate, however, passage of the Ravitch plan is uncertain.

Assemblyman David G. McDonough, a Republican from Merrick, is the ranking member of the Assembly’s Transportation Committee and an opponent of the plan.

“Considering the times we are in right now, that payroll tax is going to hurt small businesses tremendously — it could be the straw that breaks their back,” Mr. McDonough said. “The tolls on the bridges are like the congestion pricing plan, it just makes it more difficult for people.”

A forum on the Ravitch plan is scheduled for 9 a.m. Friday at Hofstra University’s Guthart Cultural Center Theater, sponsored by the university, the Regional Plan Association and the Tri-State Transportation Campaign.

In Westchester, George S. Latimer, a Democratic assemblyman from the eastern part of the county who is also a member of the Transportation Committee, said he had heard very little about the plan from constituents. He said he did hear his first complaint in mid-February, at a public hearing in Larchmont, from a Mamaroneck School District official who said the mobility tax could be a hardship to the district.

“The tax is unpopular, but the question is, are there any other strategies that are more popular?” Mr. Latimer said. “The M.T.A. budget is filled with unpopular choices. If there was something easy to do, we would have done it by now.”
26 2009-03-01 Ms. Tommy, a black South African who grew up under apartheid, is familiar with that hesitancy. “There was a point when I really wanted to work on a play about slavery in America, and there were so many playwrights who were uncomfortable touching it,” she said. “And I realized that there’s a tremendous amount of shame that black people in this country feel about their own past, whether it’s over slavery or Jim Crow or racism. Coming from South Africa, that’s just devastating to me, because it’s not their fault.”

Ms. Tommy kept pushing Ms. Wilson to write her play, and it finally began to emerge while they were traveling together in South Africa in 2004.

“While I was writing, I finally had a revelation that what these people did in the civil rights movement was extraordinary because they had all these flaws,” Ms. Wilson said. “They weren’t these saints — they had trouble forgiving, they had trouble with their marriages, they had trouble with drinking — yet every day they made the decision to keep going. To me that’s inspirational, so I hope I’m honoring them by showing that complexity. When you show them as saints, it just seems easy.”

She added that she wants the play to spark an “honest conversation” about the connections between the primary years of the civil rights movement and the present. “Until we embrace all of our past, the good parts and the bad parts, then we can’t move forward politically or as a people,” she said.

It seems audiences are ready to join the conversation. “The Good Negro” was well received during its world premiere in the fall at the Dallas Theater Center; writing for The Dallas Observer, Elaine Liner called it “a finely crafted play that is both parable and metaphor.” And it has already extended its run at the Public. Oskar Eustis, the Public’s artistic director, thinks President Obama’s popularity has something to do with that response.

“Now we’re forced to deal with black leaders in a different way,” said Mr. Eustis, who is white. “Because Obama is the president, we’re not going to think he’s a saint forever, and that fact can help us look back with the same clarity at other black leaders. We can say, ‘This was a man, and he was a great leader, so what did he have to overcome in himself to become a great leader?’ ”

Of course some could see the Obama presidency as the apotheosis of the good Negro. “He’s eerily perfect seeming, and that’s the only kind of black man that could be elected president,” Ms. Tommy said.

Ms. Wilson added: “I think his election increases the pressure a million times. I honestly think he doesn’t have an inch.”

Not everyone in theater shares that sentiment, though. “We had some people who had been interested in the play say that it wasn’t relevant anymore because Obama was doing well,” Ms. Wilson said.

At that, Ms. Tommy chuckled, threw up her hands and said: “We were like: ‘What? Because Obama’s doing well, there’s no more racism?’ ”

Leaning forward, Ms. Wilson began, “The idea of ‘postracial’ to me is —— ”

Ms. Wilson added: “An insane fantasy. Like a ‘Star Wars’ fantasy. Racism is not going to end just because we have a black president. Real equality will come when black people can mess up just like white people and still succeed, and when a flaw in a black leader is not looked at as a flaw in the black race."
27 2009-03-01 REISS--Gail. May 20, 1936-- February 26, 2009. I had a great day. Our love forever. Jane, Nancy, Meg, Dan Nick, Simon, Henry, Lena Milo and Will...
28 2009-03-01 REISS--Gail. Our lovely friend has left us with a great hole in our hearts. We will miss her and love her always. Judy and Larry Kopp...
29 2009-03-01 The stock market continued its long descent, ending the week at its lowest level since 1996.     On Friday, the Labor Department said that the economy contracted at a 6.2 percent annualized  rate in the last quarter of 2008, the biggest drop since...
30 2009-03-01 By the time the Knicks waived him last week, Stephon Marbury had collected about $150,000 a day to sit in exile, according to an analysis by CNBC's Darren Rovell. But the Knicks are not done paying for Marbury.     The final bill comes due in June...
31 2009-03-02 Your calendar may say 2009, but in concert arenas around the country, the 1980s will be going strong for months to come....
32 2009-03-02 Nebbishy misanthropes, your ship has come in: The Tribeca Film Festival will open with the world premiere of Woody Allen’s “Whatever Works,” starring Larry David....
33 2009-03-02 Microsoft is testing a new design for its search engine, which it plans to rename. Kumo.com is one possibility to replace the Windows Live Search brand....
34 2009-03-02 The former Republican presidential nominee -- who has long championed the eradication of "pork-barrel spending" had a field day today listing earmarks in the big omnibus spending bill....
35 2009-03-02 The counterparties -- whoever they are -- may be the real beneficiaries of the taxpayers' growing commitment....
36 2009-03-02 Modern technology helped Manchester United goalkeeper Ben Foster review some game film before a recent shootout....
37 2009-03-02 Finance | Confessions of a conflicted money guru: "How do I acknowledge the limits of what I know while still maintaining credibility? These are questions the Jim Cramers of the world, and the ubiquitous and somewhat frighteningly undaunted Suze O...
38 2009-03-02 From Global Voices Online, a site that collects, edits and translates blogs from around the world: Guinea-Bissau President Joao Bernardo Vieira was assassinated in the first hours of this morning, allegedly in an attack by renegade soldiers as he ...
39 2009-03-02 Exterminators worry that people choosing to curb their pest control services as a cost-cutting measure will, in the long run, result in more bugs and rodents to deal with....
40 2009-03-02 Looking ahead at the week in college basketball....
41 2009-03-02 Few corporate bosses are under the pressure that Vikram Pandit faces these days - but the Citigroup chief is apparently keeping a sense of humor. In an interview with Joe Hagan of New York magazine, Mr. Pandit acknowledges the paradox of his role ...
42 2009-03-02 Relative to long-term corporate profits, the stock market is now 30 percent below its historical average....
43 2009-03-02 After three weeks absorbing and analyzing the results of the Jan. 31 provincial elections, in the corridors and meeting rooms of the Iraqi parliament, it seems that all the political blocs are terrified for their future....
44 2009-03-02 Shares of Conseco dropped more than 50 percent on Monday after the insurance company said it needed to provide its auditors with more information about "the company's ability to continue as a going concern." If it does not satisfy its auditors, Co...
45 2009-03-02 The idea of investigating Bush administration anti-terror policies has been dismissed by many as politically infeasible. Should Congress do this?...
46 2009-03-02 Edward Liddy, six months into his job as chief executive of the American International Group, had a tough assignment Monday morning: His firm had just reported the the biggest quarterly loss in corporate history and received an additional $30 bill...
47 2009-03-02 If A.I.G. were to seek bankruptcy protection, David E. Wood of Anderson Kill Wood & Bender suggests that the conventional wisdom -- that its insurance units' assets are beyond the direct reach of creditors -- could be challenged....
48 2009-03-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
49 2009-03-02 Hope is fading with every hour as two N.F.L. players are among four boaters missing since Saturday night off Florida's Gulf Coast....
50 2009-03-02 TPG is offering to provide bankruptcy financing for Aleris International, a company that the private equity firm owns, in a strategy that could put it in the position of being paid before some other creditors, The Financial Times reported. Aleris,...
51 2009-03-02 Genentech plans to use its annual research and development day on Monday to convince shareholders that it is worth far more than the $42 billion that Roche has said it is willing to pay to own all of the biotechnology company. Roche, the Swiss dru...
52 2009-03-02 Spansion, a maker of flash-memory chips, sought bankruptcy protection on Sunday, becoming the latest chip maker to succumb to falling prices in the memory chip market and a deepening recession....
53 2009-03-02 The new chief executive of UBS told a newspaper on Saturday that Switzerland should consider changing its banking secrecy laws so they no longer protect suspected tax evaders....
54 2009-03-02 Financial shares led stocks lower in Europe and Asia Monday, and Wall Street appeared headed for a decline amid concern for the precarious health of American International Group and Citigroup....
55 2009-03-02 Your Jokes | Send via the comment link below: Paul Harvey has died at age 90. He will be laid to rest on Tuesday. And speaking of rest, there's nothing quite as restful as sleeping on a Sleep Number Bed – Todd Long The Irish airline Ryanair may ...
56 2009-03-02 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
57 2009-03-02 “We can’t risk him right now as we need to give his injury time to settle,” Crisford added. “It is in his best interest to give him time to return to peak fitness later in the year.”

Last year, Midshipman raced in California for the trainer Bob Baffert in the Del Mar Futurity and was the runner-up in the Norfolk before he ran away with the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile.

In 1999, the sheik sent Worldly Manner to the Derby, proclaiming that if the colt did not win the race, one of his horses would do so within four years. From 1999 to 2002, however, his stable went 0 for 5 in the Derby, with a top finish of sixth, by China Visit in 2000.

The sheik has not been back since 2002, even though he has spent a great deal of money to return to Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky. He has been among the leading buyers at Keeneland’s September yearling sales over the past decade, spending more than $260 million. The sheik has also built a commercial breeding and racing business in the bluegrass of Kentucky, Darley America.

In 2007, he bought the breeding rights of Street Sense, the only Breeders’ Cup Juvenile winner to capture the Derby as a 3-year-old. He also bought the breeding rights to Hard Spun, who finished second in the Derby and third in the Preakness.

Midshipman was bred by Stonerside Stable, which initially raced him, but he was part of the assets Stonerside sold last year to Darley Stable. Last year, the sheik also bought the Eclipse runner-up, Vineyard Haven, who faded to finish fourth in his 3-year-old debut this month in the U.A.E. 2000 Guineas.

His Derby hopes now rest on Desert Party, the winner of the U.A.E. 2000 Guineas, who was purchased as a 2-year-old at the Fasig-Tipton Sale and won the Sanford at Saratoga last summer.
58 2009-03-02 Americans’ search patterns reflect their narrowing financial straits, according to the marketing research firm comScore. The number of Internet searches incorporating the word “unemployment” more than tripled from December 2007 to December 2008. Bankruptcy appeared in more than twice as many searches, and “coupons” went from 7.6 million searches to 19.9 million.

“Coupons and discounts are a major ‘tell’ as far as consumer behavior,” said Andrew Lipsman, an analyst at comScore. “Coupon sites grew 33 percent year over year for this January.”

People ages 25 to 34 seem to be searching most heavily for the term “unemployment,” relative to the percentage they represent of all searches. But, Mr. Lipsman said, “No demographic is immune.” ALEX MINDLIN
59 2009-03-02 Spansion, a maker of flash-memory chips, sought bankruptcy protection on Sunday, becoming the latest chip maker to succumb to falling prices in the memory chip market and a deepening recession.

Spansion, which recently said it was exploring a sale of the company, said it planned to use the bankruptcy process to restructure its debt and refocus on its more profitable divisions.

The company is based in Sunnyvale, Calif. Spansion and four American affiliates filed for protection in federal bankruptcy court in Delaware on Sunday, listing assets of $3.84 billion and debts of almost $2.4 billion.

Spansion said it planned to refocus on its embedded flash-memory products, intellectual property solutions and parts of the wireless segment.

Before the bankruptcy filing, Spansion said it had consulted with a group of creditors holding $625 million senior secured floating rate notes due in 2013, and was in talks on a reorganization plan with the consortium that would enable it to emerge more quickly from court protection.

Flash-memory chips are most commonly used in portable music players and digital cameras, whose sales are slipping as consumers cut back on spending.
60 2009-03-02 When the nation’s mayors held their annual conference in Washington, Mr. Obama — aware of their critical role in spending stimulus money — invited them all in, a break with President George W. Bush’s practice of having a few in at a time. “I appreciated that,” said Mayor Pat McCrory of Charlotte, N.C., a Republican, who described Mr. Bush’s interactions with mayors as “fairly tense.”

Some, like Mayor Elaine Walker of Bowling Green, Ky., a Democrat, had never been to the White House before; afterward, Ms. Walker gushed about rubbing elbows with cabinet secretaries in the Blue Room.

“I just got my copy of Vanity Fair magazine,” she said, “and all of their pictures are there.”

When the governors were in town, the Obamas invited Earth, Wind and Fire to perform and installed a dance floor. It was a party with a purpose, said Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama.

“It was very important to us that they all come, those who supported the recovery bill and those who didn’t,” Ms. Jarrett said. “And I think, ‘Mission accomplished.’ ”

All presidents invite elected officials, as well as ordinary people, to the White House; Mr. Bush played host to tee ball games on the South Lawn and once held his own televised White House concert, a tribute to the Marine Band. But the Obamas are using the Executive Mansion — “the world’s greatest stage,” Mr. Rogich called it — and their choice of guests to spotlight the racial and generational change they represent.

So it was that Mr. Obama, during the concert on Wednesday, credited Mr. Wonder with writing “the soundtrack of my youth” and confessed to the world that “Michelle might not have dated me” had he not been a Stevie Wonder fan. Mrs. Obama, for her part, revealed that she and the president chose one of Mr. Wonder’s songs, “You and I,” for their wedding — a tidbit that brought forth “awws” from the East Room audience.

Senior White House officials say the Obamas want to bring together people whose paths might not ordinarily cross. The White House social secretary, Desirée Rogers, said an overarching question was: “How do we Obama-tize this event?”

That has meant shaking up some traditional events. The upcoming St. Patrick’s Day celebration will very intentionally include people who are not of Irish descent, Ms. Jarrett said. Ms. Rogers said she was already thinking about the annual Easter egg roll and what it might “look like under this lens.”

The Obamas are also trying to capitalize on the fascination with the workings of the White House by putting the residence staff on display. Mrs. Obama changed the usual press preview for the governors’ dinner by inviting culinary students to tour the kitchen and meet the executive chef — a move that drew plaudits from Karen Hughes, who was in charge of shaping Mr. Bush’s image during his first term.

“After I saw that,” Ms. Hughes said, “I thought, ‘There are all kinds of things like that you could do.’ ”

For Black History Month, Mrs. Obama invited schoolchildren in for a performance by Sweet Honey in the Rock, an African-American a cappella ensemble. She asked retired Rear Adm. Stephen W. Rochon, the first black person to hold the job of chief White House usher, to speak.

“It was quite a surprise,” he said. “Usually we are behind the scenes.”

The Obamas’ celebrity is, of course, a huge advantage. An invitation to the Obama White House is one of the hottest tickets in town, and the intense news media attention to every aspect of the first family’s life provides new opportunities to send explicitly political messages but also more subtle social and cultural cues that aides to the president hope will enhance his reputation for inclusiveness.

For those receiving invitations, it can be quite a shock. So it was for Kyle Wedberg, interim president of the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts, who was floored when the social secretary’s office invited him to the Stevie Wonder concert. He asked if he could bring a student, which is how Mr. Pierre wound up attending.

Mr. Wedberg used his time to press Mr. Obama’s senior adviser, David Axelrod, about “the need to get some public school artists of note and promise into the White House.”

For Mr. Pierre, the son of a cosmetologist and a carpenter who spent the night of Mr. Obama’s election singing Negro spirituals in church, it was “thrilling being within arm’s length of the man.” In a stroke of what Ms. Rogers might call “Obama-tizing,” the young pianist was seated during the concert next to another president, the one who runs the Berklee College of Music, a school Mr. Pierre dreams of attending.
61 2009-03-02 As unemployment and commercial vacancy rates have risen in places like Stamford, Conn., and Morris County, N.J., officials in those states have stepped up efforts to lure New York companies.

New Jersey’s governor, Jon S. Corzine, has proposed spending $150 million a year to attract larger businesses that promise to create at least 200 jobs in certain urban areas served by commuter train lines. New Jersey recently offered a 10-year subsidy package worth $74.6 million to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation in Lower Manhattan, which is considering moving. And in December, the state granted $16.5 million in incentives to Tullett Prebon, a British financial company whose main American operations are in Manhattan. The company has promised to move 330 jobs to New Jersey.

Connecticut officials say they are in discussions with several New York companies, but declined to provide details.

Those discussions have infuriated Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who complained publicly about New Jersey’s efforts in a news conference last month. And they have been sharply criticized by some economists, who assert that such incentives mainly benefit established companies with lobbying clout and are not very effective in creating new jobs.

“Propping up the big guys and helping them stay big doesn’t really promote economic growth,” said Kevin C. Gillen, an economist at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He said much job growth comes from small businesses and fledgling companies.

Multiyear tax-abatement programs are often ineffective, Mr. Gillen said, because “they tend to work a lot better in the short term than the long term and often wind up being used to retain employers rather than to attract new firms.”

Officials in Connecticut and New Jersey — both of which, like New York, are facing deep budget deficits because of declining tax revenues — say they are not singling out New York companies. But they acknowledge that they are talking to companies that are looking for lower taxes and rents.

“Connecticut is not actively out there knocking on doors in New York recruiting, but we do have a lot of activity coming from New York,” said Holly Campo De La Vera, executive director of the Office of Business and Industry Development for the State of Connecticut. “A lot of businesses are coming to Connecticut particularly when their leases are running out.”

In New Jersey, Jerold L. Zaro, the chief of New Jersey’s Office of Economic Growth, was not coy about acknowledging the state’s efforts to poach jobs from nearby states. “We are talking with any number of major companies — in Pennsylvania, in Delaware, in Maryland and, yes, in New York — we make no bones about that,” he said.

“He’s given me quite an arsenal,” Mr. Zaro said, referring to Mr. Corzine. “We have changed our tax laws dramatically to be more business-friendly.”

In Albany, however, some officials and business executives say the Paterson administration, reeling from a number of recent missteps, has been too poorly managed to respond effectively.

On Wednesday, Mr. Paterson overhauled his staff, and he has promised to rededicate himself to righting his administration. But in the meantime, the disarray in the administration, and the governor’s tendency to tell people what they want to hear, has bewildered many businesses, including Pepsi.

“We were definitely surprised by the rollout of these proposals and, quite frankly, we’ve been confused by some of the mixed messages that we’ve been receiving from the governor’s office,” said Jeff Dahncke, a spokesman for the Pepsi Bottling Group, referring to the bottle deposit and soda tax proposals.

“The recent developments have had a chilling effect on the discussions and haven’t enhanced the attractiveness of New York State in any way,” Mr. Dahncke said, adding that the company preferred to remain in New York, but that negotiations with the state over the group’s headquarters were “at a standstill.”

“The governor’s office has worked tirelessly to keep Pepsi Bottling Group and its jobs from moving to Connecticut,” Risa B. Heller, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, said. “Pepsi is a great company, and we are working closely with them to address any issues or concerns that they have.”

PepsiCo, based in Purchase, N.Y., owns a 40 percent stake in the bottling group, which was spun off in 1999, and leases space at its headquarters in Somers. The companies have a joint government relations team and share a lobbyist.

Pepsi and the state have been negotiating over an incentive package aimed at keeping the company in New York, while also discussing their policy differences.

After the October meeting with the governor, Pepsi executives met in December with William J. Cunningham III, then the governor’s top deputy. Again, they left the meeting feeling that their voices had been heard, but were shocked to read in media accounts a few days later that the governor would propose his tax on nondiet sodas, one of the most aggressive pieces of anti-obesity legislation in the nation.

Pepsi officials said they had no idea the proposal was even being discussed, and neither did state economic development officials negotiating with Pepsi.

“Being upset would be an understatement — it was stunned,” said one person with knowledge of the discussions, who was granted anonymity because of the intricacies of the talks between Pepsi and the state.

Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat, said, “It’s never effective or helpful when companies play a locational card, and we’re working cooperatively with the governor and with Pepsi to make sure the right thing happens.”

Some experts and officials say that as the recession trickles down from New York’s once-mighty financial institutions to other parts of the economy, more businesses may be tempted to leave the state — and that New York may feel compelled to enter bidding wars to keep them.

Amid growing worries about an exodus of corporate tenants from Manhattan, the Real Estate Board of New York, a powerful organization representing landlords and developers, has had a series of recent meetings with the Bloomberg administration to push a proposal to market the benefits of New York City, as well as provide companies incentives to stay.

The administration’s longstanding policy has been to offer incentives to companies that add new jobs, rather than subsidize businesses’ laying off employees. Landlords claim that may not be enough.

“There is a need for some gestures to tenants,” said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board. “We ought to hold onto what we got.”
62 2009-03-02 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Two missiles fired Sunday from American remotely piloted aircraft killed at least eight militants in a Taliban stronghold on the Afghan border, according to a local intelligence official and news reports.

The attack, in the Sora Rogha area of South Waziristan, a tribal region controlled by the Pakistani Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud, hit a militant base, the official said. The dead included four Arab militants, the intelligence official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to reporters.

Last year, American and Pakistani officials accused Mr. Mehsud of plotting the 2007 assassination of Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister and the wife of Pakistan’s current president, Asif Ali Zardari.

The attack is the fifth in the area controlled by Mr. Mehsud since President Obama took office, continuing the covert war run by the Central Intelligence Agency inside Pakistan.

More than a dozen young men from Sora Rogha have killed themselves in suicide attacks against targets inside Pakistan in the last two years, a local fighter said.

Separately, a senior law enforcement official, a commander of the Frontier Constabulary, was kidnapped Sunday by the Taliban in Swat, where the government announced a cease-fire with the militants last month.
63 2009-03-02 Microsoft wants to put a Laura on the desk of every person who has ever dreamed of having a personal aide. Laura and other devices like her stand as Microsoft’s potential path for diversifying beyond the personal computer, sales of which are stagnating.

Microsoft and its longtime partner, Intel, have accelerated their exploration of new computing fields. Last week at its headquarters near Seattle, Microsoft showed off a host of software systems built to power futuristic games, medical devices, teaching tools and even smart elevators. And this week, Intel, the world’s largest chip maker, will elaborate on plans to extend its low-power Atom chip from laptops to cars, robots and home security systems.

Such a shift is only natural as people show that they want less, not more, from their computers.

Workers and consumers have moved away from zippy desktops over the last few years, and now even their interest in expensive laptops has started to wane.

The fastest-selling products in the PC market are netbooks, a flavor of cheap, compact laptops meant to handle the basic tasks like checking e-mail and perusing the Internet that dominate most people’s computing time.

Of course, Microsoft and Intel will remain married to the PC market for the foreseeable future. The vast majority of Microsoft’s $60 billion and Intel’s $38 billion in annual revenue stems from the sale of traditional computer products — a franchise so powerful that it is known in the industry by the nickname Wintel.

But with consumers no longer chasing after ever-faster PCs, the two companies have opted to redefine what the latest and greatest computer might look like.

“The PC is still very healthy, but it is not showing the type of growth that comes through these exciting new areas,” said Patrick P. Gelsinger, a senior vice president at Intel.

Whether the companies can really turn prototypes like Laura into real products remains to be seen. Microsoft and Intel both have a habit of talking up fantastic and ambitious visions of the future. In 2003, Microsoft famously predicted that we would soon all be wearing wristwatch computers known as Spot watches. Last year, the company quietly ended the project.

This time around, however, the underlying silicon technology may have caught up to where both companies hope to take computing.

For example, Laura requires a top-of-the-line chip with eight processor cores to handle all of the artificial intelligence and graphics work needed to give the system a somewhat lifelike appearance and function. Such a chip would normally sit inside a server in a company’s data center.

Intel is working to bring similar levels of processing power down to tiny chips that can fit into just about any device. Craig Mundie, the chief research and strategy officer at Microsoft, expects to see computing systems that are about 50 to 100 times more powerful than today’s systems by 2013.

Most important, the new chips will consume about the same power as current chips, making possible things like a virtual assistant with voice- and facial-recognition skills that are embedded into an office door.

“We think that in five years’ time, people will be able to use computers to do things that today are just not accessible to them,” Mr. Mundie said during a speech last week. “You might find essentially a medical doctor in a box, so to speak, in the form of your computer that could help you with basic, nonacute care, medical problems that today you can get no medical support for.”

With such technology in hand, Microsoft predicts a future filled with a vast array of devices much better equipped to deal with speech, artificial intelligence and the processing of huge databases.

To that point, Microsoft has developed a projection system that lets people manipulate large video images with their hands. Using this technology, Microsoft’s researchers projected an image of the known universe onto a homemade cardboard dome and then pinched and pulled at the picture to expand the Milky Way or traverse Jupiter’s surface.

“You could hook this up to your Xbox and have your own crazy gaming projection system,” said Andrew D. Wilson, a senior researcher at Microsoft. Teachers could use this type of technology as well to breathe new life into their subjects.

The technology behind Laura could cross over into a variety of fields. Mr. Horvitz predicted an elevator that senses when you are in the midst of a conversation and keeps its doors open until you are done talking.

As for Intel, the company has confirmed that more than 1,000 products are being designed for its coming Atom chip, which is aimed at nontraditional computing systems. Intel views this as a $10 billion potential market that will give rise to 15 billion brainy devices by 2015, Mr. Gelsinger said.

The fortunes that Microsoft and Intel have amassed from their PC businesses afford them the rare opportunity to explore such a wide range of future products. And if their wildest dreams turn into realities, it is possible that consumers will one day associate the Wintel moniker more with brainy elevators than desktops.
64 2009-03-02 Kansas landed an 18-1 knockout punch in the first 10 minutes, then made sure Missouri did not get back in the fight this time.

Sherron Collins scored 25 points and dished out several key assists in the run and the No. 15 Jayhawks took command of the Big 12 race by trouncing the 11th-ranked Tigers, 90-65, on Sunday in Lawrence, Kan.

Now, with a Wednesday night game at Texas Tech and a regular-season finale at home Saturday against No. 25 Texas, the Jayhawks (24-5, 13-1) stand on the cusp of a fifth straight title in what was supposed to be a transition season.

“I’m falling in love with this team,” Coach Bill Self said. “They try hard and they’re getting more and more aggressive all the time.”

Cole Aldrich had 19 points and 14 rebounds in a surprisingly lopsided win over a Tigers team that came back from a 14-point deficit to beat the Jayhawks, 62-60, last month at Missouri. It was also the nation-leading 40th straight victory at home for Kansas, which lost every starter from last year’s N.C.A.A. championship team.
65 2009-03-02 As advertisers try to position themselves ever closer to the entertainment that viewers are watching, a rough formula is emerging. Before the production of “Harlem Heights,” the cast members completed a survey of their health and wellness habits. The survey found an opportunity to integrate allergy medicine into the story line.

“You need to have those conversations far enough in advance so you understand exactly where some of the natural, organic places for integrations are, so things don’t feel staged,” Mr. Bowles said.

“Harlem Heights,” which begins on Monday, is the latest spin on the docudrama genre that has included “Laguna Beach,” “The Hills,” and others that traffic in what could be called semi-reality. Set in Manhattan, the show follows eight members of what it calls the “young black elite.”

The breadth of the Johnson & Johnson partnership is unprecedented for the network. The brand is also visible in the commercials for “Harlem Heights” and on the show’s Web site.

BET’s integrated marketing department is about two years old, making it younger than comparable efforts at the cable channel’s corporate cousins MTV and VH1 at Viacom. Philippe Dauman, the chief executive of Viacom, has credited the integration opportunities with helping to secure price increases in the upfront period of advance advertising sales last year.

As BET has reoriented itself away from a home for sometimes-controversial music videos, it has invested considerable money in acquisitions and original content. Music videos now represent less than 20 percent of the network’s lineup, compared with 70 percent four years ago.

After showing some ratings weakness last year, the network’s audience numbers inched up in January, with a 6 percent gain over the same month last year.

The programs have given Mr. Bowles new products to promote to potential advertisers. He said for some advertisers, who may not have commercials that are tailored to the African-American audience, product promotion is an answer to that concern.

“By being able to utilize story-line integrations and being able to embed their product or message within the environment that we have control of, it allows us to offer a different message than we’ve been able to offer before,” he said.

In the first three quarters of 2008, Johnson & Johnson spent $33.9 million on advertising to reach African-Americans, up 17 percent from the same period in 2007, according to the Nielsen Company. Only one company, Procter & Gamble, spent more.

Brooke Crittendon, one of the cast members in “Harlem Heights,” said the integrations did not distract from the taping. “It sort of worked out,” she said. “If I was filming a scene at my house and I was getting ready, obviously I’m going to get out of the shower and put lotion on.”

That scene featured the skin cream Ambi, which Johnson & Johnson promotes by saying it meets “the needs of women of color.” Ms. Crittendon, who also works for MTV as a producer for the documentary series “True Life,” said it seemed that the burden of the integrations was shouldered by the producers.

Kurt Williamson, the co-creator and an executive producer, said he had tried to avoid incongruous uses of Johnson & Johnson products. None of the cast members put on a Nicorette patch or apply Rogaine on-camera. For the products that did appear, “we would come on the set with boxes and we would place things within the scenes, while trying to make it as organic as possible,” Mr. Williamson said.

Viewers will judge whether the promotions seem forced. “We don’t necessarily have to showcase them gargling for 30 seconds to make sure you get the full effect, but you can get the sense that Listerine is part of their daily process,” Mr. Bowles said.
66 2009-03-02 For his campaign, it forced aides to operate at peak efficiency by magnifying the risks of failure. “We excelled as an organization because there was a tremendous downside,” Mr. Plouffe said in an interview. “The organization had to perform.”

That poses a tougher challenge of governance. Achieving Mr. Obama’s agenda, or even a substantial part of it, will require extraordinary responsiveness not only from his team, but also from Congress and the public.

Every lawmaker the president now relies on has a different constituency than he does. Because of gerrymandering, House members’ districts usually lean toward the right or left ends of the political spectrum, though lately Democrats have picked up seats in some relatively conservative areas. In the Senate, the interests of energy-state Democrats like Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana or Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia differ from those of more environmentally sensitive colleagues like Barbara Boxer of California or Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey.

Each of Mr. Obama’s major initiatives might normally represent the work of an entire session of Congress. Mr. Obama’s only apparent deference to overloaded circuits so far was his decision to slow his initial push for Social Security solvency, which rattled Democratic liberals.

In “The Last Campaign,” his account of Robert F. Kennedy’s 1968 presidential race, Thurston Clarke speculated on when “the dam will break” and unleash a new flood of public activism mirroring Mr. Kennedy’s aspirations. Obama aides, who sought to emulate Mr. Kennedy’s effort, hope that has happened.

But it is unproven. “The risks are too much too soon, and piling on, and triggering class warfare,” said Kenneth Khachigian, a former aide to Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan.

Most worrisome for Democrats is that Republicans might convince middle-class Americans that they, and not just the rich, will suffer from Mr. Obama’s agenda. That is how Republicans defeated President Bill Clinton’s proposal for universal health care in 1994 without a single committee vote in Congress.

One vulnerable target: the Obama plan to cap carbon emissions, which opponents are already tarring as a back-door energy tax on consumers. “Push won’t really come to shove,” said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, “until the average voter worries that he or she will be impacted — whether through higher taxes or restrictions on health care choices or some other way.”

What makes Mr. Obama’s reach even more striking is that he has followed a president with similar ambitions.

Accepting the 2000 Republican nomination, George W. Bush scalded Mr. Clinton for failing to lead and promised to “confront the hard issues.” Privately among aides, he disdained the “small ball” other politicians played.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Bush sought to transform the Middle East by invading Iraq. Later he pursued partial privatization of Social Security over the misgivings of fellow Republicans. Whatever the merits of either endeavor, both became costly political failures even before the economy fell into crisis.

None of which deters the Obama White House as it enters its seventh week. Mr. Plouffe called far-reaching action on multiple fronts without delay “core to why he ran” to begin with.

“Political calculation and risk aversion really have to take a back seat,” Mr. Plouffe said. “It’s a test for Washington in my view. We’re in uncharted territory here.”
67 2009-03-02 NEW AID FOR A.I.G.American International Group, the insurer that is expected to post a quarterly loss of more than $60 billion on Monday, will receive up to $30 billion more in federal aid, and will spin off a unit as part of a revamped bailout.  ...
68 2009-03-02 Two missiles fired Sunday from American remotely piloted aircraft killed at least eight  militants in a Taliban stronghold on the Afghan border, according to a local intelligence official and news reports.     The attack, in the Sora Rogha area of...
69 2009-03-03 The Walt Disney Company has cut the “High School Musical” franchise from its varsity line-up, announcing that a fourth installment –- with all new lead actors — will have its premiere on television instead of the big screen....
70 2009-03-03 The YouTube Symphony Orchestra, the classical music performance group whose musicians auditioned via the video-sharing Web site, has selected its inaugural lineup....
71 2009-03-03 The hardest-hit parts of the country have been manufacturing regions, like Michigan, Ohio and Rhode Island, and areas that had huge housing bubbles, like California, Florida and Nevada. (Updated August 10, 2010 with June data. Figures are not seasonally adjusted.)
72 2009-03-03 A Wednesday puzzle a CEO would love starts with Revenue / Result....
73 2009-03-03 Alex Rodriguez has an injured hip and may not play for the Dominican Republic in the World Baseball Classic, according to a person in baseball who has spoken to Rodriguez....
74 2009-03-03 Video | In two parts, here's a visualization of the credit crisis by Jonathan Jarvis, a Los Angeles-based designer. You may have quibbles (like, what about the active government encouragement of risky loans?) but there's some nifty explanatory sto...
75 2009-03-03 Renaissance Technologies, the black-box hedge fund founded by the mathematician James Simons, has hired Matthew Scanlan of Barclays Global Investors to run its institutional unit. Mr. Scanlan replaces Stephen Robert, who is resigning after four ye...
76 2009-03-03 With the "The Watchmen" film, eagerly awaited by many of the graphic novel's fans, set to open in three days, speculation is rampant about how well it will fare at the weekend box office....
77 2009-03-03 The NHL Network will not be carrying TSN's authoritative trade deadline...
78 2009-03-03 The new version of Apple's Mac Mini is billed as "faster" and "greener." It remains a small desktop computer with the soul of a laptop....
79 2009-03-03 India | The Booker Prize-winning writer Arundhati Roy isn't joining her compatriots' rejoicing over "Slumdog Millionaire." Its main achievement, she says, was "providing an authentic, magnificent backdrop of epic poverty, brutality and violence fo...
80 2009-03-03 New looks, specs and prices for Apple's desktop line....
81 2009-03-03 President Obama said it was more important to focus on whether lines of credit were flowing, businesses were making new investments and unemployed workers were finding jobs....
82 2009-03-03 Masonite International, a long-troubled door and fiberboard maker owned by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, said Tuesday that it plans to file for bankruptcy as part of a debt-restructuring plan....
83 2009-03-03 The American International Group has drawn scorn from legions of taxpayers and lots of lawmakers (not to mention the writers at "Saturday Night Live"). And Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is pretty peeved at the company as well....
84 2009-03-03 The Senate just defeated an amendment, 63 to 32, by Senator John McCain that would have maintained federal agency spending at last year's levels, and deprived lawmakers of nearly 9,000 in earmarks....
85 2009-03-03 Regular-season statistical leaders....
86 2009-03-03 A new study by the RAND Corporation reports that several organized crime groups around the world have gotten deeply involved in DVD piracy -- perhaps putting them in conflict with the video streaming sites that are making it easier to watch movies...
87 2009-03-03 Calculated Risk looks at the latest plan floated by the Treasury - to make low-interest, non-recourse loans to private investors who buy bad assets - and immediately gets it: this is a plan to drive up the prices of toxic assets by creating a lot ...
88 2009-03-03 Michael Lewis, writing in Vanity Fair, traces the financial boom and bust in Iceland, the tiny fishing nation that re-invented itself as a global financial power, only to come crashing back to earth. "Iceland is no longer a country. It is a hedge ...
89 2009-03-03 Australian regulators are feeling increased pressure to renew a short-selling ban amid speculation that foreign hedge funds are gearing up to bet against the share prices of the nation's four largest banks, The Sydney Morning Herald reported. The ...
90 2009-03-03 The reason the federal government just rescued American International Group for the fourth time in six months with taxpayer money has a lot to do with a terrifying potential consequence of letting A.I.G. fail: the possibility of a run on on the in...
91 2009-03-03 KKR Financial Holdings, a debt fund managed by private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, reported a $1.2 billion quarterly loss on Monday and said it would not pay a dividend for the fourth quarter, and probably not for 2009. The publicly trade...
92 2009-03-03 The lawyer appointed to run the Stanford Group and two other firms controlled by Texas billionaire Robert Allen Stanford, accused in an $8 billion fraud, told a federal court on Monday that Stanford Group faces a dire financial squeeze, Reuters sa...
93 2009-03-03 EMI Group, it seems, is turning out to be a real drag for Guy Hands. The British financier's buyout shop, Terra Firma, has written off half its 2.6 billion euro ($3.3 billion) investment in EMI, The Financial Times said. The British music group ac...
94 2009-03-03 Shareholders of the mining group Xstrata approved a $5.9 billion rights issue on Monday so the firm could pay off debt, and also voted for the acquisition of a coal mine in Colombia, Reuters said. Xstrata, the world's fifth-biggest diversified min...
95 2009-03-03 Stock markets in the Asia-Pacific region stabilized Tuesday after a bleak day of global selling on Monday that dragged some of the world's leading indexes - including the Dow Jones industrial index on Wall Street – sharply lower. Although the ne...
96 2009-03-03 World | Posters reveal the changed nature of anti-Semitism today, a columnist says. In the Nazi era, Jews were personified as hook-nosed, ghoulish and filthy. But "anti-Semitic propagandists of our own age typically omit the Jew's features altoget...
97 2009-03-03 Preparing for the 50th anniversary next Tuesday of a failed uprising in Tibet against Chinese rule, Beijing authorities issued a white paper on Monday presenting their interpretation of Tibetan history, comparing the abolition of "serfdom" in Tibet under Chinese rule to the emancipation of slaves in the United States. The Dalai Lama and other Tibetan leaders have accepted that traditional Tibetan society had shortcomings, but contend that Beijing has long exaggerated the plight of Tibetan peasants and that improvements were under way before China's military action in 1959.
98 2009-03-03 Not knowing is not acceptable. At this stage of a deepening crisis, no one is arguing that the government should let A.I.G. collapse into a disorderly bankruptcy. It is too interconnected. During the housing bubble, it used unregulated to insure securities that turned out to be toxic — without putting aside reserves in case it had to pay up. If it now went under, there could be a chain of catastrophic defaults among that hold the securities and related .

The A.I.G. bailouts fail the basic test of transparency: Who ends up with the money? Major financial institutions are not innocent victims of A.I.G.’s demise. They are sophisticated investors, and they should have known the risks being taken — and who profited mightily from the relationship before it all came crashing down.

Whoever the recipients are, they should be investigated for their roles in the crash and, to the extent possible, be made to pay for the bailouts.

The serial A.I.G. bailouts are especially problematic for their connection to the Wall Street bank . At the time of the first A.I.G. rescue last fall, it was reported by in The Times that Goldman was A.I.G.’s largest trading partner, with some $20 billion of business tied into the insurer. Goldman has said that its exposure to risk from A.I.G. was offset, or hedged, by other investments.

What is certain is that Goldman has lots of friends in high places — yet one more reason why this bailout has to be as transparent as possible. Lloyd Blankfein, Goldman’s chief executive, was the only Wall Street executive at a September meeting at the New York Federal Reserve to discuss the initial A.I.G. bailout. Also involved in the discussion was the then head of the New York Fed, , who is now ’s Treasury secretary.

It is also painfully clear that more of the same black-hole bailouts are failing to restore stability or confidence. Stock markets worldwide tanked on Monday. A growing chorus of economists and commentators — including this page — are urging the Obama administration to adopt a more comprehensive solution: a government-run restructuring, or nationalization.

The government would not only take an ownership stake in firms that require extensive and ongoing bailouts — as it has done with A.I.G. and — but also direct control of the weakest ones. It would get a realistic assessment of the assets crippling them and revamp their finances before returning them to the private sector, where they would be smaller and healthier and could start lending again.

We know that many Americans are uncomfortable with the word nationalization — politicians even more so. But each new bailout of old losers only feeds mistrust of the government and weakens public support for the even tougher decisions to come.
99 2009-03-03 A judge has dismissed all claims in a suit against Oral Roberts University by a former university accountant who said he was ordered to “cook the books.” The judge, Michael Gassett of District Court, threw out Trent Huddleston’s claims of intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligence, civil conspiracy and interference with a business relationship. Mr. Huddleston’s claims of fraud and wrongful discharge were dismissed earlier. The suit named Richard Roberts, a former president of the university, and his wife, Lindsay, among two dozen defendants. Mr. Roberts resigned in 2007 and has denied accusations he misspent university money.
100 2009-03-03 Executives struggling to reverse the company’s recent revenue decline also play down the difficulty of the balancing act between value and prestige. “If we are a premium brand, it doesn’t mean we can’t provide value,” said Howard Schultz, the chief executive. “We believe when we come out of this, we will be stronger because we maintained our core customers and, through providing value, will bring on new customers.”

That will be tough, said David Morris, a senior analyst at the market research company Mintel. “Trading down is necessary, but they have to be very careful that they are not going to trade away the prestige the brand was built on,” he said. “It’s a hard needle to thread.”

Starbucks customers range from BMW-driving professionals who often come in twice a day to budget-conscious people who used to come in once a month and now come even less, Mr. Davenport said.

“That last group is huge, so to get one more visit out of these guys a month is huge,” he said.

That is also the group that McDonald’s has been poaching with its low-priced lattes. But Starbucks learned that many of its customers want Starbucks food to be nothing like the fast-food chain’s Egg McMuffins, with their perfectly circular egg patties and shiny meat.

Starbucks asked 50 customers in three states to record in journals what they ate for breakfast at home for two weeks and in restaurants for two weeks. They discovered that while some prioritized price, others would pay more for something that was healthful and had enough protein to fill them up until lunchtime.

“For a large part, it’s about quality ingredients, and what they are paying for is justifiable by those ingredients,” said Ian Cranna, director for warm and chilled food at Starbucks. “Increasingly today, there is another segment of customers for whom, in all honesty, it’s all about the price point.”

The challenge was coming up with breakfast combinations to please everyone.

The food development team spent a year creating two breakfast sandwiches for the pairings. Although the eggs and cheese are mixed in huge vats, poured into tins, baked, frozen and shipped to distribution centers to be assembled, they wanted them to look freshly made to appeal to people who do not like fast-food outlets.

At first, the manufacturer that supplies Starbucks with egg patties came up with perfectly round eggs from a mold. Starbucks rejected them, asking for a more free-form mold to look more like the shape of a freshly cracked egg, said Lani Lindsey Sordello, Starbucks’s director for food and bakery. Starbucks’s food scientists mixed parmesan cheese with the egg to prevent the smell from seeping into the stores and overwhelming the smell of coffee.

Starbucks also offers different types of discounts to the two customer groups. Regular customers who do not care as much about price pay $25 a year for cards that get them a 10 percent discount on food and coffee. Starbucks singles out budget-conscious, infrequent customers with discounts like one it had last spring, when it distributed cards for a free brewed coffee every Wednesday for eight weeks.

“We are not just dropping coupons,” Mr. Davenport said. “Value has to be authentic to us. It has to feel like it’s in the brand’s voice in a way that rings true to our customers.”
101 2009-03-03 Nebbishy misanthropes, your ship has come in: the Tribeca Film Festival announced that its opening-night film would be the world premiere of Woody Allen’s “Whatever Works,” which was written and directed by Mr. Allen, top left, and stars another great bespectacled pessimist, Larry David, top right, of “Seinfeld” and “Curb Your Enthusiasm” fame. The film, which will screen April 22, also stars Evan Rachel Wood (“The Wrestler”), Patricia Clarkson and Ed Begley Jr.
102 2009-03-03 Harvard Medical School’s rules say that students on campus are supposed to be off-limits to drug company representatives.

That is why David Tian, a first-year Harvard medical student, said he found it “strange and off-putting” last fall when a man who identified himself as a Pfizer employee took a cellphone photo of students as they demonstrated against pharmaceutical industry influence on campus. “We could only assume he intended to share this with his company,” Mr. Tian said.

The students did not get the man’s name, but they took his picture.

Asked about the mysterious Pfizer man on campus and shown his picture, a company spokesman said he had recently contacted the employee and concluded that he had done nothing wrong. Declining to name him, the spokesman, Ray Kerins, said the employee had photographed the students for personal use.

Mr. Kerins preferred to talk about Pfizer’s support of the medical school, which, according to Harvard officials, includes private payments to at least 149 faculty members, corporate donations of $350,000 to the school last year, $234,000 for continuing medical education classes, and two Pfizer-financed research projects on campus.

“We’ve got top-class collaboration in place with leading medical institutions around the world, and we’re very proud of them,” Mr. Kerins said.

Whatever the unidentified Pfizer representative was up to, Mr. Tian and other students said they saw him again two weeks after the campus protest, at a public lecture on campus about conflicts of interest in medical research.
103 2009-03-03 British newspapers have noted that Mr. Obama’s formative experiences abroad were as a child in Indonesia, and that his administration intended to give new priority to American ties in the Pacific. The Sunday Telegraph reported that Mr. Obama had ordered the removal of a bust of Churchill displayed in the Oval Office under Mr. Bush, and it noted that Mr. Obama devoted 35 pages of his memoir, “Dreams From My Father,” to his grandfather’s claims of torture under British colonial rule in Kenya.

Even reaching the Oval Office before President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany may mean less than meets the eye. Mr. Obama’s first presidential visit to Europe will be for an economic summit meeting in London in April. White House officials have pointed to Mr. Brown’s chairmanship of the meeting and the need to set common goals for resolving the global financial crisis as central reasons for inviting Mr. Brown first.

Still, British pundits have cast the visit as an opportunity for Mr. Brown, 58, to begin a revival of his sinking political fortunes at home, and to help his chances of leading the Labor Party to re-election sometime before June next year.

Part of the bounce Mr. Brown is seeking, the pundits say, could come simply from the fact of meeting with Mr. Obama. The American president continues to receive approval ratings in European polls that are as high or higher than those he has received in the United States, and European leaders hope some of that popularity will rub off on them.

Mr. Brown has said that he sees himself as a natural partner for Mr. Obama, as a left-of-center leader battling political opponents — Republicans in the United States, Conservatives in Britain — who have resisted huge economic stimulus programs and bank bailouts. In his newspaper article, Mr. Brown said he would also seek common ground with Mr. Obama on action to slow climate change and on development aid to the world’s poorest countries.

One point on which Mr. Brown seems likely to resist his American host is Afghanistan. Britain has deployed more than 8,300 troops there, second only to the United States. However, Britain has said it is reluctant to respond to Mr. Obama’s call for more NATO troops to match the increase of 17,000 American troops he announced last month, at least as long as other nations refuse to increase their combat forces. France and Germany’s troop commitments are currently a fraction of Britain’s.

Mr. Brown also hopes to benefit in Washington from the plaudits he won last fall for his program to recapitalize Britain’s failing banks before the Bush administration adopted that approach. That early surefootedness, from a man who served 10 years as Britain’s finance minister, helped Mr. Brown in the polls at home.

But with unemployment soaring, home prices plunging and the failure of billions injected into the banks to revive credit flows, Labor’s recovery has faltered. Recent polls have shown the Conservatives with a lead of 10 percentage points and more.

Mr. Brown’s personal popularity has plunged, too, partly because of what many see as his refusal to acknowledge his failure, as finance minister, to tighten the lax regulation of investment banking and hedge-fund management that financial experts said was a primary contributor to the financial crisis.

That criticism seems unlikely to relent, especially when comparisons are drawn with Mr. Obama. “When Obama bungled a key appointment recently, he simply said, ‘I screwed up,’ ” Martin Ivens, a columnist in The Sunday Times, wrote this weekend. By contrast, Mr. Brown’s strictures for one of the British bankers whose missteps forced a multibillion-dollar government bailout, and who then quit with a pension of close to $1 million a year, seemed “a bit rich,” Mr. Ivens said, “when Brown can’t bring himself to say ‘sorry’ for anything.”
104 2009-03-03 The issue matters because American universities rely on foreign students to fill slots in graduate and postdoctoral science and engineering programs. Foreign talent also fuels scientific and technical innovation in American labs. And the United States can no longer assume that this country is everyone’s first choice for undergraduate, graduate or postgraduate work.

Albert H. Teich, the director of science and policy programs at the American Association for the Advancement of Science, organized a meeting on the subject in January with representatives from the National Academy of Sciences and several dozen other scientific and academic organizations. Among other things, he said, the group will try to bring the issue to the attention of the new administration.

It would be hard to argue against security checks for foreigners coming to the United States to pursue high-level scientific or engineering work. And some experts argue that people from certain countries — China, India, Pakistan and Middle Eastern countries are most often mentioned — should be subject to additional scrutiny.

When visa applicants from problem countries seek opportunities in research fields related to national security, the State Department official said, he hoped Americans “would want us to look at those cases very closely.”

Researchers and students seeking to enter the United States routinely encountered difficulties in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks, but as security checks became faster and more efficient, most could count on receiving a visa or a visa renewal in about two weeks. That appears to no longer be the case.

“I started hearing this back in early November,” said Amy Scott, assistant vice president for federal relations at the Association of American Universities. “We are very concerned that we are losing ground here, that people are missing the opportunities to come to the U.S., to teach, conduct research or just participate in a conference.”

John Marburger, President George W. Bush’s science adviser, said in an interview in the February issue of the magazine Seed that “it should be easier to get into the U.S. as a student,” adding, “We really need to be careful about our openness to the world.”

According to “Beyond ‘Fortress America,’ ” a report in January by the National Academy of Sciences, universities around the world now have the research equipment and infrastructure to compete with their American counterparts. When the United States puts up barriers, the report said, “foreign universities are well positioned to extend competing offers.”

Or as Danielle Guichard-Ashbrook of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology put it: “There are other countries that want these folks. They are the best of the best. They have other options.”

Ms. Guichard-Ashbrook directs the International Students Office at M.I.T. Foreign students eventually make it to campus, she said, although the path may be slow and bumpy and they do not necessarily arrive on time. Problems typically occur if they leave the United States — for family visits or scientific meetings abroad — and then find they need a new visa to return.

She told of one student from the Middle East who agonized when he was called home to the bedside of his dying father for fear he would not be allowed back to his classes. He made the trip, she said, and his return was delayed.

Visa requirements vary from country to country, Ms. Guichard-Ashbrook said, but because some students must renew their visas often and cannot predict how long it will take for their documents to come through, some of them spend a lot of time calculating when they can travel and when they must start the paperwork dance again.

She and others said that students from all over — even the European Union and Australia — had had problems, but that they seemed most acute for people from China, India, the Middle East and Russia. Belarus was part of the former Soviet Union, which might explain some of Dr. Shkumatava’s difficulties, said Kathie Bailey Mathae, director of the Board on International Scientific Organizations, part of the National Academy of Sciences.

“You are never going to have a system that is 100 percent guaranteed to get people in, in the time they need to be in,” she said. “But when you see problems recurring and the same sort of problems over and over — that’s when you know you have a problem.”

She said researchers were increasingly unwilling to schedule conferences or other scientific meetings in the United States. Although the problem is particularly acute for meetings organized on short notice, she said, some groups are looking for sites outside the United States even for meetings scheduled two years or more in advance.

“That’s unfortunate,” the State Department official said. “We want people to think this is the best place to hold their meetings.”

The official said that time limits for visas were ordinarily a matter of reciprocal agreements between nations. Dr. Shkumatava’s case, he said, may have been further complicated because Belarus severely limits the number of foreign service officers the United States can have there at any given time.

Dr. Shkumatava said her experience was particularly nerve-racking because she was kept from her lab for three months, just as she was struggling to publish new findings before her competitors. When she was required to hand in her passport in Moscow, employees at the embassy lost it, stranding her there for nine days with no documents.

When she returned to the United States, she found that two colleagues had also been stranded by visa problems, one in India and the other in Peru.

Dr. Shkumatava said she will probably return to Europe. Her husband, a computational biologist from Germany, left the United States last fall for a job in Vienna. She might have tried to stay on, she said, if entering and leaving the country were not such a “discouraging” process.

“I got the visa and so I am back,” she said. “But it’s for only one year, so next year in December if I am going to stay here I am going to have to reapply for this stamp.”
105 2009-03-03 People with bipolar disorder are at risk for an array of fatal illnesses, according to a review of 17 studies involving more than 331,000 patients.

The researchers, writing in the February issue of Psychiatric Services, looked at studies of patients whose bipolar illness was severe enough to require hospitalization. Mortality in those patients ranged from 35 percent to 200 percent higher than in comparison groups.

In the larger studies, almost every cause of death was higher among bipolar patients: cardiovascular, respiratory, cerebrovascular (including strokes), and endocrine (like diabetes). In the smaller studies, mortality from cerebrovascular disease was higher among those with bipolar illness, but they showed inconsistent results, probably because they used smaller samples or less representative populations.

Several markers of inflammation — often a precursor of heart attacks and strokes — are higher among bipolar patients than others. The chronic stress of bipolar illness may lead to metabolic syndrome and atherosclerosis, or to insulin resistance, which increase the risk for sudden cardiac death. And psychiatric medications, because many lead to weight gain, may increase the risk for diabetes and cardiovascular disorders.

Dr. Wayne Katon, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Washington and a co-author of the study, said psychiatric patients and their families should try to make sure they are getting good medical care. “Good medicine,” he said, “means integrated mental health and primary care.”
106 2009-03-03 Researchers have known for some time that the risk for asthma is greater in babies born in the fall and winter, and some studies have suggested that the flu virus is the cause. Now an analysis that controlled for viral illness has found other culprits: molds and pollen.

The study, posted online Feb. 24 in the journal Thorax, followed 514 Mexican immigrant children in an agricultural region of California from birth to 2 years, tracking their wheezing from medical records. The researchers also recorded ambient air concentrations of mold spores and pollen.

Children born during high mold-spore periods were at the greatest risk of wheezing by age 2. Total pollen concentration during the month of birth was also associated with wheezing, and the correlations were strongest with alder, cypress and pine pollen. The associations held after controlling for diagnosed respiratory infections, family history of asthma, exposure to tobacco smoke and pets in the home, and other asthma-related risk factors.

Kim Harley, the lead author and an assistant researcher at the University of California, Berkeley, said parents of fall or winter babies should not be alarmed. “Development of asthma is a complex combination of genetic and environmental factors,” she said, “and exposure to pollen and mold is unlikely to have long-term detrimental effects.”
107 2009-03-03 Army troops shot and killed the president of the tiny West African country of Guinea-Bissau early Monday, apparently in reprisal for a bomb attack that killed the army chief of staff the night before, according to diplomats in the region.

The president, João Bernardo Vieira, was killed around 5 a.m. in an attack outside his house. Army troops blamed him for the death of the army chief, Gen. Batista Tagme Na Wai, in an explosion on Sunday night, diplomats said.

“Nobody knows who is in charge,” said one diplomat, who spoke on the condition of anonymity under customary diplomatic rules. “Nobody knows what the army will do.”

The army command denied that a coup was under way, saying an “isolated group” of soldiers had killed the president. In a statement on state radio, the military promised to respect the “constitutional order” that provides for the leader of Parliament to succeed the president until elections take place.

Gunfire heard overnight eased in the early hours, according to residents in Bissau, the capital. The city was later reported to be quiet but tense, with few people venturing into the streets.

Guinea-Bissau, a former Portuguese colony flanked by Senegal and Guinea, is known as a transit point for South American cocaine shipments bound for Europe.
108 2009-03-03 ANOTHER SHARP DECLINE With new evidence that global economies are weaker than thought, stocks markets worldwide dropped sharply with the Dow Jones industrial average falling below 7,000 for the first time since 1997.       PRIVATE NO MORE The gian...
109 2009-03-03 LaFEMINA--Vincent. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Vincent LaFemina, associated with The New York Times from October 2, 1949 until retiring on June 1, 1993....
110 2009-03-03 PRICE--Howard Z.,Prof. of Journalism at Eastern Illinois University, Charleston, IL, passed away Friday, February 27, 2009. Born in Newark, NJ, July 22, 1943, he studied and taught in NYC, served in VISTA in Seattle, and also worked in New Jersey,...
111 2009-03-03 People with bipolar disorder are at risk for an array of fatal illnesses, according to a review of 17 studies involving more than 331,000 patients.     The researchers, writing in  the February issue of Psychiatric Services, looked at studies of p...
112 2009-03-04 While the global economy continues to strike a series of sour notes, Petrof, a manufacturer of pianos in the Czech Republic has been supplementing its income by making household furniture in addition to uprights and baby grands...
113 2009-03-04 I was alerted to this Media Matters post, revealing that people still don't get why the current slump is different from the early 1980s, and why fiscal policy is necessary this time. Yes, I know, it's Joe Scarborough; but still ... Anyway, it's th...
114 2009-03-04 Gun rights advocates influence the path of legislation that would grant residents in the nation's capital a voting seat in the House of Representatives....
115 2009-03-04 Blackberry will open its own App store, but details are scant....
116 2009-03-04 Groupe Eurotunnel, the company that operates the undersea rail link between Britain and the Continent, took a step toward regaining credibility with investors on Wednesday, saying it would pay a dividend for the first time in its history....
117 2009-03-04 Tables open up at Per Se....
118 2009-03-04 Carmike Theaters is trying to lure customers with a recession special: Sodas and popcorn for $1 each on Tuesdays....
119 2009-03-04 The case of Philadelphia Newspapers, the company that owns The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News, appears to be quickly turning into a brawl....
120 2009-03-04 William Tobey, a senior fellow at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center, flagged an article: Last month, President Obama sent his Russian counterpart a letter stating his view that U.S. missile defense deployments in Europe would not be necessary...
121 2009-03-04 The Apple Apps store is now featuring a free Kindle application that lets users download and read e-books purchased from Amazon.com....
122 2009-03-04 Bankruptcy filings are on the rise again, and this uptick in the cycle could be especially nasty for debtors that find themselves squeezed by a credit crunch and more stringent bankruptcy laws. In its annual Business Restructuring Review, the law ...
123 2009-03-04 Good style mixes high-ticket items with brilliant but affordable gets. In this column, T's fashion team finds the cheap and the chic.What: Opening Ceremony for Uniqlo SuitHow Much: Jacket, $79.50 and pants, $39.50. Available March 19 at Uniqlo, 54...
124 2009-03-04 Amid a wave of government-led bailouts for car companies, a group of international agencies and motoring organizations called on Wednesday for car makers worldwide to reduce emissions....
125 2009-03-04 Johan Santana (elbow) said Wednesday not to count him out for a start on opening day, but Dan Warthen, the Mets' pitching coach, would not discuss a revised schedule and said he would wait to see how Santana feels Thursday....
126 2009-03-04 Not that long ago, hedge fund managers oozed money and power, snapping up contemporary art like chewing gum and basking in attention from investors eager to part with their cash. It's a different world now. In the latest issue of Vanity Fair, Beth...
127 2009-03-04 With the cost and complexity of building chips going up as sales go down, the industry has started to realign....
128 2009-03-04 Looking for leaders of the Republican party? How about Rush? Or Romney?...
129 2009-03-04 A Global Fuel Economy Initiative unveiled at the Geneva Motor Show is aimed at reducing fuel consumption in cars by 50 percent by 2050....
130 2009-03-04 Banking has long been to the tidy city of Zurich what cars are to Detroit and computers to Silicon Valley, only more reliably. For while fortunes swung wildly in those places, quietly serving the world's wealthy made growth here as predictable as ...
131 2009-03-04 Magna Entertainment, the Canadian racetrack and gambling company, will see its shares delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange as of April 1, the company and the exchange said Tuesday. The financial results of the company, which is controlled by t...
132 2009-03-04 First Solar, a maker of solar panels, said Monday that it had snapped up the rights to develop utility-scale solar projects from OptiSolar, which was unable to complete the plans. The $400 million deal for the project pipeline comes amid tough tim...
133 2009-03-04 If Yahoo enters into new talks with Microsoft on an Internet search deal, you won't hear about it from Yahoo's chief executive, Carol Bartz. "We're going to negotiate as companies negotiate - and that's privately," said Ms. Bartz, speaking at an i...
134 2009-03-04 The decline in gross domestic product in the most recent quarter was bad news, but its impact was exaggerated by a misreading of the key number in the report, an economist writes....
135 2009-03-04 How to create a little post office of your own, with no lines to wait on....
136 2009-03-04 CHICAGO — Voters selected a county commissioner Tuesday as the Democratic candidate to succeed Rahm Emanuel, who resigned his seat in the Fifth Congressional District to become President Obama’s chief of staff.

Mike Quigley, a Cook County commissioner, led the field of 12 Democrats with 22 percent of the vote, followed by two state representatives, John Fritchey with 18 percent of the vote and Sara Feigenholtz with 17 percent.

As the Democratic candidate, Mr. Quigley, who campaigned as a reformer and fiscal watchdog, is expected to be the front-runner in the April 7 special election.

The race on the Democratic ballot was intensified partly because neither Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago nor Mr. Emanuel endorsed a candidate.

Mr. Quigley will face the winner of the Republican Party primary, Rosanna Pulido, and a Green Party candidate.

Jim Allen, a spokesman for the Chicago Board of Elections, said voter turnout was low, which he attributed to frustration over the fracas that led former Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich to resign.
137 2009-03-04 Mr. Freed said people would still turn to stand-alone reading devices like the $359 Kindle when they want to read digital books for hours at a time. He also said that the experience of using the new iPhone application might persuade people to buy a Kindle, which has much longer battery life than the iPhone and a screen better suited for reading.

Amazon also said its recently unveiled Whispersync function would work for people who own a Kindle and one of the Apple devices. They can access their library of previously purchased e-books on all of their devices at no additional cost. Amazon will also create automatic bookmarks, so that a user can stop reading a book on one device and pick it up on another device at the same spot in the text.

The move by Amazon tangles competitive dynamics in the growing e-book industry. Many analysts thought pocket-size versatile smartphones could eventually eat into the small but growing market for stand-alone book readers that do little else and still do not have color screens or full-featured Web browsers. With the announcement, Amazon appears to be hedging its bets.

Analysts had also thought Amazon was closely following the template Apple had created with the iPod and trying to dominate the market with a ubiquitous, must-have consumer electronics device. Now it appears Amazon is more interested in selling as many e-books as possible on its site, and collecting the royalties, while strengthening its ties with customers, many of whom will buy other products from Amazon if they start buying e-books.

“A couple months ago a lot of people thought Amazon was slavishly imitating the Apple model,” said Bill Rosenblatt, president of the consulting business GiantSteps Media Technology Strategies. “It turns out they have a different model than Apple. They are smarter than everyone thought.”

The developments also suggest that, true to his word, Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s chief executive, has little interest in the market for digital books. Mr. Jobs once dismissed the Kindle by saying “the whole conception is flawed at the top because people don’t read anymore.”

Unlike other forms of media like music and video, which Apple sells itself to iPhone owners through its iTunes store, Apple appears to be ceding the e-books market to Amazon and other companies that offer e-book applications.

“Apple is consciously skipping the e-book market,” said Evan R. Schnittman, vice president for business development and rights at Oxford University Press. “I think it’s pretty significant.”
138 2009-03-04 Guinea-Bissau swore in the speaker of Parliament as interim president on Tuesday, a day after the assassination of President João Bernardo Vieira. The Parliament speaker, Raimundo Pereira, will be president for a limited period pending elections under the Constitution, which the armed forces have promised to respect.
139 2009-03-04 “We expect difficulties in corporate financing in Japan as well as overseas to reach their peak soon as economic difficulties deepen,” said Japan’s finance minister, Kaoru Yosano. Japan will also expand an emergency loan facility aimed at struggling domestic companies to 1.5 trillion yen ($15.4 billion), from 1 trillion yen, Mr. Yosano said.

Elsewhere in the world, companies are complaining about similar problems. “We cannot get credit from U.S. banks,” said Byon Hyong Jun, who works for a small trading firm in South Korea that takes orders from American clothing companies and arranges for them to be made in Vietnam and other Asian countries.

In part because of the borrowing difficulties, he added, “garment exporters like us have reduced our shipments to the U.S. by as much as 70 percent.”

Normally, trade finance is considered virtually riskless. The collateral is the underlying merchandise itself, which is occasionally lost at sea or damaged but cannot vanish into the air like home values or the price of a stock.

“Trade financing is one of the safest lending activities, and it is very simple,” said Jean-François Lambert, global head of trade finance at HSBC in London.

But those dynamics have changed as the global economy contracts. Consider the tale of Jeff Auton, the manager of trade finance at Mark Andy, a maker of specialized printing equipment in Chesterfield, Mo. When he fielded a call from his distributor in Brazil in December, Mr. Auton received the good news first.

“Hey, we’ve got a buyer here,” Mr. Auton recalled the distributor saying. The bad news, however, was that at least three sales, worth a total of $1 million, were at risk because “the local banks were pricing the deal out of the picture.”

Hoping to rescue the sales, Mr. Auton dug into the financials of his customers and managed to persuade the Export-Import Bank of the United States, a government agency, to guarantee a private loan to the Brazilian buyers.

“You can sit on the sidelines or you can get involved, especially with the customers you have relationships with,” Mr. Auton said. “But it is tough and it takes a lot of effort.”

Mr. Auton, who called the current climate for exports the worst he has ever seen, said he was lucky to make the Brazilian sales. Many potential customers abroad, he thinks, simply give up when they cannot get credit locally.

The change in the cost of financing trade deals highlights the problem. The interest rate on export finance loans to India, to take but one example, has gone from a fraction above Libor, a floating benchmark rate set in London, to about 5.5 percentage points higher.

Sure enough, one potential Mark Andy customer in India, mulling a $750,000 order, has not been able to get financing.

“The deals don’t so much fall through as we haven’t been able to obtain the business in the first place,” Mr. Auton said.

That is amplifying a demand-driven downturn in international trade: For example, Japan, long an export powerhouse, registered its fourth consecutive month of trade deficits in January, the longest such stretch since the price of oil upset its trade balance in the 1970s. The International Monetary Fund expects the total volume of global trade to shrink in 2009 by 2.8 percent, the first contraction since 1982.

Japan’s initiative Tuesday was the latest in a series of programs by countries and international organizations to revive the private market.

The nation recently pledged $1 billion to the World Bank to finance trade with emerging markets in partnership with banks, and is underwriting a regional insurance system for trade finance. In Europe, the French government recently used a new agency to finance exports of $6.5 billion in planes made by Airbus, the European commercial jetliner manufacturer. The German government, working through a private insurance company, is putting more resources into exports to Russia.

The world’s export credit agencies, like the Ex-Im Bank, are also finding new ways to finance exports. In a shift, the agency, which traditionally insures only loans made by private banks, is lending money directly to non-American buyers of American products, exercising a legal authority that it has but almost never uses. Last year, it lent about $12 million to sell helicopters to Brazil and $344 million for a rural electrification facility in Ghana. In January, it made two loans for Boeing-made airplanes to customers in Dubai and Morocco.

Still, said Jeffrey Abramson, vice president for trade finance and insurance at Ex-Im, taking the place of the banks is a distant second choice.

“Part of our basic mandate is not to compete with the private market,” he said. “We want people to stay in the trade finance game.”
140 2009-03-04 Until recently, El Centro was one of those relatively cheap inland California areas where construction and home sales were booming. Today, it is pockmarked with “bank-owned” for sale signs. A wallboard factory in nearby Plaster City — its actual name — has laid off workers once kept busy by the housing boom. Even has cut jobs, Sam Couchman, who runs the county’s work force development office, told me.

You often hear that recessions exact the biggest price on the most vulnerable workers. And that’s true about this recession, at least for the moment. But it isn’t the whole story. Just look at Wall Street, where a generation-long bubble seems to lose a bit more air every day.

In the long run, this Great Recession may end up afflicting the comfortable more than the afflicted.

The main reason that recessions tend to increase inequality is that lower-income workers are concentrated in boom-and-bust industries. Agriculture is the classic example. In recent years, construction has become the most important one.

By the start of this decade, the construction sector employed more men without a college education than the manufacturing sector did, Lawrence Katz, the labor economist, points out. (As recently as 1980, three times as many such men worked in manufacturing as construction.) The housing boom was like a giant jobs program for many workers who otherwise would have struggled to find decent paying work.

The housing bust has forced many of them into precisely that struggle and helps explain the recession’s outsize toll on Latinos and men. In the summer of 2005, just as the real estate market was peaking, I spent a day visiting home construction sites in Frederick, Md., something of a exurb, interviewing the workers. They were almost exclusively Latino.

At the time, the national unemployment rate for Latino men was 3.6 percent. Today, when there aren’t many homes being built in Frederick or anywhere else, that unemployment rate is 11 percent. And this number understates the damage, since it excludes a considerable number of immigrants who have returned home.

Frederick was typical of the boom in another way, too. It wasn’t nearly as affluent as some closer suburbs. Now the bust is widening that gap.

If you look at the interactive map with this column, you will see the places that already had high unemployment before the recession have also had some of the largest increases. Some are victims of the housing bust, like inland California. Others are manufacturing centers, as in and , whose long-term decline is accelerating. , home to both factories and exurbs, has one of the highest jobless rates in the nation.

All of these trends will serve to increase inequality. Yet I still think the Great Recession will eventually end up compressing the rungs on the nation’s economic ladder. Why? For the same three fundamental reasons that did.

The first is the stock market crash. Clearly, it has hurt wealthy and upper middle-class families, who own the bulk of stock, more than others. In addition, thousands of high-paying Wall Street jobs — jobs that have helped the share of income flowing to the top 1 percent of earners soar in recent decades — will disappear.

Hard as it may be to believe, the crash will also help a lot of young families. The that they buy in coming years are likely to appreciate far more than they would have if the Dow were still above 14,000. The same is true of future house purchases for the one in three families still renting a home.

The second reason is government policy. The Obama administration plans to raise on the affluent, cut them for everyone else (so long as the government can afford it, that is) and take other steps to reduce inequality. did something similar and it had a huge effect.

Of course, these two factors both boil down to redistribution. One group is benefiting at the expense of another. Yes, many of the people on the losing end of that shift have done quite well in recent years, far better than most Americans. Still, the shift isn’t making the economic pie any bigger. It is simply being divided differently.

Which is why the third factor — education — is the most important of all. It can make the pie larger and divide it more evenly.

That was the legacy of the great surge in school enrollment during the Great Depression. Teenagers who once would have dropped out to do factory work instead stayed in high school, notes Claudia Goldin, an economist who recently wrote a history of education with Mr. Katz.

In the manufacturing-heavy mid-Atlantic states, the high school graduation rate was just above 20 percent in the late 1920s. By 1940, it was almost 60 percent. These graduates then became the skilled workers and teachers who helped build the great post-World War II American economy.

Nothing would benefit tomorrow’s economy more than a similar surge. And there is some evidence that it’s starting to happen. In El Centro, enrollment at Imperial Valley Community College jumped 11 percent this semester. Ed Gould, the college president, said he expected applications to keep rising next year.

Unfortunately, California — one of the states hit hardest by the Great Recession — is in the midst of a fiscal crisis. So Imperial Valley’s budget is being capped. Next year, Mr. Gould expects he will have to tell some students that they can’t take a full load of classes, just when they most need help.
141 2009-03-04 PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Johan Santana’s ever-changing schedule has been the subject of intense scrutiny for nearly a week. From bullpen sessions and medical examinations to spring starts and opening day, his status has been continually in question.

But on Tuesday afternoon, the Mets’ pitching coach, Dan Warthen, offered the closest thing to certainty so far. He all but ruled out Santana’s starting on opening day on April 6 in Cincinnati.

The development is unlikely to put the Mets in a panic. There was no talk on Tuesday of magnetic resonance imaging exams, disabled lists or dashed playoff hopes. Warthen said it was just a cautious adjustment to Santana’s spring training calendar. He said Santana would probably pitch fifth in the rotation the opening week of the season, making his 2009 debut on April 11 in Florida.

Because the tightness in Santana’s elbow kept him from pitching until Sunday, Warthen said, opening day did not seem like a realistic option for Santana. But Warthen did not seem especially worried and neither did Manager Jerry Manuel. In fact, when Manuel spoke to reporters minutes before Warthen did, he did not seem to know that Santana was not penciled in for opening day, saying that he did not have an update.

“I haven’t even seen him today,” Manuel added, laughing.

Santana will pitch a side session here Wednesday morning as the Mets take the first step in shepherding him toward his first spring training start, on March 18 against the Atlanta Braves. Before then, he is scheduled to throw three more side sessions, on March 7, 10, and 15, with a batting practice mixed in on March 13.
142 2009-03-04 Investigators who looked into the e-mail retention practices of former Gov. Matt Blunt said his administration violated Missouri’s public records laws. But the investigators decided not to refer the matter to prosecutors. The report ends an investigation that began after a former legal counsel claimed he was fired for raising concerns that colleagues were not following public records laws. Mr. Blunt has asserted the staffer was fired for legitimate reasons. Mr. Blunt, a Republican, did not seek re-election last year.
143 2009-03-04 Over all, Swiss bank assets equal 6.8 times gross domestic product, less worrisome than Ireland’s 9.5 multiple, but still far more than in the United States, where commercial bank assets stand at 70 percent of G.D.P.

What’s more, this alpine wealth haven is set to get another blast of unwelcome attention Wednesday when a Senate panel examines how UBS helped American taxpayers evade the reach of the Internal Revenue Service.

“These abuses have been going on for much too long,” said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who will lead the hearing and is sponsoring legislation that would crack down on offshore accounts.

Last month, UBS paid a $780 million fine and turned over roughly 250 client names, avoiding a criminal indictment but igniting outrage in a country where bank secrecy — or bank privacy, as the Swiss prefer to call it — is practically an article of faith.

The numbered, virtually anonymous Swiss bank account is the stuff of movie legend and popular lore.

But here it is a bread and butter issue — Switzerland’s financial services sector contributes 12.5 percent of the country’s gross domestic product. That compares to 5 percent from financial services in the countries that use the euro and about 8.5 percent in the United States.

In Zurich, while politicians sputter about how Switzerland is being unfairly singled out and point fingers at British tax havens in the Caribbean and the Channel Islands, UBS executives have a more basic worry: client money is pouring out of the bank’s coffers.

In 2008, clients pulled 123 billion Swiss francs, or $105 billion, out of UBS’s global wealth management business, equal to nearly 8 percent of assets under management. That outflow, along with the drop in value of investments like stocks and bonds in 2008, lowered UBS’s total private assets under management to $1.4 trillion by the end of 2008, from nearly $2 trillion at the end of 2007.

“The main reason was bad publicity and the mistakes we made, not only in trading but in wealth management,” said Mr. Grübel, the new chief executive. “It created uncertainty and mistrust with clients and led to an outflow.”

He admitted that restoring clients’ confidence would not happen overnight. “From my experience it takes up to 12 months for outflows to reverse,” he said.

Referring to the United States tax case, Mr. Grübel added, “We should never have gotten into it, and we should never do something like that in the future.”

UBS shares closed at $8.35 in New York on Tuesday, down from a high of $35.36 last April.

For Switzerland over all, as for UBS, it has been an abrupt fall.

From 2004 to 2007, the Swiss economy grew by nearly 3 percent annually, but in the final quarter of 2008, the economy shrank by 0.6 percent, according to data released Tuesday.

That might not sound like much compared with the 6.2 percent contraction that hit the American economy during the same period, but the possibility of a steeper decline in 2009 is alarming to citizens long sheltered from issues like war and economic instability.

“A 2 or 3 percent contraction is quite exceptional for Switzerland,” said Pirmin Bischof, a member of the Swiss Parliament from the center-right Christian Democratic party.

Mr. Bischof, who studied at Harvard Law School and considers himself an admirer of the United States, said that for ordinary Swiss voters, the biggest issue after the economy was the fate of bank secrecy and Washington’s effort to force UBS to hand over more names.

“It’s a double standard,” he said. “What’s going on now is very difficult to understand.”

For UBS, the fallout from the tax case as well as the boardroom turmoil could not have come at a worse time. Just last fall, the Swiss National Bank agreed to buy $39.1 billion in so-called toxic assets, removing them from UBS’s balance sheet and providing UBS with a $6 billion injection of cash.

And by the beginning of 2009, it seemed as if things were beginning to stabilize, said Urs P. Roth, chief executive of the Swiss Bankers Association. “It was in a turnaround and right at that moment, the Department of Justice decided to force UBS to deliver the information,” Mr. Roth said.

Over the long term, Mr. Roth said Switzerland would retain its position as a global wealth haven despite the pressure to provide more names to American authorities, and competition from even less regulated locales like the Cayman Islands and the Channel Islands.

“Bad cases are always a blow to reputations,” he said. “But we are quite confident that the reputation can be maintained and built up again.”
144 2009-03-04 A new route to take cargo to American and NATO forces in Afghanistan has opened, American officials said Tuesday, providing an alternative to the primary supply route — through the troubled border with Pakistan — as it comes increasingly under threat.

Some of the cargo, which is made up of commercial goods, was rolling by rail through Russian territory on Tuesday, said Capt. Kevin Aandahl, the spokesman for United States Transportation Command. The cargo enters Europe at the port cities of Riga, Latvia, and Poti, Georgia. For now, the cargo will enter Afghanistan from Uzbekistan, but some is expected to travel through neighboring Tajikistan in the future, said Western diplomatic officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity, following normal diplomatic protocol.

As the United States begins increasing its war effort in landlocked Afghanistan and the security in Pakistan deteriorates, the issue of supply lines has become crucial. Bagram Air Base, the main hub for forces in Afghanistan, moved over 50 percent more cargo and people in January than in the same period in 2008, the military said.

But the new route is complex, covering a diverse set of countries, some of which dislike one another and few of which have first-class infrastructure. It will also not be a replacement for Pakistan, which currently allows the shipment of between 2,000 and 3,000 containers a month into Afghanistan. The new route is expected to handle about 500, Captain Aandahl said, and the shipments will include nonlethal goods like food, water and construction materials.

The new route does not address the problem of the potential closing of the Manas Air Base, in Kyrgyzstan, mainly because that base is a transit point primarily for people, not goods. In January, 9,100 military personnel moved through Manas, just over a third of the 25,000 who went through Bagram, according to figures from the military.
145 2009-03-04 CLEARWATER, Fla. (AP) — The Coast Guard on Tuesday called off the search for three people — two N.F.L. players and a third man — lost in the Gulf of Mexico off Florida.

Oakland Raiders linebacker Marquis Cooper; the free-agent defensive lineman Corey Smith, who played with the Detroit Lions last season; and the former South Florida player Will Bleakley had been missing since Saturday, when their boat capsized during a fishing trip.

Bleakley’s father said his expectations lowered on Monday after a survivor — Will Bleakley’s former South Florida teammate, Nick Schuyler — was found clinging to the boat.

“I think they were not to be found,” Robert Bleakley said.

Scott Miller, a friend of the college teammates, said Schuyler told him that on the first night, a helicopter shone a light right above them and that as they continued to drift, he could see lights on shore.

Miller said Schuyler told him that Bleakley swam underneath to retrieve three life jackets and a cushion. Bleakley used the cushion and the other men wore the jackets, Miller said.

Heavy winds picked up on Saturday and the seas got stronger, with waves of 7 feet and higher, peaking at 15 feet on Sunday. Cooper and Smith got separated from the boat.

“He said basically that Will helped him keep going,” Schuyler told Miller. “The waves were just so much. They never got a break.”
146 2009-03-04 JUPITER, Fla. — Alex Rodriguez has an injured hip and may not play for the Dominican Republic in the World Baseball Classic, according to a person in baseball who has spoken to Rodriguez.

Rodriguez is expected to fly to Colorado on Wednesday to meet with Dr. Marc Phillipon, a hip specialist. Before he left for the W.B.C., the Yankees’ medical staff examined him, and he had a magnetic resonance imaging test on Saturday. The M.R.I. showed that Rodriguez had a cyst.

Despite the cyst, Rodriguez went 1 for 3 in the Dominican Republic’s 10-1 victory over the Florida Marlins on Tuesday. The Dominicans open the W.B.C. by playing the Netherlands on Saturday in San Juan, P.R.

Even if Rodriguez only has a cyst, it is unlikely that the Yankees will want him to risk further injury by playing in the tournament.

COMPLIMENT IS COMPLICATED After Alex Rodriguez watched his Dominican Republic teammate José Reyes make two smart base-running plays in Tuesday’s exhibition game against the Marlins, he gushed: “I wish he was leading off on our team or playing on our team. That’s fun to watch.”

The remark seemed harmless, a throwaway line, the third baseman for the Yankees complimenting the shortstop for the Mets. But apparently fearing a headline like, “A-Rod Tells Yankees to Acquire Reyes,” Rodriguez later said, through a spokesman, that his remarks were not intended as criticism of Derek Jeter, the Yankees’ shortstop and captain.

Rodriguez and Jeter have played alongside each other in the Yankees’ infield for the last five seasons. The two players were close friends early in their careers, but that relationship has cooled.
147 2009-03-04 Jane Sigal contends that making soup stock should be “left to the professionals.” Let me say that with the exception of the slow bread I learned to make from Mark Bittman’s column, there’s nothing easier than making a stock. I keep a plastic bag of vegetable trimmings in the freezer, and when it’s full, or when I think of it, I simmer the contents on the back of the stove until there’s a good color and flavor. The stock then is frozen in yogurt containers until needed.
148 2009-03-04 A recipe for Chana Punjabi....
149 2009-03-04 Senator Charles E. Grassley on Tuesday asked the drug maker Pfizer to provide details of its payments to at least 149 faculty members at Harvard Medical School.

The senator, an Iowa Republican who is investigating the drug industry’s influence on the practice of medicine, also asked for any Pfizer e-mail, faxes, letters or photos regarding Harvard medical students who have protested drug company influence.

Mr. Grassley, in a letter to Pfizer, wrote that he was “greatly disturbed” to read an article in The New York Times on Tuesday describing a Pfizer representative taking cellphone photographs of the medical students last October at a campus demonstration against industry influence. “I find this troubling as I have documented several instances where pharmaceutical companies have attempted to intimidate academic critics of drugs,” he wrote.

The request for information about Pfizer payments to Harvard Medical faculty members in the last two years expands Mr. Grassley’s investigation of industry payments to three Harvard psychiatrists who had promoted antipsychotic medicines for children. According to records Mr. Grassley obtained from drug companies, the professors were accused of not properly reporting at least $4.2 million in payments from 2000 to 2007. One of them has been suspended from conducting clinical trials. The investigation continues.

A Pfizer spokesman said on Tuesday that the company “will fully cooperate with Senator Grassley’s request for information.” The spokesman, Ray Kerins, said Pfizer regrets if the photograph taken by the sales representative “was offensive to anyone involved,” but believes the company has acted legally and ethically and that collaboration with medical schools is “a valuable source of innovation and scientific advancement.”

David Cameron, spokesman for Harvard Medical School, said in an e-mail message, “We are unable to provide comment on this matter."

Mr. Grassley, the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, asked Pfizer to provide details of faculty payments since Jan. 1, 2007, and communications regarding the students since Jan. 1, 2008, to be delivered to him by next Wednesday.

At the October demonstration, which involved about 50 Harvard Medical students and was sponsored by the American Medical Student Association, some protesters saw a man photographing them with a cellphone. He later identified himself as a Pfizer representative but did not give his name. David Tian, one of the students, photographed the man and said he worried that the man had been sending photos to Pfizer.

Mr. Kerins said recently that the man had told him the photos were for the man’s personal use. Mr. Kerins said the man, whom he declined to name, had done nothing improper. Harvard policy prohibits drug representatives from interacting with students on the medical campus but does not bar them from the campus or from taking photographs.

The dean of the medical school, Dr. Jeffrey S. Flier, recently appointed a 19-member committee to review the school’s financial conflict of interest policies. Its first meeting, which will not be public, is planned for Thursday.

The American Medical Student Association, in a national survey of medical schools last year, gave the Harvard Medical School an F grade for how well it controlled drug company payments to faculty members. Dr. Flier said Harvard deserved an “incomplete” rather than an F because it had not submitted paperwork to the association. But the students said they had based their grade on Harvard’s published policies.

The Times reported Tuesday that Harvard officials had said about 1,600 of the medical school’s 8,900 professors and lecturers informed the dean that they or a relative had a financial interest in a business related to their teaching, research or clinical care. The faculty disclosures do not specify how much money they receive, nor are they public.
150 2009-03-04 IT was the plywood shots that would have given the average restaurant diner pause.

In December, Eater, a restaurant blog, posted pictures of the Minetta Tavern, a revamping of a Greenwich Village standby undertaken by the restaurateur Keith McNally. The new Minetta Tavern hadn’t opened yet, and won’t until March 12. The pictures were mid-renovation shots of the exterior of Mr. McNally’s restaurant — “sporting his famously tight plywood wrap,” as the blog put it — and the bar, which was brightly lighted and barren save for the cardboard, grout buckets and construction ladder.

“VITAL Plywood Update,” the headline began. The text underneath told readers: “The place is newly abuzz with an increased construction worker presence.”

How small can it get? You might say that this is the kind of maniacal anticipation that any new product would be lucky to have — and we’re not even up to the scoop on another blog, The Feedbag, about how the new Minetta could become the second restaurant in town to “commit” to serving Black Label burger meat (itself the subject of much ardent blogging). Or the photographs the day the construction tarps were dropped. Or the “File this under a not ironclad source” report on the opening date.

Then again, you might wonder who the audience is for coverage this early and incremental. Minetta Tavern is merely the latest in a series of fledgling restaurants to find its every hiccup and burp chronicled as exhaustively as the arrival of a new Pitt-Jolie child. Earlier recipients of this treatment were Tailor, the John Dory and a fleet of restaurants whose first name is “Momofuku.” Several months of grainy cellphone photos and community-board updates later, a place that hasn’t even served its first pork cheek runs the risk of overstaying its welcome.

As the proprietor of so many hot spots, including Balthazar, Pastis and Schiller’s Liquor Bar, Mr. McNally certainly knows the benefits of admiring coverage. But he is nonetheless ambivalent. “On the one hand, I’m flattered, and on the other hand it makes me anxious,” he said.

He elaborated by e-mail: “I don’t understand why people — or rather the blogs — are so curious about this place, but I can’t very well complain about it. But the truth is I’d rather not have it. Generally the more one reads about a place in advance of eating there the more resistant one is to taking it seriously.”
151 2009-03-04 “Because there are some increased health benefits with organics, people extrapolate that it’s safer in terms of pathogens,” said Urvashi Rangan, a senior scientist and policy analyst with Consumers Union, the nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports. “I wouldn’t necessarily assume it is safer.”

But many people who pay as much as 50 percent more for organic food think it ought to be. The modern organic movement in the United States was started by a handful of counterculture farmers looking to grow food using methods that they believed were better for the land and produced healthier food. It was a culture built on purity and trust that emphasized the relationship between the farmer and the customer.

By 2002, those ideals had been arduously translated into a set of federal organic regulations limiting pesticide use, restricting kinds of animal feed and forbidding dozens of other common agricultural practices.

To determine who would be allowed to use the green and white “certified organic” seal, the Department of Agriculture deputized as official certifiers dozens of organizations, companies and, in some cases, state workers.

These certifiers, then, are paid by the farmers and manufacturers they are inspecting to certify that the standards have been met. Depending on several factors, the fee can be hundreds or thousands of dollars. Manufacturers who buy six or seven organic ingredients to make one product are especially dependent on the web of agents.

If agents do a thorough job, the system can be effective. But sometimes it falls apart.

Texas officials last month fired a state worker who served as a certifier because a plant owned by the Peanut Corporation of America — the company at the center of the salmonella outbreak — was allowed to keep its organic certification although it did not have a state health certificate.

A private certifier took nearly seven months to recommend that the U.S.D.A. revoke the organic certification of the peanut company’s Georgia plant, and then did so only after the company was in the thick of a massive food recall. So far, nearly 3,000 products have been recalled, including popular organic items from companies like Clif Bar and Cascadian Farm. Nine people have died and almost 700 have become ill.

The private certifier, the Organic Crop Improvement Association, sent a notice in July to the peanut company saying it was no longer complying with organic standards, said Jeff See, the association’s executive director. He would not say why his company wanted to pull the certification.

A second notice was sent in September, but it wasn’t until Feb. 4 that the certifier finally told the agriculture department that the company should lose its ability to use the organic label.

Mr. See said the peanut company initially appeared willing to clear up the problems. But he said the company was slow to produce information and then changed the person in charge of the organic certification, further delaying the process.

He said his organization finally decided to recommend suspending the organic certification after salmonella problems at the plant were exposed.

Although certifiers have some discretion in giving organic companies time to fix compliance problems, Barbara C. Robinson, acting director of the agriculture department’s National Organic Program, said her agency is investigating the gap between the first notice of noncompliance and the recommendation that the peanut plant surrender its organic certification.

To emphasize that reporting basic health violations is part of an organic inspector’s job, Ms. Robinson last week issued a directive to the 96 organizations that perform foreign and domestic organic inspections that they are obligated to look beyond pesticide levels and crop management techniques.

Potential health violations like rats — which were reported by federal inspectors and former workers at the Texas and Georgia plants — must be reported to the proper health and safety agency, the directive said.

“For example, while we do not expect organic inspectors to be able to detect salmonella or other pathogens,” Ms. Robinson wrote, “their potential sources should be obvious from such evidence as bird, rodent and other animal feces or other pest infestations.”

Even some certifiers say that while their job is not to assure that food is safe, taking account of health inspections will help consumers.

“It’s a reassurance that they have another set of eyes, and more eyes is always a good thing,” said Jane Baker, director for sales and marketing of California Certified Organic Farmers, a nonprofit certifying organization in Santa Cruz, Calif., and one of the largest and oldest in the country. “But let’s not confuse food safety controls with the organic side of things.”

Organics has grown from an $11 billion business in the United States in 2001 to one that now generates more than $20 billion in sales, so the stakes for farmers, processors and certifiers can be high. But the agency overseeing the certifying process has long been considered underfunded and understaffed. Critics have called the system dysfunctional.

Arthur Harvey, a Maine blueberry farmer who does organic inspections, said agents have an incentive to approve companies that are paying them.

“Certifiers have a considerable financial interest in keeping their clients going,” he said.

Meanwhile, consumers are becoming more skeptical about certification, said Laurie Demeritt, president of the Hartman Group, a market research firm.

Some shoppers want food that was grown locally, harvested from animals that were treated humanely or produced by workers who were paid a fair wage. The organic label doesn’t mean any of that.

“They’re questioning the social values around organics,” Ms. Demeritt said.

The Organic Trade Association, which represents 1,700 organic companies, wants to shore up organic food’s image. This week it’s beginning a $500,000 Web-based campaign on the benefits of organic food with the slogan: “Organic. It’s worth it.”

Supporters of the National Organic Program think additional money in the recent farm bill will help improve its reach.

And great hope is being placed in Kathleen A. Merrigan, director of the agriculture, food and environment program at Tufts University, who was appointed the deputy agriculture secretary last week. Dr. Merrigan helped design the national organic standards, and is seen as a champion of organic farmers and someone who can help clarify and strengthen federal food laws.

Meanwhile, consumers remain perplexed about which food to buy and which labels assure safer and better-tasting food.

Emily Wyckoff, who lives in Buffalo, buys local food and cooks from scratch as much as possible. Although she still buys organic milk and organic peanut butter for her three children, the organic label means less to her these days — especially when it comes to processed food in packages like crackers and cookies.

“I want to care, but you have to draw the line,” she said.

But the line stops when it comes to basic food safety.

Recently, a sign near the Peter Pan and Skippy at her local grocery store declared that those brands were safe from peanut contamination. There was no similar sign near her regular organic brand.

“I bought the national brand,” she said. “Isn’t that funny?”
152 2009-03-04 The National Endowment for the Arts on Tuesday announced guidelines for arts groups seeking grants from the $50 million the economic stimulus bill allocated to the agency. Some funds will be distributed to state arts agencies and regional organizations that will subgrant it to various groups; funds will also be made available directly to nonprofit arts organizations through a competitive process. One-time grants must be used for salaries for positions that are in jeopardy or have been eliminated as a result of the current economic crisis, or for fees for previously engaged artists or contractual workers. Priority will be given to cost-effective programs that maximize the amount of money distributed, the agency said.
153 2009-03-04 Do female novelists write about sex less often, and less skillfully, than men?

As someone who read Judy Blume in grade school, Erica Jong in high school, Anaïs Nin in college and Iris Murdoch during my barely employed slacker years, I’m not so sure.

But Jane Vandenburgh obviously thinks the answer is yes, and in her new memoir, “A Pocket History of Sex in the Twentieth Century,” she goes on a jagged little tear on the topic.

“Most women don’t write about sex at all, and if they do, they don’t do it very well,” she intones. Ms. Vandenburgh breaks the sex writing of female novelists into two classic and derogatory subtextual categories: “I’m Actually a Lofty Virgin” and “I’m Really a Whore.”

She adds, in a sentence that made me smile: “Or women write all purplish or silly and blushing or get gothic or medieval or do it with Space Aliens or become all mannered, elaborate and Victorian, and all of this is just about equally irksome to me, and some of it makes me almost physically ill.” Sex with space aliens? I’m clearly reading the wrong kinds of novels.

The title of Ms. Vandenburgh’s new book and the snippets from it provided above might lead you to think that this volume is a critical, essayistic meditation on fornication and its discontents. You’d be mistaken. What she has delivered instead is a survival story, a tale of how she overcame a strange and sad childhood to become a strange, complicated and slightly less sad adult. Sex, and the longing for it, lingers around the margins of this book the way shadows do in a Hopper painting.

Ms. Vandenburgh’s beautiful, wild and self-destructive parents came from wealthy old families, and their little beach house in Redondo, Calif., is “full of big, heavy, old-fashioned furniture that our parents inherited from Various Dead Rich Relatives Who Never Gave a Damn About Us When They Were Alive.”

Her father, an architect, plays Bartok late at night on the grand piano in the living room. He’s antisocial, neurotic, promiscuous, bisexual; he is arrested in a gay bar and sent to a sanatorium by his relatives to be “cured.” When Ms. Vandenburgh is still young, he kills himself by leaping from the top of an office building. “I want to believe our dad died of the ugliness of buildings,” she writes. But she knows it isn’t so.

Her mother has been slowly losing her mind, the stitching coming loose from her cranium, since Ms. Vandenburgh and her two brothers were born. She is an artist who loses interest, Ms. Vandenburgh writes, “in what she calls The More Mundane  that we get to school on time, that we go to school at all, that any of us eat.”

After her husband’s suicide, Ms. Vandenburgh’s mother buys a new car and buries it in the garage under “hundreds and hundreds of beer cans.”

“She is hiding her beer cans in the garage,” the book continues. “She is hiding her cans from the neighbors, the Communists, the psychiatrists and our grandparents.”

When the Welcome Wagon ladies show up, her behavior and sanitary habits freak them out. Before long, she is sent to a mental hospital, and Ms. Vandenburgh and her brothers, orphaned, are shipped off to grow up with a stable family of cousins.

“They were well born,” she writes of her parents, “while we are Class Damage.”

Ms. Vandenburgh writes well about her high school years, in which she led a split life: she was a popular and outgoing kid who felt, on the inside, “dark and somehow twisted.” She and her siblings, like Dave Eggers and his brother, Toph, in “A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius,” seem both damaged and made strangely invincible by the loss of their parents.

Her writing about sex is closely observed. “Kissing  as long as the boy smells good and tastes good  is like this little haiku of how the sex will be as soon as we get around to it,” she writes. “Kissing is the three-line note with all the pent-up nature of the real thing packed down into it.”

At an early age she also learns this heavy lesson: “Sex is the way you hurt yourself, I already feel, the fastest way to suffer damage.”

The first half of “A Pocket History of Sex in the Twentieth Century” is intense, controlled, a memoir-as-fever-dream. The book’s second half feels like the work of a different writer. It is sloppy and choppy, loopy, talky.

Her linear narrative up to that point begins to jump around, disconcertingly, in time. Suddenly she’s divorced and has kids. Then she’s allergic to everything in the world. Then she’s married to someone else. Then she’s back in one college, then another.

Then she’s writing novels and hanging out with the poet Gary Snyder. Somewhere in there are bits about working for a telephone company and moving to Washington. I could barely keep it all straight.

Ms. Vandenburgh has the same problem. “I myself have no idea how I came to be speaking of these things, since I too have completely lost my place,” she admits at one point. That’s not a sentence you want to read in any sort of book, unless the heroine is having sex with space aliens.

Ms. Vandenburgh has an interesting mind. The book’s messy second half is full of gripping set pieces, especially her pointillistic retelling of the night she and her second husband were mowed down and seriously injured by a car in Berkeley.

“I never have much of a damper on my mind,” Ms. Vandenburgh tells us, “and barely have one on my mouth, so I tend to say things as they come to me.” That is this book’s tragic flaw and also the source of its not inconsiderable charm.
154 2009-03-04 VEGETARIAN cooking is having its moment in the culinary spotlight, as people try to eat less meat for reasons of health, ethics, concern for the planet or pure whimsy (how many ways are there to cook a zucchini?).

The mission of the Temporary Vegetarian (temporary because this column will have a limited run, appearing occasionally over the next several months before slipping into early retirement) is to share vegetable recipes that are more than side dishes. Some will be substantial enough to serve as main courses, and all will be robustly flavorful, dishes that make the kind of emphatic statement you can build a meal around. Meat and fish will not make an appearance here. Eggs and cheese will, but a number of the recipes will use no animal products at all, like chana Punjabi.

An Indian chickpea stew, chana Punjabi is a plain-Jane of a dish: beige beans in a tomato-based spiced sauce, flecked with minced cilantro. Mixed with rice, though, it becomes a soulful meal whose charms are hard to resist.

This version belongs to Heather Carlucci-Rodriguez, the chef and owner of Lassi, a 420-square-foot sliver of an Indian cafe with a counter and a few stools in Greenwich Village.

Ms. Carlucci-Rodriguez, 41, was a pastry chef at L’Impero. In 2004, when she was teaching pastry making at the Institute of Culinary Education in Manhattan, her head was turned.

“One of my students brought me her home cooking,” Ms. Carlucci-Rodriguez said. “It was homemade parathas with keema mattar — ground lamb with peas. The flavors were more refined and distinct, and the food wasn’t laden with ghee.”
155 2009-03-04 Any good ham loves a deathbed scene, and Frank McGuinness has written a lovely one, and then stretched it out into a slip of a drama.

“Gates of Gold” is a classic actor’s play, with a big, fat, juicy part at its soft center. The flamboyant Gabriel (Martin Rayner), suffering from bowel cancer yet still delivering a seemingly endless supply of acid insults (“Her dress sense is entirely Canadian”) and bons mots (“Dying is remarkably like being stuck in a traffic jam through Limerick”), treats his final hours like the role of a lifetime.

Gabriel, as you could guess from a second in his company, is an actor, and Conrad (Charles Shaw Robinson, in a subtly shaded performance), his longtime lover, is his director. Their story is about the theater they created and the love affair they have maintained for decades.

They are an odd couple — Gabriel’s outrageousness leavened by Conrad’s dignified calm — but this endearing love letter of a play celebrates their legacy. Conrad calls the theater their “child,” but Gabriel, perhaps suspicious of such an earthbound metaphor, disagrees: “Not a child — a place, a palace.”

Inspired by the expatriate Englishmen and longtime lovers Micheal MacLiammoir and Hilton Edwards, who founded the Gate Theater in Dublin in 1928, “Gates of Gold” has been staged modestly by Kent Paul at 59E59 Theaters. The play explores themes of inheritance — what a dying man leaves behind — and self-invention, while nicely capturing the particular brand of bickering that doubles as an expression of love.

It begins with Conrad hiring a nurse, Alma (Kathleen McNenny), while Gabriel, in the next room, applies his makeup, getting ready for his debut with the new employee. His wit can be cutting, but it’s rarely so just for its own sake. When Gabriel announces, with his typically melodramatic flair, that he wants a separation in the eyes of Allah, Conrad responds earnestly that Muslims stone men like them.
156 2009-03-04 MESS UP, MAKE MILLIONS Former top executives of Countrywide Financial, which made tens of thousands of risky mortgages and helped set off the worldwide financial crisis, now stand to make millions from the mess they created.       DUNNING THE DEAD...
157 2009-03-05 And yet there is more and more to unnerve. That Walt is living out his grim existence in the combatively sunny Southwest is just another cruel joke, the chief one being that he is suffering from lung cancer — Stage 3A — even though he doesn’t smoke. The series began with Walt partnering with a former student in the crystal-meth business. Walt is so skilled around the test tubes and compounds that he doesn’t even need Sudafed as a base ingredient. He can cook up top-quality methamphetamine — the Château Lafite Rothschild of methamphetamine — essentially from scratch, which provides him with a more expansive supply than his competitors and thus the money to pay for the top oncologist in town.

Initially, Walt isn’t even moved to seek treatment — it is his wife, Skyler (Anna Gunn), who forces him out of his passivity. Since its outset, “Breaking Bad” has drawn the inevitable comparisons to “Weeds,” but the two series have very little to say to each other, partly because Walt is diving into underground economies out of a more gripping sense of fiscal necessity, but also because the drug trade seems to provide him with a sort of existential rejuvenation. He is making the most potent crystal meth in the city; he is excelling at something. And his decision to do so appears to be the first real choice he has made in years.

The show’s current season quickens the pace, but not at the expense of its meditative spirit. Walt is in trouble with his kingpin distributor, a gold-toothed psychopath who also happens to be under the surveillance of Walt’s brother-in-law, Hank (Dean Norris), an agent for the Drug Enforcement Administration who seems close to figuring out what Walt is doing when he isn’t receiving chemo.

There is a genuine suspense and thrill to the show now, but it succeeds largely as a treatise not on the tragedy of cancer but on the sheer monotony of it, the relentless waiting around. Aided by a camera that largely sits still and lingers, the series has a way of acutely portraying the attendant uncertainties and discomforts of severe illness as something like dull routine. In the first season Walt’s hair fell out in tidy patches in the shower, and whenever he retreated from class to go throw up, the same janitor was around to help him. The doctors are dependably tone deaf to the stresses of his condition.

In a stunning evocation of medical insensitivity, Walt, forced to see a psychiatrist when he disappears from his family for a few days, is asked why he took off. “Doctor, my wife is seven months pregnant with a baby we did not intend,” he explains in serenely blunt summation. “My 15-year-old son has cerebral palsy. I am an extremely overqualified high school chemistry teacher. When I can work, I make $43,700 per year. I have watched all of my colleagues and friends surpass me in every way imaginable, and within 18 months, I will be dead.”

“Breaking Bad” could make even Detroit or A.I.G. look, briefly, on the bright side.
158 2009-03-05 It's not necessarily tough economic times slowing down industry revenue growth. The problem is that most people already have phones and service...
159 2009-03-05 If things don't pick up, 2008 and 2009 will be the worst consecutive years for the stock market since the Depression....
160 2009-03-05 In his weekly podcast, Sam Roberts has a hankering for ribs at Smokin' Q. Except the Upper East Side restaurant is closed -- the 13th restaurant partnership to go out of business at that location....
161 2009-03-05 Ford is in the middle of trying to restructure its debt, one of several attempts to stave off bankruptcy. But according to The Huffington Post, at least one Morgan Stanley financial adviser was trying to persuade a client to lend his Ford shares f...
162 2009-03-05 There are signs of a surge in online hoaxes that try to use the recession, tax season or government stimulus checks to dupe the unsuspecting....
163 2009-03-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
164 2009-03-05 Along with the Rust Belt and the centers of the housing bubble, the Southeast is the region suffering the most....
165 2009-03-05 Government regulators appear to have known all along that a unit of American International Group was busy writing billions of dollars worth of risky credit protection contracts that are now at the center of the insurance group's record-setting los...
166 2009-03-05 An animated map that shows how home prices changed in each state each quarter, relative to that state's long-term trend....
167 2009-03-05 A bankruptcy filing by General Motors - which the automaker said Thursday wasa distinct possibility - would ripple far and wide. Among the companies that would feel the effects is Hertz Global Holdings, the car rental outfit that was sold to a pri...
168 2009-03-05 Iran's largest auto company, Iran Khodro, is presenting a sedan that runs on compressed natural gas at the Geneva auto show....
169 2009-03-05 In our first installment of Home Green Home, we realized we needed an energy auditor. But how do you find a reputable one, and are there programs out there to help pay for efficiency improvements?...
170 2009-03-05 Facing a precipitous slide in its share price, General Electric is mounting a defense of its financial strength in hopes of reassuring jittery stock and bond investors. G.E.'s chief financial officer, Keith S. Sherin, appeared on CNBC Thursday mor...
171 2009-03-05 Stepping up its battle to oust HudBay Minerals's chief executive, Allen Palmiere, the hedge fund SRM Global Master Fund released details of how the head of the Canadian miner tried to alter the terms of a controversial merger agreement with rival ...
172 2009-03-05 The privately held casino operator Harrah's Entertainment wants to exchange an unspecified amount of debt for up to $2.8 billion worth of new notes in order to lower its debt obligations and have more time to pay back lenders, The Associated Press...
173 2009-03-05 Economy | There's a one-in-five chance of a minor depression (an economic contraction of 10-25 percent) and a 2 percent chance of a major depression (25 percent, like in the 1930's), the economist Robert J. Barro figures. [Wall Street Journal]...
174 2009-03-05 Congress needs to create a systemic risk regulator to monitor the safety and soundness of the nation's entire financial system, corporate governance experts told lawmakers on Wednesday, but they disagreed on who should be given that responsibility...
175 2009-03-05 WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health insurer by revenue, has put its pharmacy benefits management business up for auction, The Financial Times reported. A sale of that unit could be worth anywhere from less than $1 billion to five times that ...
176 2009-03-05 Financial markets around the world snapped back after a week of relentless losses as investors speculated that China would increase its stimulus spending beyond the $585 billion plan it had already proposed. Companies as diverse as financial insti...
177 2009-03-05 What to know before signing on to an extended-warranty plan for your PC....
178 2009-03-05 In the opening session of the National People’s Congress, China’s legislature, Prime Minister Wen Jiabao outlined plans to meet the financial crisis....
179 2009-03-05 BENNETT The Movement for Democratic Change, whose president, Morgan Tsvangirai, is now prime minister of Zimbabwe, said Wednesday that prison officials had said that Justice Minister Patrick Chinamasa and Attorney General Johannes Tomana, both appointed by President Robert Mugabe, were blocking the release of an opposition figure whom a court granted bail. The arrested man, Roy Bennett, is deputy agriculture minister-designate and the treasurer of the Movement for Democratic Change. He faces terrorism charges that his party says were trumped up.
180 2009-03-05 In happier times, the Above the Law blog, which bills itself as a “legal tabloid,” riffed about Jerry Springer speaking at Northwestern University Law School’s commencement and Clarence Thomas’s love of Egg McMuffins. These days, it is a hot spot for rumors and real-time reports on big-firm layoffs — and features, such as an out-of-work lawyer’s “Notes From the Breadline.”

We are in the worst economic downturn of the Internet age, and bloggers are making the most of it. Because of the diversity of voices, their ability to cover niche subjects and the infinite capacity of the Web for words, blogs have been able to take on the recession from every conceivable angle — straight-up reporting, economic analysis, advice for the unemployed and more than a few servings of paranoia.

The Great Depression of the 1930s was documented with black-and-white photographs of migrant workers and film reels of bread lines. In this economic crisis, the iconic media coverage could be the furious postings occurring in the blogosphere.

There are blogs starting up that aim to be one-stop sites for information — like recessionwire.com, founded by two downsized Condé Nast Portfolio editors. Its subjects range from a just-laid-off checklist — practical advice on what to do in the first hours, days and weeks after losing a job — to getting by with subsistence gardening.

Blogging economists are offering the sort of analysis once available only in specialized publications or graduate school seminars. Baselinescenario.com, whose writers include a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is a former chief economist for the International Monetary Fund, drills down on issues like the A.I.G. bailout. Greg Mankiw, an economics professor at Harvard, writes a conservative blog heavy on theory. (A recent entry: “Team Obama on the Unit Root Hypothesis.”)
181 2009-03-05 “We kind of backed him off when the word discomfort came up, and I said extra, extra cautious,” Manuel said. “I don’t hear that word anymore. I don’t hear discomfort. I don’t hear that word anymore.”

The Mets are wary of stifling Santana’s competitiveness. Still, if it were up to him, Warthen would probably prefer the plan he described on Tuesday, one in which Santana would make his first Grapefruit League start March 18 and his regular-season debut April 11 in Florida.

In Warthen’s view, that would give Santana ample time to build up his pitch count for the regular season. Warthen declined on Wednesday to revisit the plan he had laid out, but he said he could accelerate it if Santana seemed physically sound.

“All plans have to have room for modification,” Warthen said.

How sensible such an adjustment would be is up for discussion. Although the Mets say that Santana’s elbow troubles are normal and did not develop until after he learned he would not pitch in the World Baseball Classic, it is possible that they initially arose because he pushed himself too quickly to be ready for the Classic, even though the Mets did not want him to participate. He now seems to be pushing himself again, but Minaya said he was not worried.

“It’s our responsibility to make sure that we’re cautious, but we have to work with the player, and that’s what’s going on,” Minaya said. “I have full confidence and trust in Dan and Johan and Jerry.”

Santana views the opening day start as more than just a ceremonial honor. To him, it is a way of setting an example. He wants his teammates to follow his lead, and he has already looked more comfortable in his second season with the Mets, joking around and becoming more of a visible clubhouse presence.

“You always want to start on the right track, the right way,” Santana said.

Perhaps trying to act unconcerned, Manuel was already on the team bus at 9:15 a.m. Wednesday when Santana started throwing. Neither Minaya nor any other front-office officials attended the bullpen session either. What they missed was Santana’s mixing in some sliders, a taxing pitch on the elbow, and throwing 15 more pitches than he did Sunday. That uptick in volume, although at a diminished intensity than in a game, gave Santana confidence that he could adjust his schedule to be ready for opening day.

“I’m a professional,” Santana said. “I know exactly what I have to do and I’m pretty sure I’ll be ready for opening day.”

A day after Freddy García struggled for the second straight time this spring, Liván Hernández missed an opportunity to distinguish himself further in the competition to be the Mets’ No. 5 starter. Hernández allowed three runs, walked three and gave up five hits in two and two-thirds innings of the Mets’ 6-4 loss to the Washington Nationals. Mike Pelfrey gave up three first-inning runs before settling in, while Fernando Tatis and Ramón Castro homered. ... Tickets for the Mets’ April 3 and April 4 exhibition games at Citi Field against the Boston Red Sox go on sale Friday at 10 a.m.
182 2009-03-05 Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, used a hearing of the Judiciary Committee to press his idea that Congress should create a “truth commission” to explore and expose the Bush administration’s policies on detention and interrogation. The hearing follows the disclosure this week by the Obama administration of several legal opinions from the Bush administration that outlined a broad view of the reach of presidential authority to fight terrorism. Mr. Leahy, the committee chairman, cited the memorandums as an example of unchecked power that led to abuses. He has not yet fashioned an explicit proposal. “Nothing has done more to damage America’s place in the world than the revelation that this nation stretched the law and bounds of executive power to authorize torture,” Mr. Leahy said. A nonpartisan commission of inquiry, he said, “would shed light on what mistakes were made so that we can learn from these errors.” Six witnesses testified, four in favor of the commission concept and two opposed.
183 2009-03-05 As its name suggests, Pontiac is inextricably tied to the flailing auto industry, with General Motors being its largest employer. G.M. still makes Chevrolet trucks and has its global engine design team based here. (The car named for the city was first manufactured here in 1927, but production here stopped in the late 1980s.)

As G.M. shed more than 3,000 jobs in Pontiac over the last two years, it compounded more than a decade’s worth of job and population loss.

“The mayor’s office and the City Council have exhibited an ongoing inability to resolve the city’s budget issues,” Ms. Granholm said last week in a letter to the mayor, Clarence E. Phillips.

She cited what a state review team found to be “a lack of urgency on the part of city officials,” in addition to the city’s inability to monitor itself, cash flow shortages, unauthorized borrowing, personnel shortages and managerial control issues.

The state’s intervention began almost two years ago with the review, which led to the signing of a consent agreement between the city and the state, outlining a path for the city to get back to financial stability.

But the city did not uphold the terms of the agreement, state officials say. Furthermore, Mayor Phillips and the City Council have not had a good working relationship for months, several local officials say. A state-appointed manager would have the authority to bring the city’s expenditures in line with revenues, superseding the mayor and Council on financial matters.

Mayor Phillips did not respond to requests for comment. In the local news media, he has expressed surprise about the city’s predicament. “We weren’t aware we were in any special trouble,” he told The Detroit Free Press last week.

Some city officials were shocked at the mayor’s assertion.

“He insists that we’re not in that bad a condition — yes we are,” said Councilman Koné Bowman. “Before you even begin to address a problem, you’ve got to acknowledge it.”

Councilman Lee A. Jones added, “All we’re doing now is going through daily survival mode of business, keeping up with needs.”

Some residents would say that is not really going so well.

“Our neighborhoods are going down, the streets are terrible, and jobs are disappearing,” said Andrea Manley, 31. “My take on the economy is: I’m ready to leave.”

The local public transportation system is notoriously unreliable, eight public schools are closing this year because of falling enrollment and budget shortfalls, layoffs are rampant and small businesses are shutting down.

Only 73 city police officers remain, down from a high of almost 200 several years ago.

“If I had any money, I’d move away,” Mr. Williams, the college student, said wistfully. “The bus comes once an hour, maybe. If you miss it, you’re really messed up.”

The city’s outdated Web site boasts about a new steakhouse on its main strip as an example of rebirth, but a visit reveals that it is closed and up for sale.

“I’m glad somebody’s taking over, because what’s happening now is it’s being run into the ground,” said Jeremy Williams, 26, owner of a downtown music production studio. “The city’s resources aren’t managed well. And there’s a lot of potential here.”

There is one bright spot on the horizon: a movie studio has announced plans to move into one of G.M.’s old facilities, possibly creating 3,500 jobs.

But for now, people can only dream of those positions.

Kay Stevens, 33, sleeps in a church basement with other homeless women and men. Ms. Stevens moved to Pontiac from a neighboring county two years ago. “I was told there would be more opportunities here,” she said over a free dinner in a Salvation Army kitchen. “I haven’t run into a blessing yet, and I’d do anything.”
184 2009-03-05 Re “What Are You Doing? Media Twitterers Can’t Stop Typing,” by Alessandra Stanley (TV Watch column, Feb. 28):

Twitter cuts both ways. There is certainly something refreshing about (apparently) uncensored, direct communication among people. But while perhaps intended to connect and inform, Twitter and other similar venues (like Facebook, LinkedIn, blogs and reality TV) can become an addictive distraction in life.

They can be yet another means to dissipate our attention, get caught in seductive details and take us away from being present in the moment of our own lives and to the issues that affect our lives.

What are the implications of my feeling a sense of connection with someone I don’t really know (a TV celebrity) through his sharing with me that he is done with rehearsal and about to have a bagel before the show? What’s missing in our more immediate day-to-day lives that this would draw us in?

And what’s happening in our lives (individually and as a society) that we may want to avoid, such that we are open to (and perhaps yearning for) distraction?

I am not a Twitter-basher. I simply offer a caution that we be self-reflective about its impact on our lives personally and as a society.

The writer is an executive coach and consultant.
185 2009-03-05 UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, nominated Kaspar Villiger, the former Swiss finance minister, as chairman, replacing Peter Kurer as an investigation sought to determine whether it had helped wealthy Americans evade taxes.

Mr. Kurer’s departed less than a week after UBS called Oswald Grübel, the former Credit Suisse chief executive, out of retirement to replace Marcel Rohner as chief.

UBS is being sued by the United States over the names of as many as 52,000 clients, after agreeing last month to disclose details of a few hundred customers to avoid prosecution on a charge that it helped rich Americans dodge taxes. Mr. Kurer, UBS’s former general counsel, and Mr. Rohner, the former leader of the unit involved with the inquiry, quit after UBS admitted it made “mistakes” by helping clients evade American taxes from 2000 to 2007. Mark Branson, chief financial officer of UBS Wealth Management and Swiss Bank, testified before Congress on Wednesday.

The American lawsuit and threats by European leaders to add Switzerland to a list of “uncooperative” tax havens have forced the government to offer concessions on the bank secrecy law.

Mr. Villiger, 68, a member of the pro-business Free Democratic Party, was in the government from 1989 to 2003 and was finance minister for the last eight years of that period. In 1995 he became the first government member to apologize for Switzerland’s refugee policy in World War II, when thousands of Jews were turned away at the border. He was finance minister when UBS and Credit Suisse agreed in 1998 to pay $1.25 billion to Holocaust survivors to settle claims that the banks withheld assets belonging to victims of Hitler’s genocide and helped the Nazis profit from looted gold.

Mr. Villiger will step down from board positions at Swiss Reinsurance, Nestlé and Neue Zürcher Zeitung if elected by shareholders on April 15, UBS said.
186 2009-03-05 Mr. Karzai’s swift rise has stirred resentment and suspicion among many Afghans, who have grown disaffected with the Karzai government and its seeming tolerance for insider dealing, favor trading, bribe taking and other unsavory activities. Rampant corruption fuels the Taliban insurgency, experts warn, and threatens American support for President Karzai, who is seeking re-election this year.

While Mahmoud Karzai has not been accused of any criminal wrongdoing, he has become a political liability, with critics complaining that his ascent was unfairly eased.

“If his brother wasn’t the president, would he have generated this much wealth, and gotten into this many deals?” asked Daoud Sultanzoy, a member of Parliament who has pushed for investigations into the Karzai family’s business activities. “One of the reasons the people don’t trust the government is because people in power have abused their power for personal gain.”

Humayun Hamidzada, President Karzai’s spokesman, denied that the president had shown favoritism to his brother. “The president does not allow anyone to use his name to get contracts or deals through him,” he said.

Mahmoud Karzai similarly dismissed complaints that he had traded on his family ties. “There is a great amount of jealousy and misinformation about me,” he said in an interview. “All the criticism that I’m getting insider deals because of my brother is flat-out wrong and lies.”

President Karzai has privately complained that Mahmoud Karzai’s business dealings are politically embarrassing, people who know him say, but he has not tried to rein in Mahmoud or his other siblings.

One brother, Qayum Karzai, who owns an Afghan restaurant in Baltimore, served until recently in the Afghan Parliament, though other members groused that he almost never showed up. He said in an interview that he is now an informal intermediary among President Karzai, Saudi Arabia and the Taliban.

Another brother, Ahmed Wali Karzai, the head of the Kandahar provincial council, has been accused of narcotics trafficking by Afghan and American officials, who are frustrated that the president has not taken action against him.

“President Karzai was seen initially as an honest man, but we don’t have a history of allowing the brothers of a leader to accumulate so much wealth,” said Saad Mohseni, the owner of an independent television station in Kabul. “His brothers are not allowing the president to think objectively about what is best for Afghanistan.”

Mahmoud Karzai, an American citizen, kept his Maryland home, but travels back and forth to Kabul from a multimillion-dollar retreat in Dubai owned by his business partner. Back in his homeland, Mr. Karzai, 54, talks easily in Pashto to Kandahari businessmen in native dress and in fluent English to Westerners in suits. Politicians and business figures trade rumors and share gossip about him.. He says he is always looking for opportunities, while rivals fume that he has crowded them out or tries to get in on their deals.

“People in business would come to me and complain that Mahmoud always wanted a percentage of the new businesses,” recalled Zalmay Khalilzad, a former United States ambassador to Afghanistan. When he asked Mr. Karzai about such claims, he denied them, Mr. Khalilzad said in an interview.

Mr. Karzai said in the interview that he had chosen business projects that he said he believed would benefit Afghanistan. He insists that he has not gotten rich here because he has taken on so many liabilities. Though they provide no proof, many Afghan business and political figures describe him as one of their country’s wealthiest men.

To his critics, Mr. Karzai offers an unusual defense: Even if he wanted to, he could not use an insider’s advantage because his brother is ineffectual.

“He will never make a decision,” Mr. Karzai said of the president. “He will only talk politics. If you talk about the economy, he is not interested. He is not a problem solver.”

Mr. Karzai railed against government corruption and complained that his brother’s mismanagement of the economy made it difficult to make money. He said he had acted as a conduit for the business community because the bureaucracy was not responsive.

“People are looking for a channel of communications, so they say, ‘This guy is the president’s brother, he probably talks to his brother,’ ” Mr. Karzai said. “They get frustrated, and so they say, ‘Let’s go to the top.’ ”

Other business and political leaders scoff at his criticisms of the president, saying they are intended to disguise the tight ties between the brothers.

It is “100 percent an act,” said Gen. Hadi Khalid, who said he was fired from a top Interior Ministry post last year for opposing a deal involving Mahmoud Karzai’s business partner, Sher Khan Farnood.

Mr. Karzai moved quickly after the 2001 American-led invasion of Afghanistan to stake his claim in the postwar economy. In Maryland, he began brainstorming with other Afghan-American businessmen about how best to help restart the Afghan economy, just as the Bush administration was beginning to provide aid, business leaders said. He soon led a small group that set up a new Afghan Chamber of Commerce, winning $6 million from the United States Agency for International Development.

In an election last year, financed with more than $500,000 from the American aid agency, Mr. Karzai was chosen as the chamber’s vice chairman, and Mr. Farnood became chairman. Opponents charged that the voting was rigged to ensure that the two men came out on top, assertions that Mr. Karzai denies.

Mr. Karzai got other help from Washington, thanks to prominent friends. He made a point after the Sept. 11 attacks of getting to know conservative Republicans, including Mr. Kemp. In an interview, Mr. Kemp said he introduced Mr. Karzai to officials at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a federal agency that provides financing to American businesses abroad.

Mr. Kemp said he wanted to encourage investment in Afghanistan, adding that he had not benefited from Mr. Karzai’s deals. “I imagine he has dropped my name around Kabul and Kandahar, but I can assure you I have no equity or interest in his businesses,” he said.

According to OPIC officials, two companies tied to Mr. Karzai got loans of more than $5 million to finance his Kandahar real estate development and a large apartment complex in Kabul.

The Kandahar venture, an ambitious plan to build a residential community that Mr. Karzai named Aynomina (“a place to live”) — quickly stirred an outcry. The 10,000-acre property in the city of Kandahar was owned by the Afghan Army, but Kandahar officials turned it over to Mr. Karzai virtually free.

Mr. Karzai said the city officials wanted him to take the land so powerful warlords could not seize it. The Kandahar governor, he said, agreed that his government would be paid for each lot only when Mr. Karzai’s development firm sold a home built on it.

But no deal was worked out with the army. In 2005, Afghan troops stormed the construction site, shooting wildly. Brig. Gen. Shahtory Habibullah, who oversees properties for the Ministry of Defense, said Mr. Karzai’s company had never paid the army anything. The dispute still simmers.

“The land mafia has taken my land,” the general said in an interview. “When I go to the property, I cry for it.”

Mr. Karzai said he had built more than 200 homes, with 60 or so under construction, that had proved popular with the emerging Afghan middle class. “We have three-bedroom models selling for $20,000, “ he said. “That house — we cannot keep up with.”

Mr. Karzai took on his biggest venture when he and other investors assumed control of Afghanistan’s only cement factory. Operating rights for the plant were put up for auction by the Ministry of Mines, and Mr. Karzai and his partners won when they were the only bidders to show up with $25 million in cash. Mr. Karzai said the auction rules required that. But Mr. Sultanzoy, the member of Parliament, charges that the cash requirement was a last-minute provision devised to benefit Mr. Karzai.

“They brought the cash and put it on a table in front of the minister and then took it away,” Mr. Sultanzoy said.

The group did not have to make an up-front payment. Instead, it pays rent and shares royalties with the government, Mr. Karzai said.

He has had access to the financing required for his projects through the Kabul Bank, the largest commercial bank in Afghanistan, where he sits on the board. Mr. Farnood, the bank’s founder, helped Mr. Karzai become an investor by issuing him a loan to buy shares in the bank, Mr. Karzai said.

He is also the majority owner of the only Toyota distributorship for Afghanistan, thanks in part to Mr. Kemp, who has served on Toyota’s United States diversity advisory board and introduced Mr. Karzai to the automaker’s executives.

Mr. Khalilzad, who denied speculation that he planned to challenge President Karzai in the coming election, recalled that the president once confided that he was angry about the Toyota deal and wondered aloud whether he should try to block it. He said he believed that the president spoke to the Japanese ambassador on the issue, but to no avail.

Ashraf Ghani, a former Afghan finance minister who has been considering running for president this year, said that when President Karzai asked him to join his government, he was concerned about the potential for insider dealing by the Karzai family.

“Is this going to be a family enterprise?” Mr. Ghani recalled asking. “He said absolutely not. But that is what it has become.”
187 2009-03-05 Tibetan regions, a lightly populated swath of western China that measures up to one-quarter of the country’s total territory, have become militarized zones. Sandbag outposts have been set up in the middle of towns, army convoys rumble along highways, and paramilitary officers search civilian cars. A curfew has been imposed on , the Tibetan capital.

“The Tibetan ethnic situation is very serious,” said a paramilitary officer after he stopped three foreigners on a snowy mountain road. “Tibetans are causing trouble. This is an extremely sensitive time.”

The young officer and his half-dozen colleagues at the checkpoint were members of the People’s Armed Police, the main Chinese paramilitary force. The officers said their unit was based in Beijing and had guarded the ’s Nest stadium during the Summer Olympics in August, but had been sent here last month. Their mission included keeping foreigners out of the area.

Foreigners do not need special permission to travel in this region, and the police never offered an explanation for detaining this reporter.

The broad security measures undercut assertions by the Chinese government that serious ethnic tensions do not exist and that Tibetan nationalism is not widespread. They also show that remains one of the most sensitive political and security issues for China, though one that remains invisible in the developed cities along the country’s east coast.

Last March, the largest Tibetan uprising against Communist rule in decades erupted after Chinese security forces suppressed a protest by monks in Lhasa. At least 19 people were killed in ethnic rioting in Lhasa, most of them Han civilians, according to Xinhua, the state news agency. In the ensuing crackdown, 220 Tibetans were killed, nearly 1,300 were injured and nearly 7,000 were detained or imprisoned, according to the Tibetan government in exile, which is based in Dharamsala, India.

The Chinese government accused the Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of the Tibetans, of fomenting the violence. The Dalai Lama advocates Tibetan autonomy under Chinese rule, but disavows violence and says he does not favor secession.

Some of the worst rioting outside Lhasa took place here in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, where the worlds of the Tibetans, Chinese and Hui Muslims converge. It is a dry area of herders roaming the plains and white-walled monasteries nestled against brown hillsides. At least 94 people — almost all police officers — were injured here last March, according to official news reports.

The most prominent monastery in eastern Tibet, Labrang, lies in the town of Xiahe, in western Gannan. There, more than 1,000 monks and lay people protested for two days and attacked government buildings last March.

There are no signs of protests now, residents say, because the town is completely locked down. Recent photographs taken in Xiahe show riot police officers marching in the streets.

“The security forces are everywhere, on every corner, day and night,” said a Tibetan woman reached by telephone. “Don’t come here.”

She paused when asked her opinion about the current situation. “We Tibetans who do business, we’re under a lot of pressure,” she said. “We have to keep quiet. I can’t say I disagree with the policies of the Chinese. It’s their country, and we’re only a minority.”

Like others interviewed for this article, she declined to give her name for fear of government reprisal.

This reporter and two foreign companions entered southern Gannan by driving past several unstaffed checkpoints on a recent night before being stopped on a mountain road by the paramilitary officers. The foreigners and their driver were brought to the towns of Maqu and Hezuo for interrogation and then forced to drive to the provincial capital, Lanzhou, to board a plane for Beijing.

A police officer in Maqu said rioters burned 18 patrol cars last year. The police headquarters now has a new fleet of white sport utility vehicles. Official reports say more than 70 percent of shops here were looted or damaged, but those, too, appear to have been restored.

During the day, policemen or soldiers stand on street corners wearing helmets and green coats and carrying riot shields. The main road leading through town is watched by officers armed with assault rifles standing at checkpoints. The sound of troops’ drilling can be heard in the early morning hours — louder than any chanting from monks.

“We’re afraid that Tibetans who’ve returned from Dharamsala might cause trouble,” a police officer said.

Farther north, in Hezuo, the seat of Gannan Prefecture, the signs of tension were just as clear. In the town’s main traffic circle, the authorities had set up a circular sandbag emplacement overseen by a half-dozen officers, resembling a scene in a war zone. It was just south of Hezuo where nomads on horses and thousands of others rampaged through a schoolyard last year.

But local officials deny there is any hostility.

“There’s no ethnic conflict here,” Cairang Dao’erqu, a Tibetan official at the foreign affairs bureau who goes by his Chinese name, said over lunch during this reporter’s detention. “Look in the streets — everything is peaceful here. The Chinese, Tibetan and Hui people all get along.”

Tibetans say they have no idea what might take place on March 10, the momentous anniversary of the failed uprising in 1959. Last week, the Dalai Lama urged Tibetans not to be provoked by the Chinese, saying any radical moves would give the Chinese government an excuse to take harsher steps.

“It is difficult to achieve a meaningful outcome,” he said, “by sacrificing lives.”
188 2009-03-05 PARIS — Groupe Eurotunnel, the company that operates the undersea rail link between Britain and the Continent, took a step toward regaining credibility with investors on Wednesday, saying it would pay a dividend for the first time in its history.

The French-British company announced a dividend of 4 euro cents a share after it posted a net profit of 40 million euros, or $50 million, last year, compared with a 2007 pro forma loss of about 1 million euros.

The year-earlier figure was adjusted for the sake of comparison to remove a paper gain on debt restructuring of more than 3 billion euros. Revenue slipped 2 percent, to 704 million euros, in 2008, hurt by the economic slowdown and a Sept. 11 fire that closed a part of a tunnel until Feb. 9.

The latest results mark “the end of financial uncertainty for Eurotunnel,” the chief executive, Jacques Gounon, said in a statement.

Founded in 1987 and reorganized three times since, the Eurotunnel has struggled. It was plagued from the start by overly optimistic revenue and freight traffic projections as well as construction cost overruns. The company operating the Channel Tunnel, or “chunnel,” sought bankruptcy protection in 2006 in an acknowledgment that it would never be able to service its debt payments.
189 2009-03-05 While millions of Americans suffer from heartburn and gastric reflux, only a small number develop more severe ailments that can lead to esophageal cancer. Scientists trying to understand what may protect against these conditions have identified an unlikely agent: wine.

Two studies published this month in the journal Gastroenterology suggest that people who drink wine, white or red, in moderation are less likely to develop conditions that may lead to esophageal adenocarcinoma, an uncommon cancer that has increased sharply in the United States over the past 30 years.

The reports are particularly surprising because alcohol intake is a well-established risk factor for the other main form of esophageal cancer, squamous cell carcinoma. Researchers noted the studies were preliminary.

In one study, researchers at Kaiser Permanente in Oakland, Calif., found that drinking a glass of wine a day was associated with a more than 50 percent reduction in the risk of developing Barrett’s esophagus, though there was no reduction in risk among adults who drank liquor or beer. Barrett’s esophagus, an erosion of the esophageal lining that can be caused by chronic heartburn or acid reflux, increases the odds of developing esophageal adenocarcinoma 30-fold to 40-fold.

In the second study, researchers at Queen’s University Belfast, in Northern Ireland, reported that compared with patients who drank no wine, those drinking one glass of wine or more a month saw a drop of more than 50 percent in the risk of reflux esophagitis, an irritation often caused by chronic heartburn.

The two studies’ findings are consistent with those from an Australian report in Gastroenterology in December. That study found that drinking wine in moderation was linked to lower risks for both forms of the cancer.

“There is a lot of warranted skepticism about nutritional studies  one shows one thing, and one shows something else,” said Dr. Douglas Corley, a gastroenterologist and senior author of the Kaiser Permanente study. “But these are the first few studies that have looked at this, and they all find the same thing in three different populations in three different countries.”

But people who drink wine tend to come from higher income brackets and to be more educated than those who drink beer and liquor, experts said, and it is hard to know whether it is the wine or some other aspect of their lifestyle that protects their health.

“This is an exploratory study,” said Dr. Liam J. Murray, a senior author of the Irish study and a professor of cancer epidemiology at Queen’s University Belfast, “and my view is that further work needs to be done before we put too much weight on it.”
190 2009-03-05 At the first costume change of “The Lion King,” the Disney show on Broadway, one of the zebras came offstage announcing he was ready for a drink. Moments later, at the second change, a hyena mocked the star of the show — he was out there in the footlights — with a torturous falsetto and a wink.

At the third change, the lions discussed transvestites and their comparative modes of fashion. By the fourth change, someone else — he might have been a rhino — was flouncing like a model in the stage-right aisle, wearing nothing but a pair of nylon tights.

Backstage at the theater has always been a show within the show, an R- (or even X-rated) drama clearly unintended for the paying crowd in the house. Actors, as a critic once observed, are “rumpots, nymphomaniacs, prostitutes, rakes, liars, cheaters” and the like. They are also — after numerous engagements — likely to be bored stiff by the onstage entertainment and in need of some diverting way to entertain themselves.

“It gets a little bawdy back here — and extremely familiar,” said Ron Vodicka, the stage manager, who was standing in the Minskoff Theater’s quick-change bunker, a cluttered little dugout where the actors swap costumes in between their songs. Mr. Vodicka, a veteran logician, described how even the most demure ingénue will sometimes let a belch loose, adjust her various parts and only then step forward toward the crowd.

To watch the goings-on inside the bunker is to see much more than the manners of the actors, no matter how indecent these might be. It is to witness evolutions that might have startled Darwin as the large ensemble transforms itself from zebras into wildebeests, from hyenas into rhinos, with that peculiar rapid magic of the stage.
191 2009-03-05 MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — U.S. Bancorp, the large regional bank, said Wednesday that its directors had approved a plan to slash its quarterly dividend on common stock by 88 percent.

The dividend will be cut to 5 cents a common share, from 42.5 cents per common share. The new dividend will be paid April 15 to shareholders of record as of March 31.

U.S. Bancorp cut its dividend because of “uncertainty in the financial markets and a weakening economy,” the president and chief executive, Richard K. Davis, said in a statement.

Dozens of banks have been slashing their dividends amid the continuing credit crisis and recession. With banks facing mounting loan losses, dividend cuts have been used to help preserve capital to cover those expected losses.

Mr. Davis added the bank would return the dividend to ”a normalized rate as soon as possible,” though no further details were provided.

U.S. Bancorp also declared dividends on two classes of preferred stock. Series B noncumulative perpetual preferred stockholders will receive a dividend of $218.75 a share. Series D noncumulative perpetual preferred stockholders will receive a dividend of $492.19 a share. Those dividends will also be paid April 15 to shareholders of record on March 31.
192 2009-03-05 PARIS  Judges at the International Criminal Court ordered the arrest Wednesday of President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan for atrocities committed in Darfur, but Sudanese officials swiftly retaliated, ordering Western aid groups that provide for millions of people to shut down their operations and leave.

After months of deliberation, the judges charged Mr. Bashir with war crimes and crimes against humanity for playing an “essential role” in the murder, rape, torture, pillage and displacement of large numbers of civilians in Darfur. But the judges did not charge him with genocide, as the prosecutor had requested.

In issuing the order, the three judges put aside diplomatic requests for more time for peace talks and fears that the warrant would incite a violent backlash in Sudan, where 2.5 million Darfur residents have been chased from their homes and 300,000 have died in a conflict pitting non-Arab rebel groups against the Arab-dominated government and its allied militias.

Within minutes of the court’s announcement, thousands of people gathered in central Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, denouncing the decision and waving national flags and posters of Mr. Bashir’s face.

The Sudanese government has long vowed to resist the court, and it summoned several humanitarian organizations to a meeting almost immediately after the warrant was announced, according to aid officials. As many as 10 groups received letters ordering them to leave or curb their work, according to people briefed on the meeting.

The British charity Oxfam said that the government had revoked its license to operate, a decision the group said could affect more than 600,000 people. The Dutch section of Doctors Without Borders, which provides health care in one of the world’s biggest camps for displaced people, in South Darfur, was ordered to leave the country.

“It happened right after the announcement,” said one aid official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of negotiations to persuade the government to back down. “The connection was clear.”

The warrant is the first in which the court, which opened in 2002 in The Hague, has sought the arrest of a sitting head of state. Other war-crimes courts have issued warrants for sitting presidents, including Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia and Charles Taylor of Liberia.

“We strongly condemn this criminal move,” said Abdalmahmood Abdalhaleem, the Sudanese ambassador to the United Nations, adding that the government would no longer work with aid groups it deemed hostile. “It amounts to an attempt at regime change. We are not going to be bound by it.”

But many human rights groups and Darfur exiles saluted the judges’ decision. Niemat Ahmadi, of the Save Darfur Coalition, called the warrant a lifeline for those living in camps. “It will change the mood of frustration and helplessness for our people,” Ms. Ahmadi said.

Richard Dicker, a director of Human Rights Watch, said the warrant was likely to isolate Mr. Bashir internationally. “This means he will be a fugitive, a man on a wanted poster,” he said.

In their statement, the judges called for the cooperation of all countries  not just the 108 that are members of the court  to bring Mr. Bashir to justice.

Legally, Sudan is obliged to arrest Mr. Bashir, but that seems unlikely. The court has no police force or military, and the United Nations peacekeepers in Sudan have no mandate to detain war-crimes suspects.

Beyond that, Mr. Abdalhaleem said, there is little chance that the president will be arrested in a friendly country, because many African and Arab states have rejected the prosecution of Mr. Bashir as counterproductive to peace efforts.

The question of genocide has also been divisive, but the judges said 2 to 1 that the prosecutor had not provided sufficient evidence of the president’s specific intent to “destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group,” the most crucial issue in determining genocide.

The prosecutor had argued that the government tried to exterminate three ethnic groups  the Fur, Masalit and Zaghawa groups  and that after driving them off their lands and killing many people, armed militias continued their genocidal campaign by raping and impregnating the women in the refugee camps.

The arrest warrant is likely to further complicate the debate over how to solve the crisis in Darfur. It came despite concerns from United Nations diplomats, the African Union, the Arab League and some humanitarian organizations that such a move could provoke renewed violence and threaten the peace deal that ended an even more deadly civil war in southern Sudan.

One sign of fallout came almost immediately. The Justice and Equality Movement, a major rebel group in Darfur that signed a preliminary accord with Khartoum last month, announced that it would now reject negotiating with Mr. Bashir’s government.

“There will be some violence here and there,” said Alain Le Roy, the United Nations under secretary general for peacekeeping operations.

Mr. Le Roy said there might now be further delays in deploying United Nations peacekeeping troops to Darfur, where only about 64 percent of the force is in place. Still, he said Sudan had reassured United Nations officials that it would protect peacekeeping missions.

Some figures in the government have threatened bloodshed in response to an indictment. Salah Gosh, the head of Sudanese intelligence, was recently quoted in Sudanese news reports as calling for the “amputation of the hands and the slitting of the throats of any person who dares bad-mouth al-Bashir or support” the court’s case against him.

At the United Nations, Michèle Montas, the spokeswoman for the secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, said the Sudanese government had revoked the operating licenses for 6 to 10 humanitarian organizations, as well as seizing the assets of some of them. The Sudanese government has long accused aid organizations of collaborating with the court by providing data and testimony used to build cases against Sudanese officials, something aid groups strongly deny.

While United Nations agencies were not expelled, their work is often carried out by charities like the ones facing suspension, United Nations officials said.

The court issued warrants for two other Sudanese citizens in 2007  a government minister and a former militia leader  but neither has been arrested.

The United Nations Security Council can postpone the prosecution against Mr. Bashir, but it has remained largely divided. Sudan’s supporters, including the African Union and Arab League, have called for the Council to suspend any indictment. But France, Britain or the United States would probably use a veto to block such a move.
193 2009-03-05 Financial markets around the world snapped back after a week of relentless losses as investors speculated that China would increase its stimulus spending beyond the $585 billion plan it had already proposed.

Companies as diverse as financial institutions, retailers and utilities pared their losses from previous sessions. Energy shares also climbed as crude oil rose $3.73, to $45.38 a barrel, and mining corporations rallied.

But shares of General Electric briefly fell below $6 a share Wednesday as the company tried to deflect speculation that it would need more equity. G.E. said that it had no such plans. Shares closed down about 4.56 percent, to $6.69, after falling 7.8 percent on Tuesday.

At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was 149.82 points or 2.2 percent higher, to 6,875.84, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 2.3 percent, or 16.54 points, closing at 712.87. The Nasdaq rose 2.5 percent, or 32.73 points, to 1,353.74.

The day’s gains came as bargain hunters descended onto the markets, paring two days of losses that dragged two major stock indexes to their lowest levels since 1997.
194 2009-03-05 Britain and the United States have spent hundreds of billions shoring up their banks, but Switzerland’s resources are considerably more limited. At roughly $2 trillion, the balance sheet of UBS is four times as large as Switzerland’s gross domestic product.

Over all, Swiss bank assets equal 6.8 times gross domestic product, less worrisome than Ireland’s 9.5 multiple, but stillfar more than in the United States, where commercial bank assets stand at 70 percent of G.D.P..

What’s more, this alpine wealth haven is set to get another blast of unwelcome attention Wednesday when a Senate panel examines how UBS helped American taxpayers evade the reach of the Internal Revenue Service.

“These abuses have been going on for much too long,” said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who will lead the hearing and is sponsoring legislation that would crack down on offshore accounts.

Last month, UBS paid a $780 million fine and turned over roughly 250 client names, avoiding a criminal indictment but igniting outrage in a country where bank secrecy — or bank privacy, as the Swiss prefer to call it — is practically an article of faith.

The numbered, virtually anonymous Swiss bank account is the stuff of movie legend and popular lore.

But here it is a bread and butter issue — Switzerland’s financial services sector contributes 12.5 percent of the country’s gross domestic product. That compares to 5 percent from financial services in the countries that use the euro and about 8.5 percent in the United States.

In Zurich, while politicians sputter about how Switzerland is being unfairly singled out and point fingers at British tax havens in the Caribbean and the Channel Islands, UBS executives have a more basic worry: client money is pouring out of the bank’s coffers.

In 2008, clients pulled 123 billion Swiss francs, or $105 billion, out of UBS’s global wealth management business, equal to nearly 8 percent of assets under management. That outflow, along with the drop in value of investments like stocks and bonds in 2008, lowered UBS’s total private assets under management to $1.4 trillion by the end of 2008, from nearly $2 trillion at the end of 2007.

“The main reason was bad publicity and the mistakes we made, not only in trading but in wealth management,” said Mr. Grübel, the new chief executive. “It created uncertainty and mistrust with clients and led to an outflow.”

He admitted that restoring clients’ confidence would not happen overnight. “From my experience it takes up to 12 months for outflows to reverse,” he said.

Referring to the United States tax case, Mr. Grübel added, “We should never have gotten into it, and we should never do something like that in the future.”

UBS shares closed at $8.35 in New York on Tuesday, down from a high of $35.36 last April.

For Switzerland over all, as for UBS, it has been an abrupt fall.

From 2004 to 2007, the Swiss economy grew by nearly 3 percent annually, but in the final quarter of 2008, the economy shrank by 0.6 percent, according to data released Tuesday.

That might not sound like much compared with the 6.2 percent contraction that hit the American economy during the same period, but the possibility of a steeper decline in 2009 is alarming to citizens long sheltered from issues like war and economic instability.

“A 2 or 3 percent contraction is quite exceptional for Switzerland,” said Pirmin Bischof, a member of the Swiss Parliament from the center-right Christian Democratic party.

Mr. Bischof, who studied at Harvard Law School and considers himself an admirer of the United States, said that for ordinary Swiss voters, the biggest issue after the economy was the fate of bank secrecy and Washington’s effort to force UBS to hand over more names.

“It’s a double standard,” he said. “What’s going on now is very difficult to understand.”

For UBS, the fallout from the tax case as well as the boardroom turmoil could not have come at a worse time. Just last fall, the Swiss National Bank agreed to buy $39.1 billion in so-called toxic assets, removing them from UBS’s balance sheet and providing UBS with a $6 billion injection of cash.

And by the beginning of 2009, it seemed as if things were beginning to stabilize, said Urs P. Roth, chief executive of the Swiss Bankers Association. “It was in a turnaround and right at that moment, the Department of Justice decided to force UBS to deliver the information,” Mr. Roth said.

Over the long term, Mr. Roth said Switzerland would retain its position as a global wealth haven despite the pressure to provide more names to American authorities, and competition from even less regulated locales like the Cayman Islands and the Channel Islands.

“Bad cases are always a blow to reputations,” he said. “But we are quite confident that the reputation can be maintained and built up again.”
195 2009-03-05 For the casual shopper, the clothes may at first seem similar to Y-3, the Adidas collaboration with the Japanese avant-garde designer Yohji Yamamoto. Like that sublime line, these garments try to wed high-fashion cool with athletic wear. But they are made of less-expensive fabrics and cost much less. For example, the Light Pack Jacket is a crisp windbreaker made from white translucent polyethylene material.

“They had extra packaging at the headquarters in Germany and decided to make jackets out of it,” said a friendly, smiling saleswoman. It’s $175. At Y-3, this creation would be made of cobweb-delicate titanium mesh and cost $1,000.

Two eco-friendly items, the seven-piece shoe and the Zero Waste Tee, are displayed in the center of the store. The shoe uses only six pieces for the upper, which are stitched to an outsole using little glue. The T-shirt is made from one piece of fabric, cut once and single-stitched around the body. There is taping along the edges to prevent fraying.

One women’s T-shirt is capelike with flared arms like a flying squirrel. A prototype appeared under a glass cube in the middle of the room. A young saleswoman tried to explain how it goes on: “See? Your neck fits through here.” She pointed to a pattern etched on the surface of the glass. I had no idea what I was looking at but gasped “Oh! I see!” as if I understood. I do that a lot.

I was eager to try one on in private and took a sleeveless version of the Zero Waste Tee, along with other items, to the dressing room. A henley ($85) had a covered placket, giving it a smooth look. Its fit was proportional while not overly body-hugging. A khaki overshirt ($160) had nice safari-style pockets and a surprisingly pronounced collar. I think Robert Lansing wore something like it in the cheesy 1977 horror film “Empire of the Ants.” I am so excited this ’70s style jacket is back on the market.

I also tried on a pair of tapered pants ($145). I was dubious because they came only in small, medium and large, but the small fit me surprisingly well. I looked in the mirror at my crisp, modern uniform and indulged in a brief fantasy that I was wearing a little headset and giving an inspiring talk at the TED Conference.

The sleeveless Zero Waste Tee had a skirty triangular fit. The sides were pinched flat into fins, and a notch cut into the collar created a strangely high V-neck opening. The style wasn’t for me. I looked like William Shatner trying to squeeze into his Starship Enterprise uniform. But I appreciate that the brand is encouraging us to accept new shapes and silhouettes that are less wasteful. Anyway, it will look amazing on some willowy N.Y.U. student.

Much of the merchandise is geared toward what trend-spotters call millennials: consumers born after 1980 or so. Apparently they are optimistic, energetic and want to change the world. (I swear I remember the same thing being said about Gen-Xers not long ago, but who cares about those damaged sad sacks now?)

With an abbreviated name that is meaningless to fogies who have never sent a text message, SLVR will clothe our millennials nicely as they go about their day saving our economy, cleaning up the environment and renewing hope. Some of them trickled in and out of the store while I was there. I didn’t see anyone make a purchase, but at least the store was bringing fresh youthful energy onto the anemic streets of SoHo.

I really liked the clothing here, but I held off. Maybe next month, if things get any worse, Adidas will come out with an even less-expensive line of cool clothes called CHPSK8.

FUTURE-TIME Adidas presents a new line of sleek forward-looking clothes at midrange prices, invigorating slumpy SoHo in the process.

BIOSPHERE Using organic materials and cardboard hangers and staffed with nontoxic salesclerks, the store aims to be eco-friendly.

ADIDAS-VERSE The giant Adidas store looms nearby on the corner of Houston and Broadway, and an Adidas Originals boutique is down the street at 136 Wooster.
196 2009-03-05 BISSINGER--Frederick L. On March 3, 2009, Frederick L. Bissinger of Chevy Chase, Maryland and Little Compton, Rhode Island. Husband of Barbara S. Bissinger; Father of Frederick L. Bissinger Jr. (Nancy), and Elizabeth B. Vianna-Witt (Andrew); Step-...
197 2009-03-05 MORTGAGE RESCUE The Obama administration released details of a $75 billion plan to help as many as four million homeowners facing foreclosure....
198 2009-03-06 The Broadway play “Impressionism,” starring Jeremy Irons and Joan Allen, has postponed its official opening by 12 days....
199 2009-03-06 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
200 2009-03-06 Jane Hamsher, left, of Firedoglake and Conn Carroll of the Heritage Foundation debate whether President Obama is to blame for deepening the economic crisis.
201 2009-03-06 After seven decades of closure, Berlin's Neues Museum has opened its door today to the public -- though just for the weekend....
202 2009-03-06 Nobody knows for sure whether G.E. is in trouble -- not even the bears who are shouting it from the rafters....
203 2009-03-06 A recent analysis of reverberating protectionist policies emerging around the world....
204 2009-03-06 With a stock option exchange looming, many Google employees were hoping for a drop in Google shares on Friday....
205 2009-03-06 Mark Bittman, author of “The Minimalist” and “How to Cook Everything,” shares the kitchen with some of the most influential and inventive chefs from around the globe.
206 2009-03-06 A judge in Delaware's Court of Chancery approved a settlement Friday by Yahoo that makes changes in its severance plan that investors contend would make it easier for Microsoft and other potential suitors to buy the Internet search company. Chance...
207 2009-03-06 While some Chelsea gallerists are downsizing, the grass-roots-minded art hero, artist-cum-gallerist Joe Amrhein is finding a way to broaden his business. Amrhein, who opened his Pierogi Gallery in Williamsburg way back in 1994, is opening a massiv...
208 2009-03-06 "We must grasp that to survive such a crisis, modern insolvency rules are a better solution than the state taking a stake," said Germany's interior minister, Wolfgang Schaeuble, on Friday, speaking on G.M.'s request for $4.2 billion in European ai...
209 2009-03-06 Among the Venezuelan stars are outfielders Magglio Ordonez, Bobby Abreu and Carlos Guillen, infielders Miguel Cabrera, Melvin Mora and Jose Lopez and catcher Ramon Hernandez. "If we hit like we're supposed to, it will be ugly," Manager Luis Sojo, ...
210 2009-03-06 Street Takes Video: Revisiting a young man who caught a lucky break through baseball, and might have a shot at another bigger break....
211 2009-03-06 What sportswriters are writing about heading into a big weekend in college basketball....
212 2009-03-06 Joseph Ravitch, one of the nation's leading media and sports bankers, is retiring from Goldman Sachs, DealBook has learned. Mr. Ravitch, who is co-head of the firm's media investment banking practice, has had a hand in many high-profile deals duri...
213 2009-03-06 Bank dividends are plunging faster that the Dow Jones industrial average these days. Friday brought news that Wells Fargo, the San Francisco-based lender that just bought Wachovia, would slash its quarterly payout to 5 cents for each share of comm...
214 2009-03-06 New York's efforts to weaken its participation in the carbon-trading scheme could lead to "windfall profits" for industry....
215 2009-03-06 Also in the Morning Buzz: evaluating Chancellor Klein's tenure; Governor Paterson's voluntary 10 percent pay cut; and more headlines from local papers....
216 2009-03-06 Jobs are vanishing at the fastest pace since 1975....
217 2009-03-06 Bernard Madoff and $50 billion. His name and that number have become inseparable in describing the scope of what has been called the largest white-collar fraud in history. It's a figure that has helped demonize Mr. Madoff and relegate big-time mon...
218 2009-03-06 The federal government plans to invite wealthy investors to invest in the bailout of the crippled financial system, The Washington Post reported. Hedge fund and private equity firms would be invited to buy up recently issued, highly rated securiti...
219 2009-03-06 Personal and business bankruptcy filings surged last year as the economy spiraled downward, new data showed Thursday, a trend experts say they expect to continue in 2009. Personal bankruptcy filings - which represent the bulk of all filings - incr...
220 2009-03-06 The auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers is overhauling its operations in India two months after starting an investigation into fraud at one of its Indian clients, The New York Times's Heather Timmons reported. The auditor, which has nine offices and th...
221 2009-03-06 Asian stock markets resumed their downward slide Friday after Wall Street fell to its lowest levels in more than 12 years amid deepening fears about the fate of General Motors and major financial companies, The Associated Press said. The region's ...
222 2009-03-06 The banking giant Citigroup commanded a stock price of $55 just two years ago. But at one point Thursday, as markets hurtled to their lowest close in 12 years, the shares were worth less than an item at the dollar store. After months of breathtaki...
223 2009-03-06 When Japan's stock market took a nose dive in 1990, analysts told Shizuko Kitamura to take the long view, just invest consistently and stoically and wait for share prices to recover. Almost two decades later, she is still waiting, The New York Tim...
224 2009-03-06 Tune in to the Men's Fashion Spring 2009 issue of T, which highlights television's most interesting leading men - the cover star Eric Dane, plus Bill Hader, Gaius Charles, Joshua Jackson and Taylor Kitsch - all of whom are poised to make the jump ...
225 2009-03-06 Mattel, the world’s biggest toymaker, has opened its first store dedicated to sales of its Barbie dolls and accessories in a six-story building in Shanghai. Mattel is looking to China for growth after fourth-quarter profit fell 46 percent. The new Barbie store will be the first of a global chain as the company expands abroad, said Richard Dickson, Mattel’s senior vice president. To win fans in China, Barbie will have to take on established brands like Japan’s Hello Kitty, from the Sanrio Company, said Paul French, founder of the market research company Access Asia in Shanghai.
226 2009-03-06 With North Korea’s apparent preparations to test a missile that could hit not only South Korea and Japan but possibly also Hawaii or Alaska, the United States and its allies need quickly to state publicly a new self-defense doctrine. It could be put as follows:

“Should any nation known to possess and to have tested nuclear fissile material launch a missile capable of reaching the United States or any of its allies and apparently on a trajectory to do so, the United States and its allies will not hesitate to destroy that missile.”

This is not intended as a threat but as a caution to all nations not to direct missiles for any purpose on trajectories that might be seen to be directed toward other nations.

Nor is this new: it is what we would have done at any time during the cold war if we had had the ability to do so.

The writer was director of politico-military research at the State Department, 1983-89.
227 2009-03-06 “If there is a way of getting this done,” he said, “where we’re driving down costs and people are getting health insurance at an affordable rate and have choice of doctor, have flexibility in terms of their plans, and we could do that entirely through the market, I’d be happy to do it that way. If there was a way of doing it that involved more government regulation and involvement, I’m happy to do it that way as well.”

Liberals say the public option would be an essential element of legislation to rein in costs and achieve universal coverage.

Five senior Republican senators, including Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee, and the minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, warned the president on Thursday that the public option would face opposition from many Republicans.

In a letter to Mr. Obama, they said that “forcing free market plans to compete with these government-run programs would create an unlevel playing field and inevitably doom true competition.”

“Ultimately,” the letter said, “we would be left with a single government-run program controlling all of the market.”

At the White House forum, Mr. Obama defended the idea of a new public insurance program but said he understood the objections to it.

“The thinking on the public option has been that it gives consumers more choices and it helps keep the private sector honest, because there’s some competition out there,” Mr. Obama said.

But, he added, “I recognize the fear that if a public option is run through Washington and there are incentives to try to tamp down costs,” then “private insurance plans might end up feeling overwhelmed.”

The conference drew more than 150 participants, including members of Congress, doctors and leaders of labor unions, business groups, hospitals, insurance companies and consumer organizations. The day ended with tributes to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who has made health care one of his top legislative priorities in more than 46 years in the Senate.

Mr. Kennedy, who is battling brain cancer and was greeted with sustained applause, said he had witnessed many efforts to overhaul the health care system. But, he said, “they haven’t been the kind of serious effort that I think we’re seeing right now.”

“This time we will not fail,” Mr. Kennedy said.

Mr. Obama provided no new details of how he would extend coverage to the 46 million people who have no health insurance. Instead, he expressed hope that a “transparent and inclusive” process would produce a bipartisan consensus and overcome the objections of those who had a financial stake in the status quo.

“Those who seek to block any reform at all, any reform at any cost, will not prevail this time around,” he said.

In the presidential campaign, Mr. Obama said he would require that all children have coverage, while his chief rival for the Democratic nomination, Hillary Rodham Clinton, said everyone should be required to be covered.

A wide variety of speakers at the White House conference expressed support for an individual obligation.

Speakers who endorsed such a requirement included Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan; Representative Jo Ann Emerson, Republican of Missouri; Kendall J. Powell, the chief executive of General Mills and a member of the Business Roundtable, which represents large companies; Representative Allyson Y. Schwartz, Democrat of Pennsylvania; and Scott P. Serota, the president of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association.

Ms. Emerson said it was essential to “get the entire population in an insurance pool and spread the risk.”

Likewise, Mr. Serota said, “an enforceable mandate is the cornerstone to getting everybody covered.” Health insurance will not work if people can buy it when they are sick and drop it when they are healthy, he said.

Richard J. Umbdenstock, the president of the American Hospital Association, said the word “mandate” seemed to alarm some people, so he suggested using a term like “responsibility.”

Insurance should be viewed as “a responsibility on every individual, every institution and every enterprise in our society,” Mr. Umbdenstock said.

One of Mr. Obama’s ideas to finance the expansion of health insurance coverage has run into opposition from powerful Democrats. The president has proposed limiting the value of deductions that affluent taxpayers can take for expenses like mortgage interest, charitable gifts and state and local taxes.

The objections came from Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the chairman of the Finance Committee, and Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.

Mr. Baucus said the administration should “dig down deeper to try to find viable savings.” Mr. Rangel said he was concerned that the proposal could discourage charitable giving.
228 2009-03-06 A federal judge threw out a lawsuit questioning President Obama’s citizenship, criticizing the case as a waste of the court’s time. Mr. Obama has been dogged by rumors, spread on the Internet, that he is ineligible to be president because he is not a “natural born citizen” as the Constitution requires. In response last summer, his campaign posted his Hawaiian birth certificate on its Web site. But the lawsuit argued that the certificate was a fake and that Mr. Obama was actually born in his father’s homeland, Kenya. The judge, James Robertson of Federal District Court, said the case could have ended up in books “that seek to prove that the law is foolish or that America has too many lawyers with not enough to do.”
229 2009-03-06 THE plain, flat-collar jersey dress from Rochas didn’t say understatement so much as rationing. In another echo of genuine hard times, the models at Balenciaga had their eyebrows blotted out so they appeared to be wearing little makeup. Ahead of reports that France will suffer its worst postwar recession this year, two far-sighted designers conjured the 1940s.

Presenting his first collection today for Rochas  a mixture of masculine tailoring and discreet feminine details  Marco Zanini said, “In my fantasy trip about what is French, I didn’t want to look at any one decade, but Paris during the occupation is very meaningful.” A former designer at Versace, who most recently worked at Halston, Mr. Zanini did an excellent job imparting French savoir faire. With no long dresses and only a slip as a foundation, his Rochas is a departure from the drama of Olivier Theyskens, its former designer, and, despite the flashback, is more contemporary.

At Balenciaga, Nicolas Ghesquiere had Yves Saint Laurent in his sights, but the lodestar for Saint Laurent was the ’40s. The era informed one of his most daring collections as it agitated clients. Held in a salon at the Crillon overlooking the Place de la Concorde, instead of in his cramped Left Bank showroom, Mr. Ghesquiere’s show included dresses and trousers in lavishly draped satin. Lately, his clothes have looked hard, molded and probably mystifying to people who don’t follow these shows closely.

If this collection seems more romantic, more feminine and more accessible, it may be because Mr. Ghesquiere, like other designers, has to think harder about selling clothes. Accordingly, he had spotty print dresses inspired by the Balenciaga archive, including one in sparkling green-and-black leopard spots. Jackets were sharp-shouldered, fitted though roomy, and the best of the lot was shown over a black lace bandeau top with gray-striped pants.

The swags of satin drapery on skirts and trousers may have unfortunate associations to the ’80s, and certain prime-time queens. But in the blend of colors like Persian blue and green, in the alert cut of the shoulders, in the bangles stacked on wrists, in the erotic strips of black lace, these clothes also evoke Saint Laurent. And as a modern interpretation of his style, it was a good one.

There were a number of Saint Laurent muses in the room, including Catherine Deneuve and Loulou de la Falaise, who worked with the designer for three decades. “I think Yves would have liked this interpretation very much,” Ms. de la Falaise said. She did.

After the show, several French editors stood waiting for the backstage area to clear and the kissing to stop. There was Loïc Prigent and Agnès Boulard, who collaborate on documentaries and a French television program; Carine Roitfeld, the editor in chief of French Vogue; and Emmanuelle Alt, the magazine’s fashion director. Ms. Roitfeld had on a Balenciaga coat over a black lace top, Ms. Alt skinny jeans and a silver braided Balmain jacket, Ms. Boulard a little peak-shoulder jacket. Their hair was long, and they wore little if any makeup.

With a wave of his hand, Mr. Prigent said: “Look at her, look at her. This woman still exists. It’s so French, this look. It’s not Saint Laurent, it’s the woman. She’s a Paris lady. She smokes in the building even if it’s forbidden.”

The women kind of shrugged. “We’re all blond inside,” Ms. Roitfeld said.

Rochas more or less disappeared after its owner, Procter & Gamble, pulled the plug on its small fashion operation about three years ago and let Mr. Theyskens go. Procter & Gamble still owns the brand, but it’s now produced in Italy by Gibo, with Mr. Zanini as creative director. If he could find the design codes at two labels as different as Versace and Halston, there’s no reason to think he can’t succeed with a French house.

“Creativity doesn’t have a passport,” he said. “You apply your creativity to whatever you do.”

Although the slip dress is the basis for the collection, Mr. Zanini’s skills shone in the tailoring  in the soft, natural drape of black bouclé jacket with hand-stitching on the lapel, in a handsome gray blazer, in small details like a wide piece of cream silk ribbon sewn into the interior of the jackets.

But then he likes small surprises, like the Rochas name tucked inside the pocket of a cardigan or a cuff. Skirt linings have a tiny hem of white crochet, a lingerie detail you can show or not. And many of his dresses are as simple as a T-shirt but have seductive elements like a black illusion panel under each arm or a geometric play of black and navy beads on net.

Gareth Pugh, the London designer, showed a video of his clothes. While the film perfectly expressed his dark vision, it also didn’t reveal much more than that. Rick Owens had a solid, tough show: heavily layered with cutaway jackets in black, white and plaster gray. Papery gold wrappers closed asymmetrically over some looks, and details included intricate quilting and taut boots that puffed at the back like bellows.

Balmain drew a crowd on Thursday at the Ritz. The French dearly love Christophe Decarnin’s cool jackets and sexy pants (now harem-style with slits up the front), but to an American, at least, listening to the disco remix  well, it’s as if a woman has stepped into a pail of glitter on her way to see “Dancing With the Stars.” Oops!
230 2009-03-06 A share of General Motors stock, which fell below $2 on Thursday as it warned of possible bankruptcy, is now not even enough to buy a gallon of gasoline for your Chevy.

A share of General Electric, battered this week to little more than $6, would not be sufficient to buy two of the company’s compact fluorescent light bulbs. And at its current price of 73 cents, it would take several shares of Office Depot stock to buy a box of paper clips.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 6,594.44, down 281.40 points, or 4.09 percent — its lowest close since April 15, 1997. The broader S.& P. 500 fell 30.32 points, or 4.25 percent, to 682.55, its lowest close since September 1996. The Nasdaq composite index fell 4 percent, or 54.15 points, to 1,299.59.

The rout highlighted the apathy and pessimism that have seeped into all corners of the market as the global economic downturn deepens.

Investors had bid up shares on Wednesday on hopes that China would increase spending to shore up its unraveling economy, but sold off after the Chinese government swatted away those rumors. With so much uncertainty, investors are parachuting out of companies like banks, retailers and utilities, and abandoning stock markets everywhere from Asia to Europe to Wall Street.

Many are concerned the recession may gain force before it ebbs, especially as job losses increase, a worry that is likely to drive stocks into a downward trend over the next few months. Economists expect the unemployment rate for February to rise to 7.9 percent, from 7.6 percent in January, and they estimate that the economy shed 650,000 jobs last month. The Labor Department will release February’s unemployment numbers at 8:30 a.m. on Friday.

“It’s just a continuing self-destructive market where even the slightest good news is considered negative,” said Peter I. Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners. “No one is taking a back-seat approach. Everyone is just selling.”

Financial stocks continue to be among the worst hit, despite the trillions that governments around the world are spending to restore the system to working order. Citigroup, which is fending off fears of outright nationalization, broke the buck Thursday, falling as low as 97 cents before closing at $1.02. Bank of America, also the recipient of two government lifelines, slid to $3.17.

“We’re collapsing in on ourselves,” said Eric Ross, director of research at the brokerage firm Canaccord Adams. “Nobody wants to be invested, that’s the problem. I don’t believe we’re at the bottom yet.”

The steep drop in stocks like G.E., which has fallen nearly 60 percent since the start of the year, also suggests that investors are worried about another big failure in the financial system akin to the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the American International Group in September, said Russell Napier, a consultant at Credit Lyonnais.

“Ninety-nine percent of the people I talk to are pessimistic,” Mr. Napier said. “Everyone is sitting back and waiting for one more big implosion.”

Investors have grown increasingly worried about General Motors, which has borrowed $13.4 billion from the federal government and is seeking billions more. The auditor for G.M., Deloitte & Touche, said Thursday that G.M.’s survival was in “substantial doubt.”

Auto stocks sank across the board, while shares of G.M. tumbled 15 percent, or 34 cents, to $1.86. This week, the big automakers reported that their February sales fell 41 percent from the previous year as consumers slashed their spending.

“You really do wonder how they’re going to keep going with such pathetic sales and massive fields of unsold cars, and what’s going to happen,” said Robert Carnell, chief international economist at ING Financial Markets. “Just kind of seems obvious that this industry has to shrink.”

A broad slowdown in consumer spending was also evident as retailers began to release February results on Thursday morning. But the numbers were not as bad as January’s, and Wal-Mart Stores topped expectations by reporting that its February sales rose 5.1 percent. Shares of Wal-Mart rose $1.26, or 2.6 percent, to $49.75.

Investors fleeing stocks sent the price of safe-haven Treasury debt higher. The Treasury’s 10-year note rose 1 13/32, to 99 15/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 2.81 percent, from 2.97 percent late Wednesday.
231 2009-03-06 The requirement for utilities to obtain the allowances in this way was established not only as a financial disincentive to discourage them from polluting, but as a way for states to raise money for greener energy initiatives.

Mr. Paterson does not plan to withdraw from the climate accord, but has agreed to increase the number of free allowances provided by the state, which would lower the industry’s costs of compliance.

The industry says the system hurts those power producers that signed long-term contracts with utilities years ago, without being able to factor in the price of the allowances. The additional allowances would be distributed to those that signed long-term contracts. “It’s a hard decision but it’s a responsible decision to reopen it,” said Judith Enck, the state’s deputy secretary for the environment.

Industry executives asked that the free allowances, which currently allow for the release of 1.5 million tons of emissions, be increased to 6.5 million tons, which, according to the most recent auction price, could save them $16.9 million.

Although the administration has said it will follow the required public process and listen to all sides, officials are making it clear in discussions with environmental groups and energy executives that the governor intends to heed the industry’s request, though he has not decided how many more free allowances to provide.

Gavin Donohue, chief executive of the Independent Power Producers of New York, said he was having trouble last year persuading Department of Environmental Conservation officials to listen to the industry’s concerns. So he went directly to the governor, he said, and got results.

“D.E.C. was not going to address it in a way that was adequate enough for industry,” he said, adding, “The governor recognized the legitimate inequities in the proposal that D.E.C. had put on the street and was very concerned about undue cost on business.”

Asked if she supported the change, Ms. Enck, who was a longtime environmental activist before joining the state government under Eliot Spitzer, responded, “My personal views don’t really matter.”

Environmentalist groups worry that Mr. Paterson’s decision could set a precedent for other Northeastern states to revisit their regulations, and say the governor’s move sends the wrong message to Washington as the Obama administration contemplates federal regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.

Environmentalists are perplexed that Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, would weaken a landmark agreement among Northeastern states that was championed by a Republican predecessor, George E. Pataki.

They are also criticizing what they see as a secret process with an industry that has donated tens of thousands of dollars to Governor Paterson’s campaign coffers.

Several environmental groups, including the Natural Resources Defense Council and Environmental Advocates of New York, sent a letter on Wednesday to the governor’s top deputy, Larry S. Schwartz, protesting the move.

Abigail Dillen, a staff lawyer with Earthjustice, a public interest law firm, said the move “sets a precedent that if you’re a disgruntled operator, you can just go back to New York State.”

For several months, there have been tensions in the Paterson administration over maintaining previous environmental goals amid a recession and budget crisis. The administration briefly considered creating a special panel with the power to review all regulation, and the governor said at the time that the greenhouse gas initiative might be affected in such a review.

“What we are trying to avoid is what we have felt at times were institutional regulations that are inflexible,” he said then.

Indeck, an Illinois-based power producer which operates a plant in upstate New York, is suing the state over the initiative, arguing that it unfairly affects Indeck and other companies with long-term contracts.
232 2009-03-06 Like an annoying new puppy, “Sherman’s Way” just wants to run around in circles and lick your face. After a while, though — and against your better judgment — you kind of fall in love with it.

Not that either of this movie’s lead characters, an elitist Yalie and a washed-up Olympian, is particularly admirable. As Sherman, a recent law school graduate and uptight mama’s boy, Michael Shulman embodies the kind of preppy privilege that’s a liability almost anywhere but Manhattan. But it’s James Le Gros, playing a disgruntled former ski champion named Palmer, who finally pulls you in: his shaggy charm cushions both Sherman’s neuroses and the script’s manipulations.

The pair meet when Sherman, stranded in California after an impetuous decision goes awry, needs a ride to an internship in Beverly Hills. Enter Palmer with a stolen MGB roadster, a carpe diem mentality and a character arc as visible as his immaturity.

Nevertheless the director, Craig Saavedra, generates surprising warmth from the familiar tropes of the odd-couple road movie. Shooting mostly in the verdant sweep of California’s wine country — and with a superb supporting cast — he allows Mr. Le Gros room to engage. Palmer may be an emotional infant but he can lick my face any time.

Directed by Craig Saavedra; written by Tom Nance; director of photography, Joaquin Sedillo; edited by Christopher Gay; music by David Michael Frank; production designer, Laurent Turlure; produced by Mr. Saavedra, Michael Shulman and Mr. Nance; released by International Film Circuit. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. This film is not rated.
233 2009-03-06 NEW DELHI —The auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers is overhauling its operations in India two months after starting an investigation into fraud at one of its Indian clients.

The auditor, which has nine offices and thousands of clients in India, said Thursday that it would make sweeping changes to “re-emphasize quality.” They include adding a five-member advisory board in India, appointing a new head of risk management from outside India to oversee work in the country and a new auditing team in India, and changing the management in its office in Hyderabad.

Price Waterhouse, as PricewaterhouseCoopers is known in India, audited Satyam Computer Services, a software and outsourcing firm whose chairman said in January that he had falsely claimed assets of $1 billion in cash and overstated operating margins. Two of Price Waterhouse’s partners are being held without bail in a Hyderabad jail on charges of criminal conspiracy and cheating.

Price Waterhouse has said that there was no evidence that the two auditors were complicit in the suspected fraud. Still, the changes announced Thursday may raise questions about whether quality problems are more widespread in India.

“While we are confident in the overall quality of our services and our people, the problems at Satyam have created a difficult environment, and therefore we are taking all the necessary steps to demonstrate to our clients and other stakeholders our commitment to the highest standards,” Ramesh Rajan, the chairman of Price Waterhouse India, said in a statement.

Price Waterhouse’s new advisory board will comprise four executives from outside the company and one PricewaterhouseCoopers executive from outside India. A new head of quality assurance and risk management, who will review the company’s work in India, will also come from PricewaterhouseCoopers operations outside India.
234 2009-03-06 Over the last three or four decades, that premise became the guiding principle of millions of ordinary Americans’ savings and retirement planning. It revolutionized America’s relationship to stocks, making them no longer the province of millionaires and traders.

But now that belief is being called increasingly into question. The Dow Jones industrial average has tumbled faster than the Nikkei, Japan’s benchmark 225 stock average, losing 50 percent of its value between its peak in October 2007 and late February. It took the Nikkei 10 months longer to halve its value in the early 1990s.

The good news for investors is that Japan’s nearly two-decade slump is an anomaly among major stock markets. After the 1987 crash, global investors recouped their losses in two years, according to the Credit Suisse Global Investment Returns Yearbook. After the 1973-74 bear market, London shares, which had fallen 73 percent in real terms, regained their previous highs in less than three years.

The longest bear market in a major economy occurred after the Wall Street crash of 1929. Stocks did not reach their pre-Depression levels until 1954. American stocks also stagnated in the 1970s when the oil crisis, recession and financial instability caused global share prices to fall.

The bad news for investors, and everyone else, is that the real economy shows no sign of improving. In surveys, corporate managers around the world are predicting increasing unemployment. And many economists say that in a global downturn like the current one, no market seems able to rescue the others, for example, by buying their exports. Everyone is hanging together.

To be sure, Japan’s stock market has many problems that are particular to Japan. To name two: Japan took a decade to rid its banks of bad loans, hurting confidence in the market; and Japanese companies performed poorly on return on equity, a measure of how effectively shareholders’ money is used to develop a company or increase its profits.

Specialists say Japanese companies also disdain concentrating on maximizing shareholder value. Japanese managers have tended to focus on pleasing employees, or staying true to corporate values rather than seeking aggressively to increase profits or pay dividends.

Nonetheless, Japan’s experience explains how a modern stock market can atrophy. And many of the mistakes that the Japanese made could befall markets in New York, London and Frankfurt. For instance, Japan’s stimulus plans proved too timid to break its prolonged economic slump, which led households to hoard cash and invest less, in stocks or anything else.

The Japanese had reason to be risk-averse. By 2002, 1.5 quadrillion yen of wealth had been destroyed, between the stock market and falling land prices, the rough equivalent of three times the country’s gross domestic product, according to the Nomura Research Institute.

“The Japanese household developed a remarkable preference for cash,” said Richard Jerram, chief economist at Macquarie Securities in Tokyo. And when Japanese households park their money in safe, low-yielding bank accounts, it does not reach the stock market.

“That’s happening in the States to a certain extent,” Mr. Jerram said, with wary investors fleeing equity markets for safer investments, like Treasuries and gold.

In Japan, modest gains in share prices since 2003 were largely driven by overseas investors. But even those investors have been leaving the market in droves during the global credit crisis. Shares on Tokyo’s broader Topix index now trade below their book value, meaning prices are less than what the companies would fetch if they were dissolved and their parts sold.

“Most Japanese no longer see the stock market as an investment option,” said Kiyoshi Kimura, president of the Japan Association for Individual Investors and a longtime investor. “All you have left are a handful of people with a get-rich-quick mentality and courage to play a declining market.”

Hisao Oku, a retired Tokyo business owner who has invested in Japanese stocks for four decades, said the last 20 years were “a roller-coaster ride.” His advice during severe bear markets: Sit out the market for a while. Keep cash handy. And most of all, adjust expectations.

“I’ve learned in my 40 years that it’s the lucky few who manage to find happiness in the stock market,” Mr. Oku said. “For the rest of us, it’s like chasing a mirage.”
235 2009-03-06 And it presents some straightforward reporting, including interviews with people from the Clinton era in the White House, like Billy R. Dale, who was fired as director of the White House travel office; Gary Aldrich, who wrote a book about his experiences as an F.B.I. agent assigned to the White House; and Kathleen Willey, a former White House volunteer who accused Mr. Clinton of making an unwanted sexual advance.

There are two basic questions before the court: Is the film the sort of “electioneering communication” that the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law of 2002 says may not be broadcast in certain time windows before elections? And if it is, can the law itself then be squared with the First Amendment?

The documentary was produced by Citizens United, a conservative advocacy group that is a nonprofit corporation. Its president, David Bossie, is a former Congressional aide and a longtime foe of the Clintons.

Last year, Citizens United lost a suit against the Federal Election Commission and scuttled plans to show the film on a cable video-on-demand service and to broadcast television advertisements for it. But the film was shown in theaters in six cities, and it remains available on DVD and the Internet.

Theodore B. Olson, who was the United States solicitor general in the administration of George W. Bush after playing a supporting role in promoting the scandals that swirled around the Clinton White House, is defending the film in the Supreme Court. In a brief, Mr. Olson called it “a critical biographical assessment” that provides “historical information about the candidate and, perhaps, some measure of entertainment as well.”

The Obama Justice Department sees the documentary differently. “Every element of the film, including the narration, the visual images and audio track, and the selection of clips,” its brief said, “advances the clear message that Senator Clinton lacked both the integrity and qualifications to be president of the United States.”

Reviews of the documentary have been few and largely unflattering. Megan Carpentier, writing in Radar, said “the movie scrolls through more than a decade of press clippings and a treasure trove of unflattering pictures in its one-sided romp” and advised potential viewers to see it “while inebriated in the manner of your choosing, and only if you don’t pay $10 for the privilege.”

The McCain-Feingold law bans the broadcast, cable or satellite transmission of “electioneering communications” paid for by corporations in the 30 days before a presidential primary and in the 60 days before the general election. That leaves out old technologies, like newspapers, and new ones, like YouTube.

The law, as narrowed by a 2007 Supreme Court decision, applies to communications “susceptible to no reasonable interpretation other than as an appeal to vote for or against a specific candidate.” It also requires spoken and written disclaimers in the film and advertisements for it, along with the disclosure of contributors’ names.

The net effect, Mr. Bossie said in an interview, is censorship.

“I can put it in as many theaters as I want across the country,” he said of the documentary. “I just can’t let anyone know about it.”

Last year, a three-judge panel of the Federal District Court here said the film was prohibited electioneering communication with one purpose: “to inform the electorate that Senator Clinton is unfit for office, that the United States would be a dangerous place in a President Hillary Clinton world and that viewers should vote against her.”

But that is not the only possible interpretation of the film.

For instance, in a brief in the Supreme Court defending the film, the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press said the film “does not differ, in any relevant respect, from the critiques of presidential candidates produced throughout the entirety of American history.”

The McCain-Feingold law does contain an exception for broadcast news reports, commentaries and editorials. But that, the reporters committee’s brief said, is not good enough.

“Who is the F.E.C. to decide what is news and what kind of format news is properly presented in?” Gregg P. Leslie, a lawyer with the committee, asked in an interview.

The government’s brief said the fact that Citizens United had proposed to pay a cable company to make its film available demonstrated that the film was an infomercial rather than authentic news media commentary.

Mr. Bossie said the documentary was not meant to take a position in a particular election. Had he been forced to choose between Mrs. Clinton and Barack Obama during the primaries, he added, he would have voted for Mrs. Clinton.
236 2009-03-06 Hundreds of thousands of people who have fled in the past six months to camps in surrounding districts or to relatives’ homes are staying put, unsure what they would encounter if they dared to return. “The militants have not laid down their arms,” said Sher Mohammed, a lawyer, who splits his time between Swat and Peshawar, the capital of the North-West Frontier Province. “Once you get power in your hands, it is very difficult to withdraw from that intoxication.”

The Pakistani government agreed to the cease-fire with an aging Islamic leader, Maulana Sufi Muhammad, on Feb. 16 after the army had already ceded about 70 percent of Swat, a pocket of snow-capped peaks and fertile valleys, to Taliban fighters.

The government said it saw the truce as a way to separate what it considered to be more approachable militants, like Mr. Muhammad, from hard-line Taliban leaders like Maulana Fazlullah, his son-in-law, who is a young warlord flush with money and weapons. Mr. Fazlullah, backed by the main Pakistani Taliban group and Qaeda fighters, led the fight in Swat against the Pakistani Army in the past year.

Critics of the deal say that it has accomplished nothing like that, and that it has simply handed Swat, once a tolerant, princely kingdom, to the Taliban.

The army has agreed to withdraw from a madrasa in the village of Imam Dheri, where Mr. Fazlullah ran an FM radio station before the military occupied it last year.

On Thursday, a spokesman for Mr. Muhammad, Molana Izzat Khan, confirmed that he would select judges for Shariah courts, to open on March 15. The provincial government says that Islamic law will satisfy demands for speedy justice, and will not include brutal punishments.

There was no mention of the future of girls’ education in the accord on Wednesday, an ominous sign, said opponents of the Taliban. The militants have burned hundreds of girls’ schools in Swat in the past year, and banished the students to their homes.

The chief minister of the North-West Frontier Province, Ameer Haider Hoti, said during a visit to Swat this week that the girls’ schools would reopen. But the provincial government is strapped for money, and there is speculation that the government cannot afford to rebuild the burned schools.

Moreover, European donors who have budgeted money for development in Swat said there was now hesitation in helping if the Taliban were in effective control.

Despite the truce, most people remain terrified of the Taliban, said Mohammad Amad, executive director of a private aid group, the Initiative for Development and Empowerment Axis. Militants continue to hunt down anyone who backs the government and the army.

He cited the death of a relative, Rahmat Ali, the man who was killed after returning home to his mountain village, Mandal Dag.

Mr. Ali was a cousin of Pir Samiullah, a moderate religious leader who took up arms against the Taliban and fought them with a band of followers for three months, killing about a hundred militants.

Mr. Ali banked on the government’s assurances that he would be safe. “He went back because of the stupid claims of the government,” Mr. Amad said. “He wanted to wind up his business.” He owned a transportation company and planned to sell the vehicles, Mr. Amad said.

Mr. Ali was abducted and held for five days, Mr. Amad said. His body was found on Feb. 25.

“There was no skin on his back,” he said. “We had advised him, ‘You shouldn’t go, you shouldn’t trust.’ ”

The Taliban also announced in the local mosque that every family in the village would have to contribute one young man to their ranks, Mr. Amad said.

Local and provincial officials appear to be powerless in the face of the Taliban, and many remain in exile in Peshawar.

Some officials have fled to Islamabad, the capital, some as far afield as London.

Those who have ventured into Swat to negotiate the accords with the Taliban have been shown who is in charge.

The district coordination officer, Kushal Khan, was kidnapped with several of his assistants soon after arriving in Swat last weekend to talk to the militants. They were later released.

In some places, the Taliban have established new training camps, villagers said.

Near Mandal Dag, a resident reached by telephone said that the militants were using a government school in the mountains as a training camp for target practice. Young boys were being taught to hit moving objects by shooting at dogs that were let loose on the firing range, the resident said.

An FM radio station that was effective in instilling terror — Mr. Fazlullah’s acolytes read out the names of those who faced beheadings on nightly broadcasts — is still operating, said Adnan Khan, a businessman in Mingaora, the main town of Swat.

But since the cease-fire, the tone has moderated, he said, and the militants’ vitriolic denunciations of the government and the army have ceased.

Perhaps to show they are now really in control, the militants have settled on reporting the situation in the villages and discussing Islamic teachings, Mr. Khan said.
237 2009-03-06 The title of Mr. Carax’s film is a French expletive that is also the name of its main character, a subterranean half-human played with enthusiastic comic zeal by the director’s usual lead actor, Denis Lavant. With a white marble eye and a curling red beard, the green-suited “creature from the sewers,” as he is nicknamed by the media, speaks a nonsensical patois that only his mysterious French lawyer can understand. After popping out of a manhole, he begins wreaking havoc on the sidewalks of Tokyo, grabbing fistfuls of money and flowers from pedestrians’ hands and stuffing them into his mouth as he lurches down the street.

On his second trip above ground, he becomes a full-fledged terrorist who creates mass panic as he casually tosses grenades over his shoulder while staggering along. Soon his lair is raided, and he is dragged off in shackles and tried for murder.

On one level Mr. Carax’s film is a “Godzilla” spoof. But with its conspicuous references to World War II atrocities by Japanese soldiers in China, memorialized in underground graffiti, the movie is also a critique of Japan’s suppressed historical memory. Denial of the past, it implies, can keep those horrors buried for only so long before they explode in a volcanic rampage.

The protagonist of Mr. Bong’s “Shaking Tokyo” is also a loner, a so-called hikikomori, or shut-in (Teruyuki Kagawa), who has lived indoors for 10 years with minimal human contact. His hermetic existence abruptly ends when the delivery of his daily pizza coincides with an earthquake, and he connects long enough with the beautiful young woman who delivered it to fall in love with her. Roused from his isolation by passion, he ventures outdoors to find her.

As in Mr. Carax’s film it takes momentous forces erupting from underground to restore a semblance of reality and human connection in a city living inside a chilly science-fiction bubble.

Directed by Michel Gondry, Léos Carax and Bong Joon-Ho; produced by Masa Sawada and Michiko Yoshitake; released by Liberation Entertainment. At Landmark’s Sunshine Cinema, 139-143 East Houston Street, East Village. In Japanese, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 52 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Ayako Fujitani (Hiroko), Ryo Kase (Akira), Denis Lavant (Creature), Jean-François Balmer (Maître Voland), Teruyuki Kagawa (the Man) and Yu Aoi (Pizza Delivery Girl).
238 2009-03-06 J. R. Simplot was no poser. Before he became Idaho’s richest and most famous man, in part by selling potatoes to that fast-food chain with the golden arches, he was a rough-cut Idaho farm boy. He wore cowboy hats because cowboy hats were what you wore.

When Mr. Simplot died last May at the age of 99, about 1,000 people attended a public memorial service in Boise. On prominent display was a wreath with flowers, a photograph of Mr. Simplot and the straw hat with feathers that had been his hallmark, an inexpensive gift from a friend 25 years ago.

“We thought that would be a nice touch,” said Rose Buehler, a longtime assistant to Mr. Simplot.

Minutes after the service, the hat disappeared.

“It was amazing to all us that someone could have taken it,” Ms. Buehler said.

Idahoans were outraged. Ms. Buehler and others looked for clues in photographs and videos of the service. Nothing. Then, last month, Tim Woodward of The Idaho Statesman revisited the mystery in one of his “Ask Tim” columns.

If the thief came forward, Mr. Woodward would grant anonymity. The call came a week later, followed by a meeting in a restaurant. The returner of the hat insisted someone else had stolen it.

“The person who brought the hat to me said that the person who took it almost instantly regretted it,” said Mr. Woodward, careful to avoid gender-specific pronouns. “They realized it was a stupid mistake.”

Ms. Buehler said the hat would probably be displayed at the J. R. Simplot Company, which employs 10,000 people around the world.
239 2009-03-06 Wall Street is trading at its lowest level in more than a decade, some American automakers are on the verge of bankruptcy and the government is bailing out the nation’s biggest banks.

But in these troubled economic times, one big company is bucking the trend.

Exxon Mobil put on a show of strength on Thursday, pledging to increase investments in coming years, chiding rivals for mistimed acquisitions and reminding everyone it had the financial strength to make headway even as other companies pulled back.

“The question now becomes who can be successful in more challenging times,” Rex W. Tillerson, Exxon’s chairman and chief executive, said at the company’s annual investor presentation at the New York Stock Exchange.

Mr. Tillerson had a ready answer for his own question. Exxon, based in Irving, Tex., earned $45 billion in 2008, gave back $40 billion to its shareholders, invested $26 billion around the world, and managed to find more oil than it produced. It also outperformed all of its rivals, like Chevron and Royal Dutch Shell.

Undaunted by a collapse in oil prices and the most severe global financial crisis since the 1930s, Exxon said it would dial up its investments over the next five years. It plans to spend as much as $150 billion through 2014.
240 2009-03-06 2. Heat the oil in a large, heavy soup pot or Dutch oven over medium heat, and add the onion. Cook, stirring often, until just about tender, about five minutes, and add the sliced fresh mushrooms. Cook, stirring, until the mushrooms are beginning to soften, about three minutes, and add the garlic and 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Continue to cook for about five minutes, until the mixture is juicy and fragrant. Add the reconstituted dried mushrooms, the barley, the mushroom soaking liquid, and the stock or water. Salt to taste. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, cover and simmer 45 minutes. Meanwhile, stack the kale leaves in bunches and cut crosswise into slivers. Simmer the bouquet garni during the 45 minute simmering, then pull it out when the soup is done.

3. Add the kale to the simmering soup, and continue to simmer for another 15 to 20 minutes. The barley should be tender and the broth aromatic. The kale should be very tender. Remove the bouquet garni, taste and adjust salt, add a generous amount of freshly ground pepper and serve.

Yield: Serves six to eight

Advance preparation: The soup will keep for about three days in the refrigerator, but the barley will swell and absorb liquid, so you will have to add more to the pot when you reheat.
241 2009-03-06 Japan has been hoping for redemption in this tournament, after it failed to take a medal last summer in the Beijing Olympics. The W.B.C. has generated intense excitement in this baseball-crazy nation, drawing a near-capacity crowd of 43,428 to the Tokyo Dome on Thursday.

During the game, fans waved enormous Rising Sun flags with big black characters that said, “Samurai Spirit.” In one corner of the stands, an impromptu brass marching band played fight songs.

“China is a rival in business and politics,” said one fan, Tomoko Okuda. “But in baseball, I want Japan to stay dominant.”

For the Chinese, the Classic is a chance to expose their relatively green team to international play. It was also a chance to show the world China’s progress in building a national team, though the Asian giant still appears a long way from joining its regional neighbors Japan and South Korea as a baseball powerhouse.

“Are they on par with the Japanese? Not yet,” China’s manager, Terry Collins, said. “But they’re getting much more aware of what it takes to play baseball.”

Collins, who has also managed in the United States and Japan, said he was sent by Major League Baseball to lead the Chinese squad as part of an agreement with China to nurture baseball there.

Collins said he was proud of the performance of the Chinese pitching staff, including Li and Chen Junyi, a spindly 6-foot-1 pitcher who threw two scoreless innings and got himself out of a bases-loaded jam in the fourth.

“Any time you can hold a lineup like that to five hits, you are doing a good job,” Collins said.

Shortstop Ray Chang, a Chinese-American who played in the minor leagues last year for the Pittsburgh Pirates organization, helped keep the game close in the third by gunning down a sliding Norichika Aoki at home plate.

But China showed its inexperience in the sixth, when pitcher Sun Guoqiang allowed Kosuke Fukudome to score from third on a balk.

“Just being in this big tournament, playing on the big stage, it’s exciting for China,” Chang, 25, said before the game. “China’s got talent.”

Li Gaochao, vice president of the Chinese Baseball Association, said some of China’s players had never played in a dome. But the country’s fledgling six-team professional league has drawn the attention of some major league teams as a possible reservoir of new talent.

The Yankees have signed two Chinese players, pitcher Liu Kai and catcher Zhang Zhenwang, who will report to spring training after the Classic.

On Thursday, it was Japan’s pitchers who dominated. Darvish allowed no hits, striking out three. A half-Iranian, half-Japanese 22-year-old with a lanky 6-5 frame and a tight windup, Darvish allowed one runner, on a walk, as he took the win.

Japan clinched the victory in the third inning when Aoki hit a run-scoring single, followed by Murata’s two-run shot over the left-field fence.

“I hit a home run in my first game, so that should give me some confidence for the rest of the tournament,” Murata said.

Murata helped make up for the hitless Suzuki, who batted at the top of the Japanese lineup. That did not dampen the crowd’s enthusiasm for Suzuki, who is a national hero in Japan. Every time he stood to bat, the crowd emitted a booming, guttural cry: “Ichiro!”

Collins said his team was lucky that Suzuki had a bad night.

“Ichiro can cause havoc if he gets on base, and our pitchers were so focused on keeping him off base,” Collins said. “We were fortunate that he didn’t go 5 for 5. He’s still the leader of the team.”

Japan and China are in Pool A of the tournament, which includes South Korea and Taiwan. The top two teams will advance to the next round in the United States, with the final on March 23 in Los Angeles.

The Japanese home run king Sadaharu Oh threw out the ceremonial first pitch in the game, which was also attended by Crown Prince Naruhito and Princess Masako.
242 2009-03-06 BERLIN — The global economic slowdown will be felt differently across Eastern Europe, with most of the biggest countries expected to avoid slipping into recession, a leading research institute said Thursday.

In its survey of the region, the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies found that there had not been a “sudden stop” in international financial flows across the whole region. So far, only a few countries, including Hungary, Latvia and Ukraine, have been seriously hit, it said.

Those countries, as well as Estonia, Hungary, Latvia and Lithuania, are expected to suffer a significant fall in economic growth, leading to a recession, it said.

But economies of the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia may stagnate but not necessarily slip into recession, the institute said.

The economies in the Balkans will straddle stagnation and recession, it said.

Already common to all these countries, however, is an aversion to risky loans by banks. This will have a serious impact on household spending, unemployment and asset prices like homes, according to the report.
243 2009-03-06 DETROIT  Auditors for General Motors, in one of the bleakest assessments yet of the automaker’s prospects, said on Thursday that G.M.’s survival was in “substantial doubt” even if it received all $30 billion it hoped to borrow from the federal government.

The report by the auditing firm, Deloitte & Touche, also raised the possibility that G.M. would have to liquidate its operations if its loan request were denied.

G.M.’s acknowledgment that it is perilously close to bankruptcy  its auditors made a similar announcement last fall  was not unexpected. But the report stirred new fears among investors, who drove down G.M.’s shares by 15 percent, to $1.86.

Deloitte & Touche laid out numerous chains of events that could result in a bankruptcy filing by G.M. The company, which lost $30.9 billion last year and has received $13.4 billion in government loans since December, made the disclosure in its annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The announcement does not mean bankruptcy is imminent. But it underscores how difficult it will be for G.M. to successfully complete the restructuring plan that it filed with the Treasury Department last month.

“Our recurring losses from operations, stockholders’ deficit and inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations and sustain our operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern,” G.M. said in its filing.

G.M., which is seeking an additional $16.6 billion in federal loans, must prove its viability to President Obama’s auto task force by a March 31 deadline.

Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, said the task force was well aware of G.M.’s precarious state before the auditors’ report was released.

“Obviously, I don’t think it comes as a big surprise to many that the auto industry is in crisis,” Mr. Gibbs said Thursday.

The auditors’ warning, known as a “going concern” notice, put G.M. in violation of several loan covenants, but the company said it was able to obtain waivers from its creditors. The loans could be recalled, though, if the Treasury Department did not approve G.M.’s restructuring plan.

In that case, the government also could demand immediate repayment of the money it had already lent to G.M., which G.M. said in the filing it would be unable to do.

As the economic recession drags so many companies toward insolvency, auditors are issuing going concern notices more frequently. About 60 percent of the companies involved end up filing for bankruptcy protection, said Jane F. Mutchler, an accounting professor at Georgia State University’s Robinson College of Business.

“In the case of General Motors, a lot of significant changes need to take place,” Ms. Mutchler said. “The auditor is supposed to look ahead one year, so they’re looking ahead one year and saying this doesn’t look good.”

G.M. said it could be forced to file for bankruptcy protection in a number of situations, including its failure to receive more federal aid or to exact concessions from bondholders and the United Automobile Workers union, or any further deterioration of an already dismal new-vehicle market in the United States.

It also said its future depended on “consumers purchasing our products in substantially higher volumes.” G.M.’s sales were down 51 percent in January and February compared with the first two months of 2008.

The word “bankruptcy” appears in G.M.’s annual report 126 times. Still, G.M. insisted that it could be viable.

“Once global automotive sales recover and G.M.’s restructuring actions generate the anticipated savings and benefits, the company is expected to again be able to fund its own operating requirements,” the company said in a statement. “The auditor’s opinion has no impact on the aggressive actions we are taking to restructure our business for long-term viability.”

G.M. has until the end of this month to reach deals with the U.A.W. and its bondholders and to show President Obama’s auto task force that it is making progress on its restructuring plan. The auditors’ warning could help G.M. persuade those groups to reach an agreement quickly.

In its filing, G.M. said it was seeking assistance from several foreign governments, including Britain, Canada, Germany, Sweden and Thailand. It said its viability plan assumed $6 billion in financing from outside the United States “plus amounts to satisfy certain legal requirements.”
244 2009-03-06 The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 6,594.44, down 281.40, or 4.1 percent — its lowest close since April 15, 1997. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was down 4.25 percent, to its lowest close since September 1996, while the technology-heavy Nasdaq index was off 4 percent.

Stocks in Europe also were also off sharply.

Retailers in the United States began releasing February sales results on Thursday morning, more evidence that shoppers had sharply reduced their spending. But the numbers were not as bad as January, and one retailer, Wal-Mart easily topped expectations.

Wal-Mart Stores said February sales rose 5.1 percent, while analysts by Thomson Reuters had expected a 2.4 percent increase. Its stock was up more than 2 percent in late trading.

And the automaker, General Motors, which has borrowed $13.4 billion from the federal government and is seeking billions more, acknowledged in its annual report on Thursday that its survival was in “substantial doubt.” Auto stocks sank across the board while shares of General Motors tumbled 15 percent to $1.87.

“Our recurring losses from operations, stockholders’ deficit and inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations and sustain our operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern,” G.M. said in the filing.

This week, the major automakers reported that their February sales fell more than 40 percent from the previous year as consumers slashed their spending in the face of a rapidly worsening economy.

“You really do wonder how they’re going to keep going with such pathetic sales and massive fields of unsold cars, and what’s going to happen,” said Rob Carnell, chief international economist at ING Financial Markets. “Just kind of seems obvious that this industry has to shrink.”

The Labor Department reported that productivity slumped and wage costs surged in the fourth quarter of 2008. Productivity, defined as output per hour of work, fell at an annual rate of 0.4 percent in the October-December period, even as unit labor costs rose 5.7 percent.

The dollar gained as the European banks would cut rates, making dollar assets relatively more attractive. The Bank of England cut its main rate target by half a percent to 0.5 percent. The European Central Bank cut its main rate to 1.5 percent from 2 percent.

The Federal Reserve has already cut its main rate target to 0.25 percent, and as European rates drop, returns on short-term investments there become relatively less desirable for money managers. The Bank of Japan, the world’s other major central bank, has also set its main market rate near zero in hope of restoring the economy to health.

In Europe, the Dow Jones Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed 4.7 percent lower, while the FTSE 100 index in London dropped 3.2 percent. The CAC 40 in Paris was down 4 percent and the DAX in Frankfurt fell 5 percent.

Asian markets were mostly higher. The Tokyo benchmark Nikkei 225 stock average gained 2 percent, while the S&P/ASX 200 in Sydney rose 0.7 percent.

The Shanghai Stock Exchange composite index rose 1 percent. But the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong lost 1 percent.

The euro fell to $1.2537 from $1.2661 late Wednesday in New York, while the British pound fell to $1.4113 from $1.4195. The dollar edged down to 98.06 yen from 99.16 and rose to 1.1712 Swiss francs from 1.1676.

Crude oil futures for April delivery fell $1.77, to $43.61 a barrel in New York trading.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, slipped 16-hundredths of a percentage point to 2.81 percent.
245 2009-03-06 BATTERED WALL STREET  The Dow Jones industrial average closed at its lowest since April 15, 1997, and the New York Stock Exchange temporarily suspended its $1 minimum share-price requirements to prevent a wave of delistings.       STEALTHY JOB CUT...
246 2009-03-07 Terrell Owens signs a one-year contract with the Bills....
247 2009-03-07 "Watchmen" makes an estimated $25.1 million in its opening day on Friday, including $4.55 million from Thursday midnight screenings, Box Office Mojo says....
248 2009-03-07 Saturday's games in Switzerland, Sweden and the Slovak and Czech Republics....
249 2009-03-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
250 2009-03-07 After seven decades of closure, Berlin's Neues Museum has opened its door today to the public -- though just for the weekend....
251 2009-03-07 The numbers in the jobs report for February were bad, but the trends were worse. More than half of the 4.4 million jobs lost since December 2007, when the recession began, vanished in the last four months. The unemployment rate has also surged to 8.1 percent last month from 7.6 percent in January — and from 5.0 percent when the recession began. The ranks of the unemployed now total 12.5 million people. It’s fortunate, then, that the nation’s first line of defense against rising joblessness — unemployment insurance — was reinforced in the stimulus law that passed last month.

The law increases unemployment benefits by $25 a week and allows states to extend those benefits through the end of the year. It also provides $7 billion to the states to cover more than 500,000 workers — often part-time, low-wage and female — who are denied jobless benefits under outdated rules that apply in many states. Those states, of course, must reform their systems to specifically include those workers and to bring their programs more in line with federal guidelines.

Some Republican governors have resisted doing that, an act of grandstanding that does nothing but hurt their neediest constituents. Recently, however, several governors — from California, Florida, Georgia and Utah — and state legislatures have supported making the changes. Other states must step up soon to ensure that broad relief reaches unemployed workers in a timely way.

Congress and the Obama administration must also be prepared to do more as unemployment worsens — as it inevitably will in this contracting economy. In 11th-hour wrangling last month, a provision was struck from the stimulus bill that would have provided Medicaid coverage to unemployed workers who do not qualify or cannot afford to stay on their former employers’ group health insurance. The measure should be reintroduced and passed into law.

Indeed, all job-related policies should acknowledge that employment is unlikely to turn around anytime soon. That’s because the economy’s other headwinds — the housing bust and the stock-market wipeout — will delay any labor market recovery. With both sales and prices for homes declining in most places, many people who might otherwise move to take a new job are compelled to stay put, especially if a sale would not bring in enough money to pay off the mortgage. With stocks tanking, many workers are likely to postpone retirement, impairing upward mobility for other workers and crowding out new entrants to the work force.

That means that in addition to providing relief for today’s unemployed, greater emphasis must be placed on job training and retraining and on better education at all levels. If a job slump is short and shallow, old jobs come back. If it is long and deep, like the current one, some old jobs never return and even some industries never revive. That makes it imperative to prepare as a nation for the prospect of a vastly different future.
252 2009-03-07 But for a variety of political, environmental and economic reasons, a national carbon tax is probably going nowhere.

Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders argue that cap-and-trade, in which polluters must either reduce emissions on their own or buy credits from more efficient companies, is a better system for assuring reductions, letting the market set the right to pollute.

But the main reason most in Washington recoil against a carbon tax is political: few are willing to openly advocate billions of dollars in new taxes at a time of economic distress, even though a cap-and-trade program also means higher energy prices.

Many Congressional Democrats were around in 1993 when President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore pushed an energy tax and then abandoned it after it failed to generate any Republican support. Some noticed last fall when the Liberal Party in Canada suffered its worst loss ever running on a platform that included a national energy tax.

Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, is leading a special committee writing the House version of climate change legislation. He voted for the 1993 energy tax bill, which is known — not fondly — as the B.T.U. tax, for British thermal unit, a measure of energy output. Mr. Markey has since become a faithful follower of the cap-and-trade school.

“I am aware of the economic arguments for a carbon tax,” Mr. Markey said, “but politics is the art of the possible, and I think cap-and-trade is possible.”

He added: “Somebody once told me that a smart man learns from his mistakes but a wise man learns from others’ mistakes. We can learn from 1993 or Canada in 2008, but we should learn.”

Mr. Gore, who shared a Nobel Prize for his work on climate change, has long advocated a tax on carbon dioxide emissions as a substitute for taxes on income (“We should tax what we burn, not what we earn,” he says).

But in an e-mail message this week, Mr. Gore said that passage of a tax on carbon “appears to be beyond our reach for the foreseeable future” and that he could accept a cap-and-trade program if it reduced emissions and provided relief for those most burdened by the costs.

“For more than 20 years, I have supported a CO2 tax offset by an equal reduction in taxes elsewhere,” Mr. Gore wrote. “However, a cap-and-trade system is also essential and actually offers a better prospect for a global agreement, in part because it is difficult to imagine a harmonized global CO2 tax. Moreover, I have long recognized that our political system has special difficulty in considering a CO2 tax even if it is revenue neutral.”

Mr. Gore and others pointed out that the United States has had a largely successful experiment with cap-and-trade in the acid rain program set up under the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments. That system brought greater pollution reductions and lower costs than expected, although sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution from a limited number of power plants was a far simpler problem than carbon emissions will be.

One of the arguments against cap-and-trade is that it requires a complex market for trading pollution permits that could be manipulated by speculators and energy companies. Mr. Larson said the last thing the nation needed after its experience with the housing bubble and the banking collapse was a new market in carbon derivatives. His plan, he said, is simpler and fairer.

But cap-and-trade advocates said a carbon tax could also be gamed, just as the Internal Revenue Code is.

“The critical thing is to get the emissions you want, and a tax cannot do that without continually recalibrating the price,” said Tim Profeta, director of the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions at Duke University.

Mr. Profeta helped Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, draft the first cap-and-trade bill to get serious consideration. “Given the history of the carbon tax,” Mr. Profeta said, “there’s a worry that it will poison and delay the debate.”

Yvo de Boer, who directs the climate change program at the United Nations, said he was agnostic as to how member states meet targets on the emission of heat-trapping gasses. But those who support a carbon tax, he said, are walking uphill.

“If you were a pure economist, the most logical thing is taxation. It is the simplest,” Mr. de Boer said in an interview. “But ‘taxation’ is a word that makes people choke in normal times. And these are not normal times.”
253 2009-03-07 “We were very encouraged by the court’s questions,” said Hope Metcalf, a lawyer with the Allard K. Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic at Yale Law School.

Mr. Yoo, a visiting faculty member at Chapman University Law School in Orange, Calif., did not attend the hearing.

Mr. Padilla was convicted in 2007 on terrorism-related conspiracy charges. With his mother, he sued Mr. Yoo, claiming that the torture memorandums were directly responsible for his detention, interrogation and torture.

Mr. Padilla seeks monetary damages of just $1. His real goal, in this case and a number of others against other current and former United States officials, is a declaration from the government that his incarceration and harsh treatment were wrong.

“Plaintiffs seek to vindicate their constitutional rights,” the complaint stated, “and ensure that neither Mr. Padilla nor any other person is treated this way in the future.”

President Obama has shown little interest in prosecuting officials of the previous administration, and it is not clear whether there will be a government-sponsored investigation of Bush administration polices. But Mr. Padilla and his lawyers seem to be hoping that the civil courts may provide a kind of alternate truth commission, through the process of legal discovery. And the case has already borne fruit: the latest batch of Bush administration memorandums from the Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice Department, released Monday and showing that the administration believed it had vast domestic authority in combating terrorism, were a response to the Padilla v. Yoo lawsuit.

Mr. Padilla is not the only prisoner using the civil courts in this way. In another case, Mohamed v. Jeppesen Dataplan, current and former prisoners at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, are suing a Boeing subsidiary that arranged the flights that took them to other nations, where they claim to have been tortured.

Mr. Padilla’s lawyers are relying largely on a 1971 Supreme Court case, Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents, that allows some people whose rights have been violated by federal agents to sue the government. But the government lawyers said the theory of that case could not be appropriately applied to this one.

During the 90-minute hearing, Judge White asked whether the Obama administration had changed the legal position of the previous administration.

A lawyer for Mr. Yoo, Mary Hampton Mason, replied that all such cases were under review, and that the torture memorandums were largely discarded by the end of the Bush administration.

Ms. Mason and her colleague at the hearing, Glenn S. Greene, suggested that Mr. Padilla’s lawyers were pursuing a case that was more about politics than law, and were trying to create a new legal theory to tie a lawyer to the results of his memorandums. “He had no supervisory role over Padilla or his detention,” Ms. Mason said, referring to Mr. Yoo.

Ms. Metcalf argued on Mr. Padilla’s behalf that the memorandums had had a direct effect on her client’s case and treatment, and that Mr. Yoo had also served on the “war council” that set policies for the treatment of prisoners. She said his memorandums had tried to shield administration officials from blame or liability.

“Defendant Yoo,” she said, “must not take refuge in the legal no man’s land that he helped to create.”
254 2009-03-07 Officials in Massachusetts and Rhode Island said they expected little impact in their states.

In New York, Morgan Hook, a spokesman for the governor’s office, seemed to play down Mr. Paterson’s efforts to change the policy. “There has been no commitment to increase the free allowances yet,” Mr. Hook said. “The governor has made a commitment to look at the regulations if there is a need to look at the regulations.”

That could happen, he said, when the state’s Department of Environmental Conservation learns definitely how many power producers were eligible for free allowances from the last carbon auction, in December.

Two of Mr. Paterson’s top aides said in interviews on Thursday that the governor had promised to address the industry’s concerns, and that a preliminary review by the Department of Environmental Conservation had already indicated that the number of free allowances was not enough.

Mr. Hook also said that the next three auctions would not be affected even if the state decided to reopen its regulations because any change would face requirements including a period for public comment.

Experts emphasized that even if New York made the change, the overall number of allowances in the program — the region’s total amount of carbon emissions allowed — is capped and therefore cannot rise. Many states, including New Jersey, have already made provisions to ease the cost burden on power plants that had made fixed arrangements to sell their power long before carbon-trading was in place, which is the source of New York’s problem.

Changing the rules for how carbon allowances are allocated may be more difficult in other states, many of which would have to consult their legislatures, rather than do it through the executive branch, as New York can.

Still, the carbon market was clearly rattled by the news. Trading of carbon allowances reached a record level on Friday, most likely because of the news about New York, said Evan Ard, a spokesman for Evolution Markets, a carbon markets broker. But Mr. Ard said prices — which are perpetually low — were not volatile.

The carbon-trading pact “has struggled with credibility from Day 1, given the starting overallocation of emissions allowances,” Alex Rau, of the carbon-trading firm Climate Wedge, said in an e-mail message.

“And behavior from the regulators like this will only undermine what little confidence there has been in the market,” Mr. Rau continued.

Donald McCloskey, the director of environmental strategy and policy at PSEG, a New Jersey-based energy company, said he would not seek more free allowances from New Jersey regulators.

Mr. McCloskey said New York’s potential move merely strengthened the case for a national carbon-trading program like the one the Obama administration hopes to introduce.

Under a national system, he said, “these interstate differences would be removed and largely reduced by having one carbon market, one set of rules that the whole nation operates under.”
255 2009-03-07 Redcorp Ventures, a Canadian gold-and-silver mining company, filed for bankruptcy in the United States and Canada, citing cost overruns and a lack of financing. It listed assets of as much as $100 million and debt of as much as $500 million in Chapter 15 papers filed in United States Bankruptcy Court in Seattle. Redcorp has already sought protection in Canada.
256 2009-03-07 HOUSTON — A court-appointed receiver notified 1,000 employees of the Stanford Financial Group on Friday that their jobs were terminated in an effort to preserve the value of whatever resources were left in the company.

The company’s assets were frozen last month when the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud complaint against Robert Allen Stanford and two other senior executives.

The S.E.C. has accused Mr. Stanford and his chief lieutenant of executing a Ponzi scheme in which more than $1.6 billion in “bogus” loans were made to Mr. Stanford over the last decade.

Laura Pendergest-Holt, the chief investment officer for the financial and brokerage firm, was arrested last week on accusations of obstructing the S.E.C.’s inquiry. Neither Mr. Stanford nor James M. Davis, his lieutenant, has been charged with a crime.

Salaries and benefits for about 85 percent of Mr. Stanford’s employees in the United States were discontinued immediately, according to a statement from the Stanford Financial Group Receivership, “in the interest of conserving and preserving the value of the estate because there are insufficient resources to continue to compensate all present employees.”

Most of Mr. Stanford’s businesses will be closed, and only a small number of employees will continue working to wind down operations and settle accounts, the statement by the receiver, Ralph Janvey, said.

The Stanford financial companies had offices around the United States, and in the Caribbean and Latin America. Many of its investors were from countries like Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela. The statement said, “Decisions regarding Stanford’s employees in locations outside the U.S. will be made and announced in the next few weeks.”
257 2009-03-07 But in his first weeks back in the Senate, Mr. McCain has been quintessentially unpredictable, at times offering quiet counsel to the White House, at others jabbing in all directions.

On some days, he seems bitter, more certain than ever that he could do a better job running the country than Mr. Obama.

“I have a record of bipartisan work within the Senate; he does not,” Mr. McCain said on Feb. 19 in an interview with a newspaper in Kingman, Ariz., criticizing the president for what he called a lack of bipartisanship on the stimulus plan.

There are also signs that he still harbors grudges from the 2008 presidential campaign.

In the debate over the stimulus bill, he did not mask his fury at the three Republicans who backed the Democrats, particularly Senator Susan Collins, of Maine, once a friend, who won re-election in November in part by distancing herself from Mr. McCain and his campaign tactics.

He drew a distinction between his own history of forging coalitions and what he portrayed as a betrayal on the part of Ms. Collins, and Senators Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, as the only three lawmakers who broke rank with their party.

“I am proud to have been a member of a number of bipartisan resolutions,” Mr. McCain barked. “That is when Republicans and Democrats have sat down together and came out in equal numbers.” By contrast, he said: “This is three members of the Senate, none on the House side, who have joined Democrats for partisan agreement.”

At a White House summit meeting last week on fiscal responsibility, Mr. McCain seized the moment to chide Mr. Obama on cost overruns for a new fleet of presidential helicopters.

But on many days, Mr. McCain seems to have put his defeat behind him, and even to be enjoying himself, as he writes a new chapter in his unusual career. He has joked that he cares less about presidential helicopters than he did a few months ago.

Asked how he felt after two months back, Mr. McCain said: “It’s terrible. It’s awful. I am in a constant state of despondency. Can’t you tell?” There was a giant smile on his face.

“McCain has decided that he is not going to morph into the role of embittered ex-candidate but to embrace the kind of senior statesman, loyal opponent role,” said Ross K. Baker, a professor of political science at Rutgers.

Professor Baker added, “His support will come at times and places of his choosing.”

After a number of younger Senate colleagues announced that they would retire after this Congress, Mr. McCain held a news conference saying he would run for re-election in 2010.

Already, Mr. Obama has reached out for his support on national security matters and on some trade issues. (Out of respect, the requests come in calls from Mr. Obama himself.)

“I think he is enjoying helping where he can, saying no where he must,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who was often at Mr. McCain’s side during the campaign.

“I think John’s respectful of the fact that he lost, President Obama won, but he is also a United States senator,” Mr. Graham added. “John’s going to call them as he sees them. There will be no better ally for President Obama than Senator McCain when they can find common ground, and, quite frankly, there will be no stronger or more credible critic. That’s the role he enjoys and the burden he carries.”

Senate Democratic leaders say they hope Mr. McCain will eventually join them in developing legislation on climate change, health care and other issues.

So far, though, they have tread lightly, intent on letting him recover before fully engaging him. “Losing elections is hard,” the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said. “I think Senator McCain has conducted himself very well.”

In resuming work on his favored issues, including national security and fiscal austerity, Mr. McCain has rejoined the Senate’s rank and file, teaming with Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, to call for revamped military contracting, and with Senator Russ Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, to propose line-item veto legislation to let the president remove earmarks from spending bills.

Mr. McCain’s quick re-entry contrasts with the path taken by Mr. Kerry, who returned to the Senate from his 2004 defeat but continued traveling the country, keeping alive speculation that he would run again.

There is no such speculation about Mr. McCain, who at 72, has had his presidential aspirations dashed twice.

Some of Mr. McCain’s closest friends in the Senate, including Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said they expected Mr. McCain to emerge as a leader on numerous issues.

But in the Senate, friendship has limits. While Mr. Lieberman, the former Democratic vice-presidential nominee, stood behind Mr. McCain in the campaign, Mr. McCain recently opposed legislation by Mr. Lieberman that would grant the District of Columbia a voting member of the House.

“John wants to be productive; he wants to be part of making this place work,” Mr. Lieberman said, adding, “He’ll be there to help us get some big things done for the country.”
258 2009-03-07 Burdened by falling gasoline consumption and excess production capacity, ethanol producers appealed to the government on Friday to raise the 10 percent limit on ethanol in most gasoline blends to as high as 15 percent.

Ethanol plants are closing across the country and some ethanol producers are declaring bankruptcy. The appeal will require the Obama administration to decide whether to increase federal support for the industry, which has already benefited from an array of subsidies, tax credits and Congressional production mandates.

“Approving the use of ethanol blends up to 15 percent is a necessary and positive step,” said Bob Dinneen, president of the Renewable Fuels Association, an industry lobbying group, “to ensure the full potential of a robust domestic ethanol industry.”

The Environmental Protection Agency and the Energy Department have been testing higher ethanol blends. The E.P.A. has nine months to review the request, but it could decide before that to increase the blend cap slightly, to 12 or 13 percent.

Energy Secretary Steven Chu has indicated that he would favor at least a small increase in ethanol levels unless auto companies said there was a risk the change would damage their products.
259 2009-03-07 In its beginning Mother Jones, the leftist magazine founded in 1976 in San Francisco, viewed itself as a defender of independent journalism free from corporate meddling.

Today it sees itself as a defender of journalism itself.

As such, Mother Jones has become a real-life laboratory for whether nonprofit journalism  a topic of the moment in mainstream news media circles  can withstand a deep recession.

Mother Jones, named for the early-20th-century radical labor organizer Mary Harris Jones, is a nonprofit bimonthly that has long sponsored investigative journalism in the tradition of Upton Sinclair. It cemented its reputation with a famous piece in 1977 on the Ford Motor Company’s indifference toward a fuel tank design flaw; the article has come to be known as the “exploding Pinto” story.

Back in the fall, when the economic downturn intensified, and the plight of print publications became more dire, Mother Jones suffered, despite its position of not being in it for the money. Advertising plummeted, down 23 percent in 2008, and some of the big donations the magazine depends on didn’t come through.

“Some big donors pulled back,” said Clara Jeffery, a co-editor of the magazine, in an interview in her San Francisco office.

The magazine has not laid off staff  one reporter left at the end of last year when a grant was not renewed because of the financial crisis  nor has it reduced its ambitions in a notable way. It has maintained its bureau in Washington, one of its major fund-raising initiatives in the last two years, and recently redesigned its Web site. And it plans a big fund-raising event hosted by Rachel Maddow of MSNBC at the end of March in San Francisco.

For now, the magazine is trimming around the edges, hoping it doesn’t have to make more widespread cuts. Ms. Jeffery and Monika Bauerlein, the other co-editor, took salary cuts, for example.

“We’re looking at definite belt-tightening,” said Jay Harris, Mother Jones’s publisher.

While it is not a new idea, the future possibilities of nonprofit, endowed journalism as a cure for the economic problems facing the print industry have recently engendered a lively debate within journalistic circles, in blogs and in articles in The New Yorker and on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times.

“We’ve been hearing from more and more people, ‘How does that work?’ ” Ms. Bauerlein said. “ ‘What’s it like being a nonprofit?’ ”

But as Mother Jones’s example shows, nonprofit publications, while they may initially be more durable in a down economy, are far from impervious to market forces.

“The form of ownership does not change the law of economics,” said Alan D. Mutter, an industry analyst who blogs at Reflections of a Newsosaur (newsosaur.blogspot.com) and teaches at the journalism school at the University of California, Berkeley. “The problem is we need to find sustainable ways of doing business.”

For other publications, the nonprofit model has shown serious cracks in the midst of recession and the more fundamental changes in the economics of journalism. The Christian Science Monitor, a nonprofit newspaper financed by the First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, through contributions and an endowment, said last fall that it would switch to a mostly digital format because of heavy losses.

Meanwhile, The Congressional Quarterly, a profit-making publication that is a subsidiary of a nonprofit organization, the Poynter Institute, is for sale. The institute is also publisher of The St. Petersburg Times.

Speaking of Poynter, Mr. Mutter said, “because of losses at the paper, it has to sell a growing and profitable publication, The Congressional Quarterly.”

“They are still in trouble today,” he continued, “because they can’t make ends meet at the newspaper. These are businesses even if they are nonprofit businesses.”

Still, with many newspapers and magazines struggling, there is a sense of urgency these days among denizens of the profit-making world who want to learn what it means to be a nonprofit.

“We are clearly out there talking to donors and subscribers about this model, and how it could be a way forward for journalism,” said Rick Melcher, a former Business Week bureau chief who now runs a consulting business in Chicago and sits on the board of Mother Jones.

The editors of Mother Jones have always evangelized for the nonprofit model at industry seminars. “The crisis in journalism right now is primarily a crisis in for-profit journalism, because the sources of that profit have dried up,” Ms. Bauerlein said.

Mr. Harris, the magazine’s publisher, said the company met its fund-raising targets last year, although before the economic turmoil in the fall the magazine thought it would exceed goals.

But small-time donations and subscriptions have held steady at Mother Jones, to the surprise of its editors, who figured that the downturn would have taken more of a toll and that the election of Barack Obama would have a negative effect on raising money for liberal causes.

About half of the magazine’s yearly revenue is from major grants and donations. The magazine often seeks donations for specific projects, as it did in recent years to staff its Washington bureau at a time when many news organizations had been scaling back there. The bureau opened in late 2007 with eight people.

“If we were concerned about short-term profitability, we couldn’t have done that,” said Mr. Melcher, the board member.

He noted that as a business model, nonprofit publications “still need an earned revenue base.”

“You need advertising,” he added. “And you need good journalism to draw a fan base.”

Mr. Melcher said the magazine had been on an upswing in recent years under the two co-editors, Ms. Jeffery and Ms. Bauerlein, who were named to their jobs in 2006, after a period adrift from its roots as a place for deep investigative reporting.

Last year the magazine won a National Magazine Award for general excellence, with the judges citing its “Iraq Handbook for Dummies” and an in-depth report on the increase in extinct species across the globe.

Ms. Jeffery cited the now famous quotation from Eric Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, that without high-quality journalism, the Internet would be a “cesspool.”

“Without original reporting,” she said, “how much bloviation can we all take?”
260 2009-03-07 The Broadway play “Impressionism” has postponed its official opening by 12 days, its publicists said. The play, which stars Jeremy Irons (in his first Broadway role since “The Real Thing”) and Joan Allen (in her first since “The Heidi Chronicles”), is now scheduled to open at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theater on March 24; it had been scheduled to open on March 12, and has been in previews since Feb. 28. Written by Michael Jacobs and directed by Jack O’Brien, the play has not been in a workshop or a performance elsewhere. In a statement, Bill Haber, a producer of the show, said, “We did not give Jack O’Brien and our extraordinary creative team and company enough time to fully prepare Michael Jacobs’s new play for Broadway.” A preview performance scheduled for Monday has been canceled to permit more time for rehearsals.
261 2009-03-07 Monica Bill Barnes’s new “Another Parade,” the third offering by the 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Festival, begins rather brilliantly. The tall, gangly Deborah Lohse, whose Carol Burnett-like face holds the constant promise of tragic comedy, strides onstage to the sounds of the Sarabande from Bach’s glorious Cello Suite No. 4. She proceeds to ignore the music as she performs subtle little hip and shoulder shimmies, arm swings and strange truncated gestures, occasionally baring a shoulder or her abdomen, while smiling and grimacing with equally mysterious arbitrariness.

The solo is a tour de force, mostly because of the way Ms. Lohse — one of those performers who have only to raise an eyebrow to cause an audience to burst out laughing — is able to infuse Ms. Barnes’s material with an almost magical amount of meaning and power.

After that, “Another Parade,” which opened at the Ailey Citigroup Theater on Wednesday night, settles into a more ordinary, if entertaining, pattern. Extracts from the Bach suite alternate with well-known James Brown songs and a smattering of other popular music (Barbra Streisand, Dionne Warwick, Tina Turner, Elvis). Against current fashion, they are played in their entirety as a female quartet — Ms. Barnes, Ms. Lohse, Anna Bass and Celia Rowlson-Hall — dressed simply in brown skirts and loose sweaters, dance in varying combinations, often repeating the gestures and movements that Ms. Lohse first showed in her solo.

These movements take on different meanings in different contexts. The shoulder-baring can look provocative, aggressive, sexy or vulnerable, depending on the words of the song that a dancer is performing to or who is onstage with her. A motif of raised arms with fists clenched (several dances end with this gesture) can look victorious, helpless, inexplicable.

Ms. Barnes demonstrates these ideas ably, and her choreography has a genuine wit and humor, shown most notably in a section in which each dancer brings an audience member onstage. It is a sequence that could be squirm-inducing, but is instead tender and endearing.

That section leaves the audience members alone onstage, doing the little shimmy that is one of the piece’s motifs. It’s a turn away from the formulaic structure of the work, and Ms. Barnes might have left it there.
262 2009-03-07 “The holy grail in TV, especially in detective shows, is man-woman pairings,” said Gary Glasberg, the co-executive producer of “The Mentalist,” which had an impressive ratings debut in September and regularly appears in Nielsen’s Top 10. It pairs Patrick Jane (Simon Baker) with Senior Agent Teresa Lisbon (Robin Tunney) at the California Bureau of Investigation. She’s earnest, he’s cocky, and they need each other professionally and possibly personally as well.

“When you can get that kind of chemistry between people, you can access a coveted female demographic that isn’t otherwise interested in detective shows,” Mr. Glasberg said, pointing to “Moonlighting.” “That’s the one everyone is trying to duplicate.”

But is duplication a creative cop-out? “There are no new stories, there are only new characters,” said Andrew Marlowe, an executive producer of “Castle.” “We have really new characters.”

UST works as a storytelling device because it allows character development in plot-driven shows, writers and producers said.

“Moonlighting,” broadcast on ABC from 1985 to 1989, created sparks between Bruce Willis, as David Addison, and Cybill Shepherd, as Maddie Hayes, detectives at the Blue Moon Detective Agency. The series itself owed something to “Remington Steele,” an NBC show that ran from 1982 to 1987. In that story line Laura Holt (Stephanie Zimbalist) was a private detective who used Remington Steele (Pierce Brosnan), a former con man, to play her fictitious — and playful — male boss to fool the public back in those more sexist times.

Science fiction was injected into the mix with “The X Files,” on Fox from 1993 to 2002. F.B.I. agents Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) investigated paranormal phenomena and resisted normal attraction for many seasons.

Kevin Reilly, president of entertainment at Fox, called UST “an age-old drama tool” that adds character and spice to procedurals. One challenge is to calibrate the chemistry so that viewers don’t get too much or too little romance, he said, even as some fans root for a clean break, a wedding or a tryst.

“The audience has an unwritten pact with these shows,” Mr. Reilly said. “It’s not too close and not too far. Drama is tension, and, ultimately, this is about tension.”

“Bones,” which began in 2005, might be the current reigning champion for stretching out that tension. Dr. Temperance Brennan (Emily Deschanel) and her partner, F.B.I. Special Agent Seeley Booth (David Boreanaz), examine dead bodies for clues and verbally pick at each other.

But just as in real life, a television relationship has to keep moving or die, said Hart Hanson, the creator and an executive producer of “Bones.” Brennan and Booth kissed a little longer than necessary under the mistletoe in December, and Mr. Hanson promises that eventually they “will be naked, in bed, and sex will be involved.”

Still, Mr. Hanson said, “Once you remove that unresolved sexual tension, what do you replace it with?”

In “Moonlighting” the detectives eventually had sex, but Maddie married someone else (though the marriage was annulled). By the end of “The X Files” Scully and Mulder were a couple.

Glenn Gordon Caron, the creator of “Moonlighting” who also worked on “Remington Steele,” said television executives keep putting men and women together and then pushing them apart because “they’re chasing something they know works.”

“On some level,” he added, “either in our fantasy lives or in our real lives, we work with people we’re attracted to.”

With “Moonlighting,” he said, he just wanted to see actors and a story he liked. But Mr. Caron, who is also the creator and executive producer of the NBC drama “Medium” (about a married, crime-solving psychic), graciously gave the credit for plumbing UST in a drama to another writer.

“It’s all derived from ‘The Taming of the Shrew,’ ” he said. “There are two people who hate each other but are meant to be together.”
263 2009-03-07 The N.C.A.A. has ruled that Florida State was guilty of major violations in a widespread academic fraud case uncovered in 2007.

It announced Friday that it would strip scholarships from 10 Seminole teams and force them to vacate all of the victories in 2006 and 2007 in which the implicated athletes participated. In addition, the college was placed on probation for four years.

It could affect the football coach Bobby Bowden’s race with Penn State’s Joe Paterno for most victories by a major college coach. Bowden’s total of 382 could be reduced by as many as 14. Paterno has 383.

The scandal involved 61 athletes, and although the N.C.A.A. did not name them, Florida State barred 23 football players from the 2007 Music City Bowl after the fraud was uncovered. The football and men’s basketball teams will each lose one scholarship the next two years, and similar penalties were given to women’s basketball, men’s and women’s swimming, men’s and women’s track, baseball, softball and men’s golf.

Bowden’s career total is fourth in college football, trailing John Gagliardi (461) of Division III St. John’s (Minn.), Grambling State’s Eddie Robinson (408) and Paterno (383).
264 2009-03-07 Mr. Tsvangirai ended up withdrawing before the runoff because of attacks on thousands of his supporters. When the international community concluded the election was neither free nor fair, protracted negotiations led to a coalition government, with Mr. Mugabe as president and Mr. Tsvangirai as prime minister.

On Friday night, officials with Mr. Tsvangirai’s party expressed concern that the crash had not been an accident, but they resisted reaching any conclusions.

“This will certainly demand an independent investigation,” said Eddie Cross, the policy coordinator for the Movement for Democratic Change. “We won’t accept a police report.”

Mr. Mugabe and his wife paid a condolence call to Mr. Tsvangirai at the hospital on Friday evening, Mr. Murira said.

Ian Makone, a secretary in the prime minister’s office, said he arrived at the crash scene about a half hour after the fact. He said one of the drivers in Mr. Tsvangirai’s convoy told him that an oncoming truck “had clipped the right rear fender of Morgan’s car.”

Mr. Tsvangirai said the driver of his vehicle swerved to avoid the truck, according to Mr. Murira. But a trailer attached to the truck hit the prime minister’s Land Cruiser, which rolled over three times. Mr. Makone confirmed that the vehicle had flipped over, saying it was lying on its roof when he arrived.

As soon as they heard about the crash, opposition officials began trying to figure out what had happened. “I was looking for someone to get to the site because I was very suspicious about the circumstances around the accident,” said Hendrick O’Neill, a party member from the area where the crash occurred. So he contacted Deon Theron, the vice president of the Commercial Farmers Union, who lives near the scene. “Morgan has been a target for some time.”

Mr. Theron rushed to the crash site and began to investigate, Mr. O’Neill said. “Just as he finished, the police arrived and grabbed the video camera from him, started questioning him and took him into custody.”

Mr. O’Neill said he spoke to Mr. Theron by cellphone as he was being arrested. “He told me the left front tire had burst and the vehicle was on its roof,” Mr. O’Neill said. “He climbed on the vehicle. Some of the undercarriage was loose or broken. It could have been the result of the accident. That’s what he was filming when they seized him.”

Mr. Tsvangirai and his wife were married for more than three decades. They have six children, including twins, age 14.

“They were a team; they were very effective and extremely close,” Mr. Cross said of the couple. “She was very much a pillar of support, spiritually and in every other way. Morgan will feel her loss enormously. I can’t think of many couples as close as those two.”
265 2009-03-07 Under the new terms, Dow will have an additional year to pay off the loan, and the amount has been reduced by $500 million, to $12.5 billion. Dow was also able to adjust some covenants of the loan, which would give it more flexibility should its business continue to deteriorate and possibly protect it from a ratings downgrade.

While the new loan terms will ease Dow’s debt burden, it could also undermine the company’s argument in court, should the two sides fail to reach an agreement over the weekend. Dow has asked the court to allow it to back out of the merger because of the economic decline.

Dow is also discussing the possibility of raising roughly $2 billion of additional capital from Paulson & Company, a hedge fund that owns 18 million shares of Rohm, and the Haas Family Trust, according to people close to the discussions. Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor, and the Kuwaiti Investment Authority have already agreed to make a combined $4 billion preferred stock investment once the deal closes.

Dow is also in talks with potential buyers to sell its agricultural chemicals business, which analysts have said could bring $7 billion, but that price has come down over the last two months, according to people briefed on the situation.

Several companies have expressed interest in the unit, including the buyout firms Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, as well as the BASF Group. The unit has also received interest from a rival Swiss chemicals company, Syngenta.

Dow’s chief executive, Andrew N. Liveris, said on an earnings call last month that the company was still committed to the deal with Rohm but that he wanted to make sure the company maintained its investment-grade credit rating.

Chemtura, a struggling producer of specialty chemicals, crop protection and pool and spa items, has hired the investment bank Lazard and the law firm Kirkland & Ellis to advise it on its restructuring options, a person briefed on the matter said Friday.

Like many chemical makers, Chemtura has suffered from whipsawing commodities prices and slumping demand for a variety of its products, including those used to make electronics and consumer goods like packaging, toys and film. The company, which was formed from a 2005 merger, has been negotiating with lenders and is seeking asset sales to raise cash.
266 2009-03-07 WASHINGTON  The Republican-led blockade of overdue spending bills in the Senate is providing Congressional Democrats a quick and humbling lesson in the limits of their new power.

Despite significant electoral gains in both the House and the Senate, the Democrats have been stymied by Republicans and a few Democratic defectors in what began as a fairly routine push to enact the leftover measures, needed to finance spending in the current fiscal year and tethered together into one $410 billion catchall bill.

As a result, Congress had to pass an emergency five-day stopgap on Friday to prevent an embarrassing shutdown of the government in the opening weeks of the Obama administration.

The failure left Democrats fretting about how they would perform when dealing with more contentious and complex legislation sought by President Obama on health care, energy, taxes and education.

“What does this mean for the Obama agenda?” said the chairwoman of the House Rules Committee, Representative Louise M. Slaughter, Democrat of New York. “We need to get this straightened out.”

Republicans and others said some Democrats were clearly experiencing sticker shock over the combined costs of the new Democratic agenda, with the $410 billion measure coming on the heels of the $787 billion economic stimulus and just ahead of the $3.6 trillion budget for 2010 and money this year for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.

“Right now Democratic leaders look like they are getting dizzy from all the dollars they think they have to throw around,” said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, a principal foe of the joined spending bills.

This year was supposed to be different. Senate Democrats gained seven seats in November, with one more waiting in the wings, moving well beyond the narrow 51-to-49 divide that had hindered them for two years. And a handful of Republicans were willing to side with them in the current spending fight.

But at least four Democrats balked, citing the bill’s earmarks, its overall cost or its provisions on Cuba policy. That left the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, standing uncomfortably on the floor Thursday night without the 60 filibuster-breaking votes he had thought were in his pocket only hours earlier.

Even Mr. Reid seemed uncertain Friday about where things had gone wrong. “The Senate is the body it is,” he said. “It is sometimes difficult even for those of us who serve here to fully comprehend.”

It is not just the Senate where an increase in Democratic ranks is proving to be no guarantee of legislative success. After the Senate overcame decades of resistance and passed a bill that would give the District of Columbia a Congressional vote, House Democrats now find themselves unable to advance their version because Republicans are threatening to extract a vote on gun rights as the price. Many Democrats seem ready to go along, fearing a rebuke by the National Rifle Association more than the disappointment of their own leaders.

Having been routed in the election, and still in the midst of political soul-searching, Republicans are clearly enjoying the spectacle of Democrats’ stumbling on the omnibus bill after days of Republican complaints about pet projects and run-amok spending. The bill seems likely to pass early next week, but not before Republicans force Democrats to vote on a series of politically charged amendments while subjecting them to a final few more days of accusations over the earmarks.

Democrats are angry at what they see as hypocrisy, given that Republicans including the minority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, stuffed earmarks into a bill they are now criticizing. But some are also upset at fellow Democrats for refusing to back the bill, or at least the procedural effort Thursday to force a final vote.

Two of those dissidents, Senators Evan Bayh of Indiana and Russ Feingold of Wisconsin, balked at the earmarks and spending. Two others, Senators Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Bill Nelson of Florida, were resistant to some easing of policy toward Cuba and were not immediately reassured by talks with the Obama administration.

Frustration spilled out in angry meetings Thursday night between House and Senate Democrats when Speaker Nancy Pelosi suggested that the bill be jettisoned, with spending continuing at current levels under stopgaps for the rest of the fiscal year. There was more anger Friday in a House leadership meeting where lawmakers vented about the Senate.

Some Democrats said the electorate that installed more of their number in Congress might not be forgiving if they proved unable to deliver on the big issues awaiting. They said Mr. Reid was exhibiting a little too much patience with both his colleagues and the Republican opposition.

“We have a lot to accomplish, and people have high expectations,” said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts. “We need to get our act together.”

Senate Democrats said their cause would be helped if a court battle over the Senate election in Minnesota was resolved and they could finally fill that seat, giving them 59 votes.

But Mr. Reid’s communications strategist, Jim Manley, said that whatever the majority, the senator could not dictate legislative outcomes. “Senator Reid is not a king,” Mr. Manley said. “If he had the ability to snap his fingers and make things fall into place, he would. The Senate requires consensus.”
267 2009-03-07 Wells Fargo & Company cut its dividend 85 percent on Friday, a widely expected move that the bank, the nation’s fourth-largest, said would save $5 billion a year.

The bank, based in San Francisco, also said it planned $2 billion of additional cost cuts in 2009, starting in the second quarter, without identifying where they would come from.

Wells Fargo lowered its quarterly payout to 5 cents a share, from 34 cents. The reduction follows similar cuts in the last two weeks by JPMorgan Chase, the PNC Financial Services Group and U.S. Bancorp.

Dozens of lenders are reducing or eliminating dividends to preserve capital needed to cover rising credit losses. Bank of America has cut its quarterly dividend to a penny a share, and Citigroup eliminated its payout.

John G. Stumpf, Wells Fargo’s chief executive, in a statement called the reduction “absolutely right for our company and our shareholders” because it will bolster the bank’s ability to increase market share.

He said the bank would “return to a more normalized dividend level as soon as practical,” and hoped to repay the $25 billion it took from the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program “at the earliest practical date.”
268 2009-03-07 Wall Street ended a week of battering sell-offs on an mildly positive note as stock markets closed mostly higher despite a report showing that unemployment had surged to its highest level in 25 years.

Underscoring the sweep of economic declines, the government reported Friday morning that the unemployment rate rose to 8.1 percent in February after the economy lost 651,000 jobs. The job losses were not as stark as revised totals from December and January, and stocks initially surged before pulling back during the day and finally recovering at the close.

The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 32.50 points, or 0.5 percent, at 6,626.94, while the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 0.8 point, or 0.1 percent, to 683.38. The Nasdaq was down 0.4 percent at 1,293.85.

For the week, the Dow fell 6 percent while the S.& P. 500 was down 7 percent. It was the fourth consecutive week of declines for both indexes.

Even with Friday’s gains, analysts said stock markets were likely to grind lower and stay near their 12-year lows for some time as Wall Street looked for signs of improvement in the faltering economy, stability in the financial system or a clearer plan from Washington to shore up the big banks.
269 2009-03-07 Wall Street ended a week of battering sell-offs on an mildly positive note as stock markets closed mostly higher despite a report showing that unemployment had surged to its highest level in 25 years.

Underscoring the sweep of economic declines, the government reported Friday morning that the unemployment rate rose to 8.1 percent in February after the economy lost 651,000 jobs. The job losses were not as stark as revised totals from December and January, and stocks initially surged before pulling back during the day and finally recovering at the close.

The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 32.50 points, or 0.5 percent, at 6,626.94, while the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 0.8 point, or 0.1 percent, to 683.38. The Nasdaq was down 0.4 percent at 1,293.85.

For the week, the Dow fell 6 percent while the S.& P. 500 was down 7 percent. It was the fourth consecutive week of declines for both indexes.

Even with Friday’s gains, analysts said stock markets were likely to grind lower and stay near their 12-year lows for some time as Wall Street looked for signs of improvement in the faltering economy, stability in the financial system or a clearer plan from Washington to shore up the big banks.
270 2009-03-07 Monica Bill Barnes’s new “Another Parade,” the third offering by the 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Festival, begins rather brilliantly. The tall, gangly Deborah Lohse, whose Carol Burnett-like face holds the constant promise of tragic comedy, strides onstage to the sounds of the Sarabande from Bach’s glorious Cello Suite No. 4. She proceeds to ignore the music as she performs subtle little hip and shoulder shimmies, arm swings and strange truncated gestures, occasionally baring a shoulder or her abdomen, while smiling and grimacing with equally mysterious arbitrariness.

The solo is a tour de force, mostly because of the way Ms. Lohse — one of those performers who have only to raise an eyebrow to cause an audience to burst out laughing — is able to infuse Ms. Barnes’s material with an almost magical amount of meaning and power.

After that, “Another Parade,” which opened at the Ailey Citigroup Theater on Wednesday night, settles into a more ordinary, if entertaining, pattern. Extracts from the Bach suite alternate with well-known James Brown songs and a smattering of other popular music (Barbra Streisand, Dionne Warwick, Tina Turner, Elvis). Against current fashion, they are played in their entirety as a female quartet — Ms. Barnes, Ms. Lohse, Anna Bass and Celia Rowlson-Hall — dressed simply in brown skirts and loose sweaters, dance in varying combinations, often repeating the gestures and movements that Ms. Lohse first showed in her solo.

These movements take on different meanings in different contexts. The shoulder-baring can look provocative, aggressive, sexy or vulnerable, depending on the words of the song that a dancer is performing to or who is onstage with her. A motif of raised arms with fists clenched (several dances end with this gesture) can look victorious, helpless, inexplicable.

Ms. Barnes demonstrates these ideas ably, and her choreography has a genuine wit and humor, shown most notably in a section in which each dancer brings an audience member onstage. It is a sequence that could be squirm-inducing, but is instead tender and endearing.

That section leaves the audience members alone onstage, doing the little shimmy that is one of the piece’s motifs. It’s a turn away from the formulaic structure of the work, and Ms. Barnes might have left it there.
271 2009-03-07 Senator John McCain is rewriting the part of presidential loser.      Unwilling to vanish into retirement like Bob Dole, or retreat into academia like Al Gore, or even quietly convalesce like John Kerry, Mr. McCain has quickly reclaimed a place on...
272 2009-03-07 The numbers in the jobs report for February were bad, but the trends were worse. More than half of the 4.4 million jobs lost since December 2007, when the recession began, vanished in the last four months. The unemployment rate has also surged to 8.1 percent last month from 7.6 percent in January — and from 5.0 percent when the recession began. The ranks of the unemployed now total 12.5 million people. It’s fortunate, then, that the nation’s first line of defense against rising joblessness — unemployment insurance — was reinforced in the stimulus law that passed last month.

The law increases unemployment benefits by $25 a week and allows states to extend those benefits through the end of the year. It also provides $7 billion to the states to cover more than 500,000 workers — often part-time, low-wage and female — who are denied jobless benefits under outdated rules that apply in many states. Those states, of course, must reform their systems to specifically include those workers and to bring their programs more in line with federal guidelines.

Some Republican governors have resisted doing that, an act of grandstanding that does nothing but hurt their neediest constituents. Recently, however, several governors — from California, Florida, Georgia and Utah — and state legislatures have supported making the changes. Other states must step up soon to ensure that broad relief reaches unemployed workers in a timely way.

Congress and the Obama administration must also be prepared to do more as unemployment worsens — as it inevitably will in this contracting economy. In 11th-hour wrangling last month, a provision was struck from the stimulus bill that would have provided Medicaid coverage to unemployed workers who do not qualify or cannot afford to stay on their former employers’ group health insurance. The measure should be reintroduced and passed into law.

Indeed, all job-related policies should acknowledge that employment is unlikely to turn around anytime soon. That’s because the economy’s other headwinds — the housing bust and the stock-market wipeout — will delay any labor market recovery. With both sales and prices for homes declining in most places, many people who might otherwise move to take a new job are compelled to stay put, especially if a sale would not bring in enough money to pay off the mortgage. With stocks tanking, many workers are likely to postpone retirement, impairing upward mobility for other workers and crowding out new entrants to the work force.

That means that in addition to providing relief for today’s unemployed, greater emphasis must be placed on job training and retraining and on better education at all levels. If a job slump is short and shallow, old jobs come back. If it is long and deep, like the current one, some old jobs never return and even some industries never revive. That makes it imperative to prepare as a nation for the prospect of a vastly different future.
273 2009-03-07 HOUSTON — A court-appointed receiver notified 1,000 employees of the Stanford Financial Group on Friday that their jobs were terminated in an effort to preserve the value of whatever resources were left in the company.

The company’s assets were frozen last month when the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil fraud complaint against Robert Allen Stanford and two other senior executives.

The S.E.C. has accused Mr. Stanford and his chief lieutenant of executing a Ponzi scheme in which more than $1.6 billion in “bogus” loans were made to Mr. Stanford over the last decade.

Laura Pendergest-Holt, the chief investment officer for the financial and brokerage firm, was arrested last week on accusations of obstructing the S.E.C.’s inquiry. Neither Mr. Stanford nor James M. Davis, his lieutenant, has been charged with a crime.

Salaries and benefits for about 85 percent of Mr. Stanford’s employees in the United States were discontinued immediately, according to a statement from the Stanford Financial Group Receivership, “in the interest of conserving and preserving the value of the estate because there are insufficient resources to continue to compensate all present employees.”

Most of Mr. Stanford’s businesses will be closed, and only a small number of employees will continue working to wind down operations and settle accounts, the statement by the receiver, Ralph Janvey, said.

The Stanford financial companies had offices around the United States, and in the Caribbean and Latin America. Many of its investors were from countries like Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela. The statement said, “Decisions regarding Stanford’s employees in locations outside the U.S. will be made and announced in the next few weeks.”
274 2009-03-07 Mr. Tsvangirai ended up withdrawing before the runoff because of attacks on thousands of his supporters. When the international community concluded the election was neither free nor fair, protracted negotiations led to a coalition government, with Mr. Mugabe as president and Mr. Tsvangirai as prime minister.

On Friday night, officials with Mr. Tsvangirai’s party expressed concern that the crash had not been an accident, but they resisted reaching any conclusions.

“This will certainly demand an independent investigation,” said Eddie Cross, the policy coordinator for the Movement for Democratic Change. “We won’t accept a police report.”

Mr. Mugabe and his wife paid a condolence call to Mr. Tsvangirai at the hospital on Friday evening, Mr. Murira said.

Ian Makone, a secretary in the prime minister’s office, said he arrived at the crash scene about a half hour after the fact. He said one of the drivers in Mr. Tsvangirai’s convoy told him that an oncoming truck “had clipped the right rear fender of Morgan’s car.”

Mr. Tsvangirai said the driver of his vehicle swerved to avoid the truck, according to Mr. Murira. But a trailer attached to the truck hit the prime minister’s Land Cruiser, which rolled over three times. Mr. Makone confirmed that the vehicle had flipped over, saying it was lying on its roof when he arrived.

As soon as they heard about the crash, opposition officials began trying to figure out what had happened. “I was looking for someone to get to the site because I was very suspicious about the circumstances around the accident,” said Hendrick O’Neill, a party member from the area where the crash occurred. So he contacted Deon Theron, the vice president of the Commercial Farmers Union, who lives near the scene. “Morgan has been a target for some time.”

Mr. Theron rushed to the crash site and began to investigate, Mr. O’Neill said. “Just as he finished, the police arrived and grabbed the video camera from him, started questioning him and took him into custody.”

Mr. O’Neill said he spoke to Mr. Theron by cellphone as he was being arrested. “He told me the left front tire had burst and the vehicle was on its roof,” Mr. O’Neill said. “He climbed on the vehicle. Some of the undercarriage was loose or broken. It could have been the result of the accident. That’s what he was filming when they seized him.”

Mr. Tsvangirai and his wife were married for more than three decades. They have six children, including twins, age 14.

“They were a team; they were very effective and extremely close,” Mr. Cross said of the couple. “She was very much a pillar of support, spiritually and in every other way. Morgan will feel her loss enormously. I can’t think of many couples as close as those two.”
275 2009-03-07 “The holy grail in TV, especially in detective shows, is man-woman pairings,” said Gary Glasberg, the co-executive producer of “The Mentalist,” which had an impressive ratings debut in September and regularly appears in Nielsen’s Top 10. It pairs Patrick Jane (Simon Baker) with Senior Agent Teresa Lisbon (Robin Tunney) at the California Bureau of Investigation. She’s earnest, he’s cocky, and they need each other professionally and possibly personally as well.

“When you can get that kind of chemistry between people, you can access a coveted female demographic that isn’t otherwise interested in detective shows,” Mr. Glasberg said, pointing to “Moonlighting.” “That’s the one everyone is trying to duplicate.”

But is duplication a creative cop-out? “There are no new stories, there are only new characters,” said Andrew Marlowe, an executive producer of “Castle.” “We have really new characters.”

UST works as a storytelling device because it allows character development in plot-driven shows, writers and producers said.

“Moonlighting,” broadcast on ABC from 1985 to 1989, created sparks between Bruce Willis, as David Addison, and Cybill Shepherd, as Maddie Hayes, detectives at the Blue Moon Detective Agency. The series itself owed something to “Remington Steele,” an NBC show that ran from 1982 to 1987. In that story line Laura Holt (Stephanie Zimbalist) was a private detective who used Remington Steele (Pierce Brosnan), a former con man, to play her fictitious — and playful — male boss to fool the public back in those more sexist times.

Science fiction was injected into the mix with “The X Files,” on Fox from 1993 to 2002. F.B.I. agents Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson) and Fox Mulder (David Duchovny) investigated paranormal phenomena and resisted normal attraction for many seasons.

Kevin Reilly, president of entertainment at Fox, called UST “an age-old drama tool” that adds character and spice to procedurals. One challenge is to calibrate the chemistry so that viewers don’t get too much or too little romance, he said, even as some fans root for a clean break, a wedding or a tryst.

“The audience has an unwritten pact with these shows,” Mr. Reilly said. “It’s not too close and not too far. Drama is tension, and, ultimately, this is about tension.”

“Bones,” which began in 2005, might be the current reigning champion for stretching out that tension. Dr. Temperance Brennan (Emily Deschanel) and her partner, F.B.I. Special Agent Seeley Booth (David Boreanaz), examine dead bodies for clues and verbally pick at each other.

But just as in real life, a television relationship has to keep moving or die, said Hart Hanson, the creator and an executive producer of “Bones.” Brennan and Booth kissed a little longer than necessary under the mistletoe in December, and Mr. Hanson promises that eventually they “will be naked, in bed, and sex will be involved.”

Still, Mr. Hanson said, “Once you remove that unresolved sexual tension, what do you replace it with?”

In “Moonlighting” the detectives eventually had sex, but Maddie married someone else (though the marriage was annulled). By the end of “The X Files” Scully and Mulder were a couple.

Glenn Gordon Caron, the creator of “Moonlighting” who also worked on “Remington Steele,” said television executives keep putting men and women together and then pushing them apart because “they’re chasing something they know works.”

“On some level,” he added, “either in our fantasy lives or in our real lives, we work with people we’re attracted to.”

With “Moonlighting,” he said, he just wanted to see actors and a story he liked. But Mr. Caron, who is also the creator and executive producer of the NBC drama “Medium” (about a married, crime-solving psychic), graciously gave the credit for plumbing UST in a drama to another writer.

“It’s all derived from ‘The Taming of the Shrew,’ ” he said. “There are two people who hate each other but are meant to be together.”
276 2009-03-07 “We were very encouraged by the court’s questions,” said Hope Metcalf, a lawyer with the Allard K. Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic at Yale Law School.

Mr. Yoo, a visiting faculty member at Chapman University Law School in Orange, Calif., did not attend the hearing.

Mr. Padilla was convicted in 2007 on terrorism-related conspiracy charges. With his mother, he sued Mr. Yoo, claiming that the torture memorandums were directly responsible for his detention, interrogation and torture.

Mr. Padilla seeks monetary damages of just $1. His real goal, in this case and a number of others against other current and former United States officials, is a declaration from the government that his incarceration and harsh treatment were wrong.

“Plaintiffs seek to vindicate their constitutional rights,” the complaint stated, “and ensure that neither Mr. Padilla nor any other person is treated this way in the future.”

President Obama has shown little interest in prosecuting officials of the previous administration, and it is not clear whether there will be a government-sponsored investigation of Bush administration polices. But Mr. Padilla and his lawyers seem to be hoping that the civil courts may provide a kind of alternate truth commission, through the process of legal discovery. And the case has already borne fruit: the latest batch of Bush administration memorandums from the Office of Legal Counsel at the Justice Department, released Monday and showing that the administration believed it had vast domestic authority in combating terrorism, were a response to the Padilla v. Yoo lawsuit.

Mr. Padilla is not the only prisoner using the civil courts in this way. In another case, Mohamed v. Jeppesen Dataplan, current and former prisoners at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, are suing a Boeing subsidiary that arranged the flights that took them to other nations, where they claim to have been tortured.

Mr. Padilla’s lawyers are relying largely on a 1971 Supreme Court case, Bivens v. Six Unknown Named Agents, that allows some people whose rights have been violated by federal agents to sue the government. But the government lawyers said the theory of that case could not be appropriately applied to this one.

During the 90-minute hearing, Judge White asked whether the Obama administration had changed the legal position of the previous administration.

A lawyer for Mr. Yoo, Mary Hampton Mason, replied that all such cases were under review, and that the torture memorandums were largely discarded by the end of the Bush administration.

Ms. Mason and her colleague at the hearing, Glenn S. Greene, suggested that Mr. Padilla’s lawyers were pursuing a case that was more about politics than law, and were trying to create a new legal theory to tie a lawyer to the results of his memorandums. “He had no supervisory role over Padilla or his detention,” Ms. Mason said, referring to Mr. Yoo.

Ms. Metcalf argued on Mr. Padilla’s behalf that the memorandums had had a direct effect on her client’s case and treatment, and that Mr. Yoo had also served on the “war council” that set policies for the treatment of prisoners. She said his memorandums had tried to shield administration officials from blame or liability.

“Defendant Yoo,” she said, “must not take refuge in the legal no man’s land that he helped to create.”
277 2009-03-07 Officials in Massachusetts and Rhode Island said they expected little impact in their states.

In New York, Morgan Hook, a spokesman for the governor’s office, seemed to play down Mr. Paterson’s efforts to change the policy. “There has been no commitment to increase the free allowances yet,” Mr. Hook said. “The governor has made a commitment to look at the regulations if there is a need to look at the regulations.”

That could happen, he said, when the state’s Department of Environmental Conservation learns definitely how many power producers were eligible for free allowances from the last carbon auction, in December.

Two of Mr. Paterson’s top aides said in interviews on Thursday that the governor had promised to address the industry’s concerns, and that a preliminary review by the Department of Environmental Conservation had already indicated that the number of free allowances was not enough.

Mr. Hook also said that the next three auctions would not be affected even if the state decided to reopen its regulations because any change would face requirements including a period for public comment.

Experts emphasized that even if New York made the change, the overall number of allowances in the program — the region’s total amount of carbon emissions allowed — is capped and therefore cannot rise. Many states, including New Jersey, have already made provisions to ease the cost burden on power plants that had made fixed arrangements to sell their power long before carbon-trading was in place, which is the source of New York’s problem.

Changing the rules for how carbon allowances are allocated may be more difficult in other states, many of which would have to consult their legislatures, rather than do it through the executive branch, as New York can.

Still, the carbon market was clearly rattled by the news. Trading of carbon allowances reached a record level on Friday, most likely because of the news about New York, said Evan Ard, a spokesman for Evolution Markets, a carbon markets broker. But Mr. Ard said prices — which are perpetually low — were not volatile.

The carbon-trading pact “has struggled with credibility from Day 1, given the starting overallocation of emissions allowances,” Alex Rau, of the carbon-trading firm Climate Wedge, said in an e-mail message.

“And behavior from the regulators like this will only undermine what little confidence there has been in the market,” Mr. Rau continued.

Donald McCloskey, the director of environmental strategy and policy at PSEG, a New Jersey-based energy company, said he would not seek more free allowances from New Jersey regulators.

Mr. McCloskey said New York’s potential move merely strengthened the case for a national carbon-trading program like the one the Obama administration hopes to introduce.

Under a national system, he said, “these interstate differences would be removed and largely reduced by having one carbon market, one set of rules that the whole nation operates under.”
278 2009-03-07 But for a variety of political, environmental and economic reasons, a national carbon tax is probably going nowhere.

Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders argue that cap-and-trade, in which polluters must either reduce emissions on their own or buy credits from more efficient companies, is a better system for assuring reductions, letting the market set the right to pollute.

But the main reason most in Washington recoil against a carbon tax is political: few are willing to openly advocate billions of dollars in new taxes at a time of economic distress, even though a cap-and-trade program also means higher energy prices.

Many Congressional Democrats were around in 1993 when President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore pushed an energy tax and then abandoned it after it failed to generate any Republican support. Some noticed last fall when the Liberal Party in Canada suffered its worst loss ever running on a platform that included a national energy tax.

Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, is leading a special committee writing the House version of climate change legislation. He voted for the 1993 energy tax bill, which is known — not fondly — as the B.T.U. tax, for British thermal unit, a measure of energy output. Mr. Markey has since become a faithful follower of the cap-and-trade school.

“I am aware of the economic arguments for a carbon tax,” Mr. Markey said, “but politics is the art of the possible, and I think cap-and-trade is possible.”

He added: “Somebody once told me that a smart man learns from his mistakes but a wise man learns from others’ mistakes. We can learn from 1993 or Canada in 2008, but we should learn.”

Mr. Gore, who shared a Nobel Prize for his work on climate change, has long advocated a tax on carbon dioxide emissions as a substitute for taxes on income (“We should tax what we burn, not what we earn,” he says).

But in an e-mail message this week, Mr. Gore said that passage of a tax on carbon “appears to be beyond our reach for the foreseeable future” and that he could accept a cap-and-trade program if it reduced emissions and provided relief for those most burdened by the costs.

“For more than 20 years, I have supported a CO2 tax offset by an equal reduction in taxes elsewhere,” Mr. Gore wrote. “However, a cap-and-trade system is also essential and actually offers a better prospect for a global agreement, in part because it is difficult to imagine a harmonized global CO2 tax. Moreover, I have long recognized that our political system has special difficulty in considering a CO2 tax even if it is revenue neutral.”

Mr. Gore and others pointed out that the United States has had a largely successful experiment with cap-and-trade in the acid rain program set up under the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments. That system brought greater pollution reductions and lower costs than expected, although sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution from a limited number of power plants was a far simpler problem than carbon emissions will be.

One of the arguments against cap-and-trade is that it requires a complex market for trading pollution permits that could be manipulated by speculators and energy companies. Mr. Larson said the last thing the nation needed after its experience with the housing bubble and the banking collapse was a new market in carbon derivatives. His plan, he said, is simpler and fairer.

But cap-and-trade advocates said a carbon tax could also be gamed, just as the Internal Revenue Code is.

“The critical thing is to get the emissions you want, and a tax cannot do that without continually recalibrating the price,” said Tim Profeta, director of the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions at Duke University.

Mr. Profeta helped Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, draft the first cap-and-trade bill to get serious consideration. “Given the history of the carbon tax,” Mr. Profeta said, “there’s a worry that it will poison and delay the debate.”

Yvo de Boer, who directs the climate change program at the United Nations, said he was agnostic as to how member states meet targets on the emission of heat-trapping gasses. But those who support a carbon tax, he said, are walking uphill.

“If you were a pure economist, the most logical thing is taxation. It is the simplest,” Mr. de Boer said in an interview. “But ‘taxation’ is a word that makes people choke in normal times. And these are not normal times.”
279 2009-03-07 Redcorp Ventures, a Canadian gold-and-silver mining company, filed for bankruptcy in the United States and Canada, citing cost overruns and a lack of financing.  It listed assets of as much as $100 million and debt of as much as $500 million in Ch...
280 2009-03-07 The Broadway play “Impressionism” has postponed its official opening by 12 days, its publicists said. The play, which stars Jeremy Irons (in his first Broadway role since “The Real Thing”) and Joan Allen (in her first since “The Heidi Chronicles”), is now scheduled to open at the Gerald Schoenfeld Theater on March 24; it had been scheduled to open on March 12, and has been in previews since Feb. 28. Written by Michael Jacobs and directed by Jack O’Brien, the play has not been in a workshop or a performance elsewhere. In a statement, Bill Haber, a producer of the show, said, “We did not give Jack O’Brien and our extraordinary creative team and company enough time to fully prepare Michael Jacobs’s new play for Broadway.” A preview performance scheduled for Monday has been canceled to permit more time for rehearsals.
281 2009-03-07 Under the new terms, Dow will have an additional year to pay off the loan, and the amount has been reduced by $500 million, to $12.5 billion. Dow was also able to adjust some covenants of the loan, which would give it more flexibility should its business continue to deteriorate and possibly protect it from a ratings downgrade.

While the new loan terms will ease Dow’s debt burden, it could also undermine the company’s argument in court, should the two sides fail to reach an agreement over the weekend. Dow has asked the court to allow it to back out of the merger because of the economic decline.

Dow is also discussing the possibility of raising roughly $2 billion of additional capital from Paulson & Company, a hedge fund that owns 18 million shares of Rohm, and the Haas Family Trust, according to people close to the discussions. Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor, and the Kuwaiti Investment Authority have already agreed to make a combined $4 billion preferred stock investment once the deal closes.

Dow is also in talks with potential buyers to sell its agricultural chemicals business, which analysts have said could bring $7 billion, but that price has come down over the last two months, according to people briefed on the situation.

Several companies have expressed interest in the unit, including the buyout firms Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, as well as the BASF Group. The unit has also received interest from a rival Swiss chemicals company, Syngenta.

Dow’s chief executive, Andrew N. Liveris, said on an earnings call last month that the company was still committed to the deal with Rohm but that he wanted to make sure the company maintained its investment-grade credit rating.

Chemtura, a struggling producer of specialty chemicals, crop protection and pool and spa items, has hired the investment bank Lazard and the law firm Kirkland & Ellis to advise it on its restructuring options, a person briefed on the matter said Friday.

Like many chemical makers, Chemtura has suffered from whipsawing commodities prices and slumping demand for a variety of its products, including those used to make electronics and consumer goods like packaging, toys and film. The company, which was formed from a 2005 merger, has been negotiating with lenders and is seeking asset sales to raise cash.
282 2009-03-07 Burdened by falling gasoline consumption and excess production capacity, ethanol producers appealed to the government on Friday to raise the 10 percent limit on ethanol in most gasoline blends to as high as 15 percent.

Ethanol plants are closing across the country and some ethanol producers are declaring bankruptcy. The appeal will require the Obama administration to decide whether to increase federal support for the industry, which has already benefited from an array of subsidies, tax credits and Congressional production mandates.

“Approving the use of ethanol blends up to 15 percent is a necessary and positive step,” said Bob Dinneen, president of the Renewable Fuels Association, an industry lobbying group, “to ensure the full potential of a robust domestic ethanol industry.”

The Environmental Protection Agency and the Energy Department have been testing higher ethanol blends. The E.P.A. has nine months to review the request, but it could decide before that to increase the blend cap slightly, to 12 or 13 percent.

Energy Secretary Steven Chu has indicated that he would favor at least a small increase in ethanol levels unless auto companies said there was a risk the change would damage their products.
283 2009-03-08 Headlines from the world of property: Dubai: Emaar may shelve projects Worried investors step up pressure on the Middle East's biggest property developer to halt projects in the face of collapsing prices. From Khaleej Times. U.K.: House prices fal...
284 2009-03-08 Photo: Wendy Carlson for The New York Times
285 2009-03-08 "Watchmen" earns $55.7 million in its opening weekend, at the low end of expectations, but strong enough to continue Hollywood's 2009 hot streak at the box office....
286 2009-03-08 “Consumers are being squeezed,” Mr. LaRosa said in a telephone interview. “They’re not going to have as much to spend on discretionary purchases for things like expensive workshops and seminars.”

If the economy is cutting into his business, Mr. Ray, 51, says he isn’t seeing it. “I think it’s holding steady,” he said backstage during a break, as Van Halen and U2 blared over the speakers. “We have over 500 people here this weekend. I think what I’m providing is a tremendous value, and there’s always going to be a place, regardless of the economy, regardless of the market, for people who are providing tremendous value and tremendous service.”

In Mr. Ray’s case, attendees paid to listen to a former preacher’s son and a junior college dropout who has fashioned a successful business on the promise that he can help people build financial wealth as well as strengthen their spiritual and physical well-being.

Throw in dollops of quantum physics, Shamanism, Buddhism, Kabbalah, tantric sex and lessons drawn from his personal experiences and the movies (even “Star Wars”), and the audience was enthralled. And though he’s not in the ranks of Anthony Robbins and Phil McGraw (Dr. Phil), his appearances on “Oprah” and “Larry King Live,” and in “The Secret,” Rhonda Byrnes’s documentary and book that have become a New Age phenomenon, have won him a following. His own book, “Harmonic Wealth,” appeared on the New York Times best-seller list for two weeks last spring.

Mr. LaRosa, of Marketdata, said typical self-improvement customers are middle-aged women with an average household income of $88,000.

There were undoubtedly plenty of people who fit that profile in Jersey City. But there were also many who were feeling the pinch of the economy.

Drawing on his own brushes with bankruptcy (once in 1997 and again in 2000 after the dot-com bust), Mr. Ray advised the crowd that for every negative turn, there is an equally positive opportunity. “There has to be, it’s the law of physics,” he said.

Mr. Smith, the “Star Wars” fan who hopes to use Mr. Ray’s teachings to help him realize his own dreams of starting a special effects business, said he was not turned off by the extra sales pitches.

“Yeah, he’s a business man and he wants to make money,” Mr. Smith said. “But you know what? He’s telling people what they need to hear: to snap out of it.”

Eugena Criss, 48, of the Bronx, is practically a self-help seminar groupie. She has attended workshops by Mr. Robbins (that one cost $1,500), Wayne W. Dyer ($750) and T. Harv Eker ($1,500). This was her eighth time seeing Mr. Ray.

“Oh my God, who do I like best?” she said. “I love them all, but James’s work resonates with me spiritually. It’s practical, useful and life-changing.” She credits Mr. Ray for inspiring her to start her own business, Perfect Birth, Birthing and Women’s Wellness Center, though she says she is still struggling financially. She has had to save and borrow money to attend the seminars, she said, “but it’s worth it.”

Shannon Conklin, 24, of Bohemia, N.Y., a former office manager and New Age bookstore owner now getting unemployment benefits, is hoping to recoup the seminar cost when she files her taxes. Meanwhile, she was pondering plunking down another $997 for one of Mr. Ray’s book, movie and study packages.

“I’m ready to create my own wealth again,” she said. “I want to open up a wellness retreat. Financially, I’m not ready to do that, but that’s why I’m here.”
287 2009-03-08 PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Instead of being in Toronto to start Venezuela’s opening game in the World Baseball Classic, Johan Santana found himself on a back field here Saturday morning, facing hitters for the first time in spring training.

The setting hardly mattered, as Santana breezed through the 36-pitch session. The outing continued to give him and the Mets hope that he would be ready for opening day.

“Everything was there,” Santana said. “The breaking ball was there, my changeup’s there, my arm speed, my legs are there. That’s what you’re really looking for.”

Santana, already ahead of his original schedule, does not need to throw more batting practice, Manager Jerry Manuel said. As long as no soreness develops in his elbow — he reported none after pitching — Santana will throw a side session Monday to prepare for his Grapefruit League debut toward the end of the week.

“I’m extremely pleased with the way he’s throwing the baseball right now,” the pitching coach Dan Warthen said.

With the Mets’ principal owner, Fred Wilpon, watching from behind the backstop, Santana generated seven swinging strikes, most on off-speed pitches. He mixed in eight sliders and nine changeups, Warthen said, including one that grazed the inside corner and fooled Rob Mackowiak.
288 2009-03-08 Colleges have been in the catbird seat for the past decade or so. As the number of high school students swelled, applications rose, allowing colleges to be more selective. And families benefiting from a flush stock market seemed willing to pay whatever tuition colleges charged.

But all that has changed. For students, the uncertainty could be good news: colleges will admit more students, offer more generous financial aid,and, in some cases, send acceptance letters a few weeks earlier. Then again, it could prolong the agony: some institutions say they will rely more on their waiting lists. But there is no question, admissions officers say, that this year is more of a students’ market.

“It’s like the dot-com bubble burst for higher ed,” said Barbara Fritze, vice president of enrollment at Gettysburg College in . “We’ve been in this growth mode for a period of time. Now there’s a real leveling going on.”

Colleges consider an amalgam of factors, comparing them to past trends, to predict whether a student will attend, including, for example, what high school he went to; the strength of his grades, scores and recommendations; how much financial aid he has been offered; and whether he plays the cello or wants to study ethnobotany or economics. (If he is a she, the equation looks different still.)

They consider how many phone calls, Web hits, campus visits and applications they have received. They look at how many students put down a deposit in May, then assume a bit of “summer melt.”

If it sounds complicated, it also works. Kenyon, for example, has hit the magic hot tub each of the last five years.

But with high gasoline prices last summer, many campuses reported fewer visits, throwing off one of the better indicators of which applicants are serious.

Applications, too, have been unpredictable. Some public institutions have seen increases of 30 percent. But with almost every state cutting budgets, it is unclear how many applicants those institutions will accept — and , for example, are capping enrollment. And private colleges are waiting to see how much public institutions raise tuition; most do not set rates until state budgets are firm.

Meanwhile, applications are down at many private institutions. Colleges and high school guidance counselors say more students are applying to so-called financial safety schools, where they are confident of getting scholarships, even if it means attending a less selective institution.

Officials say parents are reluctant to commit to four years of an expensive private school, worried that their companies might be restructuring. At Kenyon, one mother, after e-mailing to say that the family could not afford the college’s early decision offer, e-mailed two hours later to say they were reconsidering, then e-mailed again two hours after that to say that her son would attend, after all.

“It’s a consumer confidence issue,” said Steven Syverson, vice president for enrollment at Lawrence University in . “Families are feeling like they can’t afford it even if they’re in the same financial position they were three months ago.”

The Internet has thrown off another marker: applicants used to have to call or write for a catalog, giving the college an early signal of their interest. Now, many campuses say 25 percent to 30 percent are “stealth applicants” — the first the college hears of them is when they apply.

Some enrollment officials theorize that applications are down because cost-conscious applicants have made their choices more carefully. Then there is the glass-is-half-empty view, more common at private institutions where applications are up: students set their hearts on where to apply last summer, before the big crash, but will be choosing less expensive schools this spring, as economic indicators plummet.

Institutions had been trying to cut back on the number of students they accept early, believing they would end up with a more economically diverse freshman class; those who are admitted early forfeit the right to shop around for financial aid offers, so are frequently wealthier. But this year, many said they had accepted more early decision applicants, trying to lock in as many students as they could in December.

Still, that may not be a guarantee. Colleges say more and more early decision applicants are circling back to bargain for better financial aid packages, or asking to be released from their agreements so they can consider more generous offers.

So as public institutions say they will accept fewer students, many private schools say they will accept more. The 13 members of the Associated Colleges of the Midwest, which includes Carleton, Macalester, Grinnell and Colleges, plan to accept 10 percent or 11 percent more applicants, said the group’s president, Christopher Welna, to make up for about a 10 percent decline in applications. Hamilton and Gettysburg, among other campuses, also plan to accept a slightly bigger proportion of applicants. And , in , said it would accept up to 600 more applicants to its class of 1,900, even though applications are up 17 percent.

Campuses, meanwhile, are trying to determine — and encourage — applicants’ intentions. Kenyon will write to the parents of accepted students, to reassure them that financial aid will not dry up over the coming years.

And at Gettysburg, Ms. Fritze plans to send out acceptance offers a bit earlier, hoping to generate loyalty.

Barmak Nassirian, the associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers, says the first real indication of who is coming could be in May, when students put down their deposits.

“But even that,” Mr. Nassirian said, “may be an overestimation.”
289 2009-03-08 Emily Belmont Conn, a daughter of Janet Belmont Conn and Richard J. Conn of Bala Cynwyd, Pa., was married Saturday evening to Jonathan Peikes Gantman, the son of Susan Peikes Gantman and Lewis I. Gantman of Penn Valley, Pa. Rabbi Neil S. Cooper performed the ceremony at Temple Beth Hillel-Beth El in Wynnewood, Pa.

The bride and bridegroom met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they both graduated, she summa cum laude and he magna cum laude.

Mrs. Gantman, 25, is a candidate for a Ph.D. in medical biology at Rockefeller University in New York City. Her father is a lawyer in private practice in Bala Cynwyd. Her mother is a second-grade teacher at the Perelman Jewish Day School in Wynnewood.

Mr. Gantman, 27, is the manager of retail partnerships for the Platinum and Centurion cards at American Express in New York. His mother is a state appellate superior court judge with chambers in West Conshohocken, Pa. His father is the executive vice president for Pepsi-Cola and National Brand Beverages, a bottling and distribution company in Pennsauken, N.J.
290 2009-03-08 Sarah Allison Lux, a daughter of Catherine and Paul Lux of Newtown, Conn., was married Saturday evening to Thomas Bayard McCabe IV, the son of Anne McCabe Dunwoody of Haverford, Pa., and the late Mr. McCabe III. The Rev. Ledlie I. Laughlin, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at St. Peter’s Church in Philadelphia.

The bride, 26, is an associate at Stern Investor Relations in New York, where she recruits investors for biotechnology companies. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.

Her father is a lawyer in private practice in Newtown. Her mother is a fifth-grade teacher at Oxford Center School in Oxford, Conn.

The bridegroom, also 26, works at Freeman’s, the auction house in Philadelphia, where he is in charge of its business development. He graduated from Trinity College in Hartford and received a master’s degree in art business from Sotheby’s Institute of Art.

His mother and stepfather, Colin Dunwoody, own the St. Jude Golf Club in Chicora, Pa. The bridegroom’s father was a vice president in private wealth management at the securities unit of Wachovia. He worked in Philadelphia.

The bridegroom is the great-grandson of Thomas Bayard McCabe, who was the president of the Scott Paper Company and, from 1948 to 1951, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
291 2009-03-08 JERUSALEM — Salam Fayyad, the prime minister of the Western-backed Palestinian Authority, on Saturday submitted his government’s resignation, saying he hoped that it would help efforts to form a Palestinian unity government with the Islamic group Hamas.

A statement from his office said the resignation would take effect no later than the end of March.

Over the years, Mr. Fayyad, a political independent and an American-educated economist, who also serves as finance minister, has gained the trust of Washington and the international community. The announcement was bound to raise anxiety, coming just days after international donors pledged about $4.4 billion in economic assistance for the West Bank-based Palestinian Authority and for rebuilding Gaza.

The United States pledged $900 million to the Palestinian Authority, a third of it intended for rebuilding in Gaza after Israel’s recent 22-day military offensive there.

Still, it was not clear whether the resignation would, in the end, be accepted by the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, who leads Fatah, the mainstream party that is Hamas’s rival.

The Palestinian groups are expected to begin a dialogue in Cairo this week on the details of a unity government. Mr. Abbas told reporters in the West Bank city of Ramallah on Saturday that he had asked Mr. Fayyad to “continue with his work until we see the results” of the talks. An Abbas aide, Nabil Abu Rudeineh, suggested that if the talks failed, Mr. Abbas could ask Mr. Fayyad to stay on, The Associated Press reported.
292 2009-03-08 I read the article “Hard Times for Horses” (March 1) with mixed feelings — anxiety for the horses and anger with people. I care for three rescued horses myself, animals who were on their way to the slaughterhouse because their owners were done with them or times got tough. Unrestricted breeding and greed are the causes of this. You see it happening with cats and dogs also.

Breeding for all species should be strictly regulated, with substantial fees collected from those who breed their horses, cats and dogs, so that in hard times the burden of taking care of these animals does not fall entirely on the shoulders of the compassionate people running shelters and rescue facilities.

Readers are invited to submit letters to regionalmail@nytimes.com. Letters are

subject to editing. Please include your name, address and
293 2009-03-08 I read with interest your article “Easing the Way for Bus Riders, at a Cost” (March 1) about the proposal for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to create a new regional bus system that would serve a number of counties. This could relieve Westchester County government of some of its operational expenses.

I am hopeful that this proposal will lead to the eventual merging of county governments and the creation of super-regional governments that can manage our tax dollars more efficiently. I always wondered why we need a separate county bus system when our buses cross county lines. However, transportation is not the only Westchester service that crosses county lines.

Only Westchester County guarantees the bonds and provides financing to the Westchester Medical Center, although it serves seven counties. The hospital even provides helicopter medical services to other counties. The Medical Center should be paid for by all counties using it.

The decisions made by local and county governments in Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties affect bordering communities. A super-regional planning department that would serve all the counties would be more efficient and helpful.

Other departments — social services, health, public works, solid waste and recreation — could also be handled by a super-regional government. There would be fewer elected officials, administrators, commissioners, deputies and staffers. Government would be efficient and less expensive.
294 2009-03-08 IN defiance of all global economic realities, the opening of the 2009 Geneva auto show last week was a pedal-to-the-floor event, a glittering showcase awash in six-figure supercars.

Long known for its emphasis on glamour, the Geneva show appeared determined to stay the course this year, offering little acknowledgment of the grim sales results being announced even as final touches were added to automaker displays.

Aston Martin, Bentley, Bugatti, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Maserati, Pagani, Rolls-Royce, Spyker  and the list goes on  all featured sexy and souped-up new sports cars in their displays here. Others, like the Koenigsegg Quant Concept, which is solar-powered, or the Frazer-Nash Namir, a hybrid styled by Giugiaro, at least nodded to a possible shift toward more sustainable forms of mobility in the future.

The show, which opened to the public Thursday after two press preview days, runs through March 15 at the Palexpo convention center.

Beyond the fantasy cars and playthings, it was not easy to find substance among the exhibits. Volkswagen offered one of the few meat-and-potatoes models with its latest Polo econocar. This is one of VW’s biggest sellers, a high-volume model in Europe that VW hopes to also bring to the United States. Ford offered the Iosis Max design study, a preview of the next-generation Focus.

Opel, General Motors’ European arm, showed the Ampera plug-in hybrid (in G.M.’s lexicon, an extended-range electric vehicle) due to go on sale in late 2011. There’s a big “if” here: the company said its survival might be measured in weeks if more than $4 billion in aid requested from European governments did not come through.

That doubtful future also applied to Chrysler, which had James Press, the company’s vice chairman and president, on hand for upbeat press briefings. Mr. Press said Chrysler was still hopeful of receiving federal funds to help it survive. Chrysler is also exploring an alliance with Fiat to bring new small cars, perhaps to include the Fiat 500, to America.

The attractiveness of such a prospect was underscored by the introduction of the irresistible open-air Fiat 500C, with a canvas sliding roof. Another possible cooperation between auto giants was hinted at by Dieter Zetsche, Daimler’s chief executive, who confirmed that Mercedes-Benz and BMW might work together. Independently, Mercedes unveiled its new E-Class coupe here and BMW showed its Concept 5 Series Grand Turismo.

Nissan unveiled two concepts. The arresting Infiniti Essence design study was one of the show’s most beautiful; the ungainly Nissan Qazana crossover proposal, sort of a dune buggy for downtown dwellers, was among its worst.

It is Geneva, though, and in the auto industry, this is showtime.
295 2009-03-08 The Emirates, including Dubai, has no official policy banning visitors who have also visited Israel, though some travelers who have Israeli stamps on their passport have reported problems at the border.

After the decision to deny a visa to Ms. Peer, a New York-based tour operator, Isramworld, canceled its programs to Dubai. “We were very surprised because in the past, any travelers that had Israeli stamps in their passports were allowed to enter,” said Ilana Apelboim, chief worldwide operations officer at Isramworld.

Religion and sexual preferences, as well, are sometimes cited as reasons for tourists to be denied entry to one country or another.

According to the State Department, United States citizens whose stated purpose of travel was tourism but who engaged in religious proselytizing have been expelled from , which requires foreigners to undertake only the activity for which their visas were issued. And gay and lesbian tour groups have encountered issues visiting certain destinations.

Atlantis, a gay operator, had a charter cruise that was scheduled to make a stop in the during its sailing in January 1998. In late 1997, the tourism minister at the time made a unilateral decision to bar the cruise from calling on the Caymans. Subsequently, the Cayman Islands government established an official policy of nondiscrimination, and Atlantis returned to the islands in 2006, with what was then the world’s largest gay cruise (3,200 passengers).

“Of course, while the universe of gay-friendly destinations continues to expand,” Stephan A. Roth, a spokesman for Atlantis and its sister brand, RSVP Vacations, wrote in an e-mail message, the companies are “careful to avoid any destinations that are openly homophobic or that see frequent occurrences of hostility towards gays and lesbians.”

Mr. Davis of G3 Visas & Passports said a 50-year-old male client with long hair and two earrings was denied a visa to China in 2007. “Those desk officers look at this and say this is totally against our culture,” Mr. Davis said. “American tourists believe they have this overall right to travel and do what they want to do,” he added. “Not every country respects those choices we’re allowed to make.”

With careful planning, it’s possible for many tourists to overcome some entry obstacles, even to countries with rigid restrictions. For example, anyone with a criminal record, including a drunken-driving conviction, should contact a Canadian consulate or embassy before traveling, according to Visit , which specializes in educational tours to the country. Waivers of exclusion may be obtained, though the process can take several weeks.

Travelers who plan to visit Israel and other Middle East countries on the same trip are advised to ask officials not to stamp their passport in Israel but rather to stamp a separate piece of paper, like a landing card, instead.

Another solution: apply for a second United States passport, which is good for two years and costs $75. Travelers must submit a detailed written statement explaining why the second passport is needed — as, for example, when a foreign country would deny a visa or entry to an individual whose passport showed travel to a particular country.

For travelers looking for information on passport, visa and health advice, a good resource is , developed by the International Air Transport Association. A traveler can use the country information tool to plug in her itinerary, passport details and countries visited in the last six months, and the site spits back information on the relevant travel documents, vacations or other requirements needed for that specific trip. Perhaps even more useful, it flags any restrictions that a traveler may encounter.

The State Department’s Web site also lists entry and exit requirements to foreign countries at . For information on countries that ban H.I.V.-positive visitors, go to .
296 2009-03-08 Mr. Paterson’s proposal also calls for beverage distributors to transfer the millions of dollars in unredeemed deposits to the state’s Environmental Protection Fund rather than keep them, as they do now. Similar bills passed the Assembly in recent years but were not heard in the Senate. But Mr. Paterson’s proposal is one of many things being considered in his budget plan, providing more incentive for it to be passed, said Assemblyman Robert K. Sweeney, a Babylon Democrat who heads the Assembly’s Environmental Conservation Committee.

Supporters hail the proposed changes as a way to improve recycling rates while adding to state coffers. But opponents, including beverage manufacturers and distributors and large retail chains, say the proposal places an undue and expensive burden on their industries to collect, refund and recycle bottles and cans.

The proposal would mean about $118 million next year for the Environmental Protection Fund, up from $93 million, according to state estimates. (The Container Recycling Institute, which calculates the figures another way, says the amount would jump to $218 million from $144 million.)

The Environmental Protection Fund pays for programs like land acquisitions and waterfront revitalizations and finances zoos and farmland protection.

The proposal would have far-reaching environmental benefits, as people are apt to recycle bottles when there is money attached and, under the current law, nonredeemable bottles make up a disproportionately large percentage of litter found in parks, streets and riverbanks, said Pete Grannis, commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Conservation.

Since the bottle law took effect 27 years ago, more than 70 percent of beer and soda containers — 90 billion bottles and cans — have been recycled, he said. (Only about 38 percent of cans and bottles are recycled in states without bottle bills, said Judith Enck, Mr. Paterson’s deputy secretary for the environment.)

“It really does provide an incentive for recycling, and I do believe it’s pretty clear that the original bill didn’t contemplate the drinking habits of today’s world,” said Assemblyman Adam Bradley, a Democrat from White Plains. “Everybody drank soda.”

County officials say the governor’s proposal also promotes their environmental agenda. Susan Tolchin, the deputy county executive, said that while the proposal’s impact on recycling in the county is uncertain, the benefits of reducing waste and sending much-needed money to the state are clear.

But opponents said that the measure would cost consumers more and could have ramifications for Westchester beyond the potential for increasing the price of bottled drinks. The bottle bill proposal, along with Mr. Paterson’s proposed 18 percent tax on nondiet sodas, has the Pepsi Bottling Group considering moving its headquarters from Somers to Connecticut, taking more than 1,000 jobs with it.

“Essentially what we’ve created is a tax,” said Jonathan M. Pierce, a spokesman for Real Recycling Reform, which opposes the bill. The group includes representatives of Snapple, which is headquartered in White Plains; the Food Industry Alliance of New York State, which represents the grocery industry; the New York State Restaurant Association; and distributors who work for Heineken USA, based in White Plains.

Mr. Pierce said that the money kept by distributors is used to finance the deposit, redemption and recycling program to begin with and that beverages would ultimately cost more, possibly as much as 15 cents per bottle, if the proposal became law.

Although consumers would still be able to get back 5 cents a bottle, the rest would be needed to meet the increased cost of operating a broader bottle-redemption program, Mr. Pierce said.

“It’s going to increase the cost of doing business in New York,” he said, “and it’s going to increase the cost of a trip to the grocery store.”

SUPPORTERS dispute that contention, saying the only legitimate cost increase associated with the proposal would be 1.5 cents per bottle — the handling fee distributors must pay retailers to collect, refund and recycle the bottles would increase to 3.5 cents from 2 cents.

“That’s totally at the whim of the companies,” Ms. Enck said. “There is no way it’s going to cost 10 cents a bottle to handle this.”

As the program works now, distributors charge the 5-cent deposit per can or bottle to stores, which then charge consumers that amount. Consumers can take empty bottles and cans back to the store in exchange for the refund.

Stores get their deposits, plus the 2-cent-a-container handling fee, when they return the bottles and cans either to the distributor or to a private company, which many large supermarkets use.

In addition to unclaimed deposits, distributors also get to keep money earned from selling bottles and cans to recycling companies, which often prefer material collected from redemption systems over curbside pickup because it tends to be mixed with fewer nonrecyclables.

Retailers say there are hidden costs in the return system, like setting aside space for redemption machines, sanitation costs and paying staff to keep that space maintained and lighted.

Not all business leaders agree that the proposed changes would cost them.

Peter Sobol, legislative liaison for the Empire State Beer Distributors Association, said the neighborhood beer and soda stores that his group represents support Governor Paterson’s proposal as long as the handling fee stores receive is increased to meet costs. He called it unconscionable for distributors to keep unredeemed deposits when the economy is in shambles.

“Not many are sharing in that pot,” Mr. Sobol said. “At a time when everything is being cut back — health care, education — for the state not to grab these unredeemed nickels just doesn’t make sense.”

Ms. Salko, the Larchmont teacher and recycler, said she firmly believed that attaching money to recycling made it more attractive, particularly for children like her son, Michael, 14, who takes a recyclable water bottle to school daily.

Mr. Pierce said he does not buy that argument, saying the state is more interested in recouping money from unredeemed deposits than promoting environmental responsibility. If more and more people recycle, he said, there will be little money left for the state to claim.

Ms. Enck, however, said losing cash to high recycling rates is the least of her worries.

“We would love to have that problem,” she said.
297 2009-03-08 “I don’t know where ‘Emily’ originally came from,” said Urs Bührer, the hotel’s director, referring to one of the sculpture’s many nicknames. “But I found her in an art gallery in Ascona, in southern Switzerland. She was pushed off into a corner. She was dusty and dirty. I did not know who she was then, but she was exquisite. The gallery owner said she was previously owned by a wealthy collector of Rolls-Royce cars in Germany. The gallery was liquidating its collections, so I bought her.”

Mr. Bührer estimates the unsigned statute dates from before World War II, perhaps much earlier. Someone went to great expense to commission this precisely detailed rendition of Miss Thornton. “She is made of bronze, with a layer of silver,” he noted.

Mr. Bührer thought Emily, in her Spirit of Ecstasy pose and flowing sheer gown, would be a perfect adornment for the newly renovated Palace bar. Bellevue is indeed something of a palace, as it is next to the Swiss Parliament Building.

It took three men to lift her statute into Mr. Bührer’s car that day late last summer. But soon Emily was on her way to Bern. It was somewhat odd that she should find a home in the heart of Switzerland, which actually banned her in the early 1970s. Lawmakers decided her placement on the hood of Rolls Royce cars constituted a danger to pedestrians, should they be hit. Rolls-Royce responded by making the mascot’s pedestal spring-loaded, so it would retract into the cowl in case of an impact.

Now, from her perch in the Palace’s bar, the Spirit of Ecstasy has become something of an attraction. Even the local Rolls-Royce club now meets here.

“Everyone comments on her beauty,” Mr. Bührer said.

The legend of her beauty, and the tragedy of her short life, has inspired auto enthusiasts, songwriters, poets and the art community (which has produced knockoffs of all sizes). Now, a film company has announced it will make a movie about Miss Thornton. It is to star Christian Bale and be directed by Sir Richard Attenborough . The project has the support of the heirs of Lord Montagu.

The Whisper, which shows Miss Thornton with a finger to her lips, as if she were keeping a secret — as indeed the poor secretary and the married Lord Montagu were — was meant for the hood of the Lord’s own new Silver Ghost. Lord Montagu was a noted “automobilist” of the day, who published an illustrated magazine called “The Car.” In 1911 Sykes was commissioned by Rolls-Royce to fashion a variation of Lord Montagu’s mascot, which would soon adorn all Rolls-Royces. The Spirit of Ecstasy was the result, and it has become an enduring icon. Several versions evolved, including ones with Miss Thornton kneeling, so it would easier for the driver to see over her.

The version in Mr. Bührer’s hotel lounge is modeled after the original from 1911. “We have heard that it might be a Rolls-Royce original,” he said, “but we’ve been unable to confirm that.”

Miss Thornton drowned in 1915 when the ship on which she and the Lord were traveling to India was torpedoed by German submarines near Crete. Lord Montagu was rescued.

Karen Vonder Meulen, a Rolls-Royce spokeswoman, said the company has been seeking just such a statue, but had not yet seen the one in Bern. “We found one in a bookstore in Detroit, of all places, but the price was prohibitive,” she said. “This is quite a story; I would like to look into all of this in more detail.”

So would Mr. Bührer, but so far he’s hit a dead end. “For now we will just admire her,” he said. “And salute her each night with a toast.”
298 2009-03-08 A proposal by Gov. David A. Paterson in his 2009-10 budget plan would expand the bottle law and change who receives unclaimed deposit money. Currently, the state’s bottle law covers carbonated drinks like beer or soda and lets beverage distributors keep the 5-cent deposits not turned in — $93 million a year, according to state estimates. The governor’s proposal would add the nickel deposit to noncarbonated drinks and send unclaimed deposits to the state’s Environmental Protection Fund.

The added millions would help close the state’s yawning budget deficit, government and environmental officials said. “What’s driving it this year is that the state needs money,” said Laura Haight, a senior environmental associate with the New York Public Interest Research Group, which supports the proposal. “The stars might be lining up.”

Robert K. Sweeney, a Babylon Democrat who heads the State Assembly’s Environmental Conservation Committee and has proposed a similar measure in the past, said Mr. Paterson’s proposal was one of many things being considered in his budget, which provides more incentive for it to be passed. Previous bills, like Mr. Sweeney’s own, have passed the Assembly but were not heard in the Senate.

The legislation is also of interest for those concerned about Long Island’s waterways and 400 miles of beaches. Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said he finally understood the issue after wading waist deep into a bottle-clogged stream at the Roosevelt Preserve alongside the Meadowbrook Parkway during a cleanup effort last summer.

“It was like a light going on in my head,” he said. “There were literally thousands of bottles down there washed in from storm drains and creeks, and all of them were water bottles or nondeposit bottles.”

Mr. Suozzi said he believed an expanded deposit program was a good way to handle such trash. “Public policy driven by self-interest is the most effective policy,” he said.

For most people, the association with the state’s Returnable Container Act begins by feeding an empty bottle into a reverse vending machine at a supermarket or reclamation center. If returnable, the bottle drops into an internal bin to be crushed or ground into fragments. A slip of paper redeemable for cash inside the store pops out or coins drop into a payout slot.

The money comes from retailers, who pay beverage distributors the 5-cent deposit when they buy the drink and get the money back from the distributors when they turn the bottles in. In New York, about 70 percent of returnable bottles are brought back, according to Nypirg. That has resulted in 90 billion containers recycled and 6 million tons of glass, aluminum and plastic kept out of landfills since the bill was passed 27 years ago, Nypirg officials said.

What no one anticipated then was the explosion of unfizzy drinks not covered by the deposit incentive — like bottled water, fruit juice and sports drinks — which now make up almost a third of the beverage market. Each year, nearly 2.5 billion bottles of water are sold in New York, Ms. Haight said.

Another significant proposed change involves the unreturned nickels pocketed by the beverage distributors. If noncarbonated drinks also required deposits, the amount retained by distributors would climb to $118 million from the $93 million now retained without changing who gets the money, the state said. The Container Recycling Institute, which calculates the figures another way, says the amount kept now by distributors would jump to $218 million from $144 million.

The proposal would also increase the handling fee paid to grocery stores and redemption centers to 3.5 cents per container from 2 cents to offset the cost of the new wave of returnable bottles.

Some in the beverage industry said the proposed changes disproportionately burden distributors, especially since bottles and cans account for only 3 percent of the waste stream.

“It’s just bad public policy,” said John Pierce, a spokesman for New Yorkers for Real Recycling Reform, a coalition of large and small businesses including convenience and grocery stores. “It doesn’t make sense from an environmental standpoint because it ignores most of the problem.”

That is seconded by Scott Vitters, global director of sustainable packaging for Coca-Cola, who said, “To us, it’s a 20th-century solution for a 21st-century problem.”

Mr. Vitters said he would like more attention paid to expanded municipal curbside pickup programs that would recycle all types of waste, not just bottles. Another possible comprehensive solution, he said, was an approach like that of RecycleBank, a company begun in Philadelphia and spreading to other states, that weighs recyclable material at curbside and gives households credit toward coupons good at stores like Home Depot and Starbucks.

Ms. McLaughlin of the Container Recycling Institute said that while curbside collection was fine, bottled water and soft drinks need special attention because they are usually consumed and the containers thrown away on the go. “People don’t empty shampoo bottles when they’re driving down the street and throw them out the window,” she said.

Most Long Island municipalities do not separate return bottles from the recycling bin, but instead turn over the contents to private recycling businesses, most of which sell the entire load for scrap, said Pete Sidote, owner of Recycling in Communities Inc. in Brentwood. Mr. Sidote’s company is one of the few that does weed out and redeem returnable bottles in material it receives, mainly from the Town of Islip and a few waste disposal firms.

“It’s labor intensive,” he said of the process. “Most towns, if it’s not cost effective for them to take the bottles out, they would rather haul them off to a landfill.”

Both sides agree that recycling is an ideal way to eliminate waste and keep bottles out of landfills. This is what goes on at places like Pure Tech Plastics, in Farmingdale, one of only two plastic-recycling plants in the state.

Inside is a Willy Wonka-like environment filled with bottles that have been sorted, pulverized and washed. The purified result is melted, turned into long, clear strands of plastic and chopped into flake that resembles mounds of tiny diamonds. This is trucked to large-scale manufacturers to be turned once more into bottles or clear plastic containers like those used for strawberries.

“Plastic in a landfill,” said the plant’s general manager, George Smilow, shaking his head. “What a waste.”
299 2009-03-08 We chatted about our families in a pidgin of English, Hindi and Nepali as Pushpa brought up a tray of biscuits with tea plucked from the nearby Darjeeling hills. Pushpa and her family belong to the tenth of humanity who live in India’s villages. The other nine-tenths hardly ever visit. Good excuses are getting harder to come by, as cheap guestrooms have opened up in dozens of villages, almost all with the help of local charitable agencies or, more recently, the Indian government and the United Nations Development Program.

“The look and feel of these places is very different from a five-star hotel,” Leena Nandan, an official in the tourism ministry, told me after my trip, a delicate way of saying that guests wanting a shower will often find themselves presented with a bucket of hot water. “Once that understanding and appreciation is there, I think visitors like going under and getting to know the people. People are at the heart of this.”

The journey to Samthar from the nearest town is a five-hour drive along winding, jungly mountain tracks packed into a shared jeep in a thighs-kissing squash with your new neighbors. After we had pulled into Samthar, a man remained in the back of the jeep looking dazed and sad as blood gelled his hair in a spreading sticky patch, secreted from a wound punched in by a particularly vicious bump in the road. Another passenger — a local nurse named Mary — made her diagnosis: “He’s drunk,” she said in English, scrunching her face in disapproval. “Chang!” she sighed, which sounded like it could be idiomatic Nepali for “Ah, c’est la vie”.

Chang, it turned out, was actually the region’s homebrewed millet beer: sweet on the tongue, but it sometimes sours village relations.

Krishna and I had a couple of pints amicably enough on my first night, each sucking on a bamboo straw slotted through the lid of a heavy metal tankard, playing cards with a pack so softened with age it was beyond shuffling.

But I learned that things often end badly after a night of chang drinking. One afternoon, I accidentally made an appearance at a meeting of the village council, which was cooling a chang-fired dispute. Moments before I barreled into the council hall, the sarpanch, the village’s elected leader, had ruled on a row between two families who sat sternly facing each other across the room, scythes at their feet.

Pranay, a local government official, filled me in. He explained that this was a routine case: the accused was ordered to hand over 51 rupees, about $1, to the complainant’s family for saying, while drunk, things he should not have said.

“Sometimes there’s a killing out in the fields and the murderer runs away, but this is once in a blue moon,” Pranay said. “How long are you staying in the village for?”

“Just a few days,” I said. “Why, is there a blue moon coming up?”

“Only a few days?” he said, appalled. “You have to stay at least two or three months to enjoy this place, to even begin to understand it. What are you going to learn in three days?”

The principal activity for guests at village homestays is observing and joining in the humdrum rhythms of village life. For instance, I helped Krishna harvest rice: he gave me his sickle and I amateurishly cut down three kindling-dry bunches. Nearby, one of his sons was spreading cow dung on the ground using both his hands. He beckoned me to join in. I didn’t.

I soon neglected my chores. It was far more fun to be shown around the village by Pushpa. Between house calls, I got stuck in traffic jams with goats and their herders coming in the opposite direction on narrow sloping tracks. Technicolor butterflies lollopped by as big as dolled-up bats. I sometimes stopped to inspect giant spiders, bodies the size of blackened plums, as they floated in midair against vast Himalayan backdrops, but never for too long, figuring that if they could string up a web between trees more than five yards apart they could just as easily pounce on my face.

We visited a friend of Pushpa who lives in Samthar’s Christian enclave in a home decorated with pictures of the pope, where we discussed our young host’s crush on Prashant Tamang, a Darjeeling native who won “Indian Idol.” After that we sat around an anvil with a blacksmith, who said he mostly makes sickles, but, because everyone in this village of farmers already had a set of sickles, business was slow.

Later, I met Pushpa’s uncle on a track that he himself had helped scratch out of the mountainside. He described the equation of village life: “The weather’s better here, the air is cleaner, the people here are the best,” he said in Hindi. “But there’s less money to be made here. Much less.” For the Bhujels, at least, things are changing. Back home, Deo, Pushpa’s teenage cousin, said he wanted to be a grass cutter when he grows up, even though grass cutting is already part of his morning chores. Pushpa, who is in her early 20s, hesitantly said she wanted to be a doctor.

But later, while cooking dinner, Pushpa, whose mother married at 16, spoke with more conviction. “I will have my own success first, and only after that get married,” she said in English with a husky laugh. Her smile never fully fading, she served the rice and vegetables to me and her father at the table; then she served seconds; and only then, once the men’s plates were cleared, in keeping with the traditional rules of womanhood here, did she eat, sitting on the floor by the stove.

HOW TO GET THERE

From New Delhi, Jet Airways (www.jetairways.com), Indian Airlines (indian-airlines.nic.in) and Kingfisher Air (www.flyairdeccan.net) fly to Bagdogra Airport near Siliguri, starting at about $200. The airport is about four or five hours in a taxi from Kalimpong, the nearest town to Samthar.

Gurudongma Tours (91-3552-255204; www.gurudongma.com) runs the homestay, and can also arrange overnight stays in Kalimpong and onward transport to Samthar; contact Catherine Pradhan Lobo at (91) 94340-62100 or Jimmy Singh at (91) 94340-47273. Two families in Samthar and a third family in a nearby village now offer homestays, costing 2,250 rupees (about $42 at 53 rupees to the dollar) per person per night, including fresh home-cooked meals and water that has been boiled and filtered.

Himalayan Homestays (91-1982-250953; www.himalayan-homestays.com) puts guests up with families in the sun-flooded stone cottages of Ladakh, one of the Himalayas’ more spectacular corners. Rates start at about $12 per person.

The Indian tourism ministry’s village homestay project is the most ambitious. Its Web site (www.exploreruralindia.org) lists 28 villages from the high Himalayas to the humid rice paddies of Kerala, all offering varying degrees of austerity. Be prepared to encounter confusing development jargon (“hardware” loosely translates as buildings, “software” means people) when speaking with the nongovernmental organizations that arrange your trip.

Leena Nandan, joint secretary at the tourism ministry, recommends that guests stick to bottled water, which is usually available to buy onsite. Cooks have been trained in food hygiene at government-run sites and told to go easy on the spices unless otherwise asked; meals tend to be fresh-cooked local produce, and are often vegetarian.

The guestrooms in Samthar have electricity, en-suite bathrooms with Western-style toilets and sinks with running water, unlike most homes in the village, and buckets of hot water are lugged up to your room for bathing; some other sites may be more basic, with kerosene lamps, indoor squat toilets and jugs of water in place of the toilet paper that strikes many Indians as a frivolous Western habit.

Your doctor will advise you on vaccinations and malaria prophylaxis; Odomos is an effective and cheap mosquito repellent cream easily available in India.
300 2009-03-08 IGNORE the worldwide recession -- it's pedal-to-the-floor at the Geneva auto show this year, a glittering showcase for six-figure supercars that seems unwilling to acknowledge the grim sales results being announced even as final touches were added...
301 2009-03-08 The Room for Debate blog on nytimes.com invited readers last week to comment on sports records that will be hard, and maybe impossible, to break. The responses ranged from baseball and basketball to cricket, from squash to Charlie Brown.     HANDS...
302 2009-03-09 Citigroup chief executive Vikram Pandit sought to reassure Citi colleagues Monday that the bank's capital ratios and earnings power are strong. DealBook has the internal memo....
303 2009-03-09 Mike Tranghese, the outgoing commissioner of the Big East, reflects on his 19 years at the top of the conference....
304 2009-03-09 Is that egg on my face? Sure looks like it. I wrote a column a month ago sympathizing with Dow Chemical and its unwillingness to complete its $15 billion purchase of Rohm & Haas, the Philadelphia-based specialty chemical company. The essential Dow...
305 2009-03-09 Update | 5:51 p.m. Shares of Genentech climbed on Monday afternoon following reports that the biotechnology company was close to a deal to be acquired by Roche Holding for $95 a share. Genentech's shares rose for a time above Roche's most recent o...
306 2009-03-09 He had already gotten more than $8 million out of Germany's richest woman; when he tried for even more, she got fed up and went to the police....
307 2009-03-09 Wolfram Alpha, a new search engine that isn't even available for public use, is being touted as a challenger to Google. Yet a technology, no matter how good, is only one element of a company's success....
308 2009-03-09 From Paris, Anne Christensen wrote in to The Moment's Twitter page: "Houndstooth, lace and the vegan alternative to the leather thigh high at Stella McCartney." Watch a slide show of the new Stella McCartney collection here....
309 2009-03-09 A former detainee claims that he was tortured while in U.S. custody and says that part of the treatment he endured included being forced to listen to one Eminem record at high volume, 24 hours a day for a month, while shackled in the dark....
310 2009-03-09 Drug maker Merck is buying competitor Schering-Plough for $41.1 billion in cash and shares, Marketwatch.com reported from London this morning. The two companies already partner on cholesterol drugs Zetia and Vytorin, but sales of those drugs dropped 20 percent in the last quarter of 2008 because of questions about their effectiveness.

Some 50,000 applicants to nursing schools were turned away last year because there weren't enough spots, even as a nursing shortage leaves hundreds of thousands of jobs vacant and threatens the quality of care in hospitals and nursing homes, Reuters reports. The federal stimulus package contains some $500 million to address health staffing shortages, of which about $100 million will go to address the nursing shortfall.

Stimulus Money to Help Pay for Insurance for the Unemployed in Massachusetts

Thousands of unemployed Massachusetts residents will be able to get health insurance at a fraction of the usual cost under a state plan to combine federal stimulus money with an existing state assistance program, The Boston Globe reports. The plan will help offset the high cost of coverage under Cobra, the federal law permitting which lets newly unemployed workers maintain their employer-provided coverage.

Beset by Diabetes, More Saudis Have Feet Amputated

Almost 100 people have a foot amputated each month in the capital of Saudi Arabia as diabetes increases in the oil-rich country, Agence France-Presse reports. About one-quarter of all Saudis have diabetes, according to government figures, and increasingly young people are being forced to have limbs amputated as a result of complications.

An unusual government program in Nigeria encourages people with AIDS to marry each other in an effort to stop the spread of H.I.V., the Associated Press reports. A program run by the Bauchi state in heavily Muslim northern Nigeria offers financial incentives to help newlyweds who are infected set up a home together; the state doesn't introduce couples but steps in to encourage legal unions. About 4 million Nigerians are H.I.V. positive.
311 2009-03-09 Applesauce adds flavor to pork loin without overwhelming it with sweetness....
312 2009-03-09 Despite a healthy dose of speculation that Google might buy Twitter, the search giant's chief, Eric Schmidt, reiterated Friday that it was unlikely to happen any time soon. When asked about a possible deal for the microblogger in an interview with...
313 2009-03-09 Credit Suisse and Swiss Re both announced the appointment of new chairmen on Monday, shifting executives in an effort to limit the impact of the financial crisis, Reuters writes. Walter Kielholz will step down as chairman at bank Credit Suisse to ...
314 2009-03-09 ABC has greenlit two TV show pilots touching on the market debacle of the year, including a comedy that marries the "Friends" concept to a group of bankers suddenly unmoored from their securities firm, according to Advertising Age....
315 2009-03-09 Istithmar World Capital, the Dubai sovereign wealth fund which has been shedding holdings to raise cash, is looking to unload more assets, although its chief says it won't let go of Barneys New York for less than $825 million. The investment firm ...
316 2009-03-09 British hedge fund Lansdowne Partners has banked almost 13 million pounds by shorting insurer Aviva, and could increase that amount if Aviva announces a rights issue. Hedge funds, which have been able to trun healthy profits shorting banks ahead o...
317 2009-03-09 Japan's Nikkei stock index lost 1.2 percent on Monday, closing at its lowest level since the first week of October 1982, The New York Times's Mark McDonald reports. Major markets in Asia also followed the Nikkei down, with the Hang Seng Index in H...
318 2009-03-09 From Miguel Helft at Bits: Maybe there weren't shouts of "down, baby, down." But on Google campuses across the world on Friday, many employees were no doubt hoping the company's shares would drop. That's right, drop. That's because Google is using...
319 2009-03-09 Merck, the American pharmaceutical giant, will pay $41 billion to acquire its rival Schering-Plough, the two companies said Monday. The companies said in a joint statement that the merged company would keep the name Merck, and that the deal had be...
320 2009-03-09 New York Daybook: Get together with inventors, daydream about Coney Island's future, or watch locals face off in the boxing ring....
321 2009-03-09 A court-appointed receiver notified 1,000 employees of the Stanford Financial Group on Friday that their jobs were terminated in an effort to preserve the value of whatever resources were left in the company, The New York Times's Clifford Krauss r...
322 2009-03-09 Struggling U.S. carmaker General Motors denied a weekend newspaper report its German unit Opel was preparing for insolvency. "This scenario is currently not on the agenda," a GM Europe spokesman told Reuters on Sunday. German newspaper Die Welt ha...
323 2009-03-09 Switzerland rejects U.S. demands that the country's largest bank UBS should hand over the data of 52,000 U.S. clients, Swiss newspaper Berner Zeitung quoted the Swiss justice minister as saying on Saturday, according to Reuters. The group of exper...
324 2009-03-09 Redcorp Ventures, a Canadian gold-and-silver mining company, filed for bankruptcy in the United States and Canada, citing cost overruns and a lack of financing. It listed assets of as much as $100 million and debt of as much as $500 million in Cha...
325 2009-03-09 Wall Street ended a week of battering sell-offs on an mildly positive note as stock markets closed mostly higher despite a report showing that unemployment had surged to its highest level in 25 years, The New York Times's Jack Healy writes. Unders...
326 2009-03-09 The short form of tweets gives rise to a new generation of jokesters....
327 2009-03-09 MIPIM, the annual property show, opens in Cannes on Tuesday, with fewer yacht parties on the agenda and the industry eager for any whisper of positive news. Organizers are calling this year's event "the most important MIPIM in the event's 20 year ...
328 2009-03-09 Everton rallied past Middlesbrough, 2-1, on Sunday to set up an F.A. Cup semifinal against Manchester United in April at Wembley. Arsenal defeated the lower-tier club Burnley, 3-0, to reach the quarterfinals. Held up by postponements and replays, Arsenal will face Hull in a quarterfinal. The winner will play Chelsea in the semifinals.

¶Ronaldo scored his first goal since returning to soccer more than a year after knee surgery, sending Corinthians to a 1-1 tie against Palmeiras in the São Paulo state championship in Brazil. Ronaldo, a 32-year-old striker, ruptured a tendon in his left knee while playing for A.C. Milan in February 2008.
329 2009-03-09 More people rode the nation’s public buses, subways and commuter trains last year than in any year since 1956, when the federal government created the Interstate highway system, according to a report by a transit association.

Americans took nearly 10.7 billion rides on public transportation in 2008, a 4 percent increase over the previous year, according to the report, by the American Public Transportation Association, a nonprofit organization that represents transit systems. The report was to be released on Monday in Washington at the association’s annual conference.

Use of public transportation in the United States has risen 38 percent since 1995, the report said.

Ridership surged after gasoline prices hit $4 a gallon last summer and held steady in the fall after gas prices fell, the report found. But few experts expect the growth to continue this year, in part because transit systems across the country are raising fares and cutting service as the tax revenue they rely on plummets during the recession.

But for transit operators, last year’s mark was something to savor. It was the most trips on public transit since 1956, when Elvis Presley released “Heartbreak Hotel,” Soviet tanks quashed an uprising in Hungary, and Congress passed the Federal-Aid Highway Act, which created the Interstate highway system and lured commuters to trade in their tokens and bus tickets for car keys.

Transit officials were especially heartened that Americans continued to turn to public transportation in the last quarter of the year, even after gas prices dropped.
330 2009-03-09 On Monday, Mr. Obama will throw open the door much farther with an executive order that will “make clear that the government intends to support” human embryonic stem cell research, said Harold Varmus, the president of , who advises Mr. Obama on science matters.

To the delight of patients’ groups and scientists, the order will allow research on hundreds of stem cell lines already in existence, as well as ones yet to be created, typically from embryos left over from fertility treatments that would otherwise be discarded.

The order comes just in time for researchers to take advantage of money in Mr. Obama’s economic recovery package and use it for stem cell studies. But because of the Dickey-Wicker amendment, federal researchers would still be unable to create their own stem cell lines.

Mr. Obama has no power to overturn the Dickey-Wicker ban. Only Congress, which attaches the ban to appropriations bills, can overturn it. Mr. Obama has not taken a position on the ban and does not intend to, , his chief domestic policy adviser, said Sunday. The president believes stem cell research “should be done in compliance with federal law,” she said, adding that Mr. Obama recognizes the divisiveness of the issue. “We are committed to pursuing stem cell research quite responsibly but we recognize there are a range of beliefs on this,” she said.

Because embryonic stem cells are capable of developing into any type of cell or tissue in the body, many scientists and advocates for patients believe they hold the possibility for treatments and cures for ailments as varied as and heart disease. Some researchers say stem cells may someday be used to treat catastrophic injuries, like damage to the spinal cord.

Mr. Bush twice vetoed legislation that would have expanded his 2001 policy. Although Mr. Obama’s action on Monday has broad bipartisan support, it could still be overturned by a successor so House Democrats are expected to draft legislation that would codify the president’s executive order.

But with Mr. Obama revisiting the Bush policy, Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of and a leading advocate for embryonic stem cell research, said Sunday in an interview that overturning the embryo experiment ban might not be as far-fetched as some critics imagine.

Ms. DeGette said the first move for lawmakers would be to turn the steps Mr. Obama takes by executive order on Monday into law. But she said she was also talking to her colleagues about overturning the broader Dickey-Wicker restriction.

“Dickey-Wicker is 13 years old now, and I think we need to review these policies,” Ms. DeGette said. “I’ve already talked to several pro-life Democrats about Dickey-Wicker, and they seemed open to the concept of reversing the policy if we could show that it was necessary to foster this research.”

A senior House Democratic leadership aide, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the issue, said overturning the ban “would be difficult, but not impossible,” adding, “It’s not something that we would do right away, but it’s something that we would look at.”

Fertility researchers also believe the climate is ripe to allow federal money for their work, especially in light of the recent controversy over the birth of in , said Sean Tipton, a spokesman for the American Society for Reproductive Medicine.

“I think we’re thrilled that the president is going to lift the restrictions on embryonic stem cell research,” Mr. Tipton said Sunday. “It is clear, though, that Congress needs to remove the restrictions it puts on other forms of embryo research.”

Already opponents are bracing for a battle. “The administration now steps onto a very steep, very slippery slope,” said Douglas Johnson, legislative director for the National Right to Life Committee. “Many researchers will never be satisfied only with the so-called leftover embryos.”

One Republican lawmaker, Representative of , is calling Mr. Obama “the abortion president,” and is planning his own event on Monday to protest Mr. Obama’s new stem cell policy.

Mr. Smith said in an interview Sunday that he did not think lawmakers would go along with overturning the embryo experiment ban.

“I don’t think it will fly because the movement in the country is in favor of life,” he said. “For Congress to say that the new guinea pig will be human embryos, most Americans will find that highly offensive.”

Mr. Obama’s announcement on Monday will be part of a broader initiative to make good on his pledge to separate science and politics. Dr. Varmus, a former director of the who is a co-chairman of a panel that advises Mr. Obama on science issues, said the president would issue a memorandum to “restore public confidence in the process by which scientific policy is used to guide government action,” by directing his administration to draft guidelines for the use of scientific information and the appointment of outside science advisers.

In reversing the stem cell policy Mr. Bush put in place in August 2001, Mr. Obama will direct the National Institutes of Health to come up with new stem cell research guidelines within 120 days.

Ms. DeGette said she is already talking to the White House about what the bill might say.

“It’s a wonderful development tomorrow,” she said, “but it’s really the first step in opening up ethical cell-based research.”
331 2009-03-09 EL FASHER, Sudan (AP) — President Omar Hassan al-Bashir of Sudan threatened on Sunday to kick out more aid groups and expel diplomats and peacekeepers on his first trip to Darfur since the International Criminal Court ordered his arrest on charges of war crimes.

Sudan has already expelled 13 of the largest aid groups operating in Darfur in defiant response to the warrant issued last week by the court in The Hague.

The Sudanese Army announced Sunday that it was mobilizing three-quarters of its troops, preparing for full alert, according to the Sudan Media Center, a news agency closely linked to the government.

Brandishing a sword here in the North Darfur capital, Mr. Bashir told thousands of cheering supporters that other foreign groups could be ordered to leave if they got involved with the war crimes case.

“Whoever deviates, we will not let them stay, whether a voluntary organization, an envoy, a diplomatic mission or a security force,” he said.

The international court accuses Mr. Bashir of leading a counterinsurgency against Darfur rebels that involved rapes, killings and other atrocities against civilians. Up to 300,000 people have died and 2.7 million been driven from their homes in the conflict since 2003, according to the United Nations.
332 2009-03-09 “We’re definitely not closing yet. But we’re going to see what happens in the next year,” said Beata Moskal, who opened the Lublin Deli on Beach 116th Street in May and has already considered closing. “People are buying very little.”

Through the 1950s, Rockaway Park had been a thriving beach community. The neighborhood remains a mix of older Irish-American families and newer immigrants like Ms. Moskal, who came from Poland. But over the decades, tourists and beachgoers went elsewhere, hotels became single-room occupancy buildings, nursing homes proliferated and 99-cent stores replaced more high-end retailers. More recently, even some 99-cent stores have gone out of business.

When the real estate boom came along five years ago, it looked like the neighborhood would recover. In 2006, the Rockaways had 45 major land sales for a combined $21 million, according to the real estate brokerage Massey Knakal Realty Services. That same year, the Engel Berman Group wrapped up construction of the condo tower Ocean Grande that borders Beach 116th Street. About 500 new condominiums were planned for the area, according to Rose Breslin, a local real estate broker. Hays Ventures, a real estate investment firm and developer, tried to buy up parts of 116th Street.

As condo developers flooded to the peninsula, the local community board tried to impose some order on the building boom by pushing to rezone about 280 blocks of the peninsula. Along Beach 116th Street, the rezoning eased rules to allow more residential buildings with street-level stores in the area nearest the ocean. But by the time the City Council approved the rezoning, on Aug. 14, 2008, the market had started to change. “If the recession didn’t happen, we probably would have been building,” said Ms. Breslin of West End Realty. “116th Street would have been cleaned up.”

Sean Barnes, a Massey Knakal broker, said that when he called clients with the news that the zoning had passed, they were indifferent. He said that by then, his pool of buyers shrunk from “hundreds” to experienced “professionals.”

As he stood in the dark and chilly confines of The Beach Club, an event space he has been trying to sell since Nov. 1, Mr. Barnes talked about his difficulties making a deal for the building, one of the retail strip’s more desirable addresses. He said he received only six offers before the Evenhar Development Corporation, which built a nearby condominium project, the Seavon, agreed to buy it for less than the $4.5 million asking price. The deal is expected to be finalized by May.

Even in the current economy, some sellers will not lower their asking prices. Kevin Stile, a broker at Bergen Basin Realty, has been trying to sell the Lawrence Hotel across the street from The Beach Club for more than six months. He said that buyers want to pay far less than what the owner wants for the property. While the owner declined to speak for this article, Mr. Stile said he could understand why he would want to hold out for a higher price.

“It is prime real estate,” said Mr. Stile. “At one point it was going for a lot more.”

Now the recession is dealing a secondary blow to even the most established businesses on the retail strip. At Brown’s Hardware, which has been on Beach 116th Street for more than 40 years, business had slowed because fewer residents are renovating their bathrooms and kitchens, said Noni Ostrow-Signoretti, a co-owner of the store. She also never received all of the new customers she thought would have moved in.

“We haven’t had the influx of people,” she said.

But some businesses are treating the end of the real estate boom as an opportunity to move onto the retail strip at cheaper rents. Liz Smith Breslin shopped for retail space for her store, The Blue Bungalow, in 2007. But as an owner of a start-up business, she could not afford the street’s rent and found some space nearby. She recently negotiated a deal on rent on Beach 116th Street and is moving her store in the coming weeks. Ms. Breslin, a longtime resident, is hopeful that customers will come and her neighborhood will hold on.

“People still have to buy gifts,” she said. “You have to take chances in life and I’m a big, big supporter of my community.”
333 2009-03-09 Andy Roddick again closed out a victory for the United States Davis Cup team.

Roddick swept past Switzerland’s Stanislas Wawrinka in straight sets on Sunday, leading the United States to a 4-1 opening-round victory in the best-of-five series in Birmingham, Ala. Roddick, ranked sixth in the world, is 11-0 with a chance to close out a Davis Cup series.

This one was emphatic: 6-4, 6-4, 6-2. The United States will face Croatia in the quarterfinals July 10-12.

Roddick’s 31st Davis Cup win moved him into second place on the United States list, 10 behind John McEnroe.

“I’m kind of a nerd about the history of our sport,” Roddick said. “It was kind of in the back of my mind. There’s probably a few moments in your career where you can sit back and be a little impressed.”

Dominating with his serve, Roddick faced only one break point during the match and had 14 aces. The United States has won 20 consecutive matches after taking a 2-1 lead. The Americans did not have to contend with Roger Federer, who was out with a back injury.
334 2009-03-09 NISSENSON--Samuel, on March 7th, 2009. Beloved husband of Gloria, loving father of Jenny and Jim, devoted grandfather of Esther and Shea. Services Tuesday March 10th, 11:30am at "The Riverside", 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue....
335 2009-03-09 WORRIES IN DOLLAR'S RISE As the global economy grapples with a lack of confidence and capital, money is flowing to United States government bonds, a condition that appears to be worsening  the crisis elsewhere.      SIX WEEKS AT TREASURY In the si...
336 2009-03-10 Second Stage Theater is postponing its summer production of “Mr. & Mrs. Fitch,” a new play by Douglas Carter Beane, because of a scheduling conflict with the project’s director, Scott Ellis....
337 2009-03-10 The possibilities (and limits) of working-memory training....
338 2009-03-10 On the 50th anniversary of the failed Tibetan uprising against Chinese rule, a former political prisoner reflects on her experience.
339 2009-03-10 The Big East Tournament is in its 30th year. Connor Ennis and Pete Thamel break down the story lines from Madison Square Garden.
340 2009-03-10 The Insight had been scheduled to go on sale on Earth Day (April 22), but production schedules were pulled forward to meet high demand, Honda reported....
341 2009-03-10 Leaders are still trying to untangle gun rights from voting rights....
342 2009-03-10 In an unusually harsh speech, the Dalai Lama said China had transformed Tibet into a “hell on earth.”...
343 2009-03-10 The investment pools that provide much of the hedge fund industry's capital seem to have sprung a leak. Funds of hedge funds, vehicles that earn fees by investing their clients' money in various hedge funds, lost more than $300 billion, or nearly ...
344 2009-03-10 The E.P.A. today proposed a rule that would require a broad range of industries to report their greenhouse gas emissions....
345 2009-03-10 ABC earned a big victory in the ratings on Monday as "Dancing With the Stars" attracted its largest season premiere audience on record....
346 2009-03-10 If Johnson & Johnson - or anyone else, for that matter - is thinking about making a play for Schering-Plough, here's a number worth considering: $1.25 billion. That is the fee that Schering would need to pay to Merck if it accepted a higher offer ...
347 2009-03-10 Does T. Boone Pickens believe that natural gas deposits are part of a divine plan?...
348 2009-03-10 Scenes from the photographer Jacques Habbah's exclusive fashion week diary....
349 2009-03-10 An a.m. roundup of blogospheric opinion....
350 2009-03-10 The Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke on Tuesday called for a broad reworking of how the government regulates the financial system to prevent future financial meltdowns. In a speech before the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, Mr....
351 2009-03-10 CBS is cutting back in the face of the economic crisis, but one of its sub-units, CBS Films, is plowing forward with fresh hires and new projects....
352 2009-03-10 From Joe Nocera at...
353 2009-03-10 Lehman Brothers' private equity business appeared headed for a second life Monday, as investors in the bankrupt bank's buyout arm were expected to vote for its rebirth, albeit in a smaller form, The Financial Times reported. In January, South Afri...
354 2009-03-10 Video | A glimpse at the sometimes cheesy marketing efforts of the global arms trade: an Israeli arms-maker's Bollywood-esque video for the Indian defense ministry's annual air show, featuring bare-midriff girls, flower-draped missiles and the ref...
355 2009-03-10 World stocks rose on Tuesday after three days of consecutive declines knocked them to 6-year lows, while government bonds slipped as fears grew governments may need to issue huge debt to fund economic stimulus packages, Reuters reported. In Europe...
356 2009-03-10 With the healthcare mega-merger party in full swing, others may show up to take part in the festivities. Merck's $41.1 billion deal to buy Schering-Plough, announced Monday, may spur rival drugmakers Sanofi-Aventis and AstraZeneca to find a partne...
357 2009-03-10 Amid a fierce national debate about how to fix General Motors, Rick Newman of U.S. News & World Report sees a lot of merit to the Chapter 11 approach. Mr. Newman, in his "Flow Chart" column, offers up a defense of sending G.M. down the bankruptcy ...
358 2009-03-10 A slump in technology and telecommunications companies pulled Wall Street lower on Monday, as two major market indexes carved new bear-market lows. Companies like Google and Novell, Verizon and AT&T dragged down the broader markets as traders worr...
359 2009-03-10 WASHINGTON — The former mayor of Dallas, Ron Kirk, apparently on course to be the next United States trade representative, told senators on Monday that his main objective as the nation’s top trade official would be enforcing existing law and insisting that America’s trade partners follow the rules.

He made clear that trade policy under President Obama would differ from that of the Bush administration, when the emphasis was on cementing new free trade agreements.

Mr. Kirk, generally supported by the business community as an advocate of expanded trade, said he did not come to the job with “deal fever” and would make his top priority assuring that existing trade partners live up to the rules in areas like labor rights and environmental protection that are already on the books.

He said that of the three pending bilateral free trade deals — with Panama, Colombia and South Korea — Panama was the closest to being sent to Congress. The agreement with South Korea, he said, offered “one of the biggest opportunities we have” to expand sales abroad, but that the current accord “just simply isn’t fair.”The administration “will step away from that if we don’t get it right,” he added.

Revelations that Mr. Kirk, like several other Obama administration nominees, had tax payment problems were barely mentioned in the abbreviated confirmation hearing of the Senate Finance Committee.
360 2009-03-10 Stock market declines are destroying $23 trillion in wealth, according to Lawrence Lindsey. Auto production is down by two-thirds since 2005. In , 20 million migrant laborers have lost their jobs. Investment in developing countries has dropped from $929 billion in 2007 to $165 billion this year. Pension systems are fragile. Household balance sheets are still a wreck.

Republicans could argue that it’s Nero-esque for Democrats to be plotting extensive renovations when the house is on fire. They could point out that history will judge this president harshly if he’s off chasing distant visions while the markets see a void where his banking policy should be.

Second, Republicans could admit that they don’t know what the future holds, and they’re not going to try to make long-range plans based on assumptions that will be obsolete by summer. Unlike the Democrats, they’re not for making trillions of dollars in long-term spending commitments until they know where things stand.

Instead, they’re going to focus obsessively on restoring equilibrium first, and they’re going to understand that there is a sharp distinction between crisis policy-making and noncrisis policy-making. In times like these, you’d do things you would never do normally. When it’s over, we can go back to our regularly scheduled debates.

Third, Republicans could offer the public a realistic appraisal of the health of capitalism. Global capitalism is an innovative force, they could argue, but we have been reminded of its shortcomings. When exogenous forces like the rise of China and a flood of easy money hit the global marketplace, they can throw the entire system of out of whack, leading to a cascade of imbalances: higher debt, a grossly enlarged financial sector and unsustainable bubbles.

If the free market party doesn’t offer the public an honest appraisal of capitalism’s weaknesses, the public will never trust it to address them. Power will inevitably slide over to those who believe this crisis is a repudiation of global capitalism as a whole.

Fourth, Republicans could get out in front of this crisis for once. That would mean being out front with ideas to support the wealth-creating parts of the economy rather than merely propping up the fading parts. That would mean supporting ’s plan for global stimulus coordination, because right now most of the world is free-riding off our expenditures. That would mean eliminating all this populist talk about letting fail, because a cascade of insolvency would inevitably lead to full-scale nationalization. It would mean coming up with a bold banking plan, rather than just whining about whatever the Democrats have on offer.

Finally, Republicans could make it clear that that the emergency has to be followed by an era of balance. This crisis was fueled by financial decadence, and public debt could be 80 percent of by the time it’s over. Republicans should be the party of restoring fiscal balance — whatever it takes — not trillion-dollar deficits as far as the eye can see.

If Republicans were to treat this like a genuine emergency, with initiative-grabbing approaches, they may not get their plans enacted, but voters would at least give them another look. Do I expect them to shift course in this manner? Not really.
361 2009-03-10 One of the more flattering things New Jersey has been called is “the nation’s medicine chest.” But that is becoming less appropriate as the roster of giant drug-making companies based in the state dwindles.

On Monday, two of the biggest pharmaceutical companies with headquarters in New Jersey, Merck and Schering-Plough, announced plans to merge and eliminate about 16,000 jobs. That announcement came just six weeks after Pfizer, based in Manhattan, said it would buy Wyeth, which is based in Madison, N.J.

If the deals are consummated by the end of this year as expected, New Jersey will be home to two fewer Fortune 500 companies, and its status as the leading location for pharmaceutical companies and their high-paying jobs will have slipped a bit further. Analysts said they expected the trend toward consolidation to continue, portending more job losses in the state.

“It’s tough on New Jersey and it’s tough on the economy,” said Dr. Jon LeCroy, who follows pharmaceutical stocks for Natixis Bleichroeder in New York. “These are also mergers of desperation, you could say. The biggest thing they’re going to do is try to cut costs.”

Indeed, Merck executives said they expected to eliminate about 15 percent of the jobs at Merck, which is based in Whitehouse Station, and Schering-Plough, based in Kenilworth. Together, the companies employ more than 105,000 people worldwide. Dr. LeCroy said he expected Pfizer to close Wyeth’s headquarters, where more than 900 Wyeth employees work.
362 2009-03-10 Mrs. Klatten, 46, is married with three children.

She was born Susanne Quandt, into a family whose patriarch, Herbert Quandt, took control of BMW when it was on the verge of bankruptcy in the late 1950s. He was instrumental in turning the company around, and after his death in 1982 he bequeathed to Mrs. Klatten a stake in BMW, where she is on the board, and in the chemical maker Altana.

Forbes estimated her fortune at $13.2 billion in 2008.

Mrs. Klatten’s entanglement with Mr. Sgarbi began in July 2007 at a spa near Innsbruck, Austria. It was there that Mr. Sgarbi, a Swiss citizen with chiseled features and a knack for detecting emotional weakness, caught the eye of Mrs. Klatten, an apparently lonely German matron. She initially rebuffed his overtures, but the two fell into an intimate relationship after he appeared without warning at her vacation home in southern France a month later.

Not long after that they had a tryst at a Holiday Inn in Munich, which an accomplice of Mr. Sgarbi’s filmed from a neighboring room.

At one point, she gave Mr. Sgarbi almost $10 million after he claimed that he had paralyzed a girl during an auto accident and needed to “buy himself free,” according to the indictment. Mrs. Klatten paid him that sum in cash.

Later he demanded 290 million euros, or more than $420 million, during a winding series of contacts with Mrs. Klatten, and threatened to make the hotel film of the two public. At that point, Mrs. Klatten went to the police, and Mr. Sgarbi was arrested in January 2008 at a highway rest stop in Austria, where he was expecting to get more money.

Though Mr. Sgarbi is headed to prison, the case has left one significant loose end, namely the role of an Italian, Ernano Barretta, who was arrested along with Mr. Sgarbi at the rest stop, though he was sitting in a different car.

Mr. Barretta was extradited to Italy, where he is under house arrest and awaiting trial on charges related to the case. Mr. Barretta has a colorful past, having at one point been a religious cult leader, but also an auto mechanic and a car salesman.

The role that prosecutors believe Mr. Barretta played in the case — doing the filming at the Holiday Inn — conveyed the impression that he may have been the mastermind, a clever manipulator even of Mr. Sgarbi during the affair with Mrs. Klatten. Italian investigators later arrested him, but not before capturing his dismay at learning of Mrs. Klatten’s identity in a wiretapped telephone conversation.

“Do you know who this is? The richest woman in Germany,” Mr. Barretta exclaimed, according to German news reports. “She has great power. I have made the biggest mistake of my life.”
363 2009-03-10 HARTFORD — Agnus Berenato, the effervescent Pittsburgh coach, greeted her players with lusty high-fives during a second-half timeout Monday night, not that the Panthers needed much encouragement. Pitt seemed intent on smothering Louisville.

Then Angel McCoughtry, the Cardinals’ elegant senior forward, re-emerged from the chaos created by an opponent’s rugged defense, as she had Sunday against Rutgers. She scored 19 of her game-high 31 points after halftime to lift Louisville to a 69-63 victory in a Big East tournament semifinal at the XL Center.

“Nothing was harder than yesterday,” McCoughtry said, referring to a double-overtime victory over Rutgers. “We were prepared, and we didn’t panic.”

The Cardinals (29-3), the No. 5-ranked team in the nation, will play No. 1 Connecticut (32-0) on Tuesday for the conference title. The Huskies defeated Villanova in the other semifinal, 72-42.

McCoughtry, a 6-foot-1 senior from Baltimore, kept the No. 14 Panthers at bay for a while by scoring 12 points in the span of about eight minutes in the second half. But Pitt (23-7) took a 63-62 lead with 2 minutes 11 seconds left on a layup by Pepper Wilson, its 6-6 freshman center.

Wilson missed a chance to pad her team’s lead by missing the front end of a one-and-one, and Shavonte Zellous, Pitt’s high scorer with 24 points, was called for a loose-ball foul with 1:13 to play. McCoughtry took the inbounds pass, scored and was fouled.
364 2009-03-10 She lined up with about 250 racers who rolled out from St. Francisville, about 30 miles north of Baton Rouge, La., under a foggy sky to test themselves on the back roads. Despite the ruts, few wanted to trade shocks or knobby tires for speed. Almost all rode lightweight road bikes, although at times, many pushed them.

The last stretch of gravel, through the Tunica Hills, tends to do this to people. The land here evolved over thousands of years, forced up as if by a lever by a subsiding Mississippi Delta, its steep grades carved by river tributaries slicing through silty soils.

Racers who were able to stay on their bikes spun slowly through these hills, dwarfed by hardwoods and tall moss-coated embankments veined with exposed tree roots. A man in a blue and white jersey threw his bike frame over his shoulder and plodded uphill.

“Bike racers suffer from this problem,” said Christophe Jammet, 25, an analyst for a hedge fund who came from New York to race. “They like to do things that cause them pain.”

The course was designed to be an homage to the classic Paris-Roubaix road race, professional cycling’s brutal dash across the dust-choked cobblestones of northern France. Nicknamed the Hell of the North, the 160-mile Paris-Roubaix race has been a one-day spectacle of heartbreaking crashes and dogged victories for more than a century.

In that tradition, Rouge Roubaix riders brace for a physical thrashing. Rough roads often lead to flat tires. Descents on gravel raise the possibility of a wipeout or a domino-effect disaster in a speeding peloton.

Staging races like this in the United States remains “somewhat of a novelty,” according to Andy Lee, a spokesman for USA Cycling, the sport’s national governing body.

The Tour of the Battenkill, a dirt and asphalt race held each spring in Cambridge, N.Y., claims to be “America’s biggest and best.” Organizers expect nearly 2,000 amateur and professional riders this year.

The Rouge Roubaix emerged after cyclists from the Baton Rouge area went looking for “absurd, crazy roads,” Evans, the race director, said. Their selection, trailing past open fields and country stores, is part of the draw. Jammet and Gauthier commented on the Rouge Roubaix’s exceptional beauty.

The fastest racers finish in about four and a half hours, and although fate plays a role, fitness and experience are critical.

The skilled cyclists attack the gravel ascents seated, riders said, balancing their weight over both wheels to maximize traction. They stay to the front of the pack to avoid logjams created by slow or dismounting riders. They eat as many calories as manageable, downing blue- and orange-tinted sports drinks handed out by support crews.

Last year, Christian Helmig, a wiry 27-year-old from Grapevine, Tex., who races with the Metro Volkswagen team, did those things and still, a flat tire blow his lead. Yet he called all the gravel “the fun factor.”

He relishes rushing down gravel slopes at 30 to 35 miles per hour, a sentiment, he said, that is not universal among the 14 men and women on his team.

“I know a couple of the guys do not care for those descents at all,” Helmig said.

Support crews helped at least one bloodied rider from the gravel early in the race. The back wheels under many other competitors were sliding side to side, leaving twisting tracks in the dirt.

Chris Mogridge, 37, a developer from Oxford, Miss., said he swore off the event after last year, when he endured harrowing descents and a spent, empty feeling in his muscles.

But on Sunday, he was back, with a video camera mounted on his helmet. He had trained hard on dirt roads and had tinkered with his gearing to make climbing easier. He even lined his tires with a protective product to help ward off flats.

He described his about-face regarding the Rouge Roubaix as almost instinctive.

“You don’t know why,” Mogridge said. “You have to do it.”
365 2009-03-10 But in the severe and paranoid world of the Khmer Rouge prison, guards and torturers themselves worked under threat of death, and Mr. Him Huy saw a number of his colleagues kneel at the edges of their graves for that blow to the back of the neck.

“I used an iron bar about that long,” he said, spreading his hands wide as he told his story late last month, “and about as thick as my big toe.”

At night, sometimes two or three times a week, Mr. Him Huy said, he drove trucks full of prisoners to the Choeung Ek killing field, where he logged them in 20 or 30 or 80 at a time and then confirmed that they had been killed.

He asserted that he had personally killed only five people, as demonstrations of loyalty to his superiors.

At least 14,000 people were arrested and interrogated at Tuol Sleng prison, which was officially known as S-21 and is now a museum. Only a handful survived.

Mr. Him Huy is back home in this village 50 miles south of Phnom Penh. A farmer and the father of nine, he is optimistic, hard-working and quick to smile, seemingly comfortable to be who he is and at ease with his memories. Neighbors seem to like him.

“Even the young people, when they have a party they always invite him,” said his wife, Put Peng Aun. “If there’s a party, he’s got to be there.”

Asked to describe himself, Mr. Him Huy said: “I’m not a bad person. I’m a good man. I never argue with anyone. I never fight with anyone. I have good intentions as a human being.”

But some of those who knew him at the prison remember him harshly. One survivor, Bou Meng, said Mr. Him Huy beat and tortured him, poking at his wounds with a stick. “His face was so mean,” Mr. Bou Meng told the Documentation Center of Cambodia, a private research center. “Today he looks gentle.”

Two of Mr. Him Huy’s co-workers at Tuol Sleng, quoted by the historian David Chandler in his book on the prison, “Voices From S-21,” remembered him as “a seasoned killer, an important figure at the prison and a key participant in the execution process.”

Mr. Him Huy is evasive about the extent of his duties at the prison. But what he did there, he said, he did on pain of death.

“I am a victim of the Khmer Rouge,” he said without hesitation. “I did not volunteer to work at S-21.

“We were all prisoners, those who killed and those who were killed,” he said. “And in fact, for a lot of the staff there, the day came when they were killed, too. In the daytime we’d be eating together, and in the evening some were arrested and killed.”

In a 2001 book about the prison staff called “Victims and Perpetrators?” the Documentation Center calculates that at least 563 members of Tuol Sleng’s staff, about one-third of the total, were executed while working there.

In a way, Tuol Sleng was a microcosm of the nation, where half-starved and overworked people lived in constant fear of being arrested and killed, often for reasons they never learned.

The first defendant in the United Nations-backed tribunal is Mr. Him Huy’s former boss, the prison commandant, a tough, sharp-eyed man named Kaing Guek Eav and generally known as Duch. His trial began last month.

It was Duch who signed execution orders for both prisoners and errant staff members. Indeed, Mr. Him Huy rose to become fifth or sixth in the chain of command after his superiors were pulled from their jobs and killed.

“Yes, I did kill people,” he said. “I did transport people to Choeung Ek. I did verify lists of people at Choeung Ek. But Duch ordered me to do all of that.”

Many Cambodians appear to accept this common defense among former Khmer Rouge cadres: that they had no choice but to be cruel, fearing for their own lives. It is a defense Duch himself has offered in the past.

Chum Mey, another survivor of Tuol Sleng, described 12 days and nights of torture and terror, but without bitterness toward his abusers. “My thought is not to put the blame on Him Huy because I don’t know what I would have done in his place,” he said. “I don’t think I would have been able to disobey.”

Like most other guards and torturers at the prison, Mr. Him Huy was recruited young — easily molded, brutalized and indoctrinated into the paranoia and extremism of this closed world.

The son of a clerk at a fishing company, he joined the Khmer Rouge insurgency at the age of 12 and was transferred to work in the prison when he was 18.

After the fall of the Khmer Rouge, he spent a year in a local jail as punishment for his role in the regime, as many former Khmer Rouge cadres did.

Thirty years have passed since the Khmer Rouge were ousted by Vietnam. Mr. Him Huy is no different from his neighbors, raising a big family and tending to his beans and corn and rice.

At the end of a long interview, he headed back to his bean field, filling a canister with pesticide and marching down the rows of long yellow beans, swinging a hose from left to right.

He made sure, he said, to walk with the wind behind him so that none of the pesticide would blow back in his face.
366 2009-03-10 The first step toward a settlement came on Friday when Dow said that it had renegotiated the terms of a bank bridge loan to give it additional financial flexibility.

Under the new deal, Rohm’s two largest shareholders — the founding Haas family and the hedge fund Paulson & Company — have agreed to buy up to $2.5 billion in preferred stock in Dow as part of the deal. The company also has an option to solicit another $500 million in common stock from the two shareholders if they need it to cushion their debt load.

Dow will pay interest of 15 percent to the two largest shareholders instead of taking on additional debt. The company hopes the addition of equity capital along with about $4.1 billion in near-term asset sales will be enough to maintain their investment-grade credit rating.

The company will also pay a fee of about 99 cents a share to Rohm’s shareholders for failing to close the takeover by the original January deadline.

Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate controlled by Warren E. Buffett, and the Kuwaiti Investment Authority have already agreed to make a combined $4 billion convertible preferred stock investment in Dow after the deal closes.

Dow is also in talks with potential buyers of several business units, including the Morton Salt division of Rohm, which are expected to yield total proceeds of about $4.1 billion.

Dow has been in discussions to sell its agricultural chemicals business, which analysts have said could fetch $7 billion, but Mr. Liveris has indicated that he would rather keep the business than sell it in the current market.

Under the new terms, Dow will have an additional year to pay off the bank bridge loan, and the amount has been reduced by $500 million, to $12.5 billion. The company was also able to adjust some covenants of the loan, which would give it the ability to rework some of the terms if its business continues to deteriorate.

The deal represents a big risk for Mr. Liveris, who now has to cut costs and sell assets amid the global financial crisis while operating under a heavy debt burden, analysts say. Dow plans to cut an additional 3,500 job cuts after the merger and will close 10 to 15 plants.

Investors pushed shares of Dow down about 11 percent on Monday, to $6.33 on worries about the company’s outlook after it acquires Rohm.

“We question the sustainability of Dow’s investment-grade credit rating and its dividend given cyclical weakness and the potential need to refinance a bridge loan,” Kevin W. McCarthy, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, wrote in a research note on Monday.

The deal has already been approved by antitrust regulators and shareholders.
367 2009-03-10 Scientists have discovered that an old antimalaria drug is effective against two fatal viruses that recently jumped from animals to humans.

The closely related viruses, Nipah and Hendra, live in the fruit bats sometimes called flying foxes and are believed to infect animals that eat fruit contaminated with the bats’ urine or saliva.

Nipah was discovered in 1999, when it was blamed for the deaths of 106 people in Malaysia and Singapore, mostly farm or slaughterhouse workers who got it from pigs.

Since 2001, Nipah has killed more than 100 in Bangladesh and India. The early deaths were from brain infections, but in 2004 it also took on a respiratory form transmitted from person to person. Each small outbreak had a different death rate, but most were well over 50 percent.

Hendra was discovered in 1994 in Australia, where it has killed dozens of horses and two of four humans known to have been infected by horses.

Until recently, there was no known treatment. But in the last month, two teams of scientists — one at Cornell’s medical school in New York and one in France — separately discovered that chloroquine, a malaria drug that has been in use for more than 50 years, prevents both viruses from reproducing.

Chloroquine has a long safety record and, in laboratory tests, appears to work at doses even lower than those used to prevent malaria.
368 2009-03-10 If war-story fatigue prevents some theatergoers from checking out “The Lonely Soldier Monologues (Women at War in Iraq),” that will be unfortunate, because this energetically acted example of journalism as theater explores some issues that deserve more attention. Plays and films have parsed the war in Iraq from all sorts of angles — the justifications for American involvement, the treatment of wounded soldiers, the tactical mistakes — but comparatively little has been heard about the increased role of women in the military operations.

Helen Benedict, a journalism professor at Columbia, has interviewed an assortment of female veterans and constructed “The Lonely Soldier Monologues” from their words. If that sounds dry, it isn’t: William Electric Black, her director, has injected the production with plenty of theatricality, using the whole space at Theater for the New City and livening things up with percussion, chanting, even a little audience involvement.

Ms. Benedict, who has also written a book based on her interviews, makes some choices that are less than illuminating. No one wants to hear soldiers whining about rough conditions. (Your tent’s crowded? It’s a war; what did you expect?) And some of what these women complain about has nothing to do with sexism or even the military. (“My team leader was controlling and arrogant,” one grouses. Yeah? You just described 75 percent of the bosses in any hierarchy.)

But the bulk of the dialogue is revelatory and disturbing. Sexual harassment and assault by fellow soldiers is a constant theme. Lack of respect is another, and isolation yet another, women still being a small minority of the military population.

But commendably, the play doesn’t merely ask for equal treatment; it also nods to the particular emotional pressures felt by women in the combat zone, many involving the Iraqi children who would approach soldiers or their convoys.
369 2009-03-10 Today, though, we can start making distinctions, thanks to a series of studies of more than 1,000 people by two psychologists, Carey Morewedge of Carnegie Mellon University and Michael Norton of Harvard. (You can report your dreams to these researchers at TierneyLab, nytimes.com/tierneylab.)

The psychologists began by asking college students in three countries — India, South Korea and the United States — how much significance they attached to dreams. Relatively few students believed in modern theories that dreaming is simply the brain’s response to random impulses, or that it’s a mechanism for sorting and discarding information. Instead, the majority in all three countries believed, along with Freud, that dreams reveal important unconscious emotions.

These instinctive Freudians also considered dreams to be valuable omens, as demonstrated in a study asking them to imagine they were about to take a plane trip. If, on the eve of the flight, they dreamed of the plane’s crashing, they were more likely to cancel the trip than if they saw news of an actual plane crash on their route.

But when the researchers asked people to interpret dreams, some suspiciously convenient correlations turned up. When asked to recall their own dreams, they attached more significance to a negative dream if it was about someone they disliked, and they gave correspondingly more weight to a positive dream if it was about a friend.

A similar bias showed up when people were asked to imagine that they had had various dreams starring a friend or a deity. People rated a dream about a friend protecting them against attackers as being more “meaningful” than a dream about their own romantic partner faithlessly kissing that same friend. People who believed in God were more likely than agnostics to be swayed by divine apparitions.

But even the nonbelievers showed a weakness for certain heavenly dreams, like one in which God commanded them to take a year off to travel the world. Agnostics rated that dream as significantly more meaningful than the dream of God commanding them to spend a year working in a leper colony. (Incidentally, although the preferred term for leprosy is now Hansen’s disease, the deity in the experiment used the old-fashioned term from the Bible.)

Dreamers’ self-serving bias is tactfully defined as a “motivated approach to dream interpretation” by Dr. Morewedge and Dr. Norton in The Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. When asked if this “motivated approach” might also affect dream researchers, Dr. Morewedge pointed to Freud’s tendency to find what he was looking for — sex — in his “Interpretation of Dreams.”

“Freud himself suggested that dreams of flying revealed thoughts of sexual desire,” Dr. Morewedge noted. “Interestingly, in the same text, Freud also suggested that dreams about the absence of the ability to fly — i.e., falling — also indicate succumbing to sexual desire. One might interpret this as evidence that scientists are just as self-serving as laypeople when interpreting their dreams.”

Once you see how flexible dream interpretation can be, you can appreciate why it has always been such a popular tool for decision-making. Relying on your dreams for guidance is like the political ritual of appointing an “independent blue-ribbon panel” to resolve an issue. You can duck any personal responsibility for action while pretending to rely on an impartial process, even though you’ve stacked the panel with your own friends and will ignore any advice that conflicts with your desires. Charity work, no; margaritas, sí.

Even if you don’t believe in your own dreams, the new research suggests that you can learn something from those of others. In the Book of Genesis, when the Pharaoh becomes concerned over his dreams of emaciated cattle and withered ears of corn, it would not be unreasonable for Joseph to conclude that the ruler is worried about the possibility of famine. Joseph would therefore have every motivation to interpret the dream so that the Pharaoh creates a new grain-storage program — and, not incidentally, a new job for Joseph supervising it.

While they doubt that dreams contain hidden insights or prophecies, Dr. Morewedge and Dr. Norton note that dreams can be indicators of people’s emotional state, as evidenced by other researchers’ findings of a correlation between stress and nightmares.

Dreams can also become self-fulfilling prophecies simply because people take them so seriously, Dr. Morewedge and Dr. Norton say. Dreams of spousal infidelity may lead to accusations and acrimony that ultimately lead to real infidelity.

“When friends and loved ones have disturbing dreams,” Dr. Morewedge suggested, “one may need to do more than say, ‘It was just a dream.’ It may also be a good idea not to tell people about their undesirable behavior in your dreams, as they may infer that your dreams reveal your true feelings about them.”

This last caveat applies even when non-Freudians are discussing dreams. Even if you don’t ascribe any deep meaning to dreams, even if you think they’re just random hallucinations that don’t come from gates of ivory or horn or anything else, you should still probably pay attention when, say, your romantic partner tells you about a dream in which you were caught in bed with your partner’s friend.

And you should definitely be concerned if your partner goes on to mention a second dream involving a commandment from God to take a year off and travel the world. If your partner is a highly motivated interpreter of dreams, you may find yourself home alone.
370 2009-03-10 In a chemical plant, the typical reaction vessel is a glass or stainless steel chamber that can hold a volume of reactants, from tens to thousands of liters.

But imagine a reactor that is smaller  much smaller, with a volume far less than a nanoliter, or a billionth of a liter. That’s the idea being developed by Pavel Anzenbacher Jr. and Manuel A. Palacios of Bowling Green State University in Ohio. In a reactor of that size, potentially just a handful of molecules could combine.

Much of the work on creating tiny reactors involves microfluidics, designing small chips with channels and chambers built into them. The Bowling Green researchers opted for a different approach that in some ways is far less complex. It is described in a paper in Nature Chemistry.

Dr. Anzenbacher said the technique used extremely thin fibers spun from polymers with chemical reactants loaded into them. Fibers containing one reactant are laid perpendicularly across others that contain a different reactant. Using heat or solvent vapor, the fibers are fused where they cross, and the reactants combine.

The researchers were able to spin fibers from 100 to 300 nanometers in diameter. Fusing two fibers of that diameter creates a junction with a volume on the scale of attoliters, or quintillionths of a liter. By varying the concentration of the reactants in the fibers, they added, it is potentially possible to create reactions involving just a few molecules.

The researchers showed that the approach worked by using two reactants that when combined produce a compound that fluoresces. The eventual goal is to use the technique for bioreactions  infusing fibers with DNA or proteins and testing how other chemicals modify them, on a small scale.
371 2009-03-10 It has been thought that one thing that separates humans from the rest of the animal world is the ability to plan for future events. Not instinctive behavior like a squirrel burying nuts, but planning that shows the animal is considering what its mental state will be at a later time.

Except in extremely rare and rather ambiguous circumstances, other animals have not shown this cognitive ability. They may able to satisfy an immediate need  to fashion a tool, say, to obtain some food  but not plan to meet a future one.

But then there’s Santino, a 30-year-old male chimpanzee at the Furuvik Zoo on the Baltic coast of Sweden. As Mathias Osvath of Lund University reports in Current Biology, Santino, the zoo’s dominant chimp, has been calmly planning rock-throwing attacks against zoo visitors for the past 11 years.

The behavior started becoming a real problem in 1997, when the chimp threw stones at the visitors across a moat several times as part of dominance displays, when he became agitated.

Zoo officials found five caches in the chimps’ activity area, of three to eight stones each. Subsequent monitoring showed that in the early morning, before the zoo opened, Santino would collect stones and stockpile them. Later in the day he would hurl them at visitors. (Chimps throw underhanded and have terrible aim, Dr. Osvath said, so no visitors have been seriously injured, and the zoo has taken precautions to protect them.)

In the ensuing years, zoo workers have found and removed hundreds of caches, and Santino has also been observed knocking chunks of concrete off cracked walls, breaking them into smaller pieces and throwing them, too.

Dr. Osvath said that although he and others had conducted experiments that showed this kind of planning, Santino’s behavior, being spontaneous and outside a laboratory, was even more compelling evidence. “Most primatologists would say, Of course they plan for future needs, they do lots of things far in advance,” he said. “But it’s very hard to prove.”
372 2009-03-10 DAKAR, Senegal — The Sudanese government released one of its most vociferous critics on Monday, a possible attempt to shore up domestic support now that the nation’s president is wanted internationally on war crimes charges.

The government offered no explanation for its decision to release the opposition critic, Hassan al-Turabi, an Islamist leader, only two months after his arrest. Mr. Turabi led the country’s hard-line government for years alongside the president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, but later broke with his protégé.

Analysts said Mr. Turabi’s release was probably aimed at resolving some of the nation’s internal political divisions given the threat of arrest facing Mr. Bashir. Last week, the International Criminal Court issued a warrant for Mr. Bashir’s arrest on charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity related to the conflict in Darfur, in which hundreds of thousands of people have died from violence, hunger and disease since 2003.

Still, the decision to release Mr. Turabi came as a surprise because he was initially arrested after he spoke out in favor of the court, suggesting publicly that Mr. Bashir turn himself over for prosecution. His political party has long had links to the strongest rebel group fighting in Darfur, the Islamist Justice and Equality Movement.

Speaking to a throng of supporters who gathered outside his home in a suburb of the Sudanese capital, Khartoum, Mr. Turabi reiterated his call for Mr. Bashir to submit to international justice.
373 2009-03-10 Stepanek is better known for once being engaged to Martina Hingis and for then transferring his affections to Czech starlet-in-waiting Nicole Vaidisova, who is 11 years his junior. But Stepanek has made waves on court, too, peaking at No. 8 in 2006 and starting strong this year with a new Bosworth racket whose head, with a succession of hard angles in the frame, is a subtle departure from the traditional ellipse.

Stepanek, now back in the top 20, has won two tournaments and reached the final in another this year.

Rafael Nadal was back too, after taking time to care for an ailing knee after losing to Andy Murray in the final in Rotterdam the week after his memorable victory in the Australian Open.

Playing on the clay-court surface that made him famous, Nadal allowed just three games to Janko Tipsarevic on Saturday and then swept past Novak Djokovic, the world’s No.3 player, without dropping a set on Sunday to clinch Spain’s victory.

Nadal’s record on clay is now a phenomenal 45-0 in best-of-five-set matches, including four straight French Open titles.

After missing the Davis Cup final last year because of his ongoing knee problems, Nadal recommitted to the opening round this year under the new coach, Albert Costa. With Germany unlikely to trouble Spain on clay in the quarterfinals, it looks like another busy season aheadfor Nadal.

His archrival, Roger Federer, gave Switzerland’s first-round Davis Cup matches a pass during his long run at No. 1, and though Federer had committed to play against the United States this year, he ultimately declined. He is nursing a sore back and perhaps some sore pride after losing to Nadal in the Australian Open final.

Nadal said he had not spoken with Federer since their match because their paths have not crossed. But Darren Cahill has spoken plenty with the Swiss star. The veteran Australian coach, who has worked with Lleyton Hewitt and Andre Agassi, has been training with Federer in Dubai on a trial basis, which could signal the end of Federer’s extended run without a formal coach.

Without him, the Swiss managed only one victory against the United States in Birmingham, Ala., when Stanislas Wawrinka defeated James Blake. But the Americans took it from there with the Bryan twins, Mike and Bob, winning the doubles and Andy Roddick winning both his singles matches, including the decisive victory over Wawrinka in straight sets on Sunday.

Roddick has had plenty of disappointments in his career, failing to add any Grand Slam titles to his U.S. Open victory in 2003. He does not appear destined to match the achievements of the great American players like Pete Sampras, Andre Agassi and Jim Courier,but he has been on much more equal footing in Davis Cup. His 31 career singles victories in the Cup are a tribute to his commitment and combative spirit and put him second on the American list behind John McEnroe’s 41.

There were no all-time Davis Cup greats playing in Malmo this weekend. But it still turned into great theater, even with the crowd restricted to a few hundred accredited people because of the Malmo City Council’s decision to ban general ticket sales, citing fears of anti-Israel protests.

It was easier to understand the council’s concern after seeing footage of youths, some masked, abusing police officers and equipment in the aftermath of a protest march Saturday near the arena. But soccer authorities have to deal with these sorts of disruptions on a regular basis and rarely ban ticket sales.

Perhaps with crowd support, Sweden might have found the strength to win. Four of the five matches five sets, including both of the Sunday singles matches. In the end, the Israelis prevailed with Harel Levy winning, 8-6, in the fifth set of the fifth match over Andreas Vinciguerra.

Davis Cup often elevates journeymen to leading roles, but this was taking it to the extreme. Vinciguerra had not played a match on tour since 2006. Swedish tennis, once so rich in talent, is now a leaner proposition. The Swedish captain, Mats Wilander, scrambled and gambled with his lineup to try to squeeze out a victory.

Instead, the Israelis ended up celebrating in the almost empty arena. They will now play host to Russia in only the second Davis Cup quarterfinal in Israel’s history. It will be quite a surprise if there are no tickets for sale.
374 2009-03-10 CINCINNATI (AP) — Procter & Gamble announced that Susan E. Arnold, who had been widely considered a candidate for chief executive, resigned Monday as president for global business units.

Ms. Arnold was the highest-ranking woman at Procter & Gamble and had achieved several firsts for a woman at the company. She and the chief operating officer, Robert A. McDonald, were promoted in 2007 in what some analysts perceived as setting up a succession for the chairman and chief executive, A. G. Lafley.

The resignation leaves Mr. McDonald as the front-runner to lead the company, which makes consumer products, including Tide detergent, Pampers diapers and Gillette razors.

Procter & Gamble said Ms. Arnold would retire Sept. 1 after 29 years with the company, which is based in Cincinnati. The announcement said she had long intended to step down when she turned 55. Her birthday was Sunday.

Ms. Arnold will report on special assignment to Mr. Lafley until she retires. Her job will not immediately be filled, and the company said three vice chairmen who had reported to her will now report to Mr. Lafley, ”reducing a layer of management as part of the company’s ongoing simplification effort.”

Ms. Arnold, who was the first woman to be president of Procter & Gamble and the first vice chairwoman, is frequently ranked among the most powerful women in American business.
375 2009-03-10 BERN, Switzerland (AP) — The Swiss Reinsurance Company, which lost more than $800 million last year, said on Monday that its chairman was stepping down, the second executive to leave the company in the last two months.

Swiss Re said the chairman, Peter Forstmoser, will step down May 1. Walter B. Kielholz, the head of the board at the Credit Suisse banking group, will succeed him.

The resignation of Mr. Forstmoser comes after that of the chief executive, Jacques Aigrain, who stepped down last month after he came under increasing pressure for aggressive investments in financial instruments that had gone bad.

Criticism of Mr. Forstmoser grew when Swiss Re, one of the world’s largest reinsurers, posted an 864 million Swiss franc ($809 million) loss for 2008. Hit by the global financial crisis, Swiss Re has lost millions as a result of investments in securities backed by subprime mortgages in the United States and other securities as well as by exposure to the American International Group and the failed investment bank Lehman Brothers.

The company announced last month it would get a capital injection of 3 billion francs ($2.6 billion) from Warren E. Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway and said it was looking for an additional 2 billion francs on the capital markets.

“Swiss Re has set a new course for its future development,” Mr. Forstmoser said in a statement. “Therefore I have taken the decision to step down from my position as the chairman of the board one year earlier than planned.” Mr. Forstmoser has been chairman since 2000.
376 2009-03-10 The McClatchy Company, a major newspaper publisher, said on Monday that it would eliminate 15 percent of its work force, about 1,600 jobs, as it tries to stay ahead of plunging advertising and the debt from its takeover of Knight Ridder in 2006.

McClatchy did not say how the cuts would be distributed among its operations, which include The Kansas City Star, The Sacramento Bee, The Miami Herald, The Star-Telegram of Fort Worth, The Charlotte Observer and 25 other dailies, and about 50 small, nondaily papers.

The entire industry has experienced a sharp drop in ad revenue, particularly in two of the most important states for McClatchy, California and Florida.

The company lowered expenses by 11.5 percent last year, cutting its work force by almost 25 percent. McClatchy has already announced that after the first quarter of this year, it would suspend its shareholder dividend and contributions to 401(k) and pension plans, and some employees have agreed to lower pay to prevent more layoffs.

“Given the worsening economy, we must do more,” Gary B. Pruitt, the chairman and chief executive, said in a statement released Monday announcing the new downsizing. “I’m sorry we have to take these actions, but we believe they are necessary.”

The company said that Mr. Pruitt would take a 15 percent cut in his base pay of $1.1 million, and that other executives would take a 10 percent cut.

McClatchy reported a net loss for 2008 of just under $4 million, on $1.9 billion in revenue, but that included more than $200 million in noncash charges. Advertising revenue fell 17.9 percent from 2007. The company has $2 billion in debt, most of it from the purchase of Knight Ridder, a larger company, just before the industry began a steep downward spiral.
377 2009-03-10 Still, like any marriage of convenience, this one has potential dissenters who are unlikely to forever hold their peace.

One likely controversy involves the drugs Zetia and Vytorin, which the companies already jointly market and which last year had combined sales of $4.6 billion. But sales have been plummeting in the wake of studies that raised questions about Vytorin’s effectiveness and safety.

On Monday, Senator , Democrat of New York, criticized the companies over Vytorin and raised concerns about their planned merger.

“The last time these two companies teamed up, it was to aggressively market a brand-name drug that may not have provided any additional benefits over existing generics,” he said in an e-mail statement. “That incident left a sour taste in the mouths of a lot of people, and may have cost the government a lot of money.”

The House Committee on Energy and Commerce has also been investigating the safety and efficacy of Vytorin.

Merck executives said Monday they were confident that a broader, longer-term Vytorin study, set to conclude in 2012, would prove the drug to be safe and effective for lowering bad cholesterol.

Schering would also provide Merck with popular consumer brands like Coppertone and Dr. Scholl’s, as well as a strong international presence — 70 percent of Schering revenue comes from outside the — that would extend Merck’s global reach.

And much more than Merck, Schering has been investing in developing biologics — biotechnology drugs derived from living cells, which are much harder for potential generic makers to copy than the small-molecule chemical compounds on which the big pharmaceutical companies have traditionally based their businesses.

In 2007, Schering paid $14.4 billion for Organon, a biotechnology company that has several novel drugs, including a fertility treatment, under late development.

, the chief executive of Schering-Plough, described the new company as a juggernaut of drug innovation and development that would have 18 drugs in phase 3 clinical trials — the late-stage human studies that are required before new drugs can gain approval from the .

“Eighteen phase 3 projects will make this the most effective and strongest R.& D. machine in the industry,” Mr. Hassan said.

By 2011, the merger should generate $3.5 billion in annual cost savings by consolidating research, manufacturing, administration and marketing, Merck’s chief executive, Richard T. Clark, said in a conference call with analysts. The new company could reduce the current work force of more than 100,000 by up to 15 percent with the cuts coming mainly from staffing outside of the United States, Mr. Clark said.

Further details of the merger are to be made public later in the week, he said.

There is at least one big question that hangs over the proposed merger: What happens with , a drug that represented $2.1 billion in sales for Schering last year.

Schering markets Remicade outside the United States in an agreement with , which sells the drug in this country. Under a termination clause in that agreement, the rights to Remicade and another drug under development could revert to Johnson & Johnson if control or ownership of Schering changes.

Hoping to avoid a challenge from Johnson & Johnson over the change-in-control clause, Merck devised an unusual strategy called a reverse-merger agreement. Under it, Schering’s ownership will not change, at least on paper. Instead, even though Merck is putting up the money to buy Schering, and Mr. Clark of Merck would run the combined companies, Merck would technically become a subsidiary of Schering.

In turn, Schering would be renamed Merck, Bruce N. Kuhlik, Merck’s general counsel, said in an interview Monday.

“We are very confident in our belief that this will not be a change in control,” Mr. Kuhlik said. Any dispute from Johnson & Johnson would go to arbitration, he said.

Johnson & Johnson declined to comment on the deal.

Mr. Clark of Merck said that even if the merged companies somehow lost rights to sell Remicade, that would not diminish Schering’s allure as a partner.

But Jason Napodano, an analyst with Zacks Investment Research, disagreed. “I think that is a lot of malarkey,” he said. “You don’t take out around 20 percent of a company’s revenue and their core international growth driver and say it is not worth anything.”

David S. Moskowitz, an analyst with Caris & Company, said that the uncertainty over Remicade puts Schering shareholders at a disadvantage. One response, he said, would be for Johnson & Johnson to make a higher bid for Schering.

Like some other analysts, he said that the $41.1 billion price tag for Schering was too low.

“It’s the right move, but we don’t believe it’s the right price,” Mr. Moskowitz said. “We valued the deal at $50 billion.”

The deal values Schering at $23.61 a share, a premium of 34 percent over its closing price Friday. For each share of Schering, shareholders will receive 0.5767 shares in the new company plus $10.50 in cash. Shares of Schering rose 14.18 percent, to $20.13 Monday. Shares of Merck were down 7.7 percent, to $20.99.

The stock prices of all big drug companies have plummeted over the last decade, in light of increasing competition and drug price pressures from generics and the high cost of developing new drugs. But the drug giants remain relatively cash rich, and the terms of this deal indicate that, even in a tight corporate market, financing is available under certain circumstances. Merck will use $9.8 billion of its own cash for the purchase plus $8.5 billion in short-term financing, Mr. Clark said in a conference call with investment analysts on Monday. The companies expect the deal to close in the fourth quarter of this year, subject to regulatory approval.

Mr. Moskowitz of Caris predicted that the Merck-Schering deal would not be the last big drug merger of 2009. He cited , a company comparable in size to Schering with an attractive product pipeline.

“We think Bristol-Myers is the next on the block,” Mr. Moskowitz said.
378 2009-03-10 Politicians in Northern Ireland said the shooting had the earmarks of a bid by dissident republicans to destabilize the power-sharing government. It took office nearly two years ago after 30 years of violence that killed 3,700 people.

A dissident faction that calls itself the Real I.R.A. and that has rejected the government claimed responsibility for the attack in a telephone call to a reporter in Belfast from the -based Sunday Tribune newspaper. The police said the group, after carrying out a 1998 bombing in the Northern Ireland town of Omagh that killed 29 people, had undertaken a sporadic but mostly marginal campaign of attacks, mainly against the province’s police force. They described the group as a shadow of the main I.R.A., with few committed gunmen, a limited budget and a shortage of weapons.

Outrage across the province on Sunday was compounded by the brutality of the attackers. The police said that three men in a stolen vehicle had tracked the deliverymen to the Massareene base on Antrim’s outskirts. Police said two of the attackers then served as gunmen, advancing on the victims, still firing, after an initial fusillade as the soldiers collected their pizzas.

The attack had echoes of the harsh tactics used during the province’s most violent years by the I.R.A., which made a policy of killing not only soldiers and policemen but also civilians whose work supported them. That violence, and attacks by Protestant paramilitaries, killed as many as 300 people a year at the height of the sectarian struggle, but the advent of power sharing has made political killings a relative rarity. Last year, only three deaths were attributed to sectarian attacks.

But fears had grown recently that attacks by dissident republicans were mounting. The dissidents wounded several police officers in 15 attacks in the past 17 months, and a 250-pound bomb was defused last month outside another army base. Sir Hugh Orde, the province’s police chief, announced last week that concern about the attacks had caused him to ask for help from a “small number” of troops from the army’s Special Reconnaissance Regiment, an intelligence-gathering unit based on the British mainland.

That decision ran counter to the reduction of army units under the peace accord, which has cut the pre-1998 British garrison from a high of 25,000 troops to barely 4,000, concentrated on 10 bases that no longer play active roles in the province’s security.

The men killed Saturday were from an engineering unit only hours away from deployment to . The British military identified them on Monday as Mark Quinsey, 23, and Patrick Azimkar, 21.

On Sunday, as the police announced that they had recovered the Antrim gunmen’s getaway vehicle at Randalstown, about five miles west of Antrim, Protestant leaders said the attack had vindicated the police’s decision to call on the army intelligence specialists. The move was condemned last week by , the former I.R.A. commander who is the province’s deputy first minister, as “stupid and dangerous” for reviving memories of the role played by army intelligence units in strikes against the I.R.A. in the past.

But that disagreement was stilled as leaders on both sides of the historic divide joined in condemning the attack, showing a common front that many in Northern Ireland saw as a measure of how far the province had come under the power-sharing accord. Mr. McGuinness and Peter Robinson, the province’s first minister and head of the Democratic Unionist Party, the most powerful of the mainly Protestant parties in the province, announced they were postponing a joint -promoting trip to the United States that was to have begun on Sunday.

“The people responsible for this tragic incident are signaling that they want to restart the war,” Mr. McGuinness said. “Well, I deny their right to do that.”

, the president of , the political wing of the I.R.A., described the Antrim gunmen as “merchants of doom” and their attack as “wrong and counterproductive.”

Shaun Woodward, the minister responsible for Northern Ireland, said the government would not allow anger at the Antrim shooting to destabilize the power-sharing accord.

Despite lingering resentments and widely different for the province’s long-term future among leaders of the Protestant and Catholic communities, the power-sharing arrangement has worked better than pessimists feared when it began 22 months ago. That followed years of delay, recrimination and back-pedaling, as well as violence, that continued after the Good Friday pact was signed in 1998.

“What really matters is that we do not allow the very small number of people who make up these groups to derail the peace process,” Mr. Woodward said Sunday in a interview, referring to the dissident republicans.

He said Mr. McGuinness and Mr. Robinson, with their parties, had “transformed the politics of Northern Ireland,” and it was up to the province’s people to help the police by reporting anything they knew of the Antrim killers.
379 2009-03-10 For the year, the Dow and the broader S.& P. 500 are down 25 percent, and both indexes have closed lower for four straight weeks as investors get more pessimistic about the government’s plans for stabilizing the financial system in the face of a prolonged recession.

“Death by a thousand cuts,” said Joseph Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading. “It’s just a protracted sell-off. It seems like it’s a buyer’s strike.”

Meanwhile, the price of oil rose to its highest point since early January as traders speculated that the OPEC cartel was considering cutting output as it prepared to meet this weekend.

Crude oil prices collapsed late last year, falling to under $35 a barrel from highs above $145 as the deepening global downturn slashed demand and pushed oil stockpiles higher. Although prices could always fall as major countries sink deeper into recession, oil prices have inched back in recent weeks and could go higher if the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries reduces output again.

“Will they actually cut?” said Tom Bentz, senior energy analyst at BNP Paribas. “I don’t know. With prices approaching $50, it makes me wonder if they still feel the same way.”

Crude oil for April delivery settled at $47.07 a barrel, up $1.55 in New York trading. The rise in oil prices helped to lift energy stocks like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Marathon Oil, which closed moderately higher.

In a shift, financial stocks outperformed all other sectors of the market on Monday, and major banks finished in positive territory, with Bank of America finishing nearly 20 percent higher at $3.75 a share after reports that it would issue debt backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Wells Fargo rose 15.8 percent, to $9.97 a share and Citigroup gained 2 cents, to $1.05. The gains followed a week of trading that dragged banking stocks sharply lower and sent shares of Citigroup tumbling briefly below $1 a share.

In the second major pharmaceutical deal of the year, the prescription drug maker Merck announced that it would pay $41 billion to acquire a rival, Schering-Plough. Shares of Merck were down 7.7 percent, to $20.99, while Schering-Plough was 14 percent higher at $20.13.

In January, Pfizer, the world’s biggest drug maker, bid $68 billion for Wyeth.

Analysts said that investors were glad to get past Friday’s grim unemployment numbers, which showed that the economy had shed 651,000 jobs in February. With few major economic reports scheduled to be released this week, investors will probably keep their focus on Washington’s plans to shore up the banking system.

Credit markets showed some signs of tightening. The yields on corporate bonds and high-yield debt increased, and the London interbank offered rate, a measure of how much banks charge each other to borrow money, rose to 1.31 percent from 1.29 percent on Friday.

The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 4/32, to 99 2/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.86 percent, down from 2.87 percent late Friday.

Following are the results of Monday’s auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
380 2009-03-10 NEW CONCERN OVER OIL PRICES With oil trading around $40 a barrel,  many experts predict that prices will continue to rise. But some oil market experts say conditions could cause prices to keep falling -- so much so that they could hit $20 a barrel...
381 2009-03-10 A slump in technology and telecommunications companies pulled Wall Street lower on Monday, as two major market indexes carved new bear-market lows.      Companies like Google and Novell, Verizon and AT&T dragged down the broader markets as traders...
382 2009-03-11 Hedge funds may eliminate 20,000 jobs worldwide this year, a record 14 percent of the industry’s work force, as investment losses and client withdrawals erode fees, executive recruiters estimate. The dismissals will come on top of the 10,000 job...
383 2009-03-11 Credit: Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times
384 2009-03-11 A friend in an aid organization passed on to me these U.N. estimates of the impact of the expulsion of aid workers from Darfur: within a period of less than two weeks 1.1 million people will need food; within a period of less than two weeks 1.2 mi...
385 2009-03-11 The new iPod Shuffle gets a swift and almost-uniform response from readers, and it isn't good....
386 2009-03-11 The new iPod Shuffle from Apple is half the volume of its postage-stamp predecessor; with no controls or buttons, it looks like a sleek aluminum tie clip....
387 2009-03-11 On February 24, Apple released a public beta of Safari 4. Unfortunately, the Safari 4 beta conflicts with our Times Reader beta for Mac. As many of you have commented on already, Times Reader will stop working. The only solution at this time is to...
388 2009-03-11 Spurred by rising public anger, federal and state investigators are preparing for a surge of prosecutions of financial fraud, The New York Times's David Segal reports. Across the country, attorneys general have already begun indicting dozens of lo...
389 2009-03-11 The Swiss bank UBS will name Aryeh Bourkoff to be joint global head of media and communications investment banking on Thursday, taking over for Jeff Sine, a vice chairman who is resigning, people briefed on the matter told DealBook. Mr. Bourkoff w...
390 2009-03-11 Gallup poll finds rising public sense of media exaggeration on warming....
391 2009-03-11 OfficeLabs, a Microsoft skunkworks, has produced videos that suggest what future computing may be like....
392 2009-03-11 Every recession of the last several decades has, at some point or another, been given the lofty title of "The Great Recession."...
393 2009-03-11 As the phenomenal success of "Slumdog Millionaire" continues, both in the hearts of moviegoers and at the Oscars, tourists are flocking to Mumbai's Dharavi, where some of the scenes from the movie were filmed....
394 2009-03-11 A Chinese musician is reunited with his lost erhu, a string instrument that had been left on the street on the Upper West Side....
395 2009-03-11 Americans are driving less and less, which is not news, but the reasons why are changing....
396 2009-03-11 The plane maker and the wind power company have announced a research partnership that could help Boeing improve fuel efficiency in its jetliners and could help Vestas improve the strength and performance of its turbines....
397 2009-03-11 Apple's new audio player gets even smaller, and now talks to you....
398 2009-03-11 Tuesday brought two unusual developments on the banking front. For one thing, bank stocks soared. For another, Joe L. Price, Bank of America's chief financial officer, offered what CFO.com described as a "rare mea culpa from a top bank finance exe...
399 2009-03-11 Merck filed the agreement for its acquisition of Schering-Plough with regulators on Tuesday. The agreement has many interesting provisions throughout, but I want to focus on the two most important items. First, the agreement erects a complex acqui...
400 2009-03-11 London's mayor, Boris Johnson, on Wednesday offered overseas companies willing to move to the capital a year of rent-free office space in an attempt to salvage the city's reputation as a business center....
401 2009-03-11 Also in the Morning Buzz: rising maple syrup prices, a proposed strip club tax, and other headlines from local papers....
402 2009-03-11 Investors in hedge funds continued to rush for the exits in February, pulling out a total of $11 billion from funds last month, Bloomberg News reported, citing a recent report. Redemptions were about a third of the value in January, after the indu...
403 2009-03-11 UBS said earnings would remain at risk because of its exposure to illiquid and choppy markets, and it revised up its 2008 net loss, the biggest in Swiss corporate history, to include a large United States tax fine and extra write-downs, Reuters sa...
404 2009-03-11 A former member of G.M.'s board said the company could come out of its restructuring with too much debt....
405 2009-03-11 A deadline to find a buyer for The Seattle Post-Intelligencer passed Tuesday without a deal, but its owner, Hearst, said the newspaper would live at least another day, The Associated Press said. Hearst said in January that if it could not sell The...
406 2009-03-11 The London Stock Exchange said it was in "advanced negotiations" with Canadian exchange leader TMX Group about selling a minority stake in its EDX derivatives business. The stock exchange also acquired a license to use TMX's derivatives trading te...
407 2009-03-11 Google has repriced 7.64 million stock options that had become less likely to enrich its employees given the sharp decline in the Internet search leader's market value during the past 16 months, The Associated Press said. The company, based in Mou...
408 2009-03-11 Auditude, which enables media companies to profit from user uploads of their content, has corralled $10.5 million in fresh round financing, led by Redpoint Ventures and Greylock Partners. Auditude, a start-up company whose total fundraising now co...
409 2009-03-11 Equity markets across Asia rose sharply in early trading Wednesday, buoyed by positive news from Citigroup and by one of the biggest one-day gains in the Dow Jones industrial average in more than 60 years. By midday, 17 of the 20 leading indices i...
410 2009-03-11 Hopes that maybe, just maybe, the nation's beleaguered banks are on the mend swept Wall Street on Tuesday, unleashing a breathtaking stock market rally that left investors a bit giddy but had many experts warning that this rally, like so many befo...
411 2009-03-11 The University of Missouri has settled a wrongful-death lawsuit filed by the family of Aaron O’Neal, a former reserve linebacker who collapsed during a 2005 workout. Records filed this week in Boone County Circuit Court refer to an undisclosed settlement.

A lawyer for O’Neal’s mother said he could not discuss the agreement until the court approved it. O’Neal was a redshirt freshman from St. Louis who collapsed during a workout in July 2005. He died less than two hours later.
412 2009-03-11 The Supreme Court narrowed the scope of the Voting Rights Act this week when it ruled that it does not require states to create so-called crossover districts. The regrettable 5-to-4 ruling overturns two of the act’s central goals: protecting minority voting rights and moving the nation toward a more colorblind future.

In crossover districts, minorities are not a majority, but they have enough voting power that they stand a good chance of electing a candidate of their choosing.

When North Carolina redrew its district lines in 2003, it created a district with a roughly 39 percent black voting-age population. In doing so, the line-drawers divided a county into two districts, something the state constitution prohibited. But the state argued that the Voting Rights Act required it to create the district, in which minorities would be a large part of the electorate though not a majority.

The county sued, arguing that the Voting Rights Act does not require the creation of districts in which minorities are less than 50 percent of the voting-age population. Justice Anthony Kennedy, who wrote the opinion that controlled the outcome, stated that the act is concerned only with creating districts in which minorities are a majority.

Justice David Souter, in dissent, had the better argument. He noted that in practice crossover districts that are about 39 percent black have a reasonable chance of electing minorities, which makes the districts an effective method of increasing minority representation.

He also pointed out that if the act does not require the creation of crossover districts, it will encourage states instead to pack minorities into majority-minority districts. Discouraging the sort of districts in which blacks must join together with whites will polarize voting along racial lines.

As Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg noted in dissent, the decision “returns the ball to Congress’ court.” Congress should amend the Voting Rights Act to make clear that it also wants to create districts in which minorities are less than a majority but exert significant influence.
413 2009-03-11 Hitachi Displays has agreed to plead guilty to conspiring to fix prices on the sale of LCD panels.

The company, a unit of the electronics company based in Japan, admitted to fixing prices of the screens sold to Dell for use in desktop monitors and notebook computers from 2001 to 2004.

Hitachi agreed to pay a $31 million fine as part of its deal with the Justice Department.

Three other major producers of liquid-crystal display panels have already admitted their involvement in price-fixing.

LG Display, Sharp and Chunghwa Picture Tubes struck similar plea agreements last year relating to their sales of the display screens. With the Hitachi plea, the United States government will have won more than $600 million in criminal fines stemming from LCD price-fixing.

A one-count felony charge was filed Tuesday in federal court in San Francisco. The court papers charge that Hitachi participated in meetings and communications in Japan, Korea and the United States to discuss the prices of screens sold to Dell, at which they agreed to set certain prices.

Regulators in Asia and the European Union also have opened investigations into LCD pricing.
414 2009-03-11 WASHINGTON  The list of demands keeps getting longer.

Financial institutions that are getting government bailout funds have been told to put off evictions and modify mortgages for distressed homeowners. They must let shareholders vote on executive pay packages. They must slash dividends, cancel employee training and morale-building exercises, and withdraw job offers to foreign citizens.

As public outrage swells over the rapidly growing cost of bailing out financial institutions, the Obama administration and lawmakers are attaching more and more strings to rescue funds.

The conditions are necessary to prevent Wall Street executives from paying lavish bonuses and buying corporate jets, some experts say, but others say the conditions go beyond protecting taxpayers and border on social engineering.

Some bankers say the conditions have become so onerous that they want to return the bailout money. The list includes small banks like the TCF Financial Corporation of Wayzata, Minn., and Iberia Bank of Lafayette, La., as well as giants like Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo.

They say they plan to return the money as quickly as possible or as soon as regulators set up a process to accept the refunds. On Tuesday, Signature Bank of New York announced that because of new executive pay restrictions in the economic stimulus package, it notified the Treasury that it intended to return the $120 million it had received from the government only three months ago.

Other institutions like Johnson Bank of Racine, Wis., initially expressed interest in seeking bailout funds but have now changed their minds. Bank executives told The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel that one reason they rejected the government money was to avoid any disruption in the bank’s role in the local community, including supporting the zoo or opera company if they chose to.

One of the biggest concerns of the banks is that the program lets Congress and the administration pile on new conditions at any time.

The demands to modify mortgages or forestall evictions are especially onerous, some bank executives and experts say, because they could prompt some institutions to take steps that could lead to greater losses.

“We are taking an approach that wants the banks to help the economy and whether it is ultimately good for a particular bank is secondary,” said L. William Seidman, the former senior regulator during the savings and loan bailout. “Weak banks are being asked to do things that will erode their position.”

A senior Treasury official involved in the bailout effort said the administration was carefully trying not to do anything that could harm the banks and was giving financial incentives to modify mortgages. The official said the restrictions were part of a larger effort to clean up bank balance sheets and assist the economy.

“We’re having to take some very unpleasant actions when the alternatives are so much worse,” said the official, who spoke on condition of not being identified.

But a growing chorus of industry experts are warning that asking weak banks to carry out the government’s economic and social policies could increase the drain on the public purse. These experts say that the financial assistance, while helpful in the short run, could force weak banks to engage in lending practices that will lose even more money, and that the government inevitably will become more heavily involved in dictating how banks do business.

“I honestly believe the people in power pushing this policy see it as a win-win  as something that is good for the banking industry and good for homeowners and others,” said Douglas J. Elliott, a former investment banker who is now an economics fellow at the Brookings Institution. “But there is a slippery slope and there are potentially significant negative consequences.”

Mr. Elliott says that by modifying loans, banks that are already fragile could wind up losing more money.

“What gets us in real trouble,” he said, “is when we try to fudge things and pretend that something is in the direct interest of both the government and the financial institutions when it in fact costs the banks money or increases their risk levels.”

Take Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the housing-finance companies that the government now controls. In recent months, they have been told to spend billions of dollars buying bundles of mortgages for which there are no other buyers, and to let homeowners refinance their loans  even if they have no equity.

Such commands are echoes of the 1990s, when Fannie and Freddie tried to balance dueling mandates that required them to make a profit for their shareholders and to serve a public mission of increasing homeownership.

In service of both shareholders and what they asserted was the public good, they borrowed extensively in order to buy and hold mortgages in their own investment portfolios. They purchased billions of dollars in risky subprime mortgages.

As a consequence of having a public mandate, they also had a credit line with the Treasury and their risky business strategies were viewed by the markets as being guaranteed by the government.

To satisfy both mandates, the companies also faced fewer restrictions and were allowed to take on more debt than other financial companies. But when buyers began defaulting and home prices plunged, the companies nearly collapsed and last fall were placed under government conservatorship. Mr. Elliott said that some banks participating in the bailout program are now in the same conflicting position that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were in.
415 2009-03-11 A former prime minister of Iran, Mir Hussein Moussavi, announced Tuesday that he would run as a moderate in the June presidential race, the Iranian Student News Agency reported.
416 2009-03-11 The Supreme Court barred a Palestinian activist on Tuesday from traveling to Amsterdam to receive a human rights prize. The activist, Shawan Jabarin, the director of the Palestinian organization Al Haq, had hoped to travel to the Netherlands to receive the Geuzen Medal on Friday on behalf of his group. A court spokeswoman, Ayelet Filo, said the court ruled that he was involved with terrorist organizations. In 1985, Mr. Jabarin was convicted of working for a militant group and served nine months in prison. He denies the charges.
417 2009-03-11 Robert J. Cole, a business reporter for The New York Times who often led the way in covering the corporate merger mania of the 1970s and ’80s, died on Feb. 11 in Asheville, N.C. He was 83.

The cause was a heart attack, his daughter Fran Cole said.

Mr. Cole was known for chasing down news of the corporate takeovers and leveraged buyouts that dominated the financial pages for much of the late 20th century, gaining a reputation along the way for bluntness and, often, irascibility. His coverage in 1984 of Chevron’s acquisition of the Gulf Corporation, the largest merger ever at the time, drew particular note.

“He really honed the craft of merger and acquisition reporting,” Dean Rotbart, a historian of business journalism, said in an interview on Tuesday. “He was king of the hill for a long period of time.”

The Journalist and Financial Reporting, a combination magazine and newsletter that Mr. Rotbart edited, named Mr. Cole one of the dozen most influential business journalists of the 1980s. He won a Loeb award for beat reporting in 1985.

Robert Jason Cole was born on April 14, 1925, in Woonsocket, R.I., served in the Navy during World War II and graduated from the University of Texas, Austin, in 1947. He began his career in 1949 as a reporter for The Mexico City Herald, then was foreign editor of The New York Journal of Commerce from 1950. He joined The Times as a copy editor in the financial news department in 1962.

He soon began writing a column on personal finance and later joined the business reporting staff. He first covered Wall Street before moving on to mergers and acquisitions, where he cultivated as sources the lawyers and investment bankers who put together deal after deal.
418 2009-03-11 WASHINGTON — Charles W. Freeman Jr., the Obama administration’s choice for a major intelligence post, withdrew his name on Tuesday and blamed pro-Israel lobbying groups, saying they had distorted his record and campaigned against him.

Mr. Freeman had come under sharp criticism for his past statements about Israel as well as for his association with the Saudi and Chinese governments.

Mr. Freeman’s withdrawal from consideration as chairman of the National Intelligence Council came just hours after Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, vigorously defended him and said that his comments had been taken out of context.

In a message to colleagues and friends, first posted Tuesday evening on Foreign Policy magazine’s Web site, Mr. Freeman blamed pro-Israel groups for the controversy, saying the “tactics of the Israel Lobby plumb the depths of dishonor and indecency and include character assassination, selective misquotation, the willful distortion of the record, the fabrication of falsehoods, and an utter disregard for the truth.”

Joshua Block, a spokesman for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a lobbying group, said Tuesday that his organization had not taken a formal position on Mr. Freeman’s selection and had not lobbied Congress members to oppose it.
419 2009-03-11 The Environmental Protection Agency proposed a rule on Tuesday that would require a broad range of industries to tally and report their greenhouse gas emissions.

The proposal, which could establish an accounting basis for federal regulation of heat-trapping gases, would require about 13,000 factories, power plants and other facilities to report their emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other gases that climate scientists link to global warming.

Oil refineries, cement makers, utilities and pulp and paper manufacturers and the automotive sector are among the industries covered by the proposal. The E.P.A. says that the rule, promulgated under the Clean Air Act, would account for 85 percent to 90 percent of the country’s emissions of heat-trapping gases, although small manufacturers would be exempt.

“We do not expect to have a significant impact on small businesses,” said Dina Kruger, the director of the agency’s climate change division.

A 60-day comment period and two public hearings will soon take place. Ms. Kruger said the agency hoped to make the rule final this fall. If that happens, reporting could begin in 2011, after the monitoring of 2010 emissions.
420 2009-03-11 To fill a seat that traditionally goes to someone from Maryland, officials said the White House was considering nominating Andre Davis, a District Court judge based in Baltimore.

There are several candidates for the Virginia seat, including Elizabeth Magill, a law professor at the University of Virginia and daughter of a former federal appeals court judge.

For the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, based in New York, officials said the White House had settled on elevating Judge Gerard E. Lynch, a Columbia law professor, from the District Court.

The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because naming judges involves a delicate political process involving senators, among others.

Shaping the appeals courts, the level just below the Supreme Court, was at the heart of the strategy first put in place by conservatives during the Reagan presidency. They saw to it that President Ronald Reagan put at least one forceful and articulate conservative, usually an academic, on each of the circuit courts.

At least so far, the candidates being considered by the Obama White House for early nomination do not appear to have especially ideological profiles.

Because Republicans have controlled the White House for all of the last 28 years except the eight years of the Clinton presidency, more than 60 percent of the judiciary is made up of Republican-nominated judges.

The result is Republican control of eight of the regional appeals courts; Democrats have a majority in two circuits, the Second and the Ninth, based in San Francisco. The Third Circuit, based in Philadelphia, is split 6 to 6, with two vacancies.

Arthur Hellman, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh law school who is an authority on the circuit courts, said reliable studies regularly demonstrated that the Republican-appointed judges had moved the nation’s courts in a more conservative direction in several areas.

They tend to be more restrictive of abortion rights, less accommodating to criminal defendants and sharply skeptical of expanding federal authority at the expense of the states.

The Fourth Circuit, Professor Hellman said, was the most aggressive of those and was also where Mr. Obama “has the greatest opportunity to turn around the jurisprudence pretty quickly.”

The effort to move rapidly to select appeals court judges has been coordinated by Gregory S. Craig, the White House counsel, whose expanded office took the lead on the issue from the Justice Department, which has yet to have many of its senior officials confirmed.

In a closed meeting on Capitol Hill two weeks ago, Mr. Craig told Democratic senators that the White House would rely on their recommendations to fill the district courts. But he said that while Mr. Obama would welcome their advice, he warned that filling the appeals courts was largely a presidential prerogative, participants said.

One senior aide briefed on the meeting said that such an effort to limit Democratic senators’ role could create friction. But the aide said that every White House tried to impose such an understanding at the beginning only to become flexible when it needed a senator’s vote on some unrelated issue.

Mr. Obama also faces a different threat from Senate Republicans, who earlier this month threatened, though in vague terms, to block his judicial nominees by filibuster if they were not consulted on vacancies from their home states.

Underlying all the maneuvering is an awareness that much of it may serve as a dress rehearsal for the spring, when many expect Mr. Obama will have a Supreme Court vacancy to fill.
421 2009-03-11 But higher prices are already seen as an impetus to expand the domestic maple syrup industry. On March 9 Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, and Representative John McHugh, an upstate Republican, introduced a bill to help small producers nationwide get access to trees on private land and to create centralized storage and bottling plants. They hope to increase sales for the $65 million industry by 400 percent.

“Listen to this, we have 289 million maple trees in New York,” Mr. Schumer said in an interview, “but we tap less than one-half of 1 percent of them. It’s a large, untapped resource, shall we say.”

David Campbell, president of the New York State Maple Producers Association, said the jump in retail price is unprecedented. “There’s no surplus left anywhere in the world,” he said. “Everybody is waiting for this year’s crop.”

Which largely means waiting for Quebec, the OPEC of maple syrup. It accounts for more than 70 percent of the global supply, 5.35 million gallons last year. Vermont, the domestic leader, produced 500,000 gallons. New York, which had a strong year, produced 322,000 gallons.

Quebec produces more because it taps over a third of its trees. Vermont taps 2.1 percent.

Almost all maple syrup in the United States and Canada is made by family-run businesses. But the Canadian industry is dominated by big cooperatives, the most powerful of which is Citadelle, with popular brands like Shady Maple Farms, Camp, Maple Gold and Cleary’s, sold in maple-leaf-shaped bottles.

Citadelle establishes a base price for its members, setting the market for the industry.

A warm April shortened the 2008 Quebec season and some producers tapped trees for only 3 days, instead of the normal 20. (Cold weather delayed sugaring in 2008 and in 2007.) Citadelle paid its more than 2,000 member farms a one-time premium last year to offset the financial loss, but income still dropped 33 percent.

While supply has dwindled, international demand has increased, largely because of marketing efforts by the Federation of Quebec Maple Syrup Producers, a trade group representing 7,300 companies. The focus has been on Asia, and Japan now accounts for 10 percent of Canada’s maple syrup exports, said Geneviève C. Béland, a marketing executive with the federation.

“They’ve put so much into it, in part, because it’s so important to them culturally,” said Michael Farrell, a maple tree specialist with Cornell University’s Department of Natural Resources. “But it’s beneficial for the producers here in the U.S. They’ve created such an intense international demand.”

It’s a demand that Mr. Schumer hopes will be met by domestic producers. “Shovel-ready, tree-ready, tap-ready,” Mr. Schumer said of the bill. “It’s ready to go.”
422 2009-03-11 Cashew chicken transcends nationality. At Ziggie’s, a diner owned and operated by the Zendelis, a family of Albanian origin, it’s a white-board special, served in a skillet-shaped ceramic crock with a roster of side dishes that includes cottage cheese and hash browns.

“It’s not necessarily Chinese,” said Vicki Hilton, a local zoning inspector on lunch break at Ziggie’s. “Our kids eat cashew chicken in their school cafeteria.” (A number of schools rely on the Hopsing brand of cashew chicken sauce mix, a powdered product made in Springfield, colored with turmeric and goosed with MSG.)

The Heritage Cafeteria, a strip-mall dowager that opened in 1960, stocks chicken planks, yellow rice, roasted cashews and a vat of brown gravy alongside haunches of roast beef and tubs of gelatin salad. “Our sauce is made from chicken base, soy sauce and Clear Jel,” a thickening agent, said Kulwant Hundal, a native of Punjab, India, who has worked the line for 10 years. “I love it.”

At Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, the flagship location in a Springfield-based national chain, Marcel Bonetti is the company’s executive chef. “I brought my recipes to this country,” said Mr. Bonetti, a native of Aix-en-Provence, France. “But all I heard was cashew, cashew, cashew. So I made my own version. I added bourbon.”

Some Chinese restaurateurs with fine-dining aspirations try to resist the pull of cashew chicken. They fail.

“We’ve got dim sum on the weekend,” said John Burke, 36, proprietor of Mr. Yen’s. “And spicy pigs’ ears on the menu. But it doesn’t matter — 40 percent of our business is cashew chicken.”

“It’s not the Chinese cashew chicken you think you know,” said Mr. Burke, whose family immigrated from Taiwan in 1976. “It’s fried chicken and mashed potatoes with gravy. It’s Missouri. Only we sub fried rice for potatoes.”

“When I took over, I wanted to serve something other than chicken nuggets in brown gravy,” Mr. Burke continued. “My father said: ‘Are you stupid, son? Are you that stupid? You can’t cook Chinese in Springfield without cooking cashew chicken.’ ”

“I fought it at first,” he said. “Now I eat cashew chicken three or four days a week.”

Kelly Knauer, a native, was eating an order of the same at Fire and Ice, a swank open-kitchen restaurant that once featured a pizza with fried chicken, cashews and mozzarella. “Cashew chicken is a kind of inside joke in Springfield,” he said. “But it’s also our daily bread, our defining food. And it starts with David Leong.”

Unlike many dishes of American pop provenance, Springfield cashew chicken comes with a well-curated narrative. Residents here recognize the primacy of Mr. Leong. They embrace the Leong story as a Springfield story.

Mr. Leong immigrated to the United States in 1940 from Guangdong, China. He became a naturalized citizen, then served his adopted country during World War II. (During the Normandy invasion, he was in the fourth wave of troops to hit Omaha Beach.) After the war, he bounced from restaurant to restaurant, from Philadelphia to New Orleans to Pensacola, Fla.

At Pirate’s Cove, a Pensacola restaurant where he honed a reputation for broiled scallops and flounder braised in sweet and sour sauce, Mr. Leong met a Springfield neurosurgeon, John L. K. Tsang, who was also a native of China. In 1955, Dr. Tsang lured David Leong and his brother, Gee Leong, to Springfield to open the region’s first Chinese restaurant, Lotus Garden.

It didn’t last. A year later the brothers were cooking at the Grove, a supper club famous for T-bones and highballs. They dished up sweet and sour pork and moo goo gai pan. And, inspired by similar Chinese dishes, David Leong experimented with the dish that would become cashew chicken.

“When I moved here in the 1950s, people kept telling me about fried chicken,” Mr. Leong said. “I did what they wanted. I gave them fried chicken with Chinese oyster sauce and cashews.”

After six years at the Grove, the brothers departed. “Bill Grove didn’t want to pay me to cook,” David Leong said of the owner. “He thought anyone could do what I did. He was wrong. Wasn’t long before he was begging me to come back. I had my own place by then.”

That new place, Leong’s Tea House, set on the suburban fringe of town in what had recently been a cornfield, didn’t come easily. Loans were tough to secure. And some locals suspected the motives of Asian immigrants. “This was not long after the war,” David Leong said. “They thought all Asians were Japanese kamikazes.”

In November 1963, less than a week before the new restaurant was set to open, someone tossed 10 sticks of dynamite at the base of the low-slung building and stole the lion statues that flanked the front door. The crime made the local newspaper. But, as was the case with many incidents of bigotry-born violence in the 1960s, no convictions followed. The Leongs bounced back, repairing the damage quickly and opening the 350-seat white-tablecloth restaurant within a couple of weeks.

Inspired by the economy of the dish and the success of the teahouse, a number of cashew-chicken-centric restaurants followed the Leongs’ lead. (Fewer copied their egg rolls. According to David Leong, the secret ingredient was peanut butter.)

In 1972, when the brothers parted ways, Gee Leong opened Gee’s East Wind, on the same street, on the opposite end of town. And Cheong Leong, David’s oldest son, opened and closed a number of restaurants named House of Cheong, some of which were housed in former Whataburger franchises.

Throughout the 1970s, other Asian families immigrated to Springfield. First came other Chinese, then a large influx of Vietnamese. Many opened Chinese restaurants. By the 1970s, the Leong family dish had become such a part of the Springfield culinary ethic that the curriculum at Graff Vocational Technical Center included instruction in the cooking and serving of hillbilly steak sandwiches, chocolate cream pies and, yes, cashew chicken.

At the moment, no Leong family member runs a Springfield kitchen. In 1997, after the death of his wife, Wong Shau Ngor, David Leong closed Leong’s Tea House. In July 2000, his brother Gee Leong closed Gee’s East Wind. (Soon after, he died.) Cheong Leong moved to Las Vegas.

Wing Yee Leong, 52, another of David’s sons, who was manning the fry station at Leong’s Tea House when the family restaurant closed, now works as a journeyman chef. Over the last decade he has moved from Cartoon’s Oyster Bar to Mikayla’s at the Millwood Golf and Racquet Club to Fire and Ice, where he fried chicken and blanched cashews until last December. Each of those restaurants has adopted cashew chicken as its own.

More recently, Wing Yee Leong was a consulting chef at Pan Asia, a downtown Springfield restaurant owned by Dara Thach, a Cambodian immigrant. The restaurant closed recently, but before it did, Mr. Thach took pride in the dynamite sauce, a mix of mayonnaise and chili purée, that he served with sushi rolls and the cashew chicken recipe he adapted from the Leong tradition.

Occasionally the younger Leong joins his father for an early coffee at Canton Inn. One recent morning, as David Leong read a Cantonese language newspaper, Wing Yee Leong and Foon Wong reminisced about the Cashew Craze fund-raiser that used to take place as a benefit for the Developmental Center of the Ozarks.

“One year the Rasta Grill did a jerk cashew oyster sauce,” recalled Wing Yee Leong, as he worked a pair of chopsticks, pulling noodles from a bowl of soup. “I’ve tried some different stuff myself. Cashew chicken on a stick, fried in cashew flour, with an oyster dipping sauce. Cashew chicken is just like a hamburger. Everybody fixes it different.”
423 2009-03-11 In addition to restricting the number of homes available to foreign buyers, the market is tightly regulated, forbidding a foreign buyer to resell a home for five to 10 years, depending on the region and development. As such, it is not possible for investors to "flip" properties for quick profits, which brings great stability to the market, Maude said.

Recent sales suggest that the market has yet to be affected by the global recession.

According to the Swiss firm Wüest & Partner, which tracks national house prices in conjunction with the country's Federal Statistics Office, average house prices in Switzerland rose by almost 4 percent from 2007 to 2008, against a backdrop of falling prices elsewhere in Europe.

In popular tourist areas, prices have risen even more steeply owing to limited supply and a surge in foreign buyers in recent years, said Herbert Stoop, a managing partner at the advisory firm DTZ in Zurich: "Prices in tourist destinations in Switzerland have risen exorbitantly in the past five years as they're so exclusive. Prices in many areas have risen by 50 percent in the period."

Foreign buyers in Switzerland are predominately from Britain, the United States, Germany, Italy and France.

Single family homes in areas like Verbier typically cost around 13,860 Swiss francs per square meter, or $1,115 a square foot, at the end of last year, compared with 11,320 francs a square meter in St. Moritz, 14,670 in Geneva and 12,060 in Zurich, according to Wüest & Partner. That compares to a countrywide average of 5,690 francs a square meter.

In December, Savills Alpine Homes sold two chalets in the Le Hameau des Pistes development, in Veysonnaz, Four Valleys, including one for 1.95 million francs. The price was 30 percent more than the 1.49 million francs that an identical chalet in the development sold for in 2006, according to Savills.

The "ski in, ski out" chalets are surrounded by 410 kilometers, or 254 miles, of slopes; 100 ski lifts; and direct access to the famous Verbier ski area.

The three remaining chalets, each to comprise 237 square meters of living space and have five bedrooms, are priced at 1.95 million francs.

Construction on all five units is to start this spring and to be completed in 2010, said Jeremy Rollason, managing director of Savills Alpine Homes.

One buyer was Peter Dodd, 62, the managing director and joint founder of the British-based alternative fuel company Zero-m. He bought a chalet in Le Hameau des Pistes at the end of 2007.

"We always wanted to buy somewhere beautiful, with amazing views, and we saw an advert in The Sunday Times for alpine homes, so we decided to go and take a look," Dodd said. "We thought the development by Savills Alpine Homes was inspired — the quality was fantastic. The area is also very beautiful, with incredible walks and skiing."

Over in Vaud, Savills is waiting for planning approval to develop two additional chalet projects with individual prices starting at around 1.4 million francs. "I anticipate some price appreciation this year in Valais and Vaud of between 5 to 7 percent, due to strong demand," Rollason added.

The Swiss federal government is issuing 1,500 permits a year for foreign buyers, up from a previous level of 1,440, which are divided among the various cantons. (The Valais region gets 330 permits a year and Vaud gets 175.)

Before 2007, it could take as long as four years for a foreign buyer to acquire the title deed to their home. Now, however, cantons can grant half their permits to existing applications, rather than just new ones, so it typically takes up to a year, said Martyn Bell at the Swiss Property Sales agency, in Britain.

Bell said his agency is marketing four chalets in La Barboleuse, Vaud, with construction to start in the spring. The chalets are all 230 square meters and are listed at 2.38 million francs to 3.28 million francs, depending on fittings.

They are listed for at least 36 percent more than similar chalets would have been two years ago — and, given the recent sales, the agency expects to get those prices, if not more.
424 2009-03-11 CINCINNATI (AP) — The Kroger Company, the nation’s largest traditional grocery store chain, reported Tuesday that its fourth-quarter profit rose 8 percent, as price-conscious shoppers bought more store brands.

The company said sales were especially strong for its no-frills “Value” brand and for its highest-tier “Private Selection” line, which it said compared well to national brands in quality for items from coffee to pizzas.

Kroger said that net income for the quarter rose to $349.2 million, or 53 cents a share, from $322.9 million, or 48 cents a share, in the period a year ago.

Total sales revenue barely gained, to $17.26 billion from $17.23 billion last year, and gas revenue dropped at store service stations. Kroger said that with fuel sales excluded, total sales increased 4.4 percent over the quarter a year ago.

Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters expected earnings of 51 cents a share, on revenue of $18.3 billion. Kroger said sales at supermarket open at least five quarters — a key indicator — grew at 3.8 percent.
425 2009-03-11 WASHINGTON  The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, called on Tuesday for a broad overhaul of financial regulation that would include a powerful new regulator to keep a much tighter grip on institutions considered “too big to fail.”

At the same time, Mr. Bernanke stoked a new controversy by endorsing more flexible accounting rules that would not force banks to book as many losses during an economic downturn as current rules require.

In so doing, the Fed chairman came closer than other top officials to supporting a policy known as “regulatory forbearance,” a phrase that became an epithet among policy makers after the savings and loan crisis of the early 1990s.

Although the Fed chairman did not use that phrase, he called for reducing the “pro-cyclical” aspects of current regulation  the tendency of accounting rules and capital requirements to aggravate both financial retrenchment during a slowdown and financial excesses during a boom.

Investors and supporters of the banking industry cheered. The battered shares of Citigroup and other banks rose more than 20 percent, though part of that was in response to a statement by Citigroup’s chief executive that the bank turned a profit in the first two months of this year.

But some regulatory experts denounced Mr. Bernanke’s proposals, saying they would merely give banks new ways to hide their true losses.

“If Bernanke thinks he can regulate the cyclicality out of banking, then he’s a fool,” said Lynn Turner, a former chief accountant at the Securities and Exchange Commission. “If you’re regulating banks and you’re doing a good job, you’re making sure that the banks are building their capital reserves during good times. The problem in this country has been that the regulators became captives of the banks and didn’t require them to build up enough capital.”

Speaking to the Council on Foreign Relations, Mr. Bernanke said rigid capital requirements for banks may be encouraging them to cut back even further on lending during a recession than they would if they had more flexible requirements. That could slow down economic activity and add to the banks’ problems.

“We should review capital regulations to ensure that they are appropriately forward-looking, and that capital is allowed to serve its intended role as a buffer  one built up during good times and drawn down during bad times,” he said.

The Fed chairman also said regulators should consider relaxing so-called mark-to-market accounting rules that require financial institutions to value securities in their portfolio on the basis of their current market price. Banks and Wall Street firms, which are holding vast quantities of mortgage-backed securities for which there is no market and hence no market price, have been lobbying intensely for months for relief from mark-to-market rules and other forms of flexibility.

But many accounting and regulatory experts vehemently argue that such changes would make it easier for banks to hide their losses, thus increasing the overall level of uncertainty.

The Fed chairman made it clear he sympathized with the banks, saying that the current rules might be aggravating the ups and downs of the financial system by forcing the banks to write down their investments more than necessary because the market for them had dried up.

“Determining appropriate valuation methods for illiquid or idiosyncratic assets can be very difficult, to put it mildly,” Mr. Bernanke said, adding that “further review” of the current rules “would be useful.”

Responding to questions after his speech, Mr. Bernanke said he strongly supported the general principle that assets should be valued at current market prices. But, he added, the current rules did not lead to accurate valuations in times like these.

“Even the strongest proponents of mark to market acknowledge that in periods like this, when some markets don’t even exist or are highly illiquid, that the numbers that come out can be misleading,” he said.

In Congress, lawmakers are already beginning to draft legislation to overhaul the entire system of financial regulation, which experts say played a central role in the explosive growth of reckless mortgages and risk-taking by financial institutions during the housing bubble.

The House Financial Services Committee has scheduled four hearings on the issue for later this month, and one of its subcommittees will hold a hearing on mark-to-market rules Thursday.

Mr. Bernanke also took aim at the problem of very large institutions, like Citigroup and American International Group, that had become so big that their failures would have jeopardized the entire financial system.

Though he defended the government’s decision to bail out such companies, he warned that the expectation of additional bailouts encouraged companies to take bigger risks and grow big enough to get protection.

“The belief of market participants that a particular firm is considered too big to fail has many undesirable effects,” the Fed chairman said. “Indeed, in the present crisis, the too-big-to-fail issue has emerged as an enormous problem.”

Echoing proposals by some lawmakers, Mr. Bernanke called on Congress to create a superregulator that would oversee risks and risk-management practices across the financial system and have authority over companies regardless of whether they were banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies or hedge funds.

Stopping short of saying the Fed should become the superregulator as some have proposed, he said “a good case” could be made for putting the Fed in charge.
426 2009-03-11 Hopes that maybe, just maybe, the nation’s beleaguered banks are on the mend swept Wall Street on Tuesday, unleashing a breathtaking stock market rally that left investors a bit giddy but had many experts warning that this rally, like so many before it, could falter as fast as it began.

After months of disheartening losses, investors finally got a taste of what they desperately craved  a glimmer of good news in the financial industry  from none other than Citigroup, the biggest and most troubled of the nation’s troubled big banks.

In a memorandum sent to Citigroup employees on Monday night, Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup’s beleaguered chief executive, said that after more than a year of staggering losses and three rescues from Washington, the giant financial company was once again making money. Citigroup, he said, was on track for its strongest quarter since late 2007, when waves of bad loans and trading losses began to crash down on the company.

But few analysts saw a quick end to the troubles at Citigroup or at other financial companies. Indeed, many predicted that Citigroup and other banks would suffer further losses as the recession deepened. Given the precarious state of the global economy, even optimists were reluctant to call an end to the bear market.

“We poor investors, we don’t need much to make us happy, we’ve been beat up so hard,” said Ed Yardeni, president of Yardeni Research. “At this point we’ll take whatever we can get.”

So for a day, at least, a hint of good news was enough. The Dow Jones industrial average soared 379.44 points, or 5.8 percent, to 6,926.49, its biggest one-day gain this year and one of the biggest since World War II. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 43.07 points, or 6.37 percent, to 719.60; the Nasdaq composite index rose 89.64 points, or 7.07 percent, to 1,358.28.

Battered financial shares paced the gains. Citigroup’s share price, which briefly sank below $1 last week, rose 40 cents, to $1.45. Other banks big and small posted similar gains.

But market bears insisted that, despite the rally, nothing had really changed. Investors’ hopes, the skeptics argued, were misplaced. Since last October, the Dow has staged five of its biggest one-day rallies in postwar history, only to falter again and sink to new lows.

Even after Tuesday’s gains, the Dow and the S.& P. 500 were still down more than 20 percent this year, and shares of financial companies were more than 40 percent lower.

But for traders, the sight of green on their screens offered a welcome relief from the relentless torrent of red as stocks churned steadily lower over the last month, dragging financial markets to their lowest levels in about 12 years.

“The volatility breeds a lot of nervousness, and that nervousness breeds opportunity,” said Anthony Conroy, head equity trader at BNY ConvergEx Group. “It was a one-way trade for so long, and it looks like we’re turning here.”

The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, added to the day’s optimism by calling for broad reforms in the financial regulatory system, including an examination of accounting rules that govern how companies value their assets.

Mr. Bernanke, speaking to the Council on Foreign Relations, said he did not support suspending mark-to-market accounting rules, under which businesses peg asset values to the current market prices. But he said he supported a review to ensure that weaknesses in the rules were identified and fixed.

“Further review of accounting standards governing valuation and loss provisioning would be useful, and might result in modifications to the accounting rules,” he said in his speech.

Investors also cheered signals from lawmakers and the Securities and Exchange Commission that officials were poised to restore the uptick rule, which is intended to slow short-selling. The rule was lifted in 2007, and critics have said its absence contributed to the breathtaking pace of declines in stock prices.

But the main catalyst was the news from Citigroup, which, with large consumer and investment banking operations in more than 100 countries, is viewed as a proxy for the broader banking industry. Mr. Pandit, in his memo, held out a few rays of hope.

“I, like you, am disappointed with our current stock price and the broad-based misperceptions about our company and its financial position,” Mr. Pandit said. But Citigroup, he said, was financially sound, its businesses strong and its deposits relatively stable.

“Over time, the markets will recognize the many strengths of Citi,” Mr. Pandit said.

For Citigroup, a big question is whether it can generate enough earnings to withstand expected new losses. Citigroup could yet incur $55.5 billion in additional markdowns over the next 18 months, according to a recent CreditSights analysis.

In his memo, Mr. Pandit signaled that Citigroup could absorb those losses. He said the bank was profitable through January and February, when it generated a combined $19 billion in revenue thanks to strong trading results and fatter lending margins.

Many analysts were skeptical. Citigroup’s profits could be fleeting if the global economy worsens substantially.

“Citi is not out of the woods. It is certainly good news that Citi is profitable, but I would not overplay the positives.” said Michael Mayo, a financial services analyst at Deutsche Bank. “They still have write-downs and an increase of problem assets, and they are still dependent on what the regulators do.”

Indeed, regulators are currently conducting “stress tests” for Citigroup and 18 other big banks to assess the depths of their problems, and while Mr. Pandit said he was confident that Citigroup was adequately capitalized, many analysts question whether the company will require another government rescue. Also hanging in the balance is whether a plan to have government-backed investment funds buy up toxic assets from the banks can get off the ground.

But given the market’s precipitous decline of late, it not entirely surprising to see stocks rebound sharply, if only for a short time.

"When stocks have been battered as much as they have, it doesn’t take that much good news to move them forward," said Marc Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust. "This isn’t a green light to investors, but the tone is much more constructive now."

As investors surged back into stocks, gold prices retreated to just under $900 an ounce and the price of safe-haven Treasury debt fell back as the yield on the 10-year note rose to 3 percent.

Following are the results of Tuesday’s Treasury auctions for four-week and 52-week bills and three-year notes:
427 2009-03-11 For now, few economists are predicting that deflation will prove a chronic problem. For starters, the Chinese government has been very aggressively expanding the country’s money supply — and China’s state-controlled banks, having suffered few of the losses of their Western counterparts, have been following regulators’ instructions to step up their lending.

Deflation can be a severe threat for any economy because consumers and businesses faced with falling prices see an incentive to delay spending, which in turn can make prices fall even faster and slow economic growth.

The Chinese government also plays a greater role in the market and in prices than many governments in the West. The government is moving to increase by 18 percent the prices at which it buys rice and wheat, for example, which should help peasants’ incomes and halt a decline in food prices that helped to drag down broader indexes in February.

The National Bureau of Statistics took the unusual step of issuing a statement on Tuesday that denied China faced possible deflation. The government agency noted that raw material prices had plunged around the world, a drop that may not be repeated this year, and that the timing of Chinese New Year may have had an effect — it fell in late January this year instead of in February.

Prices were also particularly high for many foods in February of last year because of severe snowstorms, which were not repeated this year.

“The fact that the Consumer Price Index and Producer Price Index both declined in February cannot be used to come to a conclusion that deflation has appeared,” the National Bureau of Statistics said. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao set a target last week of 4 percent inflation this year.

Yet there are many signs that supply exceeds demand for a wide range of goods and services. Hong Kong business leaders warn that most of their mainland factories are not running at full capacity, although only a few percent of 65,000 Hong Kong-owned factories in nearby areas of mainland China have actually closed.

“They may be operating at one-third or half of production” capacity, said Clement Chen, the chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, while adding that, “We haven’t seen a large number of closures.”

In a possible sign that real estate developers are running into financial difficulty and having to unload new houses and apartments at a faster pace, the real estate index of 70 cities was led down by a drop of 1.8 percent in new home prices compared with a year ago. Prices of previously owned homes fell 0.7 percent.

Moody’s Economy.com predicted that consumers, aware of the recent decline in values, would be reluctant to buy homes and that real estate prices would continue to fall through this year in China.
428 2009-03-11 The Supreme Court narrowed the scope of the Voting Rights Act this week when it ruled that it does not require states to create so-called crossover districts. The regrettable 5-to-4 ruling overturns two of the act’s central goals: protecting minority voting rights and moving the nation toward a more colorblind future.

In crossover districts, minorities are not a majority, but they have enough voting power that they stand a good chance of electing a candidate of their choosing.

When North Carolina redrew its district lines in 2003, it created a district with a roughly 39 percent black voting-age population. In doing so, the line-drawers divided a county into two districts, something the state constitution prohibited. But the state argued that the Voting Rights Act required it to create the district, in which minorities would be a large part of the electorate though not a majority.

The county sued, arguing that the Voting Rights Act does not require the creation of districts in which minorities are less than 50 percent of the voting-age population. Justice Anthony Kennedy, who wrote the opinion that controlled the outcome, stated that the act is concerned only with creating districts in which minorities are a majority.

Justice David Souter, in dissent, had the better argument. He noted that in practice crossover districts that are about 39 percent black have a reasonable chance of electing minorities, which makes the districts an effective method of increasing minority representation.

He also pointed out that if the act does not require the creation of crossover districts, it will encourage states instead to pack minorities into majority-minority districts. Discouraging the sort of districts in which blacks must join together with whites will polarize voting along racial lines.

As Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg noted in dissent, the decision “returns the ball to Congress’ court.” Congress should amend the Voting Rights Act to make clear that it also wants to create districts in which minorities are less than a majority but exert significant influence.
429 2009-03-11 HOW CELLPHONES TRACK YOU The millions of people who use their cellphones daily to play games, download applications and browse the Web have an unseen companion: advertisers who can track their interests, their habits and even their location....
430 2009-03-11 To fill a seat that traditionally goes to someone from Maryland, officials said the White House was considering nominating Andre Davis, a District Court judge based in Baltimore.

There are several candidates for the Virginia seat, including Elizabeth Magill, a law professor at the University of Virginia and daughter of a former federal appeals court judge.

For the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, based in New York, officials said the White House had settled on elevating Judge Gerard E. Lynch, a Columbia law professor, from the District Court.

The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because naming judges involves a delicate political process involving senators, among others.

Shaping the appeals courts, the level just below the Supreme Court, was at the heart of the strategy first put in place by conservatives during the Reagan presidency. They saw to it that President Ronald Reagan put at least one forceful and articulate conservative, usually an academic, on each of the circuit courts.

At least so far, the candidates being considered by the Obama White House for early nomination do not appear to have especially ideological profiles.

Because Republicans have controlled the White House for all of the last 28 years except the eight years of the Clinton presidency, more than 60 percent of the judiciary is made up of Republican-nominated judges.

The result is Republican control of eight of the regional appeals courts; Democrats have a majority in two circuits, the Second and the Ninth, based in San Francisco. The Third Circuit, based in Philadelphia, is split 6 to 6, with two vacancies.

Arthur Hellman, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh law school who is an authority on the circuit courts, said reliable studies regularly demonstrated that the Republican-appointed judges had moved the nation’s courts in a more conservative direction in several areas.

They tend to be more restrictive of abortion rights, less accommodating to criminal defendants and sharply skeptical of expanding federal authority at the expense of the states.

The Fourth Circuit, Professor Hellman said, was the most aggressive of those and was also where Mr. Obama “has the greatest opportunity to turn around the jurisprudence pretty quickly.”

The effort to move rapidly to select appeals court judges has been coordinated by Gregory S. Craig, the White House counsel, whose expanded office took the lead on the issue from the Justice Department, which has yet to have many of its senior officials confirmed.

In a closed meeting on Capitol Hill two weeks ago, Mr. Craig told Democratic senators that the White House would rely on their recommendations to fill the district courts. But he said that while Mr. Obama would welcome their advice, he warned that filling the appeals courts was largely a presidential prerogative, participants said.

One senior aide briefed on the meeting said that such an effort to limit Democratic senators’ role could create friction. But the aide said that every White House tried to impose such an understanding at the beginning only to become flexible when it needed a senator’s vote on some unrelated issue.

Mr. Obama also faces a different threat from Senate Republicans, who earlier this month threatened, though in vague terms, to block his judicial nominees by filibuster if they were not consulted on vacancies from their home states.

Underlying all the maneuvering is an awareness that much of it may serve as a dress rehearsal for the spring, when many expect Mr. Obama will have a Supreme Court vacancy to fill.
431 2009-03-11 The Environmental Protection Agency proposed a rule on Tuesday that would require a broad range of industries to tally and report their greenhouse gas emissions.

The proposal, which could establish an accounting basis for federal regulation of heat-trapping gases, would require about 13,000 factories, power plants and other facilities to report their emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and other gases that climate scientists link to global warming.

Oil refineries, cement makers, utilities and pulp and paper manufacturers and the automotive sector are among the industries covered by the proposal. The E.P.A. says that the rule, promulgated under the Clean Air Act, would account for 85 percent to 90 percent of the country’s emissions of heat-trapping gases, although small manufacturers would be exempt.

“We do not expect to have a significant impact on small businesses,” said Dina Kruger, the director of the agency’s climate change division.

A 60-day comment period and two public hearings will soon take place. Ms. Kruger said the agency hoped to make the rule final this fall. If that happens, reporting could begin in 2011, after the monitoring of 2010 emissions.
432 2009-03-11 Cashew chicken transcends nationality. At Ziggie’s, a diner owned and operated by the Zendelis, a family of Albanian origin, it’s a white-board special, served in a skillet-shaped ceramic crock with a roster of side dishes that includes cottage cheese and hash browns.

“It’s not necessarily Chinese,” said Vicki Hilton, a local zoning inspector on lunch break at Ziggie’s. “Our kids eat cashew chicken in their school cafeteria.” (A number of schools rely on the Hopsing brand of cashew chicken sauce mix, a powdered product made in Springfield, colored with turmeric and goosed with MSG.)

The Heritage Cafeteria, a strip-mall dowager that opened in 1960, stocks chicken planks, yellow rice, roasted cashews and a vat of brown gravy alongside haunches of roast beef and tubs of gelatin salad. “Our sauce is made from chicken base, soy sauce and Clear Jel,” a thickening agent, said Kulwant Hundal, a native of Punjab, India, who has worked the line for 10 years. “I love it.”

At Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, the flagship location in a Springfield-based national chain, Marcel Bonetti is the company’s executive chef. “I brought my recipes to this country,” said Mr. Bonetti, a native of Aix-en-Provence, France. “But all I heard was cashew, cashew, cashew. So I made my own version. I added bourbon.”

Some Chinese restaurateurs with fine-dining aspirations try to resist the pull of cashew chicken. They fail.

“We’ve got dim sum on the weekend,” said John Burke, 36, proprietor of Mr. Yen’s. “And spicy pigs’ ears on the menu. But it doesn’t matter — 40 percent of our business is cashew chicken.”

“It’s not the Chinese cashew chicken you think you know,” said Mr. Burke, whose family immigrated from Taiwan in 1976. “It’s fried chicken and mashed potatoes with gravy. It’s Missouri. Only we sub fried rice for potatoes.”

“When I took over, I wanted to serve something other than chicken nuggets in brown gravy,” Mr. Burke continued. “My father said: ‘Are you stupid, son? Are you that stupid? You can’t cook Chinese in Springfield without cooking cashew chicken.’ ”

“I fought it at first,” he said. “Now I eat cashew chicken three or four days a week.”

Kelly Knauer, a native, was eating an order of the same at Fire and Ice, a swank open-kitchen restaurant that once featured a pizza with fried chicken, cashews and mozzarella. “Cashew chicken is a kind of inside joke in Springfield,” he said. “But it’s also our daily bread, our defining food. And it starts with David Leong.”

Unlike many dishes of American pop provenance, Springfield cashew chicken comes with a well-curated narrative. Residents here recognize the primacy of Mr. Leong. They embrace the Leong story as a Springfield story.

Mr. Leong immigrated to the United States in 1940 from Guangdong, China. He became a naturalized citizen, then served his adopted country during World War II. (During the Normandy invasion, he was in the fourth wave of troops to hit Omaha Beach.) After the war, he bounced from restaurant to restaurant, from Philadelphia to New Orleans to Pensacola, Fla.

At Pirate’s Cove, a Pensacola restaurant where he honed a reputation for broiled scallops and flounder braised in sweet and sour sauce, Mr. Leong met a Springfield neurosurgeon, John L. K. Tsang, who was also a native of China. In 1955, Dr. Tsang lured David Leong and his brother, Gee Leong, to Springfield to open the region’s first Chinese restaurant, Lotus Garden.

It didn’t last. A year later the brothers were cooking at the Grove, a supper club famous for T-bones and highballs. They dished up sweet and sour pork and moo goo gai pan. And, inspired by similar Chinese dishes, David Leong experimented with the dish that would become cashew chicken.

“When I moved here in the 1950s, people kept telling me about fried chicken,” Mr. Leong said. “I did what they wanted. I gave them fried chicken with Chinese oyster sauce and cashews.”

After six years at the Grove, the brothers departed. “Bill Grove didn’t want to pay me to cook,” David Leong said of the owner. “He thought anyone could do what I did. He was wrong. Wasn’t long before he was begging me to come back. I had my own place by then.”

That new place, Leong’s Tea House, set on the suburban fringe of town in what had recently been a cornfield, didn’t come easily. Loans were tough to secure. And some locals suspected the motives of Asian immigrants. “This was not long after the war,” David Leong said. “They thought all Asians were Japanese kamikazes.”

In November 1963, less than a week before the new restaurant was set to open, someone tossed 10 sticks of dynamite at the base of the low-slung building and stole the lion statues that flanked the front door. The crime made the local newspaper. But, as was the case with many incidents of bigotry-born violence in the 1960s, no convictions followed. The Leongs bounced back, repairing the damage quickly and opening the 350-seat white-tablecloth restaurant within a couple of weeks.

Inspired by the economy of the dish and the success of the teahouse, a number of cashew-chicken-centric restaurants followed the Leongs’ lead. (Fewer copied their egg rolls. According to David Leong, the secret ingredient was peanut butter.)

In 1972, when the brothers parted ways, Gee Leong opened Gee’s East Wind, on the same street, on the opposite end of town. And Cheong Leong, David’s oldest son, opened and closed a number of restaurants named House of Cheong, some of which were housed in former Whataburger franchises.

Throughout the 1970s, other Asian families immigrated to Springfield. First came other Chinese, then a large influx of Vietnamese. Many opened Chinese restaurants. By the 1970s, the Leong family dish had become such a part of the Springfield culinary ethic that the curriculum at Graff Vocational Technical Center included instruction in the cooking and serving of hillbilly steak sandwiches, chocolate cream pies and, yes, cashew chicken.

At the moment, no Leong family member runs a Springfield kitchen. In 1997, after the death of his wife, Wong Shau Ngor, David Leong closed Leong’s Tea House. In July 2000, his brother Gee Leong closed Gee’s East Wind. (Soon after, he died.) Cheong Leong moved to Las Vegas.

Wing Yee Leong, 52, another of David’s sons, who was manning the fry station at Leong’s Tea House when the family restaurant closed, now works as a journeyman chef. Over the last decade he has moved from Cartoon’s Oyster Bar to Mikayla’s at the Millwood Golf and Racquet Club to Fire and Ice, where he fried chicken and blanched cashews until last December. Each of those restaurants has adopted cashew chicken as its own.

More recently, Wing Yee Leong was a consulting chef at Pan Asia, a downtown Springfield restaurant owned by Dara Thach, a Cambodian immigrant. The restaurant closed recently, but before it did, Mr. Thach took pride in the dynamite sauce, a mix of mayonnaise and chili purée, that he served with sushi rolls and the cashew chicken recipe he adapted from the Leong tradition.

Occasionally the younger Leong joins his father for an early coffee at Canton Inn. One recent morning, as David Leong read a Cantonese language newspaper, Wing Yee Leong and Foon Wong reminisced about the Cashew Craze fund-raiser that used to take place as a benefit for the Developmental Center of the Ozarks.

“One year the Rasta Grill did a jerk cashew oyster sauce,” recalled Wing Yee Leong, as he worked a pair of chopsticks, pulling noodles from a bowl of soup. “I’ve tried some different stuff myself. Cashew chicken on a stick, fried in cashew flour, with an oyster dipping sauce. Cashew chicken is just like a hamburger. Everybody fixes it different.”
433 2009-03-11 WASHINGTON — Charles W. Freeman Jr., the Obama administration’s choice for a major intelligence post, withdrew his name on Tuesday and blamed pro-Israel lobbying groups, saying they had distorted his record and campaigned against him.

Mr. Freeman had come under sharp criticism for his past statements about Israel as well as for his association with the Saudi and Chinese governments.

Mr. Freeman’s withdrawal from consideration as chairman of the National Intelligence Council came just hours after Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, vigorously defended him and said that his comments had been taken out of context.

In a message to colleagues and friends, first posted Tuesday evening on Foreign Policy magazine’s Web site, Mr. Freeman blamed pro-Israel groups for the controversy, saying the “tactics of the Israel Lobby plumb the depths of dishonor and indecency and include character assassination, selective misquotation, the willful distortion of the record, the fabrication of falsehoods, and an utter disregard for the truth.”

Joshua Block, a spokesman for the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a lobbying group, said Tuesday that his organization had not taken a formal position on Mr. Freeman’s selection and had not lobbied Congress members to oppose it.
434 2009-03-11 Robert J. Cole, a business reporter for The New York Times who often led the way in covering the corporate merger mania of the 1970s and ’80s, died on Feb. 11 in Asheville, N.C. He was 83.

The cause was a heart attack, his daughter Fran Cole said.

Mr. Cole was known for chasing down news of the corporate takeovers and leveraged buyouts that dominated the financial pages for much of the late 20th century, gaining a reputation along the way for bluntness and, often, irascibility. His coverage in 1984 of Chevron’s acquisition of the Gulf Corporation, the largest merger ever at the time, drew particular note.

“He really honed the craft of merger and acquisition reporting,” Dean Rotbart, a historian of business journalism, said in an interview on Tuesday. “He was king of the hill for a long period of time.”

The Journalist and Financial Reporting, a combination magazine and newsletter that Mr. Rotbart edited, named Mr. Cole one of the dozen most influential business journalists of the 1980s. He won a Loeb award for beat reporting in 1985.

Robert Jason Cole was born on April 14, 1925, in Woonsocket, R.I., served in the Navy during World War II and graduated from the University of Texas, Austin, in 1947. He began his career in 1949 as a reporter for The Mexico City Herald, then was foreign editor of The New York Journal of Commerce from 1950. He joined The Times as a copy editor in the financial news department in 1962.

He soon began writing a column on personal finance and later joined the business reporting staff. He first covered Wall Street before moving on to mergers and acquisitions, where he cultivated as sources the lawyers and investment bankers who put together deal after deal.
435 2009-03-11 For now, few economists are predicting that deflation will prove a chronic problem. For starters, the Chinese government has been very aggressively expanding the country’s money supply — and China’s state-controlled banks, having suffered few of the losses of their Western counterparts, have been following regulators’ instructions to step up their lending.

Deflation can be a severe threat for any economy because consumers and businesses faced with falling prices see an incentive to delay spending, which in turn can make prices fall even faster and slow economic growth.

The Chinese government also plays a greater role in the market and in prices than many governments in the West. The government is moving to increase by 18 percent the prices at which it buys rice and wheat, for example, which should help peasants’ incomes and halt a decline in food prices that helped to drag down broader indexes in February.

The National Bureau of Statistics took the unusual step of issuing a statement on Tuesday that denied China faced possible deflation. The government agency noted that raw material prices had plunged around the world, a drop that may not be repeated this year, and that the timing of Chinese New Year may have had an effect — it fell in late January this year instead of in February.

Prices were also particularly high for many foods in February of last year because of severe snowstorms, which were not repeated this year.

“The fact that the Consumer Price Index and Producer Price Index both declined in February cannot be used to come to a conclusion that deflation has appeared,” the National Bureau of Statistics said. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao set a target last week of 4 percent inflation this year.

Yet there are many signs that supply exceeds demand for a wide range of goods and services. Hong Kong business leaders warn that most of their mainland factories are not running at full capacity, although only a few percent of 65,000 Hong Kong-owned factories in nearby areas of mainland China have actually closed.

“They may be operating at one-third or half of production” capacity, said Clement Chen, the chairman of the Federation of Hong Kong Industries, while adding that, “We haven’t seen a large number of closures.”

In a possible sign that real estate developers are running into financial difficulty and having to unload new houses and apartments at a faster pace, the real estate index of 70 cities was led down by a drop of 1.8 percent in new home prices compared with a year ago. Prices of previously owned homes fell 0.7 percent.

Moody’s Economy.com predicted that consumers, aware of the recent decline in values, would be reluctant to buy homes and that real estate prices would continue to fall through this year in China.
436 2009-03-11 CANDIDATE A former prime minister of Iran, Mir Hussein Moussavi, announced Tuesday that he would run as a moderate in the June presidential race, the Iranian Student News Agency reported....
437 2009-03-12 Eric Simonoff, a star book agent who represents Pulitzer Prize-winning novelists Jhumpa Lahiri and Edward P. Jones as well as the memoirist-turned-novelist James Frey, is leaving the literary agency Janklow Nesbitt and joining William Morris....
438 2009-03-12 It’s harder to find contemporary scripts based on Scripture. Mainstream filmmakers are reluctant to tinker with religious sensibilities, and even 1960s musicals like “Joseph and the Technicolor Dreamcoat” and “Jesus Christ Superstar” took few liberties with plot, setting or characters. Even the most daring interpretations, whether it’s Martin Scorsese’s “Last Temptation of Christ” or Mel Gibson’s “Passion of the Christ,” are set in ancient times — Mr. Gibson even insisted on filming his dialogue in Aramaic.

Yet plenty of Old Testament stories carry temptingly modern (even sitcomy) themes: Ruth, after all, stayed and took care of her Jewish mother-in-law, and Queen Esther was picked by Ahasuerus after winning a beauty contest. (Queen Esther was invoked in the HBO movie “Recount,” when Florida’s secretary of state, Katherine Harris (Laura Dern), likens her situation in the 2000 election to that of the queen, who, she says, “was willing to sacrifice herself to save the lovely Jewish people.”)

Most biblical epics are just that, epic costume dramas that are literal, highly respectful accounts of the lives of Moses, Noah, John the Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth.

And that is one of the problems with “Kings.” The reinterpretation is bold, but the narrative pace is as stately and plodding as an Easter pageant’s. And that slow, ponderous approach makes weaknesses in the dialogue all the more obvious. Mr. McShane, who was so riveting as Al Swearengen on “Deadwood,” doesn’t have David Milch’s writing to work with; he gives the part of Silas everything he has, including bulging eyeballs and twitching eyebrows, and does the best he can.

As Silas’s wife, Queen Rose, Susanna Thompson shows some range as the coolly perfect, daintily Machiavellian first lady of the land. (The Apthorp building serves as the royal residence, and the court convenes in a glass-paneled hall in the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle.) Silas’s son and heir, Jack (Sebastian Stan), a wastrel prince with a shadowy personal life who is jealous of David, adds some “Dynasty” pizzazz to the story.

David falls for the king’s lovely daughter, Michelle (Allison Miller). According to the Book of Samuel, however, Michal was the first of eight wives. So if NBC plans to keep the script true to the Book of Samuel at the current speed, “Kings” will need many seasons, and perhaps even centuries, to get to Bathsheba.

There are some delicious details. Silas keeps a court biographer at his side who writes the first draft of history by dictation. After a particularly contentious cabinet meeting, Silas turns to his scribe and says, “Write this down: He governed patiently and well and ran home for a shower.” The show’s Web site (nbc.com/kings) has a mock cable-news site, UNN, which has headlines like “King Silas authorizes Gath offensive,” “CrossGen breaks profit record,” and “Carmel cleans up after massive storms.”

But Mr. Egan’s David is a dull hero. At times the boy wonder is presented as an innocent, almost an allegorical figure like Billy Budd. At others, he is given a cocky playfulness that recalls Jack Dawson, the young adventurer played by Leonardo DiCaprio in “Titanic.” (“I’d like a large glass of something really expensive,” David says to the bartender at his first royal banquet.) Mostly, those two sides don’t mix, and David remains a pretty but bland presence.

Even the cinematography is uneven. Battle scenes are shot in the grainy, washed-out colors found in “Saving Private Ryan” and “Generation Kill,” but city scenes are as sleek, bright and computer-generated as those on “Heroes.”

The series itself seems divided: at times a supersize fable told with portentous, and even turgid, simplicity, while at others, a sophisticated spoof that uses ancient legend to send up modern politics. And when a series cannot be both, it ends up being neither. That could be another reason that so few movies use biblical stories as a base: it’s a lot harder than it sounds.

Created by Michael Green; directed by Francis Lawrence; Mr. Green, Mr. Lawrence and Erwin Stoff, executive producers; Julie Martin, co-executive producer; Hank Steinberg and J. J. Philbin, consulting producers; Erik Oleson and Brad Winters, supervising producers; Kamran Pasha, producer. Produced by Universal Media Studios.

WITH: Ian McShane (King Silas Benjamin), Chris Egan (David Shepherd), Sebastian Stan (Jack Benjamin), Allison Miller (Michelle Benjamin), Susanna Thompson (Queen Rose Benjamin), Wes Studi (Gen. Linus Abner), Eamonn Walker (The Rev. Ephram Samuels) and Dylan Baker (William Cross).
439 2009-03-12 The question of how to deal with financial institutions that are deemed "too big to fail" came up on Thursday as senators quizzed Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on the federal budget. Senator Bernard Sanders, the Vermont independent, said ...
440 2009-03-12 Columnist William C. Rhoden joins Pete Thamel and Connor Ennis at Madison Square Garden to break down the latest and best story lines from the Big East Tournament.
441 2009-03-12 "Love The Beast," Eric Bana's film that documents his 25-year-long love affair with his first car, a Ford XB Falcon Coupe, will have its international premiere at the Tribeca Film Festival in April....
442 2009-03-12 Judging from your e-mail messages and comments, you really, really like the TV stars featured in our recent men's cover story and the accompanying video interviews by Lynn Hirschberg. Well, now you can pretend like they love you back thanks to our...
443 2009-03-12 Looking for a well-informed guide in Cambodia's Siem Reap to the ruins of Angkor....
444 2009-03-12 The Senate approves David Ogden as No. 2 at the Justice Department, and Thomas Perrelli as the No. 3 official there....
445 2009-03-12 Upcoming film, "American Violent," to premiere in the small Texas town where the story took place....
446 2009-03-12 Chrysler said that it would close plants in Canada unless it receives a $2.3 billion loan from the Canadian government and quick concessions from the Canadian Auto Workers union....
447 2009-03-12 [UPDATE, 1:45 p.m.: A roundup of economists' and scientists' views at the Copenhagen climate meeting and a reaction from Mike Hulme, a participating scientist.] A three-day conference on climate science and policy that drew some 2,500 scientists, ...
448 2009-03-12 WASHINGTON (AP) — The net worth of American households fell by the largest amount in more than a half-century of record keeping during the fourth quarter of last year.

The Federal Reserve said Thursday that household net worth dropped by a record 9 percent from the level in the third quarter.

The decline was the sixth straight quarterly drop in net worth and underscored the battering that families are undergoing in the midst of a steep recession with unemployment surging and the value of their homes and investments plunging.

Net worth represents total assets such as homes and checking accounts minus liabilities like mortgages and credit card debt.

Family net worth had hit an all-time high of $64.36 trillion in the April-June quarter of 2007 but has fallen in every quarter since that time.
449 2009-03-12 It's really amazing the turnout here -- 49 of the 50 states are represented here, which says to me your governors are taking this in a deadly earnest, deadly serious way. They understand the value to your state, but also the responsibility that we have. You know, I love it, my grandchildren laugh when they -- when President Obama says nobody messes with Joe -- (laughter)

-- talk to my grandkids, then my kids, then my wife, then my staff, but I can tell you one thing, my passion to make sure this is done right, it may exceed my abilities. But I'm telling you this is not anything that I am fooling around with, nor I expect any of you.

Because, folks, look, let's get this straight. We're given a great opportunity here. We've asked a lot of the American people, a great deal of the American people, in supporting this effort. And so this is a different deal. This is not your usual federal grant going to states. And I want to be blunt with you, off-script here: The fact of the matter is all that is legal is not acceptable. Let me say it again. Just because it may be legal, it is not acceptable -- some of it.

For example, you're going to see regulations announced on Friday by the President, with me with him, about things you'd ordinarily be able to spend federal money on, but we are not going to let you spend federal money on. And I suspect most of you would not want to do it anyway. A little hint: No swimming pools in this money; a few other things.

So it really is important -- I know you know it better than we do, because you're there, you're the ones that are facing these high unemployment rates. Some of your states, some of the poorer states in the nation have the highest unemployment rate, and some wealthy states have even higher unemployment rates. This is a crisis. This is a crisis. And I know you feel as I do, that it requires a exercise of discipline and accountability and transparency like nothing we have ever done in terms of federal-state relations. And I am not kidding about that -- and I know you're not either -- but this is a big deal. The work you're doing is going to be critical to the economic well-being of the country.

Let me point out one other thing. If we don't get this right, folks, this is the end of the opportunity to convince the Congress that anything should go to the states. Your state legislatures are struggling. Your governors are struggling. The members of the House and Senate are struggling. They don't want to take up one another's burden. Everyone in this room, I hope you are, in the best sense of the word, good politicians, as well as having very sharp pencils. So I hope you'll understand the dynamic at play here.

So if this -- six months from now, if the verdict on this effort is that we've wasted the money, we built things that were unnecessary, or we've done things that are legal but make no sense, then, folks, don't look for any help from the federal government for a long while. They're going to make sure -- the folks in the House and in the Senate are going to make sure you wear the jacket, not them.

This is a big deal -- this is a big deal. It's also being closely watched not just by me, but by the President, and by Mr. Devaney, who is one of the most respected IGs we have in the federal government, and is known by many of you. And it's also being watched by the taxpayers and it's being watched by the media.

And that's a good thing -- that's a good thing, because the resources being made available through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act are a critical piece -- a critical piece of how we're going to get through this economic crisis, and just as importantly, how we're going to build the economy of the future, which the Secretary referenced.

This is not just an opportunity to help us get out of this mess we're in, but it's an opportunity to begin to lay the foundation for a competitive America in the 21st century. That's something we can never lose sight of. Everyone in this room is has a huge responsibility. We all have the responsibility to make sure this legislation is implemented with maximum efficiency. And we have the responsibility to make sure there's unprecedented transparency for the America people.

Further, there should be no confusion about how this money should be spent. These funds are designed for one of three purposes. First, to -- money to put in people's pockets. That's why we extended unemployment compensation, and 95 percent of the America people are going to see their paychecks fatter, because their payroll taxes will be cut beginning April 1st. They'll have more money in their pocket to spend.

Second, the purpose is to create jobs in the near term, and that's why we -- not just now, but in the near term, over the next 18 months. That's why we've dedicated so much money to rebuilding America's schools, roads, highways, and bridges.

And third, to make investments in those areas that would create the jobs of the future. That's why we've invested in new technologies like wind and solar, a new smart grid for America's electricity, a new superhighway of electricity transmission in the United States of America, and health care technology, to lay the groundwork for saving billions of dollars -- it's the one thing that will get us out of this long-term trajectory of nothing but rising deficits.

And today I'm proud to be announcing two allocations of resources that are a good example of how this money should be spent. First, through the Department of Energy, $8 billion in weatherization funding and energy efficiency grants are going to go out to the states. This is funding that will both create jobs now, and make critical investments in making America more energy efficient in the future.

As the Secretary said, the ultimate answer of our success will be in the black and white of the bill that our constituents receive in terms of their energy costs at the end of the day. Five billion [dollars] of this funding will go to weatherizations of homes for insulation, ceiling leaks, and modernizing heating and air-conditioning equipment. It's an investment that will pay for itself many times over. It's also an investment that will create tens of thousands of jobs right now -- jobs right now.

And additional $3 billion of this money is for state energy programs. That's money that can be used by you for rebates to consumers who are doing energy audits for developing renewable energy projects, and for making state and local government buildings more energy efficient.

You know how to do this well. You are, as they say, the laboratories. You know how to do well -- we're looking to you. We're looking to you not only to receive this money and spend it accountably and transparently, but innovatively. And we hope that some of you, your success will be shared with other states. So there's an opportunity here -- there's an opportunity for real innovation.

Of this $8 billion investment, we'll start with an $800 million allocation right now, with the rest being made available once we get the detailed plans from states and local governments on how you will allocate the money, and give you time to -- you'll hear today how and what kind of plans you need to submit in order to be able to do that.

Second, through the Department of Transportation, the first funding allocations for airport infrastructure projects are being made today -- $10 million to the Pittsburgh International Airport, $2 million to the Allegheny County Airport. This money will be used for runway, taxiway, and ramp repair. Again, this is money that would create jobs now, but it's also an investment in long-term safety of our airports and of their economic viability. Altogether, $1 billion in Recovery Act money has been allocated to airport projects.

There are 3,000 -- I need not tell many of you -- there are 3,400 airports all across your states that will be eligible to compete for this money. But our main purpose here today is not funding announcements, or even to hear from people like me. It's for you to have direct access to the various agencies running these recovery programs.

Many of you have contacted me personally and said, Joe, how do we do this? What are the rules, what are the regs? How do we get this done? What do we do? We want to do it by the numbers; tell us what we need to know. Well, you have an opportunity today to ask questions about the funds that we'll be overseeing, the requirements for receiving these funds and the steps you'll need to take. And it will be a long day, it will be a long day, but an important day, in my view.

But I promise you, you'll leave here with helpful information you need, a commitment by key administration officials to get you what you need, and it may be a bit dry, but it's the nuts and bolts of the hard work of making this program work. And that's what the purpose of today is.

I will be leaving here to meet with -- I assemble the Cabinet about once a week. It's unusual, I know, for Vice Presidents to call Cabinet meetings, but we feel this is so important that I meet with the Cabinet members to sit down and I want to know every week what they're doing, what their plans are, how much money is out the door, how they're attempting to account for it. I met yesterday for a long time with the IG who's in charge of this, Mr. Devaney, and him putting together his staff and the resources he needs to oversee this. As he says, we're not looking to find corruption, we're looking to prevent it. We're looking at the front end of this to prevent errors -- to prevent errors. This is not a witch hunt. This is to make sure that we spend this money well.

And so we're taking this very seriously. I know some of you may be frustrated -- you don't have all the answers right away. But keep in mind, we've been in office 50 days -- 50 days and this has been around about 30 days, maybe less than that. And so we're moving as fast as we can. And that's why we're so thankful you're here to help us -- help us figure out how to move this so everybody knows what the rules of the road are.

Just as importantly, as I said earlier, we want to hear from you. We're urging you and your governors to regularly update us regarding projects that are being funded through the Recovery Act. We want to keep track of the innovations and successes you have. Again, I'm not being solicitous. Some of you in the states have done innovative things that are beyond the capacity of the federal government to do quickly. And we want this to be a clearinghouse, as well. Some of you are going to do very well in some things and come up with some very good ideas, and others aren't, and others are going to be in other areas. We want to share all this information as rapidly and as close to real time as we can. That's a great way for us and for others states to learn, as well.

It's important for the people in your state to know about the jobs that are being saved, as well; restored, as well; created. Some of these 3.5 million jobs are just jobs we're going to keep from being lost. Most economists have acknowledged that had we done nothing in this area, we would have lost another 4 to 5 million jobs this year -- an additional 4 to 5 million jobs, on top of what has already been lost since the recession has been officially declared as having started in the fall.

So, folks, we have a lot to show for -- show to our constituents. It's important, as I said, that they see that citizens know in your state what long-term investments are being made and that there's a prospect, in their view, that it will pay off. People will support us. They know this isn't going to turn around quickly. I can make an analogy to the crime bill. Years ago some of you I worked with on the crime bill. I wrote that bill in the early '90s; it got passed in '94 because of the great leadership of President Clinton, and we passed the bill. And everybody got all nervous after it got passed -- said, Biden, you talked us into this and we're spending $30 billion and the crime rate is not going to go down in a year. And the crime rate could not go down in a year, it would not go down in a year. It was going to take time to build this in.

But guess what. We were transparent with all of you, we were transparent with the American people. We pointed out exactly how many cops we were funding, how many prisons were being built, how much money was being spent with regard to prevention. We made it absolutely transparent. We went all over the country. You, governors, congresspersons, all made it clear to the American people every time we spent a dollar with a new badge. And the reason why it worked is that people said, okay, this makes sense; I think this will produce results. And it did. It ended up for nine years reducing the violent crime rate on average 8.5 percent per year.

But it didn't happen in the first year. It's an analogous circumstance here. It's an analogous -- we're going to have a rough year. I don't have to tell you. DEFAC -- well, in Delaware it's called DEFAC -- but all around the country you have your outside groups and internal groups giving you revenue estimates and cost estimates. And you're not looking at a rosy picture. People will support us if it appears as though what we're doing makes sense, we're accountable, and we're totally transparent.

And so what we want to do is we want to make sure that they see as quickly and as clearly as possible how we're spending the money in each of our respective states. That way, with the implementation efforts you make, we can understand the problems that we're going to face, because we're going to run into problems here, and we can move more quickly to solve them. It's also going to make it possible for us to share your concerns with other states that are being -- that are experiencing similar issues, and how they're going to be answered.

So let me finish by reemphasizing one point: We are all on the line. The American people are looking to us to get this right, and you need to do that. We have to do our part to give you the best guidance we can and the most cooperation we can. You're an important part of helping this nation through one of the worst economic crises in the history of this country. It -- the Great Depression was worse, but it was not as complicated -- sounds ridiculous, but it was not as complicated as this is.

And so, ladies and gentlemen, we have, as I said, an incredible responsibility, so let's make sure we meet it.

And now let me introduce our first presenter, a man who is doing a spectacular job as one of the real day-to-day leaders in making this Recovery Act a reality, and our administration is really fortunate to have his talents -- and I mean that sincerely; it's not hyperbole -- and that is the Deputy Director of OMB, Rob Nabors. And I think Rob is around here -- is he? There you are, Rob. How are you? Come on up and do the hard work. (Applause.)

Folks -- and then let me make one more comment. I really instruct your -- tell your governor -- I know you can't instruct your governors -- (laughter.) Tell your governors, literally, if they have a problem if they're confused, if you're confused about what needs to be done, literally pick up the phone and call me. Call me. I'm not -- that is not -- look, I've been -- I was a senator for 36 years in a state where I commuted every day and the only billboard ever used when I ran for office was "Joe." I'm used to -- I'm used to being accessible. I really mean it -- have your governors call me, and we'll get it straightened out, because we got to get it right.

Sorry, Rob, that's all yours, buddy. I'm heading off to talk to the Cabinet. Thank you, all, very, very much. (Applause.)
450 2009-03-12 Mike Singletary scored a Big 12 tournament record 43 points against Texas A&M on Wednesday, but Red Raiders Coach Pat Knight joked that he liked him coming off the bench....
451 2009-03-12 Yet incredibly, even though this Shuffle is even smaller than the previous one, it's actually more useful. No iPod Shuffle has ever had a screen, and therefore you've never been able to identify the song or band you're hearing. You've also never been able to work with playlists, since there's no user interface with which to navigate them.

Now there is. You can tell all this stuff not by looking, but by listening; according to Apple, the new Shuffle is the world's first talking music player, thanks to a new feature called VoiceOver.

If you hold down the center clicker for one second, you hear, in your earbuds, a crystal-clear male voice identifying the song and the performer; it knows 14 languages, so it can handle Italian aria names, for example. If you hold down the clicker longer, until you hear a beep, the voice starts rattling off the names of your playlists ("Jogging Tunes…Purchased…Makeout Music.") You click the clicker when he gets to the one you want, or use the + and - buttons to go forward or back through them.

You can also flip the power switch off and on again to hear him tell you how full your battery is--for example, "Battery 50 percent." Apple says that a single charge plays music for 10 hours.

It's looking like 2009 may be the year that synthesized voices go mainstream; this talking iPod comes hot on the heels of Amazon's Kindle 2, which can read your e-books aloud to you. In the Shuffle's case, this is an especially interesting development, because it means that the player itself can be out of sight. It can be clipped deep inside your clothes, for example, away from subway iPod thieves. Yet you can still operate and navigate your music using only the earbud clicker and feedback from Mr. VoiceOver.

You should know, however, that the voice you hear differs depending on whether you've loaded up the Shuffle from a Mac (clear, American, accent-free voice) or a Windows PC (much more synthesized-sounding, vaguely Scandinavian accent).

But hey--all's fair in business, right? Microsoft has given the Mac universe slightly stunted versions of its programs for years; now, evidently, it's payback time.

Instead of the built-in USB connector of the original Shuffle, or the tiny plastic dock of the second-generation one, this third-generation Shuffle comes with a tiny, three-inch white USB cord. That's how you charge it, and that's how you load it up with music and podcasts from a copy of iTunes 8.1 (a required download before you can use the Shuffle on your Mac or PC).

Now, overall, new design is ingenious. The solid-slab-of-aluminum approach surely makes this the most rugged iPod ever. The sound is fantastic. And the price is right: The new Shuffle is available in black or silver aluminum for $80.

But the old, square Shuffle is still available (half the capacity, $70). And why would you want it?

Because the new Shuffle locks you into using Apple's earbuds. No other headphones have the clicker on the cord, and so can't make the music play music at all.

Personally, I'm in love with the Arriva.com headphones for the old Shuffle. It's a headband that goes around the back of your head, placing the earbuds neatly into your ears without any cords or tangling; the Shuffle itself clips into the middle, at the back of your head where you can easily reach it. The whole thing is inconspicuous, doesn't fall off and doesn't interfere with glasses--and if you have long hair, you can listen to the iPod completely undetected (hello, PTA meetings!). The new Shuffle, however, wouldn't work with those headphones.

Apple says that it has been working with headset makers to help them design Shuffle-compatible headphones; announcements should be forthcoming shortly. For now, though, potential Shufflers should be aware that it's the included earbuds, Apple's $80 in-ear earbuds, or nothing.

As iPods' size approaches that of atomic particles, some online are pointing out that they're becoming ever more likely to get lost. I'm not convinced that that's an issue; that three-foot white strand of earbud cord makes a pretty good landmark when you're rooting through a purse or a drawer.

No, the only real cause for pause is that headphone-selection issue--and whether you might prefer an iPod with a screen (which would give you photo and video playback, plus compatibility with the zillions of iPod chargers, car adapters, speaker docks and other accessories). But if you want really big sound in a really small package, the iPod Shuffle may be speaking your name.

P.S.--This Sunday morning, March 15, "CBS News Sunday Morning" plans to air my report on A Better Place. It's software millionaire Shai Agassi'saudacious plan to solve the climate crisis and eliminate our dependence on oil. The crux: Replace all of the world's automobiles with electric carsthat contain swappable batteries. Sound unattainable? Guess what: 5 countries, 3 American states, at least 2 car companies, and armies ofinvestors (over $500 million so far) have already signed on to make it happen.

As always, the lineup may change, but this is the current broadcast plan. Set your TiVo!
452 2009-03-12 The chatter about another mega-stimulus may be premature, officials caution....
453 2009-03-12 Heston Blumenthal's retaurant the Fat Duck reopens after a health scare....
454 2009-03-12 Baugur Group, the high-flying Icelandic retail investor that crashed along with its nation's banks, said Wednesday that it would file for bankruptcy after a court called time on its efforts to reorganize. The announcement came after a ruling earli...
455 2009-03-12 EBay's chief executive, John Donahoe, did nothing Wednesday to dispel ongoing speculation that the company is planning to put Skype, the Internet calling service it bought for $3 billion, on the block. At an event eBay held on Wednesday for analys...
456 2009-03-12 Trying to smooth out disagreements between American and European policy makers about how to address the economic crisis, President Obama called on foreign governments on Wednesday to increase their domestic spending to stimulate their economies an...
457 2009-03-12 Liechtenstein bowed to international pressure Thursday, saying it would adopt global standards on transparency and information exchange in tax matters, turning up the heat on Switzerland and other tax havens to follow suit, The New York Times's Ma...
458 2009-03-12 Jim Ellis and Kevin Taweel used a search fund to acquire a $6 million roadside assistance company with 45 employees that they built into the nation's largest provider of insurance products to cellphone companies. Jim Southern, a Boston investor, s...
459 2009-03-12 As Wall Street has demonstrated this year, a one-day surge is no great feat. The hard part is keeping the gains from slipping away. On Wednesday, financial markets managed - just barely - to stay in positive territory after their biggest one-day r...
460 2009-03-12 Highway crews carved through 10-foot snowdrifts from a blizzard as hundreds of stalled motorists waited in bitter cold. The storm was linked to at least four deaths. Interstate 29 was reopened from the Canadian border across North Dakota to Watertown, S.D., a distance of about 280 miles, highway officials said. Interstate 94 was reopened in both directions after hundreds of vehicles lined up to be allowed on the highway west of Fargo.
461 2009-03-12 The federal Justice Department opened an investigation on Tuesday to determine whether civil rights violations were committed by the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office. Sheriff Joe Arpaio gained national attention for ordering deputies to patrol rural highways and to raid Latino neighborhoods and municipal buildings in search of illegal immigrants. “Our investigation will focus on alleged patterns or practices of discriminatory police practices and unconstitutional searches and seizures conducted by the M.C.S.O., and on allegations of national origin discrimination,” an acting assistant attorney general, Loretta King, said in a letter to Sheriff Arpaio.
462 2009-03-12 IN his recent letter to President Dmitri Medvedev of Russia, President Obama offered to modify the previous administration’s plans for a missile defense system in Europe. He was right to do so. A continued impasse with Russia might have prevented future arms reductions, created divisions with our European allies, done irreparable harm at the 2010 review of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and impaired efforts to deal with Iran’s growing potential to become a nuclear weapons state.

President Obama has correctly shown skepticism about the missile defense system promoted by the Bush administration: its performance is unproven, it requires unending additional resources and it faces problems that cannot be solved with existing science. Russia, for its part, has long perceived missile defense as a threat to its security — a concern the administration chose to ignore, worsening tensions with Moscow.

Fortunately, there is a “designer” missile defense that would answer President Obama’s hesitations and allay Russia’s fears. And unlike the Bush missile defense, it would actually be able to deal with the threat of ballistic missile attacks from North Korea and Iran if such a threat ever emerged.

This is a proposal I’ve developed and analyzed with a variety of American and Russian experts and the idea itself is simple. The defense system would shoot down Iranian or North Korean long-range missiles as they slowly accelerate from their launching sites. It would take advantage of the fact that long-range missiles built by Iran or North Korea would be large and cumbersome, have long powered flight times and could take off only from well-known launching sites.

The defense would have fast-accelerating interceptors that could home in on and destroy the large, slow and fragile ICBMs. The interceptors would weigh about a ton and could achieve a top speed of five kilometers per second in tens of seconds. They would be carried by stealthy unmanned airborne vehicles that look like B-2 bombers, but are smaller and carry much smaller, though still substantial, payloads. Such vehicles already exist.
463 2009-03-12 We had been feeling pretty smug about drinking a glass of red wine with dinner. It certainly helps to relieve stress and, some studies suggest, reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease and might extend life spans.

So we were dismayed when epidemiologists at Oxford University recently concluded that women who drink even a moderate amount of alcohol — fewer than three drinks a day — increase their risk of contracting several cancers compared with women who drink no more than two drinks a week.

The researchers studied almost 1.3 million middle-aged women who attended breast cancer screening clinics in Britain and were tracked for an average of seven years. Women who reported drinking moderate amounts of alcohol suffered an increased risk of cancers of the breast, liver, rectum and, among current smokers, the upper aero-digestive tract. Each additional drink increased the risk, and it did not matter whether the alcohol was red or white wine, beer or hard liquor.

Not all of their conclusions were that grim. The study found that moderate drinking decreased the risk of thyroid cancer, renal cell cancer and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. More confusingly, it showed that women who weren’t drinking at all when the research started actually had a higher rate of cancer than women who drank up to six drinks a week.

That hardly proves that moderate drinking cuts the risk of cancer, but it sure muddies the water. Although an American Cancer Society official found the study compelling, Donald A. Berry, chairman of biostatistics at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, considers it meaningless.

No one has yet determined whether any potential cancer risks from moderate drinking outweigh the possible, though disputed, health gains from a glass of red wine. When the final tally of risks and benefits is in, let us hope there is room for women to have a convivial drink with friends or a romantic dinner with wine.
464 2009-03-12 Ken Salazar, the new secretary of the interior, has been working overtime amending or suspending bad policies dumped on the public during the Bush administration’s waning days. That may not be entirely fulfilling for someone eager to put his stamp on policy. But it is necessary work and, with one disappointing exception — his decision to uphold a Bush rule removing protections from certain wolf populations — very welcome.

Mr. Salazar’s efforts have received strong support from President Obama. At the Interior Department’s 160th anniversary celebration, the president pledged that the department’s scientists — muzzled and overruled during the Bush years — would be respected. He directed Mr. Salazar to review a Bush rule giving federal agencies far too much latitude to move ahead with projects that could harm threatened or endangered species without first consulting departmental scientists.

Mr. Salazar can’t reverse the rule, but he can ignore it while he decides whether to ask Congress to overturn it or begin a new rulemaking process. In the interim, species will receive the protections they always have.

Mr. Salazar has made real progress on other fronts. He has already cancelled some environmentally unsound oil and gas leases in Utah, and he has put the brakes on oil shale and offshore oil drilling initiatives.

Oil shale is seen by some as a kind of energy holy grail, even though nobody has figured out a clean, cost-effective way to extract it. Mr. Salazar has suspended some small leases and pledged to rethink the Bush plan to set aside two million acres of public land for future production. He says he is open to research, but dismissed as “fantasy” the idea that oil shale is a “panacea.”

He also rejected Bush administration plans to open vast coastal waters to oil and gas drilling. He agreed that some drilling was inevitable but ordered more time for public comment, promised an updated assessment of reserves and insisted on a broader strategy that would harness power from wind, waves and currents.

We hope that in the course of setting his new strategy Mr. Salazar will halt plans for drilling in sensitive and previously untapped Alaskan waters, especially Bristol Bay. We also urge him not to forget the wolf.
465 2009-03-12 “I’m embarrassed about what happened Sunday,” Tranghese said of Gonzalez’s sideline behavior and postgame rant after a loss to Rutgers. “I was embarrassed for our conference, our coaches and our schools. It’s not going to happen again.”

Gonzalez was suspended for the team’s Big East opener this season, a blowout loss at Syracuse. But after Seton Hall’s 68-54 victory over South Florida on Tuesday in the Big East tournament, the news was a bit better for Gonzalez. The Pirates have a shot at a National Invitation Tournament bid. They also picked up their first Big East tournament win since 2003.

“I knew someone was going to ask the question,” Gonzalez said. “I did miss the first game in the Carrier Dome and, you know, I tried to behave since then.” PETE THAMEL

An Ugly Win Is Still a Win

Providence Coach Keno Davis did not exactly have an impressive victory to discuss after squeaking by DePaul in the second round of the Big East tournament Wednesday, but he made his case that it should not matter.

Many people have said that Providence needs an impressive showing this week to make the N.C.A.A. tournament. Davis is not among them.

“I think we’ve done enough that we’re going to be considered strongly,” he said. “I think we’re squarely on the bubble, and so I know that playing Louisville tomorrow, win or lose, you know, I don’t think it hurts us if we lose.”

Despite struggling to defeat the league’s 16th-place team, Davis said he was still in favor of the Big East’s all-inclusive new format.

“I don’t think there’s any doubt it’s a great idea,” Davis said. “Had DePaul beat us, I wouldn’t have thought so much.” MIKE OGLE

Before the news conference after Baylor’s 65-49 victory over Nebraska, the moderator, Charlie Fiss, made a point of announcing that for the first time, the tournament had cardboard receptacles for the recycling of white and color copy paper.

Members of the news media are inundated with paper: pregame notes, halftime statistics, halftime play-by-play summaries, postgame statistics, postgame play-by-play summaries, postgame quotations and postgame notes — for each game.

Yet when Fiss made the announcement about the recycling bins scattered throughout the news media workroom, silence followed. So he did his best to emphasize it again with little success. “We’re trying to go green,” he said. THAYER EVANS

Alex Barnett, a 6-foot-6 senior from St. Louis who averaged 19.4 points and 5.6 rebounds for Dartmouth, is the Ivy League player of the year, the league announced Wednesday. His 20.3-point scoring average in Ivy games was the most since Buck Jenkins averaged 22.8 points for Columbia in 1992-93. (NYT)
466 2009-03-12 LOS ANGELES — Suppose the federal government gave you and your neighbor $500 each to buy a new bike, but what you really wanted was a $250 shopping spree for running gear instead. So you offered to sell your $500 federal check to your neighbor for $250 in cash so everyone’s dreams could be realized.

That is essentially what several cities in Los Angeles County planned to do with federal stimulus money, until the local transportation authority, its face slightly reddened, pulled the plug on the plans. A spokeswoman in Washington for the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure said Wednesday that the swaps would be illegal.

“We have already put governors, transit agencies and large metropolitan planning associations on notice that we intend to aggressively oversee that the funding is utilized as Congress intended,” the spokeswoman, Mary A. Kerr, said by e-mail.

Under the federal stimulus package intended to improve the nation’s infrastructure, the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority was set to dole out roughly $215 million in sums of at least $500,000 each to the county’s 88 cities to get their projects moving.

Many cities on the list, however, did not have qualifying projects because they are too small or cannot move as quickly as the stimulus law stipulated. So the transit agency encouraged the cities to do with the stimulus money what they often do with other money — swap it with other cities at a discounted rate.
467 2009-03-12 Some of Mr. Freeman’s defenders say his views on Israel are extreme only when seen through the lens of American political life, and they asked whether it was possible to question American support for Israel without being either muzzled or marginalized.

“The reality of Washington is that our political landscape finds it difficult to assimilate any criticism of any segment of the Israeli leadership,” said Robert W. , who was ambassador to Saudi Arabia from 2001 to 2003.

The lobbying campaign against Mr. Freeman included telephone calls to the White House from prominent lawmakers, including Senator , the New York Democrat. It appears to have been kicked off three weeks ago in a blog post by Steven J. Rosen, a former top official of the , a pro-Israel lobbying group.

On the , Mr. Rosen wrote, Mr. Freeman’s views are “what you would expect in the Saudi Foreign Ministry,” rather than from someone who would become essentially the government’s top intelligence analyst.

Because himself has been viewed with suspicion among many pro-Israel groups, the attacks on Mr. Freeman had the potential to touch a nerve. Many of these groups applauded Mr. Obama’s appointments of as secretary of state and as a special adviser for and Persian Gulf issues, but remain suspicious of other members of his administration who will be dealing with Arab-Israeli matters.

After complaints from some pro-Israel groups during his presidential campaign, Mr. Obama distanced himself from , the national security adviser under President , who has sometimes been critical of Israel.

Five days after Mr. Rosen’s blog item appeared, Senator Schumer telephoned , the White House chief of staff, to ensure that the White House was aware of Mr. Freeman’s past comments about Israel. According to Senator Schumer, his staff then sent the White House copies of the statements.

Mr. Schumer said that Mr. Freeman showed an “irrational hatred of Israel” and that his statements were “over the top.”

Mr. Freeman said that nobody in the White House ever pressured him to withdraw. He said that he and Mr. Blair had agreed on Tuesday afternoon that he should step aside to avoid any perception of taint to the intelligence assessments he would have overseen at the National Intelligence Council. Hours earlier, Mr. Blair defended Mr. Freeman for his strong views and quick mind, and said he hoped he would challenge an intelligence community that for years had been criticized for groupthink.

In the days after Senator Schumer’s first phone call, other lawmakers and pro-Israel groups began applying pressure on the White House. Representative Steve Israel, a New York Democrat, also called Mr. Emanuel about the pick, and pushed Mr. Blair’s inspector general to examine possible conflicts of interest surrounding Mr. Freeman’s relationships with the Chinese and Saudi governments.

“I was prepared to present my case to anyone at the White House who would listen to it,” Representative Israel said.

Pro-Israel groups weighed in with lower-ranking White House officials. The Zionist Organization of America sent out an “action alert” urging members to ask Congress for an investigation of Mr. Freeman’s “past and current activities on behalf of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.”

With opposition to Mr. Freeman mounting, many in the White House were debating the wisdom of the selection, despite Mr. Blair’s public support for him. “In conversations with people associated with this administration, I never detected any enthusiasm for this pick,” said Ira N. Forman, executive director of the National Jewish Democratic Council.

, the White House spokesman, declined to comment on Wednesday.

Before his ambassadorship, Mr. Freeman held a variety of State Department posts. Since leaving government, he has worked with nonprofit groups and on the board of the state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corporation, a past position that his critics said could be a conflict of interest in his new job.

As head of the Middle East Policy Council, he was a frequent critic of policy toward Israel. In a speech in 2005 he said that “as long as the continues unconditionally to provide the subsidies and political protection that make the Israeli occupation and the high-handed and self-defeating policies it engenders possible, there is little, if any, reason to hope that anything resembling the former peace process can be resurrected.”

Critics also unearthed e-mail messages attributed to Mr. Freeman that seemed to support the Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989, saying it was not “acceptable for any country to allow the heart of its national capital to be occupied by dissidents intent on disrupting the normal functions of government, however appealing to foreigners their propaganda may be.”

Mr. Freeman said Wednesday that the passage was taken out of context, and that he had been describing the dominant view in in the years after the crackdown.

Mr. Freeman, who severed his financial and professional ties to several organizations to re-enter government, said he had yet to decide what was next for him.

“I’m in a position to redefine my life and to press the reset button, and you don’t get that very often,” he said.
468 2009-03-12 TALLAHASSEE, Fla.— Florida’s procedures for restoring voting rights to convicted felons are so cumbersome, bureaucratic and confusing that some ex-convicts are being denied their rights, according to a report by the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida.

Most election officials throughout the state are unsure about who can win back their voting rights, the report found.

Florida is among a handful of states that do not permit automatic restoration of rights once someone has been released from prison. In 2007, Gov. Charlie Crist pushed through new procedures to speed up the process for most felons seeking voting rights. The new process does not apply to murderers and sex offenders.

More than 138,000 people had their rights restored between April 2007 and March 2009, but the A.C.L.U. said it was concerned that thousands of additional voters might not know what to do because of widespread confusion over the new eligibility rules.

The group got conflicting answers when it surveyed the offices of all 67 election supervisors in the state. Employees in six county elections offices, for example, told callers, wrongly, that someone convicted of a misdemeanor was ineligible to vote. The survey also showed that nearly half incorrectly asserted that felons needed to produce paperwork showing they had their rights restored in order to register.
469 2009-03-12 Q. It drives me nuts when I download a program, or upgrade an old one, and it arrives with assorted junk. What am I supposed to do with the .dmg file that opens the program? Junk it, or save it for future use?

A. Disk images (.dmg files) act like a virtual version of a hard disk or flash drive, which is why they pop up like portable drive icons on the Mac’s desktop when you open them. The file or program you downloaded is stored on this virtual disk. To install the file on your Mac, you usually just have to double-click the installer files or drag the files to your Mac’s hard drive.

The .dmg file is basically just the container for the program or file you were downloading to the Mac. Tossing it in the Trash after you’ve installed the software is fine.

But for backup purposes, you may want to make a copy of the file that was on the disk image. You could, for example, round up all the files contained on those downloaded disk images and burn them all to a CD for safekeeping before you trash the .dmg files.
470 2009-03-12 A few songs in to his set at B. B. King Blues Club & Grill on Tuesday night Busta Rhymes proposed a toast, pouring himself a little nip from a bottle of Courvoisier. He wanted to celebrate the election of President Obama and also the resurgence of New York as a relevant hip-hop scene. “I know it’s a recession,” he said. “If you don’t have a drink, put your imaginary drink up.” He was greeted by as many empty hands as full ones, maybe more.

For well over a decade Busta Rhymes has been remarkably recession-proof, outlasting dozens of artists he has collaborated with by being resilient, flexible and stylistically agnostic — there’s no sound he has thumbed his nose at. Many of his most notable songs aren’t even his own; they’re guest verses on other people’s records. It helps, if you seek longevity, to have no apparent need for superstardom.

His entertaining start-stop tour through his catalog on Tuesday covered more than 20 songs and skipped plenty of great ones. But what he performed was a testament to versatility: songs that emphasize his Jamaican heritage, “Make It Clap” and “Uh Ooh (remix)”; roughneck anthems, “Ante Up (remix),” on which he was joined by the rowdy M.O.P.; collaborations with Mariah Carey, “I Know What You Want,” with Ms. Carey sadly absent. Nothing from his early days with Leaders of the New School, though.

If Busta Rhymes has had a signature sound, it was the digital bounce he perfected at midcareer — “Woo Hah!! Got You All in Check,” “Put Your Hands Where My Eyes Could See” — party records that also featured impressive, if monotone, vocal calisthenics.

Calisthenics he wanted the crowd here to take note of. On “Break Ya Neck” he repeated his rhymes three times in case people weren’t paying attention. And that was just one of several old showman gimmicks he employed. He and his longtime hype man Spliff Star formed a charming comic duo, like two students in an improv workshop cooking up scenes: dance routines, exaggerated facial expressions, funny voices. During “Put Your Hands Where My Eyes Could See,” Busta Rhymes went from loud to soft and back while Spliff Star mimed turning a key next to his mouth, as if manually adjusting the volume.

Several guests joined Busta Rhymes throughout the night: M.O.P.; the dancehall star Beenie Man; and a trio of young Brooklyn rappers, the brawny Maino, the grim Uncle Murda, the surprisingly catchy Red Cafe. They all came back out at the end of the show to form a united front during the glorious, tacky “Arab Money,” which was a minor hit for Busta Rhymes late last year (with an accompanying dance), and is almost certainly the only rap song to ever mention the billionaire Prince al-Waleed bin Talal al-Saud.
471 2009-03-12 One person who had discussed the matter with Mr. Holder, but declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak for the Justice Department, said that the attorney general was deciding whether to form a task force to centralize the effort or allow state attorneys general to develop cases on their own.

A Justice Department spokesman, Matthew A. Miller, would not comment, other than to write by e-mail, “It will be a top priority of the Justice Department to hold accountable executives who have engaged in fraudulent activities.”

At the low end of the mortgage transaction ladder, state prosecutors have had a relatively easy time prevailing, but recent history suggests that the government’s odds of winning drop when they go after Wall Street executives. Some high-profile convictions have been won in the last decade, but several of the Enron-related prosecutions and some cases brought by Eliot Spitzer when he was New York’s attorney general fell apart or were overturned on appeal.

As federal authorities decide on a course of action, Congress is becoming impatient. Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, announced plans last week for a hearing on March 20, inviting Mr. Holder, bank regulators and leaders of the S.E.C. to answer questions about their enforcement plans.

“Rules don’t work if people have no fear of them,” Mr. Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said. State and local prosecutors, it seems, do not need the nudge. Last week, the district attorney’s office in Brooklyn announced the creation of a real estate fraud unit, with 12 employees and a mandate to “address the recent flood of mortgage fraud cases plaguing New Yorkers.” In late February, Maryland unveiled a mortgage fraud task force, bringing together 17 agencies to streamline investigations.

With all the state activity and portents of a new resolve at the federal level, lawyers who defend white-collar clients sense growing momentum to perp walk and prosecute executives involved in the mortgage crisis.

“It’s going to be open season,” says Daniel M. Petrocelli, a lawyer whose clients include Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron. “You’ll see a lot of indictments down the road, and you’ll see a lot of prosecutions that rely on vague theories of ‘deprivation of honest services.’ “

Many financial executives have hired lawyers in the last few months, either through internal counsels or, more discreetly, on their own, several lawyers who defend white-collar clients said.

While assorted Wall Street executives have been prosecuted over the years, any concerted legal attack on the financial sector would have little precedent. After the Depression, Congress formed what became known as the Pecora Commission, which grilled top financiers. But the point was mostly to embarrass them, and the upshot was to set the stage for stricter regulations. The most indelible image of the commission’s hearings was a photo of J. P. Morgan Jr. with a midget who had been plopped in his lap by an opportunistic publicist.

The question behind any cases brought against Wall Street will boil down to this: Was the worst economic crisis in decades caused by law-breaking or some terrible, but noncriminal, mix of greed, naïveté and blunders? The challenge for the Obama administration will be to prove that it was the former, said Michael F. Buchanan, a partner at Jenner & Block and a former United States attorney in New Jersey.

“We punish people for intentional misconduct, we don’t punish them for stupidity or innocent mistakes,” he said. “If you’re a prosecutor, you want evidence that shows real dishonesty. You want something that shows that these people were doing something wrong, and they knew it.”

That nearly all of the banking industry acted the same, possibly reckless, way could actually help any executive who lands in court, lawyers said. The herdlike behavior suggested that bankers were competing for business using widely shared assumptions, rather than trying to get away with a crime. It would be hard to prove that anyone broke the rules, these lawyers said, since regulations in the riskiest parts of the mortgage industry were so lax.

One defense lawyer said he expected to argue that either his clients did not understand the financial instruments they were marketing, or were not warned of the dangers by underlings.

“We’ll all sing the stupidity song,” said the lawyer, who said he feared that speaking publicly by name would deter potential clients. “We’ll all sing the ‘These guys never told me’ song.“

But for government lawyers, the environment for corporate fraud cases could scarcely be more inviting. It is not just that the public’s zeal for Wall Street pelts is high. The resources are there, too, because some of the money once used to fight terrorism is being shifted to fighting financial fraud. And in recent years the use of wire fraud statutes has expanded, allowing prosecutors to turn virtually anything said or sent by e-mail in private into a federal crime, if it contradicts what investors were told in public disclosures.

Wire fraud charges were among those against two former Bear Stearns managers who were arrested in June, accused of praising their hedge fund to clients as they worried about it to colleagues. Federal sentencing guidelines also link the length of a prison term to the size of the financial loss to the public. Given that so many billions have vaporized recently, convictions could easily lead to life sentences, defense lawyers said, and the mere threat of such sentences gives prosecutors enormous leverage in settlement talks.

“There are executives now getting sentences longer than murderers and rapists,” said Mr. Petrocelli, the lawyer, referring to white-collar prosecutions in recent years, including that of Mr. Skilling of Enron, who is now serving a 24-year sentence for securities fraud and other crimes.

Why has there not been a batch of subpoenas at the federal level already? The Department of Justice is missing important staff members, says Reid H. Weingarten, a defense lawyer and former trial lawyer for the Justice Department. Former members of the Justice Department say that prosecutors and regulators are reluctant to act while the markets are in such disarray for fear of further unnerving investors and the public.

Lawyers for white-collar clients say they expect to be busy, but not all of them predict that means they will be earning huge fees. In the past, the legal bills of Wall Street higher-ups were paid by insurers that indemnified them. But that is not necessarily the case with banks that have gone bankrupt or disappeared.

“I know bankers are not now evoking much sympathy from the public at large,” Mr. Weingarten said. “But these days many Wall Street types are struggling mightily with mortgage payments, tuition bills and health insurance. It’s a very different world out there now.”
472 2009-03-12 JOHANNESBURG — Zimbabwe’s Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the release on bail of Roy Bennett, an opposition official arrested on revived terrorism charges the very day he was to be sworn in as deputy agriculture minister in the new power-sharing government.

For more than three weeks, prosecutors have resisted court rulings that granted bail to Mr. Bennett, and by evening he still had not been freed from his prison cell in the city of Mutare.

“We physically waited in the attorney general and chief magistrate’s offices until they told the people in Mutare to release him, but it still may not happen until tomorrow,” Beatrice Mtetwa, one of Mr. Bennett’s lawyers, said in exasperation on Wednesday. “There’s a whole lot of malice involved here.”

A crucial ally of the recently installed prime minister, Morgan Tsvangirai, Mr. Bennett is despised by many insiders loyal to President Robert Mugabe.

Agents arrested Mr. Bennett on Feb. 13, originally charging him with treason. That allegation was dropped in favor of three-year-old accusations concerning weapons possession and a plot to use the arms against the state.
473 2009-03-12 WASHINGTON — Trying to smooth out disagreements between American and European policy makers about how to address the economic crisis, President Obama called on foreign governments on Wednesday to increase their domestic spending to stimulate their economies and asked for greater coordination of regulatory oversight.

With finance ministers from the Group of 20 nations preparing to meet this weekend near London, disagreements have begun to emerge between the United States and other nations over whether to emphasize greater stimulus programs or more detailed changes to regulation.

Major European countries are divided among themselves over the wisdom of taking on more debt to combat the global downturn or to focus more on new regulations.

In Germany, for instance, Chancellor Angela Merkel has spoken about using the crisis to enact what she has called “crucial” reforms. The Germans have adopted a relatively modest stimulus package of about 50 billion euros ($63 billion), less than a tenth of what Congress adopted last month to help the United States economy. The French and the Japanese appear to have similar views, while the British approach seems closer to the United States’.

Mr. Obama and his Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, told reporters that both fiscal policy and tighter regulation remained high international priorities, although administration officials have been vague about regulatory changes. The ministers, along with central bank governors, are meeting this weekend to prepare for a gathering in April of the leaders of the Group of 20 nations.

After describing both the recent stimulus bill that he signed into law and the calls for an overhaul of the nation’s regulatory system, Mr. Obama said: “That’s not just something that we want to do domestically, but we ought to make sure that we’re coordinated with the other G-20 nations.”
474 2009-03-12 Dr. Hamburg’s selection, first reported Wednesday on The Wall Street Journal’s Web site, was hailed by top public health officials and experts.

“Peggy has a deep commitment to the public health and, while she appreciates the vital role of industry, will surely focus on what is best for the public,” said Dr. Harvey V. Fineberg, president of the Institute of Medicine, the medical arm of the National Academy of Sciences.

Dr. Hamburg, who was appointed by Mayor David N. Dinkins as acting commissioner in 1991 and became commissioner the following year, was one of the few top officials asked to remain when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani took office in 1994. She was best known for developing a tuberculosis control program that produced sharp declines in the incidences of the disease in New York. Under her tenure, child immunization rates rose in the city.

She left New York in 1997 to become assistant secretary for planning and evaluation at the federal Department of Health and Human Services, where she created a bioterrorism initiative and led planning for pandemic flu response.

That background makes her a more obvious candidate to lead the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention than the F.D.A.

Indeed, the Obama administration considered experts more steeped in the kind of drug safety issues that the food and drug agency confronts daily, including Dr. Steven E. Nissen, a cardiologist from the Cleveland Clinic, and Dr. Robert M. Califf, a cardiologist from Duke University.

But Dr. Nissen and Dr. Califf would have been divisive candidates, with rival supporting camps. Dr. Hamburg’s selection avoids the usual debate between industry and consumer advocates.

Peter J. Pitts, a former F.D.A. associate commissioner who is president of the Center for Medicine in the Public Interest, an industry-sponsored advocacy group, said the selection of Drs. Hamburg and Sharfstein suggested that the Obama administration supported splitting the agency.

“I think Dr. Hamburg will become the commissioner of food, since she’s a safety and security person,” Mr. Pitts said, “and then Dr. Sharfstein would slide into the F.D.A., which would become the Federal Drug Administration.”

Jeffrey Levi, executive director of Trust for America’s Health, a nonprofit public health organization, said Dr. Hamburg had revived a demoralized and cash-starved agency in New York and could do the same at the F.D.A., which faces similar problems.

“Right now,” Mr. Levi said, “the F.D.A. needs a strong leader with a clear sense of mission who can fight for the resources that the agency needs and do it in a bipartisan manner.”

Dr. Hamburg is the daughter of Dr. David A. Hamburg, a former president of the Institute of Medicine and a longtime force in public health. She has two teenage children and serves on the boards of Henry Schein, a medical products distributor, and the Sidwell Friends School, where the president’s daughters, Malia and Sasha Obama, are students,.

Mr. Dinkins recalled that Dr. Hamburg forced him to take a tuberculosis test after he spoke at a disaster scene with someone who later tested positive for the disease.

“She took care of me like a newborn,” he said. “She’s the kind of person you figure can do almost anything.”
475 2009-03-12 H. Irving Grousbeck, co-founder of Continental Cablevision (later Media One) and now a consulting professor of business at Stanford University, helped originate the business model a quarter of a century ago and has been studying it ever since.

Mr. Grousbeck says studies by the Center for Entrepreneurial Studies at Stanford, which he co-directs, show average annual returns by search funds to their original investors of well over 30 percent.

The results are skewed by the big winners, which constitute about a fourth of the total. Another fourth fold without making a purchase, a fourth lose money for their investors and a fourth provide a middling return, according to Mr. Southern, the Boston investor. Still, taken as a whole, search funds can be a winning proposition.

The funds do have drawbacks, of course. The same recession that has attracted search fund buyers has scared off sellers, for example, Mr. Grousbeck said.

One was Road Rescue Inc., a Houston venture that Mr. Ellis and Mr. Taweel acquired in 1995 for $8 million and built into the insurance giant Asurion Inc. In that case, the original investors in Road Rescue received more than a 100-fold return on their stakes.

Asurion provides a case study of the power of the search fund model in the right circumstances. The founders, who had studied under Mr. Grousbeck at Stanford, said they liked Roadside Rescue because it was not a towing company. Instead, it sold roadside assistance insurance through local wireless carriers to their users. The venture grew by 50 to 100 percent a year in its first four years.

Then the two men had an epiphany: they were not in the roadside-assistance business; they were in the cellphone services business. In 1999 they expanded into insurance for loss or damage to cellphones. After making three major acquisitions in recent years, Asurion, based in San Mateo, Calif., has grown into a $2.5 billion company with 10,000 employees, more than 70 million wireless customers and a growing presence in Asia.

Mr. Ellis, who stepped away from an active role in the company several years ago (though he still sits on its board as a nonvoting director), now divides his time between lecturing at Stanford and investing in small and medium-size businesses.

He acknowledged that he and Mr. Taweel had the good fortune of choosing an industry on the cusp of an explosion in consumer demand. “If we had grown more slowly than we did, we would have been losing ground,” he said. Still, he said, the leap to $2.5 billion in revenue, from $6 million, in 13 years “is the biggest multiple any search fund company has had.”

Mr. Southern, the Boston investor, made a small fortune in a niche printing business that he acquired in 1984. Through dividends and the sale of the company 10 years later, his investment returned 35 times the original capital, for an average annual yield of 60 percent.

“For years, I was the most successful search fund entrepreneur,” he said. “But Asurion knocked the cover off the ball.” He has put money behind more than 40 search funds, with results that he said have been “better than those in the Stanford study.”

“The reaction I get when I tell a business owner or an investor about search funds is, ‘I wish I had thought of that,’ ” he said. For aspiring entrepreneurs who embrace the search fund model, he said, the likelihood of a big payoff is much greater than “the gamble of trying to do a start-up.”

Mr. Southern says more business school graduates are being drawn to search funds, in part because of Asurion’s success and in part because the recession has diminished prospects on Wall Street and in corporate America. Nearly 25 would-be search fund entrepreneurs have approached him since November alone, he said, compared with fewer than 10 in a full year in the past. He plans to back nine funds this year, the same as in 2008 and 2007 but significantly more than the one or two a year he helped finance before that.

Mr. Carver, co-founder of Search Fund Partners, has noticed a similar trend, with 14 candidates approaching him in the first five weeks of 2009, double the number in previous years. He says he has also seen “a strong increase in investor interest in them,” he said.

He and his business partner, Rich Kelley, a former Utah Jazz basketball player, founded Search Fund Partners five years ago. He describes it as the only private equity firm to invest exclusively in search funds.

So far, the firm has raised close to $25 million from individuals and invested in 22 search funds, half of which have acquired companies. “We’ve never had any shortage of terrific entrepreneurs to invest in,” he said. He would not divulge specifics, but said all the capital invested in the firm’s initial round of six investments was paid back by just one of them.

Mr. Grousbeck, the Stanford professor who nurtured the first fund in 1984 when he was teaching at Harvard, says the business model has spread to Europe, Latin America, Asia and even South Africa, if only by a trickle.

Still, search funds occupy a tiny niche of the investment world. Mr. Southern estimates that only 160 or so have been created, all looking for companies with less than $50 million in revenue. He estimated that about 60 search fund companies were active today.

Even so, Mr. Grousbeck said, investors who back a portfolio of search funds stand a good chance of beating the returns in other markets. “I can’t tell you how many investors have asked me, ‘Why should I pay somebody to hunt for a company when entrepreneurs are knocking on my door all the time to invest in theirs?’ ” he said. “I tell them, ‘You’d be taking a very small risk for the chance to ride the coattails of some very bright and talented people.’ ”
476 2009-03-12 SEOUL — A notorious former North Korean spy who confessed to a passenger-jet bombing in 1987 met Wednesday with relatives of a Japanese woman abducted by North Korea 30 years ago, in an encounter that shed little of the hoped-for light on the missing woman’s fate but was expected to increase already rising tensions with Pyongyang.

The abducted woman had tutored the female spy in Japanese language and culture, enabling the spy to pose as a Japanese tourist and plant the bomb. The ensuing crash killed 115 people, most of them South Koreans. The spy, Kim Hyon-hui, was sentenced to death in the case but eventually pardoned and used in propaganda against the North. She has lived in seclusion for many years.

The meeting was her first public appearance in almost 20 years and drew intense news coverage in Japan and South Korea.

In Tokyo, the government of Prime Minister Taro Aso said it helped arrange the meeting in the hope that Ms. Kim might provide fresh information about the woman who tutored her, Yaeko Taguchi, that could be used to press the North Korean government on other cases. In 2002, North Korea admitted to kidnapping 13 Japanese citizens to help train its spies. It allowed five to return to Japan that year but said the others had died — an assertion Tokyo has not accepted.

But on Wednesday, Ms. Kim, 47, delivered no new information.

At a news conference in the southern city of Busan, she said that she had “heard” in 1987 that Ms. Taguchi had been “sent somewhere” and that she had “assumed” at the time that she was still alive. But she did not refute the North Korean claim that Ms. Taguchi had died in a car accident in 1986.

Still, Koichiro Iizuka, Ms. Taguchi’s 32-year-old son, said after meeting Ms. Kim that he was convinced his mother was alive.
477 2009-03-12 As Wall Street has demonstrated this year, a one-day surge is no great feat. The hard part is keeping the gains from slipping away.

On Wednesday, financial markets managed — just barely — to stay in positive territory after their biggest one-day rally of the year.

Until now, nearly every day of gains this year had been followed by a day of losses as financial markets gyrated in response to the deepening recession, the stimulus package and Washington’s plans to stabilize the banking system. In 2009, the Dow has closed higher on two or more consecutive days only four times.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 3.91 points, or 0.06 percent, to close at 6,930.40, and the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 1.76 points, or 0.24 percent, to 721.36. The Nasdaq added 13.36 points, to 1,371.64.

Even though the day’s gains paled in comparison to the 379-point rally in the Dow on Tuesday, some market specialists were heartened that Wall Street had avoided backsliding as investors refocused on the dire state of the economy and the financial system.
478 2009-03-12 GEZARI--Temima. Artist, died peacefully March 5, age 103. Memorial festival in June: temimagezari@gmail.com...
479 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, a man of great humor and integrity. Our sincerest condolences are extended to Jeff, Jane, Barbara and the entire Gural family. David Yagoda and family...
480 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Aaron Gural, former governor, Vice-Chairman, Honoray Lifetime Vice-Chairman and a member of REBNY for nearly 68 years. Aaron was one of our in...
481 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York mourn the loss of our dear Aaron. A board member since 1973, Aaron had served as VP since 1980. One of our strongest supporters - he was honored as our "Man of the Year"...
482 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The JCC of the Greater Five Towns Board of Directors and Staff wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to the Gural and Senders families on the passing of their beloved father, grandfather, and great-grandfather Aaron Gural. May the f...
483 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our esteemed past President, Aaron Gural. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Geoffrey D. Lurie, President...
484 2009-03-12 GEZARI--Temima. Artist, died peacefully March 5, age 103. Memorial festival in June: temimagezari@gmail.com...
485 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. We extend our thoughts and heartfelt sympathy to the Gural family on the great loss of a wonderful man, Aaron Gural, a Dean of the Real Estate Industry. Arthur & Jane Rosenbloom, Gerald Rosenbloom...
486 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Association for a Better New York mourns the loss of Aaron Gural. Aaron, a found member of ABNY, will be greatly missed. William C. Rudin, Chairman...
487 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Aaron Gural, former governor, Vice-Chairman, Honoray Lifetime Vice-Chairman and a member of REBNY for nearly 68 years. Aaron was one of our in...
488 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The JCC of the Greater Five Towns Board of Directors and Staff wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to the Gural and Senders families on the passing of their beloved father, grandfather, and great-grandfather Aaron Gural. May the f...
489 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin Finkel Goldstein LLP mourn the death of our loyal friend and client, Aaron Gural, an inspired leader of New York's Real Estate Community. Aaron, a founder of Newmark Knight Frank,...
490 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. Our sincere condolences to Jeff, Jane, Eric and the entire Gural family on the passing of Aaron Gural, a long time leader in the NYC real estate industry. He was a man of great character and wisdom and a real estate visionary with th...
491 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Association for a Better New York mourns the loss of Aaron Gural. Aaron, a found member of ABNY, will be greatly missed. William C. Rudin, Chairman...
492 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Aaron Gural, former governor, Vice-Chairman, Honoray Lifetime Vice-Chairman and a member of REBNY for nearly 68 years. Aaron was one of our in...
493 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. We extend our thoughts and heartfelt sympathy to the Gural family on the great loss of a wonderful man, Aaron Gural, a Dean of the Real Estate Industry. Arthur & Jane Rosenbloom, Gerald Rosenbloom...
494 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our esteemed past President, Aaron Gural. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Geoffrey D. Lurie, President...
495 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York mourn the loss of our dear Aaron. A board member since 1973, Aaron had served as VP since 1980. One of our strongest supporters - he was honored as our "Man of the Year"...
496 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, a man of great humor and integrity. Our sincerest condolences are extended to Jeff, Jane, Barbara and the entire Gural family. David Yagoda and family...
497 2009-03-12 MORTGAGE FRAUD Federal and state investigators are preparing for a surge of prosecutions of financial fraud, and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., left, is said to be considering strategies to investigate mortgage banking crimes.       FINAL ED...
498 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron, on March 10th, 2009. Beloved husband of the late Marion, loving father of Jeffrey and Paula, Jane and Willie, Barbara and Tom. Adoring grandfather of Aileen, Eric, Roger, Anny Rose, Perri, Nikki, Lily, Noah, Brian and Jennifer. Great...
499 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York mourn the loss of our dear Aaron. A board member since 1973, Aaron had served as VP since 1980. One of our strongest supporters - he was honored as our "Man of the Year"...
500 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, a man of great humor and integrity. Our sincerest condolences are extended to Jeff, Jane, Barbara and the entire Gural family. David Yagoda and family...
501 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The JCC of the Greater Five Towns Board of Directors and Staff wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to the Gural and Senders families on the passing of their beloved father, grandfather, and great-grandfather Aaron Gural. May the f...
502 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin Finkel Goldstein LLP mourn the death of our loyal friend and client, Aaron Gural, an inspired leader of New York's Real Estate Community. Aaron, a founder of Newmark Knight Frank,...
503 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. Our sincere condolences to Jeff, Jane, Eric and the entire Gural family on the passing of Aaron Gural, a long time leader in the NYC real estate industry. He was a man of great character and wisdom and a real estate visionary with th...
504 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin Finkel Goldstein LLP mourn the death of our loyal friend and client, Aaron Gural, an inspired leader of New York's Real Estate Community. Aaron, a founder of Newmark Knight Frank,...
505 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron, on March 10th, 2009. Beloved husband of the late Marion, loving father of Jeffrey and Paula, Jane and Willie, Barbara and Tom. Adoring grandfather of Aileen, Eric, Roger, Anny Rose, Perri, Nikki, Lily, Noah, Brian and Jennifer. Great...
506 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. With overwhelming sadness, the partners and entire organization of Newmark Knight Frank mourn the loss of our founder and chairman emeritus, Aaron Gural. A salute to this dedicated philanthropist and real estate pioneer with the visi...
507 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron, on March 10th, 2009. Beloved husband of the late Marion, loving father of Jeffrey and Paula, Jane and Willie, Barbara and Tom. Adoring grandfather of Aileen, Eric, Roger, Anny Rose, Perri, Nikki, Lily, Noah, Brian and Jennifer. Great...
508 2009-03-12 GEZARI--Temima. Artist, died peacefully March 5, age 103. Memorial festival in June: temimagezari@gmail.com...
509 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. With overwhelming sadness, the partners and entire organization of Newmark Knight Frank mourn the loss of our founder and chairman emeritus, Aaron Gural. A salute to this dedicated philanthropist and real estate pioneer with the visi...
510 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. We extend our thoughts and heartfelt sympathy to the Gural family on the great loss of a wonderful man, Aaron Gural, a Dean of the Real Estate Industry. Arthur & Jane Rosenbloom, Gerald Rosenbloom...
511 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Association for a Better New York mourns the loss of Aaron Gural. Aaron, a found member of ABNY, will be greatly missed. William C. Rudin, Chairman...
512 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. Our sincere condolences to Jeff, Jane, Eric and the entire Gural family on the passing of Aaron Gural, a long time leader in the NYC real estate industry. He was a man of great character and wisdom and a real estate visionary with th...
513 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our esteemed past President, Aaron Gural. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Geoffrey D. Lurie, President...
514 2009-03-12 Just when you thought iPods couldn't get any smaller, they have. The new iPod Shuffle from Apple is half the volume of its postage-stamp predecessor; with no controls or buttons, it looks like a sleek aluminum tie clip. There's just enough room on...
515 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. With overwhelming sadness, the partners and entire organization of Newmark Knight Frank mourn the loss of our founder and chairman emeritus, Aaron Gural. A salute to this dedicated philanthropist and real estate pioneer with the visi...
516 2009-03-12 GURAL--Aaron. Our sincere condolences to Jeff, Jane, Eric and the entire Gural family on the passing of Aaron Gural, a long time leader in the NYC real estate industry. He was a man of great character and wisdom and a real estate visionary with th...
517 2009-03-13 Looking to build a blog? Tumblr's the quickest and easiest way....
518 2009-03-13 OKLAHOMA CITY - The box office here at the Ford Center has plenty of tickets available for Friday night's Big 12 semifinals games. For $40, fans can get a ticket to the games between fifth-seeded Texas (22-10) and ninth-seeded Baylor (19-13), and ...
519 2009-03-13 The reservation service TableXcange closes....
520 2009-03-13 For decades, the "serious" foreign policy issues were the likes of non-proliferation or trade rules, but a new agenda is emerging and the treatment of women around the world is high on it. We saw that with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee cr...
521 2009-03-13 The longtime legal recruiter Renée Berliner Rush, whose clients include some of the top deal lawyers in the country, has decided to set up her own search and consulting firm. For the last two decades, Ms. Rush has served as a founding member of C...
522 2009-03-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
523 2009-03-13 Corby Kummer discusses the Atlantic's new food Web site....
524 2009-03-13 A new line of HDTV front projectors sports the imprimatur of a video guru....
525 2009-03-13 Shares of Six Flags fell sharply on Friday amid growing speculation that the theme park operator may be forced to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after the company said it could not meet a looming financing obligation. Six Flags' shares ...
526 2009-03-13 M.L.S. Commissioner Don Garber discusses expansion and strategy for the league....
527 2009-03-13 Baby Bath Products May Contain Carcinogens, Group Says

Baby shampoo, baby lotions and other infant care products contain tiny amounts of formaldehyde and another chemical that's considered a probable carcinogen, according to a nonprofit advocacy group that had samples of dozens of baby products analyzed, The Washington Post reports. The shampoos include some of the most popular brands on the market, including Johnson's Baby Shampoo, according to the Campaign for Safe Cosmetics.

Americans are very sensitive to economic news, and as the economy worsened last fall, they became more depressed, worried and stressed, a Gallup-Healthways poll says. The survey of 355,334 people found lows in mental health corresponded to drops in the Dow and high jobless claims, and poor mental health correlated with heart disease deaths, USA Today reports.

Community health centers and public hospitals that offer free or subsidized care are busier than ever, as more and more patients who've lost health coverage flock to them for care even as the providers face budget cuts and layoffs, The Associated Press reports. Emergency room doctors say they're seeing more patients, and people with chronic conditions are turning to safety net providers to keep up with medications.

Fewer employers think they will be providing health care coverage to their workers 10 years from now, according to a survey of almost 500 large U.S. companies, The Wall Street Journal Health Blog reports. Some 62 percent of companies surveyed by employee benefits consulting group Watson Wyatt said they were confident they would continue covering workers ten years from now, down from 73 percent last year.

Doctors and nurses in Los Angeles are going out to barbershops that serve African-Americans to screen men for diabetes and high blood pressure, The Los Angeles Times reports. The Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program has screened over 1,000 men so far.
528 2009-03-13 From Eric Dash, a DealBook colleague: John Chrin, the co-head of JPMorgan Chase's financial institutions group, is stepping down after more than two decades of advising Wall Street and Main Street banks on mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Chrin, a ra...
529 2009-03-13 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, the biggest bank in Japan, said Thursday that it will raise nearly $1 billion by issuing preferred securities, its latest step to shore up a capital base depleted by a tumbling stock market. Mitsubishi UFJ said in a...
530 2009-03-13 Nasdaq OMX plans to acquire an alternative trading platform in Europe, the U.S.-based group said on Thursday. The announcement by Robert Greifeld, the Nasdaq chief, comes as the group is struggling to build trading volume on its existing alternati...
531 2009-03-13 The global head of Nomura Holdings's investment banking business will be based outside Japan for the first time in the bank's 84-year history, it said on Friday. Hiromi Yamaji is moving to London. The shift "signals that Nomura is committed to int...
532 2009-03-13 How will Johnson & Johnson respond? That's the question, The New York Times's Natasha Singer writers, that drug analysts and executives are asking in the wake of the deal announced Monday in which Merck would acquire Schering-Plough for $41.1 bill...
533 2009-03-13 Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia are too big to fail, at least for Sweden. In the last decade, Sweden's banks plowed billions of kronor into their tiny but booming neighbors across the Baltic Sea. Now severe recessions are turning the Baltic states i...
534 2009-03-13 An economist discusses two politically-sensitive health care ideas that were in play during drafts of the stimulus bill, and explains why only one of those proposals actually made it to the final version of the bill....
535 2009-03-13 Images from “Krazy! The Delirious World of Anime + Manga + Video Games,” at the Japan Society....
536 2009-03-13 The police have arrested three executives from a Scottsbluff car dealership, where 81 vehicles worth roughly $2.5 million, as well as the executives themselves, recently vanished. The owner of Legacy Auto Sales, Allen Patch, 52, and the controller, Rachel Fait, 37, were arrested in Utah. The general manager, Rick Covello, 53, turned himself in to Scottsbluff police, Capt. Kevin Spencer said. The three were wanted on suspicion of theft. About two dozen vehicles missing from the dealership were traced to Salt Lake City; most of 16 taken to an auction had been sold to about 10 dealerships. Six others were found at the Scottsbluff airport, one was found at a Wal-Mart parking lot in Evanston, Wyo., and the Federal Bureau of Investigation found others in Las Vegas. Legacy Auto Sales has had financial problems, said John Childress, Scotts Bluff County’s chief deputy county attorney.
537 2009-03-13 A federal appeals court has dismissed a lawsuit by a Georgia gun group that sought to allow firearms in parts of the world’s busiest airport. The group, GeorgiaCarry.org, sued after the City of Atlanta and Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport banned guns from even unsecured areas in the terminals. That was a response to a Georgia law enacted last summer that allowed people with permits to take their guns into restaurants and state parks and on public transportation.
538 2009-03-13 Cashman said that even when he gets upset, “I don’t yell.”

In a telephone interview on Thursday night, Pearlman stood behind his account.

“The source was a Yankee player who was an eyewitness and in whom I have 100 percent confidence,” Pearlman said.

But he acknowledged that he should have called Cashman for his reaction. “He’s totally right,” Pearlman said. “I didn’t call him for comment and I should have.

“But that doesn’t mean the story isn’t correct.”

Giambi’s links to performance-enhancing drugs were a distraction for the Yankees during his seven years with the team. Before the 2002 season, the Yankees signed Giambi to a seven-year, $120 million contract, luring him from the Oakland A’s. Two years later, at the end of 2004, Giambi’s grand-jury testimony from the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative investigation leaked out and revealed that Giambi had admitted to using banned substances. At a news conference at Yankee Stadium the next February, Giambi, without using the word steroids, said that he had testified truthfully before the grand jury and apologized.

The next day, the Times reported that the Yankees, when they signed Giambi, had agreed to a request from Giambi to have all references to steroids removed from the guarantee language of the contract. The Yankees, however, maintained that they had no knowledge of Giambi’s use of steroids when they signed him.

Most of the book, of course, deals with Clemens. It recounts his life and his relationships with women other than his wife — for which he issued a public apology last year — but offers few new details about his suspected use of performance-enhancing drugs.

“I wrote the book to be a biography of Clemens more than anything else,” Pearlman said. “I wrote this book because I was honestly curious about what led Clemens to the point where he finds himself and what contributed to him becoming who he is.”

The book also tries to link one retired high-profile player to the use of steroids. The book says that the player told members of the news media whom he particularly trusted that he had used performance-enhancing drugs occasionally. However, the book offers no direct evidence that the former player used such drugs. Pearlman said on Thursday night that he did contact the former player through a representative and that the representative said the player denied telling various reporters that he had used drugs.
539 2009-03-13 The Whitney Museum of American Art offers a spare, 15-year survey of Jenny Holzer’s work....
540 2009-03-13 The fugitive former prime minister of Thailand surfaced briefly on Thursday, calling the current Thai government a “dictatorship” and a “junta” that was out to get him. The former premier, Thaksin Shinawatra, deposed in 2006 in a military coup, was scheduled to face charges last August over a land-fraud case involving his wife. When he did not appear, failing to return to Thailand after attending the Olympic Games in Beijing, he was sentenced to two years in prison. “It’s ridiculous,” he said Thursday of the court verdict. “The whole world is laughing. Whether I see justice in heaven or hell, I will keep fighting.” Mr. Thaksin addressed reporters and members of the Foreign Correspondents’ Club in Hong Kong, speaking from Dubai through a video link. He still faces a spate of other corruption-related charges in Thailand, and about $2 billion in his and his family’s assets have been frozen.
541 2009-03-13 WASHINGTON — President Obama rejected on Thursday criticism that he is trying to do too much at once by advancing ambitious plans on health care, energy and education at the same time that he is struggling with perhaps the worst economic crisis in generations.

As many in both parties question his approach, Mr. Obama insisted that the only way to build a strong economy that will truly last was to address underlying problems in American society like unaffordable health care, dependence on foreign oil and underperforming schools.

“I’m not choosing to address these additional challenges just because I feel like it or because I’m a glutton for punishment,” he told a gathering of corporate leaders. “I’m doing so because they’re fundamental to our economic growth and ensuring that we don’t have more crises like this in the future. You see, we cannot go back to endless cycles of bubble and bust.”

The speech to the Business Roundtable was aimed at countering unease in Washington over the scale of the president’s agenda, given the country’s deep and unrelenting economic travails. The investor Warren E. Buffett, a strong Obama supporter, captured the sentiment this week when he said “job 1 is to win the war, the economic war; job 2 is to win the economic war, and job 3.”

Concern is growing in some quarters that the president’s initiatives have not been enough to turn the economy around. Some economists previously cited by the White House now predict that Mr. Obama’s $787 billion stimulus package will create or save only 2.5 million jobs, instead of the 3.5 million he promised. Even that would fall short of the 4.4 million jobs lost since the recession began. Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, left the door open to a second stimulus package.
542 2009-03-13 “I don’t think we’ve seen the real test yet, which is when you put a large amount of Swedish taxpayer money into the Baltics,” said Torbjöern Becker, the director of the Stockholm Institute of Transition Economics.

Sweden’s Baltic commitments, he said, risk a heated debate similar to the one that took place in the United States when it granted Mexico a $20 billion loan in 1995 during that country’s currency crisis.

Swedish banks have issued loans equivalent to roughly 20 percent of Sweden’s gross domestic product to the Baltic countries, an amount that only a few years ago looked like a wise bet.

Now, according to Danske Bank, the loans could cost Sweden a total of 2 percent to 6 percent of its G.D.P. over several years, depending on how many Baltic borrowers default during the recessions ravaging the region.

This year, economies in all three Baltic states could contract 6 percent to 10 percent, exacerbating pain for Swedish banks and driving them further into the arms of their own government.

Bo Lundgren, head of the Swedish national debt office, said the course of the Baltics would be crucial to the stability of the Swedish financial system. But as a grizzled veteran of Sweden’s own crisis in the early 1990s, he said the country could handle the shock. “You cannot rule out need for further capital injections,” Mr. Lundgren said. “If state support is needed we are well prepared.”

The strong Scandinavian presence is fairly uncontroversial in the Baltics. The Russian occupation of the three countries for much of the 20th century makes Swedes seem rather benign.

“You can find differences if you want — Swedes are Swedes and Estonians are Estonians,” said Juhan Parts, Estonia’s economy minister. “But there are no worries here about losing independence or economic power.”

Still, Swedish banks contributed to the Baltic crisis by feeding a debt-fueled boom in real estate and construction. The free-spending led to big current account deficits in all three countries, and hence an addiction to foreign capital.

With the real estate bubble now deflating, Swedish banks are left with unpaid mortgages and sour consumer loans. Swedbank, the Swedish bank most exposed in the Baltics, has seen its loan-loss rate quadruple in the last year.

Sweden’s first line of defense has been to embrace the Baltics through its own banks. The government passed its own rescue package, which included 1.5 trillion kronor ($173 billion), in the autumn to guarantee new issues of Swedish bank debt, a portion of which was to be used to recapitalize banks that had heavy losses.

“We have declared to our banks that they are supposed to behave responsibly — to perceive these Baltic countries as their home market,” Mr. Borg said.

But recapitalizing Swedish banks to keep credit flowing in other countries is no easy feat.

Mikael Inglander, Swedbank’s chief financial officer of Swedbank, which gets 17 percent of its revenue from the Baltics, said “shareholders would probably not appreciate it if we use their money to rescue countries.” And he noted that lending, in any recession, generally declines. “We try to act responsibly,” Mr. Inglander said. “But it is not possible for any player to make the market perform in a certain way.”

Swedbank has already tapped the Swedish government program for guarantees, and has raised new capital through private offerings.

The government is also helping to recapitalize Nordea Bank; it has been a shareholder since the bank was nationalized in Sweden’s crisis a decade ago.

Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, better known as S.E.B., the big Swedish bank that is controlled by the Wallenbergs, the first family of Swedish business, has avoided going to the government.

Sweden also has been kicking in ever-larger sums to international efforts to help the Baltic countries meet their obligations, not the least to Swedish banks.

It is contributing more than 1 billion euros, or $1.28 billion, of the 7.5-billion-euro rescue package for Latvia that was put together in December with the International Monetary Fund and others.

And two weeks ago, it agreed to trade the equivalent of $1.1 billion in Estonian kroons for Swedish kronor, swapping its own currency for one under immense pressure.

But one way or another, Lars Christensen, a senior analyst at Danske Bank said, Sweden and its banks would pay for the Baltic binge of the past.

“It’s like drinking a bottle of vodka and saying, ‘Gee, how do I avoid a hangover?’” Mr. Christensen said. “You can’t.”
543 2009-03-13 TORONTO — One person died and 16 were missing after a helicopter carrying oil workers crashed off the coast of Newfoundland on Thursday.

One man was rescued from the crash site, but two life rafts were found empty; rescuers had at first assumed that the rafts would be holding most of the helicopter’s passengers.

The helicopter’s 2 crew members and 16 passengers were believed to be wearing survival suits, a measure that Canadian rescue officials said could allow them to survive for 24 to 30 hours in the frigid Atlantic Ocean waters. Although the suits were equipped with automatic locating beacons, officials said no signals had been received.

There were no indications of other survivors, Maj. Denis McGuire, an official with the search and rescue coordination center of the Canadian armed forces and the Canadian Coast Guard, told reporters in St. John’s, Newfoundland. But he said search efforts would continue through the night and into Friday.

The crew of the Sikorsky S-92 helicopter, owned by Cougar Helicopters, was transporting the workers to offshore oil rigs when it reported a mechanical problem, issued an emergency alert and turned back toward St. John’s at 9:18 a.m. local time. The Transportation Safety Board of Canada said the helicopter crashed 37 minutes later about 45 miles from the coast.

Some Canadian news outlets said the aircraft had been brought down in a controlled drop. But officials at the news conference said the crash site was strewn with floating wreckage, suggesting a more sudden impact.
544 2009-03-13 And so far, Johnson & Johnson is not commenting — leaving analysts to speculate whether the company will take the Remicade case to arbitration, or maybe even try to pre-empt the Merck-Schering deal with a higher takeover bid. The most complicated hypothesis involves a Solomonic solution in which Johnson & Johnson and Merck split Schering.

Schering is an attractive takeover candidate for Merck for a number of reasons. Schering’s pipeline of heart, asthma and arthritis drugs would diversify Merck’s drug portfolio. The two companies already collaborate on cholesterol drugs, a franchise that could benefit from consolidation. And expiring patents will expose 35 percent of Merck’s revenue to generic competition by 2012, according to Jason Napodano, an analyst at Zack’s Investment Research. By comparison, Schering will have only 6 percent of its sales exposed by patent loss in 2012, Mr. Napodano wrote.

Still, some analysts said Schering could be an equally good fit for Johnson & Johnson.

If such a merger occurred, Johnson & Johnson would gain control not only of the Remicade business but also of Schering’s promising drug pipeline, major consumer brands like Coppertone and its profitable animal health business — all of which analysts say would shore up some weak spots in Johnson & Johnson’s portfolio. And the combined entity, they say, would eventually be able to save $3.5 billion annually through consolidation, the same amount projected in the Merck deal.

Catherine J. Arnold, an analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in her note to investors on Tuesday that there is a 20 to 25 percent chance that Johnson & Johnson will make a higher offer for Schering. A counterbid from Johnson & Johnson at a premium of 10 percent would amount to $45.2 billion, or a value of $25.98 a share, she wrote, compared to the $23.61-a-share value of Merck’s agreement with Schering.

In an interview, she said that Johnson & Johnson’s biggest deal to date is its $16.6 billion purchase in 2006 of Pfizer’s consumer brands including Listerine.

“You don’t expect Johnson & Johnson to do a big deal and they haven’t done a big deal, but there are reasons to consider it,” Ms. Arnold said. “Schering-Plough is the best house in the neighborhood. Why wouldn’t you want to buy the most attractive house in the neighborhood?”

But Schering would pay a penalty if it accepted a higher offer from a company other than Merck: a breakup fee of $1.25 billion, according to the merger agreement filed this week with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

A less drastic maneuver for Johnson & Johnson would be to challenge Schering over the international rights to Remicade and golimumab.

Under provisions of the companies’ joint marketing agreement, the Remicade arrangement would be terminated under any one of several conditions: if Schering became the subsidiary of another company or if the incumbent board of directors no longer constituted a majority.

Merck and Schering say that their reverse merger structure allows the new entity to avoid setting off any of the provisions. But some analysts said the structure leaves room for dispute.

“It would seem logical that Johnson & Johnson would challenge that stance,” said Roopesh Patel, an analyst with UBS.

But even if Schering were to lose its co-marketing rights to Remicade and golimumab, a merger would still be profitable for Merck, Mr. Patel said.

In a note to investors, he estimated that if the merged company retained co-marketing rights, earnings would be $4.32 a share for 2013. Without the two drugs, he wrote, earnings would be an estimated $4.12 a share in 2013 — still higher than the $3.08 he projected for Merck for 2013 if there were no merger.

A final hypothesis involves Johnson & Johnson buying Schering outright and then selling Merck the cholesterol franchise, which Ms. Arnold valued at $12 billion.

But even if all three parties could agree in principle on such a transaction, the net cost to Johnson & Johnson could give it pause.

“If it’s over $30 billion, it’s over $30 billion,” Ms. Arnold said. “That’s a lot of money.”
545 2009-03-13 KABUL, Afghanistan — The older brother of President Hamid Karzai on Thursday denounced a March 5 article in The New York Times, calling its assertion that he had used his connections for business gains an unfounded pre-election smear tactic planted by political rivals.

The article, titled “Another Karzai Forges Afghan Business Empire,” by James Risen, had been written with the cooperation of the brother, Mahmoud Karzai, after interviews with him and others, including his critics, conducted in Afghanistan and elsewhere.

Mr. Karzai, an American citizen and former waiter who managed a handful of restaurants in the United States before the American-led invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, has since amassed major interests in Afghanistan’s only cement factory, its dominant bank, its most ambitious real estate development, its only Toyota distributorship and four coal mines.

In a two-hour news conference in Kabul, the Afghan capital, Mr. Karzai said the critics quoted in the article were engrossed in “political smear tactics against President Karzai,” to discredit him before elections scheduled for Aug. 20

Mr. Karzai asserted that the article had incorrectly suggested that he had enriched himself because of his brother’s position as president. He also accused Afghan critics of his business activities who were quoted in the article of being liars and themselves corrupt.

Two of them, the former finance minister, Ashraf Ghani Ahmedzai, and a member of Parliament, Daoud Sultanzoi, said on local television in Kabul on Thursday night that they stood by their comments as quoted in the Times article.
546 2009-03-13 Eric Simonoff, a star book agent who represents the Pulitzer Prize-winning novelists Jhumpa Lahiri and Edward P. Jones as well as the memoirist-turned-novelist James Frey, is leaving the literary agency Janklow & Nesbit and joining William Morris, the global talent agency.

Mr. Simonoff, 41, had been at Janklow & Nesbit for 18 years and was promoted to the role of director two years ago. He will take all his clients with him when he joins William Morris on Friday. Jennifer Rudolph Walsh and Suzanne Gluck, co-heads of William Morris’s literary operations in New York, London and Los Angeles, said they had wanted to work with Mr. Simonoff for two decades. “For years he’s been our dream date,” Ms. Gluck said. Mr. Simonoff said he had decided to make the move because of the “attractiveness of change.”
547 2009-03-13 “I don’t claim it though,” Mr. Wipf said slyly. Raised speaking German in one of Montana’s many Hutterite communities — a way of life he has since left — Mr. Wipf was at once gentlemanly yet direct. “If I’d been real successful, I’d probably still be doing it,” he said of bull riding. Between them, Mr. Herren and Mr. Wipf have broken ribs and legs, punctured lungs and liver and bruised kidneys and heart. “Oh, and I forgot,” Mr. Herren added, “I fractured my skull and walked around six months.”

Mr. Herren now installs phone and Internet lines. He signed up for dog sledding because, he said, “I thought it would be something wonderful to try.” Mr. Wipf was drawn to try dog sledding by his taste for adventure and his interest in dogs. A ranch hand, he breaks horses and also trains border collies to herd cattle. “I love dogs,” he said. “I really do.”

We had rendezvoused in Gardiner that morning, and we drove through Yellowstone National Park to reach the high-altitude snowfields near Cooke City, Mont. Driving through the Lamar River Valley, we spotted bison, elk, a brace of coyotes crossing the road — and a cluster of biologists and tourists watching wolves through scopes and binoculars. “The Lamar Valley — a lot of people call it the Serengeti of the Rockies,” Mr. Matthews said. Deep snows in the high country push bison, elk and mule deer to lower altitudes. Wolves, cougars and other predators follow. “It is incredible wildlife viewing,” he added.

Mr. Matthews is an encyclopedia of sled dog information, peppering his conversation with allusions to movies and novels featuring sled dogs. “Just like in ‘Call of the Wild,’ ” he said one moment. “If you’ve ever seen that movie ‘Eight Below,’ ” he added a bit later. And then, to make another point: “Especially if you watch ‘Iron Will.’ ”

Plenty of dogs pull sleds, he said. Muscular Alaskan malamutes can drag tremendous loads but lack speed and long-distance stamina. Photogenic Siberian huskies of the pointed ears, bristling coat, wolfish face and blue eyes have lost some of their stamina through breeding for show. Mr. Matthews runs Alaskan huskies, an unregistered breed as far as the American Kennel Club is concerned, but bred since the days of the gold rush to run fast and forever.

“It doesn’t matter what it looks like,” he said. “It just matters that it runs fast, pulls hard and can survive in brutal climates. To me the Alaskan husky is the most amazing domesticated animal there is. Anything that can run 150 miles in a single day, nine days in a row and just live on raw meat and water is pretty impressive.”

As Mr. Matthews parked his pickup truck and trailer at the trailhead, his dogs began to stir in the plywood cubicles. By the time he set out the sleds and laid out gang lines and traces, they had begun to whine and bark. As he unloaded the dogs — most of them 50 to 60 pounds — and we slipped on their harnesses, the dogs were in the throes of what seemed like joyous anticipation.

The dogs do what they are born to, Mr. Matthews said. “I think that sled dogs are self-actualized,” he said. “They have everything a dog could want. They can eat raw meat all they want. They can roll in the mud. They can run 20 miles a day. They just can’t help but to want to pull and run in a straight line.”

He put us through the basics of running a team. A brightly shouted “Let’s go!” sets them to running. “Gee” is right. “Haw” is left. A deeply growled “On by!” means to ignore the nearby moose or other distraction. A purposeful “Whoa!” is a hopeful signal to stop. Most important of all was stomping on the “brake,” a hinged claw at the rear of the sled that digs into the snow, with both feet — and then continuing to stand on it.

“Running dogs isn’t hard,” Mr. Matthews said. “Stopping dogs is hard.” He was sledding alone recently when he tied his team to a wooden United States Forest Service signpost. He stepped off the sled and the post snapped. “I walked for about five hours before I got to them,” he said. He caught them only because an iron snow hook had flown off and snagged a stump.

Finally, amid the tumult of yapping, snarling and barking, the dogs were hitched to the gang lines of the two sleds. We hopped aboard — one person riding in the basket of each sled, the others standing and steering on the rear runners. The dogs — 7 on one sled and 10 on the other — dug into the snow, straining at their harnesses, tightening the gang line. Mr. Matthews unclipped the anchor rope holding us to the truck bumper and our sled slingshotted down the trail. Seconds later, Mr. Herren and Mr. Wipf followed in the other sled.

We flew down a narrow trail and joined the groomed road that ran to the Beartooth Pass. As strong as the dogs were, they couldn’t pull through deep snow. To help, we would each kick with one foot as if on a skateboard. If the going was really tough, we’d take turns stepping off and pushing while running with the sled. Both man and dog tired at that altitude. Mr. Matthews said: “We’ll run ’em, stop ’em. Run ’em, stop ’em.”

Through the day, several snowmobiles passed. Most slowed as soon as they spotted us. “The snowmobilers seem to have respect for sled dogs,” Mr. Matthews said. “I’ve never had anyone get jerkish to me.”

The next day, on the Divide Creek Trail, we saw no one else. Through the early afternoon, the dogs tugged mightily to lug the sleds up a trail that girdled a mountain overlooking the Yellowstone River as it flowed northward from the park. As we climbed, big sage gave way to conifers. The spicy whiff of fir seasoned the cold air. Tracks of snowshoe hares crisscrossed the trail.

On a recent trip, driving sleds and dogs into a fierce wind, Mr. Matthews said he and his clients had startled a herd of 40 elk. As the creatures scattered, “my guests were ecstatic,” he said. “The dogs never even paid any attention to them.” Hearing the story, I looked for elk, but to no avail.

We ate sandwiches on the trail — literally on the trail, on two sleeping bags. We managed to turn the teams and sleds without tangling the dogs with one another, and headed back.

Now, the forest sped by. Dogs and sleds flew down the trail and around the curves. Far below spread the Paradise Valley, distant hills lit by the setting sun. It was a gorgeous, primal setting, the sort of wilderness best enjoyed by means of primitive transportation, so that we could see as the men and women of days gone by might have seen — at least as we imagined in our romantic fantasies.

Perhaps because I was caught up in such thoughts, or perhaps because I looked ahead to a turn down the trail, I failed to notice the left runner veering gradually off the trail. I stepped off the runners to run with the sled and wrestle it back on course, but I misjudged the depth of snow and both feet slipped out from under me. I gripped the sled as my torso and legs waved like a flag behind the sled.

“Whoa! Whoa!” I yelled optimistically — and ineffectively. As if in slow motion, we all — me, the sled, and Mr. Wipf riding — tilted to the horizon and burrowed into a snowdrift. Then the dogs stopped.

We righted the sled. I dug snow from my eyes, ears and pockets. This time I rode as Mr. Wipf took the controls, such as they were. We raced along. Every bend brought a new view of the Paradise Valley stretching north toward Livingston, until we finally could see the trailhead.

“I enjoyed every bit of it,” Mr. Wipf said. “It was more work than I anticipated, but it was well worth it. I think I might like to do it again some time.”

IF YOU GO

Yellowstone Dog Sled Adventures (Emigrant, Mont.; 406-223-5134; www.yellowstonedogsledadventures.com) offers a range of tours, starting with the Sled Dog Sampler, one to two hours on trail at $125 a person; a full day is $325. Prices go up to $525 a person for the Mountain Cabin tour, two days’ sledding and one overnight. A good place to rendezvous nearby is Gardiner, Mont., at the north entrance of Yellowstone. You can stay at the Best Western Mammoth Hot Springs (905A Scott Street West; 406-848-7311; www.bestwesternmontana.com). Double occupancy starts at $74.99 a night.

There are, of course, other regions in the United States in which to heed the call of the wild.

By the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness in Minnesota, the Wintergreen Dogsled Lodge (1101 Ring Rock Road, Ely; 877-753-3386; www.dogsledding.com) offers a range of packages from day trips to multiday camping and lodge-to-lodge adventures. It even offers long-distance adventures in Greenland and the Canadian and Russian Arctic. Prices start at $125 for a half day, and run as high as $5,900 for the 14-day Greenland jaunt.

Mahoosuc Guide Service (1513 Bear River Road, Newry, Me.; 207-824-2073; www.mahoosuc.com) offers one- to six-day dog-sledding tours in Maine and New Hampshire. Cree or Inuit guides lead some of their trips in Canada, in which clients have the chance to try “country food,” like walleye, moose, beaver, bear or goose. Trip prices range from $265 for a day trip to $5,500 (for a nine-day excursion among the Inuit, including airfare from Montreal).
548 2009-03-13 The Giants announced Thursday that they would not raise prices on season tickets this year. They are among 23 N.F.L. teams — including the Jets — to hold prices steady in the face of a deepening recession.

This is the first time since the 2000 season that the Giants have not increased the prices, which range from $80 a ticket for several sections in the upper deck to $105 for seats in the mezzanine. The gross average price for Giants tickets is $91.10, ranking 12th in the N.F.L. last season.

This is the last season that the Giants and the Jets will play in Giants Stadium. Season-ticket holders will have to pay for personal seat licenses to retain their tickets at the new stadium.

The Giants will host five 2008 playoff teams next season: the conference finalists Arizona and Philadelphia, and Atlanta, Carolina and San Diego. JUDY BATTISTA
549 2009-03-13 There is scant middle ground in Pavel Zustiak’s work. Violence and desire, fear and rapture, pain and giddiness — he traffics in extremes, often slammed against one another in uncomfortably close quarters.

His new work, which had its premiere on Wednesday night in the 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Festival at the Ailey Citigroup Theater, shows his hand in the title: “Weddings and Beheadings.” What could be a more natural combination?

Mr. Zustiak’s marriages of opposites can lead to tightrope shifts in mood (no net, thank you very much). In the 2006 work “Le Petit Mort/Now It’s Time to Say Goodbye,” for example, he played with sexual pleasure and death to deliciously sinister effect.

“Weddings and Beheadings” doesn’t quite maintain that tension, despite some fine, taut moments of suspense and a lushly atmospheric sound score by Mr. Zustiak. The result, not surprisingly, is a muddy, emotional in between, which draws you in and then exhausts you. Perhaps this is the point, but it is made a bit too well.

Which is not to say the work is without pleasures. Mr. Zustiak has created a rich collaborative environment in his company, Palissimo. Here his chief partner appears to be the visual artist Robert Flynt, who employs found and original images to create a ghostly atmosphere of projections. Old black-and-white photographs mix with X-ray images of bodies, molten ribbons of light and shots of the dancers themselves.
550 2009-03-13 DETROIT — General Motors, which has borrowed $13.4 billion from the federal government since December to keep itself out of bankruptcy, said on Thursday that it had withdrawn a request for an additional $2 billion that it thought was needed to stay alive through the end of this month.

G.M., the nation’s largest automaker, issued a statement saying that it had told President Obama’s auto industry task force, which is reviewing the restructuring plan that the company submitted last month, that its March financing request “would not be needed at this time” because it was making more progress than expected in reducing costs.

The statement did not specify whether G.M. still expected to need the full $30 billion that it had requested.

“This development reflects the acceleration of G.M.’s companywide cost reduction efforts as well as proactive deferrals of spending previously anticipated in January and February,” the statement said. “G.M. will remain in regular contact with the presidential task force on the auto industry on the status of G.M.’s restructuring actions, its liquidity position, timing of future funding requests, and other relevant topics of mutual concern.”

G.M.’s 117-page restructuring plan, filed Feb. 17 with the Treasury Department, asked for $2 billion in March, $2.6 billion in April and at least $4.5 billion in 2010. The company also wanted access to another $7.5 billion, if needed, for a total of $30 billion.
551 2009-03-13 WASHINGTON (AP) — The net worth of American households fell by the most in more than a half-century of record keeping during the fourth quarter of last year.

The Federal Reserve said Thursday that household net worth dropped by a record 9 percent from the level in the third quarter.

The decline was the sixth consecutive quarterly drop in net worth and underscored the battering that families are undergoing in the midst of a steep recession, with unemployment surging and the value of their homes and investments plunging.

Net worth represents total assets, like homes and checking accounts, minus liabilities like mortgages and credit card debt.

Family net worth had hit a record high of $64.36 trillion in the April-June quarter of 2007 but has fallen in every quarter since then.

The record 9 percent drop in the fourth quarter pushed total net worth down to $51.48 trillion.

After five years of sharp increases in home prices, the housing bubble burst in 2007, sending shock waves through the financial system as banks were hit with billions of dollars of losses on mortgages and mortgage-backed securities.
552 2009-03-13 WASHINGTON — Ron Kirk was endorsed by the Senate Finance Committee on Thursday to be United States trade representative, putting to rest a minor embarrassment over back taxes and virtually assuring his confirmation by the full Senate.

The panel endorsed Mr. Kirk, the former mayor of Dallas, by voice vote and without opposition by the senators who were present. But the panel’s ranking minority member, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, said a fellow Republican, Jim Bunning of Kentucky, would have voted “no” if he had been able to attend.

The full Senate is expected to vote soon to confirm Mr. Kirk. While the committee’s endorsement of Mr. Kirk was not unexpected, it was good news for President Obama, given the problems over underpaid taxes that helped to derail the candidacy of Tom Daschle to be health and human services secretary and that created some awkwardness for Timothy F. Geithner before he was confirmed as Treasury secretary.

Investigators on the Finance Committee found that Mr. Kirk had routinely asked that his honoraria for speaking be donated to a scholarship fund at Austin College in Sherman, Tex., his alma mater. The investigators found that Mr. Kirk assumed incorrectly that because he did not keep the money, he did not think it was counted as income.

The investigators, who perform I.R.S.-like audits of major presidential nominees, also found that Mr. Kirk deducted too much for his season tickets to Dallas Mavericks basketball games, since he could verify only part of the ticket costs as a business expense.

Altogether, the errors meant that Mr. Kirk, who was a lawyer at Vinson & Elkins in Dallas, was obligated to pay an additional $9,975 to the federal government. “A minor issue,” the White House called the brief episode.
553 2009-03-13 JOHANNESBURG — Roy Bennett, a prominent member of Zimbabwe’s opposition arrested last month on terrorism charges, was freed on bail Thursday, emerging from jail into a crowd that greeted him as a hero.

He appeared in good health, though he described a horrendous month of imprisonment in the city of Mutare, a story that is now familiar.

“The conditions were absolutely horrific, a human rights disaster,” he said via telephone after his release. “People are skeletal, as if they were in a concentration camp. Five people died in the cells while I was there, and sometimes they didn’t collect the corpse for four days.”

He said he had shared a cell with 11 men in a space designed to hold 6. “Prisoners are full of sores, and there is a terrible infestation of lice because no one can wash with soap,” Mr. Bennett said.

More difficult times may await Mr. Bennett. He was arrested on the day he was to have been sworn in as deputy agricultural minister in Zimbabwe’s new power-sharing government. He still faces charges on three-year-old allegations that involve the possession of weapons and a plot to use them to sabotage the state. He calls the accusations “totally trumped up.”
554 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. Our sincere condolences to Jeff, Barbara, Jane, Roger, and Eric and the entire Gural Family on the passing of Aaron, one of the industry's legends. No matter what Aaron said, the warmth in his heart always shined through first. Sam a...
555 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. With overwhelming sadness, the partners and entire organization of Newmark Knight Frank mourn the loss of our founder and chairman emeritus, Aaron Gural. A salute to this dedicated philanthropist and real estate pioneer with the visi...
556 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of Aaron, our dear friend of 50 years. He was a leader in his industry and a man of honor and integrity. He possessed a unique sense of humor and was universally respected for his numerous philanthropic endeavors. O...
557 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The entire organization of Excel Security mourns the passing of Aaron Gural. We extend our sincerest condolences to our Partners Jeff, Jane and Barbara as well as the entire Gural family....
558 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with deep sadness the passing of Aaron Gural, a cherished leader and friend who was greatly admired for his extraordinary generosity and compassion. Aaro...
559 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The Board and staff of Starlight Children's Foundation express great sadness at the passing of Aaron Gural, friend and devoted philanthropist. We send heartfelt condolences on his father's passing to longtime Board President Jeff Gur...
560 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. With sincerest and heartfelt condolences to the Gural family from everyone at the Museum at Eldridge Street....
561 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The Levy and Levy-Church families express their deep sorrow at the loss of their beloved friend Aaron Gural. Aaron's kindness, friendship and love of life meant the world to our family. We will all miss him. We send our deepest condo...
562 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of our good friend. May his vision, leadership and charitable works serve as a guide to all that follow. We extend our thoughts and heartfelt sympathy to Jeff, Paula, Jane, Barbara, Eric, Brian, and the entire Gural...
563 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The Board, staff, and 350 members of A.R.T./New York and the tenants of Spaces at 520, mourn the loss of Aaron Gural, father of our beloved Chairman, Jeffrey Gural. A legend in an industry known for its legends, Aaron's spirit lives ...
564 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The North Shore-LIJ Health System is deeply saddened by the passing of Aaron Gural, a life trustee and one of the founders of LIJ Medical Center. The former chairman of Newmark & Co. Real Estate Inc., Mr. Gural and his late wife Mari...
565 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The officers and directors of the B'nai B'rith New York Real Estate Unit express their deepest sympathy to our fellow board member Jeff Gural on the loss of his father. Jerry Morganstern, President...
566 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of a great man who taught me the business and gave me the opportunity to accomplish all that I have achieved to date. Without his counsel and guidance, I am not sure where Jackie and I would be today. We owe a great...
567 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin Finkel Goldstein LLP mourn the death of our loyal friend and client, Aaron Gural, an inspired leader of New York's Real Estate community. Aaron, a founder of Newmark Knight Frank,...
568 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with deep sadness the passing of Aaron Gural, a cherished leader and friend who was greatly admired for his extraordinary generosity and compassion. Aaro...
569 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The Times Square Alliance offers its condolences to longtime board member and former chairman Jeffrey Gural, and all of the members of his extended family, on the passing of his father, Aaron. Michael J. Stengel, Chairman Tim Tompkin...
570 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Aaron Gural. All New Yorkers have lost a terrific friend and benefactor. He will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathies to the entire Gural family. CB Richard Ellis, Inc....
571 2009-03-13 A MADOFF CHAPTER CLOSES For the first time in public, Bernard L. Madoff admitted his guilt in a vast Ponzi scheme, and he apologized to his victims in court. Afterward, he was handcuffed and taken to jail to await sentencing.       SPECIAL BAILOUT...
572 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, a man of great humor and integrity. Our sincerest condolences are extended to Jeff, Jane, Barbara and the entire Gural family. David Yagoda and family...
573 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. Film Forum salutes the man who 20 years ago took a chance with us. Karen Cooper, Director...
574 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron, on March 10th, 2009. Beloved husband of the late Marion, loving father of Jeffrey and Paula, Jane and Willie, Barbara and Tom. Adoring grandfather of Aileen, Eric, Roger, Anny Rose, Perri, Nikki, Lily, Noah, Brian and Jennifer. Great...
575 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with deep sadness the passing of Aaron Gural, a cherished leader and friend who was greatly admired for his extraordinary generosity and compassion. Aaro...
576 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York mourn the loss of our dear Aaron. A board member since 1973, Aaron had served as VP since 1980. One of our strongest supporters - he was honored as our "Man of the Year"...
577 2009-03-13 GURAL--Aaron. I remember years ago my dad Ben introduced me to Aaron. We hit it off right away and became successful business partners. Newmark and Kaufman Organizations have continued the legacy as business partners over the years. More important...
578 2009-03-14 Saturday's games in Russia, the Czech Republic, Sweden, Finland and Switzerland....
579 2009-03-14 My Sunday column looks at the way we're destroying the efficacy of antibiotics by using them as a routine, non-therapeutic supplement to livestock feed. There's lots to read on the subject for those who are interested. A brand-new book by Nicolett...
580 2009-03-14 David G. Taylor, who for six months in 1984 led one of the nation's largest banks with a steady hand as it faced collapse and who helped negotiate what was then the biggest federal bailout of a financial institution, died Feb. 23 at his home in Ra...
581 2009-03-14 American Axle & Manufacturing's auditors have warned that the auto parts supplier may go out of business because of pressure on its main customer, General Motors, the company said on Friday. American Axle generated about three-quarters of its $2.1...
582 2009-03-14 A longtime banking executive who sold his company to a Bank of America predecessor is calling on other shareholders to oust the embattled Kenneth Lewis as chairman of the largest U.S. bank, Reuters reports. Jerry Finger said Mr. Lewis, who is also...
583 2009-03-14 The Treasury Department has appointed a bankruptcy lawyer to add to its team of advisers on the government's efforts to address the restructuring of the auto industry. Matthew A. Feldman, a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher, will advise Treasury...
584 2009-03-14 The governing party of the two-island nation of Antigua and Barbuda held on to power with a weakened majority in an election on Thursday, preliminary results showed on Friday. The United Progressive Party, led by Prime Minister Baldwin Spencer, won 9 of 17 parliamentary seats in Thursday’s vote, according to results posted on the election Web site. It held 12 seats in the last Parliament.
585 2009-03-14 President Obama will nominate Thomas E. Perez, head of the Maryland state labor agency, to be the federal government’s chief enforcer of civil rights laws, the administration said. Mr. Perez, a federal prosecutor and Justice Department official under President Bill Clinton, was nominated to be assistant attorney general for civil rights, a position subject to Senate confirmation. The Justice Department division enforces the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
586 2009-03-14 Aaron Gural, the former chairman of one of New York’s largest commercial real estate companies and one of the first in the industry to see the potential in restoring seedy industrial sites on the West Side and abandoned loft buildings in the garment district, died Tuesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Delray Beach.

He died of pneumonia the day before his 92d birthday, his son, Jeffrey Gural, said.

Mr. Gural was chairman of Newmark & Company from 1957 to 1998. It became Newmark Knight Frank five years ago, with his son as chairman and Barry Gosin as chief executive.

“Aaron Gural is widely regarded as one of the elder statesmen of the real estate industry in New York,” Real Estate Weekly wrote in 1994, adding that in the preceding decade alone, he was “involved in the acquisition of over six million square feet of buildings in the New York metropolitan area.”

Mr. Gural’s acquisitions over the years, usually made with partners, included the triangular 1902 Flatiron Building at the intersection of 23rd Street, Fifth Avenue and Broadway; the Art Deco 1920 Film Center Building at 630 Ninth Avenue and 44th Street; and major office buildings like 520 Eighth Avenue and 1560 Broadway. The Gural family still holds a major interest in those buildings. Among Mr. Gural’s other acquisitions were the old McGraw-Hill Building on West 42nd Street and the Ford Motor Company’s former building at 555 West 57th Street, both of which have been sold.

The company has 26 offices around the country that manage more than 200 properties, 40 of them owned by the Gural family and partners.

Aaron Guralnick was born in Manhattan on March 11, 1917, one of three children of Meyer and Rose Guralnick. He shortened his last name. While earning an accounting degree at New York University in the 1930s, he sold ice cream near the George Washington Bridge.
587 2009-03-14 Like all appointments to key national security positions, Mr. Freeman’s merited public scrutiny. His bizarre views on the Saudi king, on Israel, on the causes of the Sept. 11 attacks and on the Tiananmen Square crackdown were a matter of public record.

Mr. Freeman could have stood up for those beliefs in an open debate. Instead, he chose to scapegoat “the Israel lobby” for his own decision to withdraw.

Rather than defend his effusive praise for a Saudi regime that last week arrested yet another woman for driving a car, Mr. Freeman resorted to tired clichés about a nefarious “Israel lobby” that stifles debate.

It is a sad day when a highly respected senator like Charles E. Schumer of New York interprets opposition to oppressive policies of the Israeli government as “irrational hatred of Israel.”

When will we begin to distinguish between hatred of Israel and legitimate criticism of Israeli policies that deny Palestinians their rights, enforce the occupation, and encourage Jewish settlements and the separation wall?

I applaud Charles W. Freeman Jr. for having the courage to express his convictions, which are consistent with the American values of liberty, equality, freedom and justice.

I have never supported the so-called pro-Israel lobby. When I first heard that Charles W. Freeman Jr. had been chosen to head the National Intelligence Council, I felt that although there were legitimate concerns voiced about his selection, the man should be given the benefit of the doubt and confirmed.

But Mr. Freeman’s angry outburst in announcing his withdrawal from consideration, in which he blamed “the Israel lobby” for raising all those concerns, has convinced me that Mr. Freeman does tend to lay all blame for failures in Palestine-Israel peacemaking on “the Israel lobby” and would therefore have been unable to offer an unbiased view of the entire complicated problem.

I am not sure how those in the pro-Israel lobby expect us to view their success at depriving our president of the counsel of someone who may be pro-Palestinian.

Should we be grateful that we will not hear another side of the story that might prejudice us against the Israelis’ cause? Or should we be concerned that those who support our closest ally in the region would go to such great lengths to disrupt our national security selection process?
588 2009-03-14 David G. Taylor, who for six months in 1984 led one of the nation’s largest banks with a steady hand as it faced collapse and who helped negotiate what was then the biggest federal bailout of a financial institution, died Feb. 23 at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79.

The cause was complications of Parkinson’s disease, his brother-in-law, Phillip McCarthy, said.

Mr. Taylor was chairman and chief executive of the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company, in Chicago, from February to July 1984. As a stipulation of the $7.5 billion rescue arranged by the Treasury Department, Mr. Taylor had to step down.

But as Time magazine said a month later, “Analysts have credited Mr. Taylor, who was not responsible for Continental’s problems, with playing an important role in keeping the bank afloat.”

At the time, Continental was the nation’s eighth-largest bank. Founded in 1847, it had long been considered a conservative, well-managed bank. But Continental undermined itself with aggressive lending policies.

Its difficulties first emerged in 1982 with losses from loans to the oil and gas industry, and particularly from the collapse of Penn Square Bank of Oklahoma City. Penn Square had originated and sold more than $1 billion in energy-related loans to Continental. Most of those loans had to be written off.
589 2009-03-14 The Washington Post is eliminating its stand-alone Business section on weekdays and folding business coverage into its front section, the newspaper said. The paper, owned by The Washington Post Company, is also eliminating daily stock listings. It will instead offer a half-page of statistics and graphics that will focus on prices of major and local stocks and other economic data. The Post still plans a separate Business section on Sundays.

The Post’s executive editor, Marcus W. Brauchli, above, said that the change reflected “the increasing overlap of political and economic events” and allows The Post “to run a leaner, better-organized newspaper.” The changes will begin March 30. Also that day, the newspaper’s Style section will cut some comic strips from the print edition and run them only on the paper’s Web site.
590 2009-03-14 The melancholy of the occasion was captured in the laments played by the lone bagpiper who marched ahead of Mr. Carroll’s black hearse, as it passed through streets lined with thousands of Catholic and Protestant townspeople in the town of Banbridge, 30 miles southwest of Belfast. But more powerful still was the mood of resolve and defiance evident among the 1,000 mourners in St. Therese Catholic Church.

Some who were there said that never in Ireland’s modern history had there been quite such an improbable gathering of old foes.

Veterans of the Irish Republican Army, spearhead for nearly a century of the drive for the reunification of Ireland, were arrayed in the pews alongside loyalists still pledged to keep Ulster part of Britain.

Politicians and police commanders from both sides of the border sat together, and Anglican and Roman Catholic priests stood beside each other before the altar. Old adversaries wept together, especially when a choir sang an ethereal version of “Amazing Grace,” a hymn sung often during the funerals of the 3,700 people killed during “the Troubles,” as people in Ireland called the decades of sectarian struggle.

Constable Carroll was in many ways a totem for what has changed.

A 48-year-old Catholic, he spent 23 years in a police force that has historically been Protestant-dominated, but that has changed as radically as anything else in Ulster as the province moves deeper into the peace process. An avid athlete, he planned to retire in 18 months and become a trainer. He told his wife, Kate, as he left for work on Monday, knowing that dissident republican gunmen still lurked in some of the poorer housing estates of Craigavon, the new town 15 miles from Banbridge where he died, that it would be “ironic” if he should be killed so close to the end of his police service, and when the province was officially at peace.

The Catholic priest who delivered the main eulogy at the funeral, Canon Liam Stevenson, 50, encapsulated the mood with his condemnation of the men from the two dissident I.R.A. groups — the Continuity I.R.A. and the Real I.R.A. — who claimed responsibility for the killings. He said the killers had “abused” the patriotism they proclaimed because “it is robbed of its intrinsic value when it is allied to violence and death.” Another speaker, Bishop John McAreavey, said that “the people of Ireland have chosen a better way forward, the way of reconciliation and peace, and we are determined not to allow ourselves to be dragged back into the morass of violence.”

But Stevenson’s most striking passage came when he said an attack on the new police force was tantamount to “an attack on the whole population of Northern Ireland.” Now known as the Police Service of Northern Ireland, it emerged from the Royal Ulster Constabulary, which was widely hated among Catholics for its harsh tactics. Now, it has been stripped of paramilitary units and has recruited equally among Catholics and Protestants. When he died, Constable Carroll was in an ordinary patrol car, not an armored Land Rover of the kind used by the old police force, part of an effort to show a gentler profile to Catholics.

An equal resolve prevailed among the mourners who streamed throughout the week to lay flowers outside the Massareene army base at Antrim, 15 miles northwest of Belfast. The bodies of the two soldiers who died there, Sappers Patrick Azimkar and Mark Quinsey, both in their early 20s, were flown back to their families in mainland Britain on Thursday.

Most Protestant mourners who lingered amid the yellow paint markings where the killers left spent shell casings said they wanted nothing to disturb the peace process. Only one man among more than a dozen people interviewed demurred. Jonathan Johns, a 40-year-old, army-trained medic, who drove 40 miles from his home in Banbridge with his three small children, said he worried about the sincerity of the leaders of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the I.R.A., in the power-sharing government. “The eyes of the world are on them, so they’re saying the right things,” he said. “But let’s just say I’m skeptical. Who’s to say this wasn’t part of a wider agenda?”

A lunchtime vigil in Belfast on Wednesday drew at least 5,000 people into the plaza before the city hall to listen to a bagpiper playing “Abide With Me,” a mournful Protestant hymn, and to applaud when a rally organizer said the people of the province had shown that “they absolutely and totally reject the murderers.”

“It’s appalling,” Gavin Bell, a 31-year-old civil servant and Catholic, said of the killings. “I’d always thought the dissidents were disorganized and ineffective. Now the worry is whether this is the start of a new campaign.”

One of the week’s most arresting moments came when Martin McGuinness, a former I.R.A. commander who now serves as the province’s deputy first minister, visited Kate Carroll, the policeman’s widow, and called the constable’s killer’s “traitors” who should be turned in to the police, a demand that many in Northern Ireland said no senior member of the republican movement had ever made before.

But Mrs. Carroll’s public remarks may have been the most poignant of all. Before leaving her home for the funeral on Friday, she said that people resorting to violence to settle Ireland’s future should realize that, like her husband, the only “piece of land” they would end up with would be the six feet of a grave plot, and that a broader grasp of that would mean that her husband had not “died for nothing.”

“Why don’t they realize that?” she said.
591 2009-03-14 After all, it was ferry service that brought New Yorkers to Staten Island, an area that by all rights should be associated with nearby New Jersey.

2. Tear down Pier A, the crumbling wooden relic in Battery Park City at the very entrance to New York Harbor. There is some talk of wasting $30 million to upgrade this eyesore, but it serves no purpose and — except for the clock tower erected after World War I as a memorial to fallen soldiers — it has no historical significance. Better to replace the pier with a five-acre quay similar to the Circular Quay in Sydney. A quay could serve as a central ferry terminal, which would pay for itself with fees paid by the ferry boat operators. And the historical clock tower could be properly preserved and incorporated into the new quay.

3. The South Cove of Battery Park City, a few blocks north of Pier A, offers an opportunity to add two acres to Manhattan. In 1969, when I was the chief executive of the Battery Park City Authority, I reluctantly consented to creating this cove. City planners thought it would be a good thing to interrupt our continuous bulkhead and waterside promenade.

But thanks to tidal currents and prevailing winds from the west, however, the cove has never been more than a garbage accumulator. Just take a walk down there, and you’ll see all the waste floating in.

By simply extending the existing bulkhead, eliminating the cove and filling it with sand — as we did to create the rest of Battery Park City — we would have the base for an iconic building that, teamed with the Statue of Liberty to the west, could serve as a welcoming beacon for the best-known city and natural harbor in the world. Perhaps it could be the product of an international design competition.

Again, ground rents and Pilot payments would more than pay for the bulkhead and landfill with no expenditure of taxpayer money — and a monumental building on that new land could also produce a substantial profit for the city. Keeping in mind the value of similar waterfront land and office use, I estimate that one million square feet on those two new acres could yield at least $25 million a year.

4. Develop 50 more acres of landfill in the Hudson River on the West Side, north of Battery Park City. The cost of the landfill, as well as of the public park and recreational spaces that would be part of the new area, could be reimbursed from ground rents and Pilot payments collected from private developers. I have been advocating this additional landfill project for some time and have been faced with the bogus argument that it would kill the fish.

But fish actually prefer the nooks and crannies of the rock formations surrounding Battery Park City’s north marina to the murky silt that was under the rotting piers that we removed to develop the area. The building of a new bulkhead would use large rocks to shore up the concrete wall and between these rocks fish could lay eggs. (And to my knowledge, not a single fish was killed as we filled the original 92 acres of Battery Park City.)

5. Fill in the Harlem River, which separates Manhattan and the Bronx. The Harlem River did not become a navigable waterway until 1895, when the Army Corps of Engineers dredged a shipping canal that provided direct passage for vessels from the East River to the Hudson. Nineteen years later, the creek that had served as the northern boundary of Manhattan was filled in, leaving the neighborhood of Marble Hill, still technically part of Manhattan, physically attached to the Bronx.

So if we were to drain the Harlem River, we would actually restore the land to its original state. We could start by damming it at each end, using fill from local excavations and from dredging operations to clear silt from the Hudson and East Rivers. (Contractors would provide the fill and they’d pay to dump so close to home, which would help finance the project. It’s a double win.) Once the dams were in place, the channel would slowly dry up and eventually the entire area would have some 3,000 acres that could be used for parks, schools, businesses and homes.

Yes, it could take decades to turn the little-used Harlem River into thriving neighborhoods — but time did not deter the Dutch from their initial landfill efforts, nor did it deter those of us who built Battery Park City. To ignore today’s opportunities would leave Manhattan lagging behind other forward-looking places like Dubai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and the Netherlands, all of which have reclaimed land from the waters around them.

As we’ve done for centuries, let’s continue to grow this city — literally — and keep Manhattan “the island in the center of the world.”
592 2009-03-14 Mrs. Hasina, 61, has the air of a strict grandmother. She speaks softly. She wears traditional Bengali saris that cover her head. Her eyes are a cool gray.

She said she was keen to hunt down and punish those responsible for the mutiny. She suggested that several factions unhappy with her agenda could have been responsible, including Islamist militants, whom she has vowed to crush.

“There are many elements,” she said in her first extensive interview since the Feb. 25 siege. “These terrorist groups are very much active. This incident gives us a lesson. It can happen again.”

After two years of army-backed rule in the country, Mrs. Hasina’s won a resounding majority of the parliamentary seats in elections last December, after campaigning on a slate of provocative promises. She said she would root out Islamist guerillas, put on trial those suspected of conspiring against Bangladesh’s independence from Pakistan in 1971, nurture friendly relations with India and stop anti-Indian insurgents from using Bangladeshi soil to launch attacks against New Delhi.

The election drew a turnout of around 80 percent and was cited as among the most credible and least violent here in recent years.

Then came the massacre.

On the last Wednesday in February, at the headquarters of the border patrol, known as the Bangladesh Rifles, a guard pointed his weapon at the force commander. Some commotion ensued, according to investigators, and then other guards stormed the hall. Gunfire could be heard blocks away. Hundreds of civilians who lived, worked and went to school inside the compound were trapped.

Mrs. Hasina allowed the army to take position around the compound but not to storm it. She negotiated with the mutineers for the next 36 hours, first directly and then through emissaries. She offered a general amnesty and promised to address the rebels’ grievances. On the second day, when they refused to surrender, she threatened to send in tanks. By the time the siege ended, more than 6,000 border guards had escaped, and an unknown quantity of weapons had been taken from the armory.

As the bodies of the dead soldiers were discovered, the horrific nature of the violence became evident. Some army officers had been shot at close range and then stabbed repeatedly with bayonets. Eyes were gouged out. A stack of 38 bodies was found in a mass grave.

No sooner did the siege end than the arguments began. Today, the bitter points of contention are whether the army commanders were killed before or after negotiations began (the time of death has not yet been established for all the victims), whether Mrs. Hasina pressed to know the scale of the killings before offering amnesty, and, most important, why she did not permit the army to storm the compound early on.

“The government was not in charge,” said Abdur Razzak, a leader of the conservative Jamaat-e-Islami party. “This was an army problem. The army should have solved it in their wisdom.”

Mr. Razzak said the mutiny was a conspiracy designed “to weaken the army, to weaken the state.” Mr. Razzak’s party was trounced in the last election; its share of the 300 elected seats in Parliament fell to 2 from 17 in the December elections.

Mrs. Hasina said sending in the army would have resulted in a bloodbath and risked a potential conflict between the 46 border guard battalions scattered across the country and their army commanders.

In any case, few in Bangladesh say they believe that the mutiny was what it first appeared: a rebellion of rank-and-file border guards aggrieved by their commanders, their pay and their working conditions. In a country where conspiracy theories are a national sport, the mutiny has become a screen onto which many anxieties are projected.

Some point to terrorist groups and anti-Indian insurgents. Others say that it was fueled by intelligence agencies in either India or Pakistan — both countries have been alternately friend and foe to Bangladesh. There are those who suggest that it could involve politicians who lost the last election, while others blame people within Mrs. Hasina’s party whose goal is to keep the army in check.

The truth of what happened may never be known. Bangladesh holds many mysteries in its heart, including the question of who ordered the killing of Mrs. Hasina’s father, Sheik Mujibur Rahman, a former prime minister. Mrs. Hasina was spared only because she had been visiting her husband in Europe at the time. Eighteen members of her family, including her brothers and their wives, were executed.

Central to Mrs. Hasina’s survival today is keeping the military on her side. Her face-off with the army came into sharp focus three days after the mutiny ended when she confronted an unusually rowdy room of army officers. They berated her for not allowing the army to take charge early on. The screaming match was recorded and put up on YouTube, shocking the nation.

This week, in the interview, Mrs. Hasina said she sympathized with the soldiers’ grief even as she cautioned them against taking revenge — or power. So far, the army does not seem interested.

Mrs. Hasina’s most deadly enemies have been the Islamist militant groups that have put down roots here in recent years. They have been implicated in assassination attempts against her, including the grenade attack on her political meeting in August 2004. Mrs. Hasina lost some of her hearing as a result of that attack. Sitting under a framed portrait of her father, she said she would not be bowed.

“If I am afraid for my life, the whole nation will be afraid,” she said. “I know some bullets, some grenades are chasing me.”
593 2009-03-14 Japan said Friday that it would deploy two warships on Saturday to join piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden. Japan is the world’s second largest net importer of oil, and most of its imports of crude oil come from the Middle East.
594 2009-03-14 The alto saxophonist Phil Woods wore his mastery with nonchalance at Dizzy’s Club Coca-Cola on Thursday night. Leading his quintet, a working band with a wealth of accumulated knowledge, he kept a loosely efficient air: business casual, with equal emphasis on both words. There was wit and aplomb in his playing, and even an occasional flash of risk, as he willed himself away from comfort and cliché.

Mr. Woods, 77, has decidedly earned the stature of an elder statesman, along with some more tangible distinctions. (He wore a baseball cap with the logo of the National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Masters program, which inducted him in 2007.) Bebop was the root of his style almost from the start, and over the years he has absorbed its codes into a personal language, with varying degrees of inflection and tone.

He has also developed an uncommonly deep connection with his band, especially at its core: the bassist Steve Gilmore and the drummer Bill Goodwin have been with him for more than 35 years. His younger front-line partner, the trumpeter Brian Lynch, has been aboard since 1992. Only the pianist Bill Mays qualifies as a newcomer, having recently filled a chair that Bill Charlap held for more than a decade.

Thursday’s first set was book-ended by faintly boppish themes: “Springsville,” a John Carisi tune best known for its appearance on a Miles Davis-Gil Evans album, and “Bohemia After Dark,” among the most durable of songs by the bassist Oscar Pettiford. In both cases Mr. Woods and Mr. Lynch played a neatly harmonized line with precision, while the rhythm section cruised capably behind them. When it was time for solos, Mr. Woods sounded fluent and unhurried, leaving all traces of the frenetic to Mr. Lynch.

The body of the set involved songs of older provenance. Mr. Woods played “I’ve Got a Pocketful of Dreams,” long associated with Louis Armstrong, with thoughtfulness and grace, measuring his phrases. Next came a pair of recast ballads: Duke Ellington’s “All Too Soon,” set in a walking tempo with a fine, rhapsodic solo by Mr. Mays, and Cole Porter’s “So in Love,” livened up with calypso rhythms as a showcase for trumpet. (Here Mr. Lynch was thrillingly virtuosic, but a touch clinical; his playing had more bite than soul.)

It was on the closer, “Bohemia After Dark,” that Mr. Woods allowed himself some bulletlike runs and flurries, relaxing into his own proficiency. His sound was pinpoint-clear, a few clicks shy of strident, and he leaned into his notes, giving them a physical presence in the room. He was on familiar ground, working with a common language, but he didn’t give the slightest impression of complacency.
595 2009-03-14 The problem is, the lender can play chicken, too, by threatening to come after you for the balance of any money you owe — whether it’s the difference between what you sell the property for yourself and the remaining mortgage, or the loan amount left over after the lender sells your property in foreclosure.

The lender may not follow through, though. “What our membership is telling us is that it can be cost-prohibitive to chase down a borrower who is already in financial distress,” said John Mechem, a spokesman for the Mortgage Bankers Association. “You can’t squeeze blood from a stone.” They may, however, still come after people with high incomes who walk away from jumbo loans that are way under water or loans on properties.

Some states have laws that may specifically prohibit lenders from pursuing borrowers for the balance of many mortgage loans after foreclosure, though the particulars vary. and are among these states, according to Steven Bender, a professor at the School of Law. It’s best to talk to a lawyer to determine your state’s rules.

In fact, if you want to be sure your lender (or a collection agency that it may sell your loan to) won’t chase you down, it’s a good idea to have a lawyer involved with any short sale, deed in lieu or foreclosure itself. “You must get the bank to agree in writing that any deficiency is waived,” said Chip Parker, a lawyer specializing in foreclosure with Parker & DuFresne in , Fla.

The biggest challenge here may simply be finding someone at the bank to help. Having a second mortgage will also complicate matters.

YOUR TAXES You also need to consider the taxman. Often, forgiven debts are taxable as income. Recent legislative changes, however, eliminate the federal tax burden through 2012 on most primary residence debt that a lender has reduced through loan restructuring or forgiven during foreclosure.

Mark Luscombe, principal analyst for CCH, a tax information service, said that people who sell their home through a short sale or give up the deed in lieu of foreclosure can also qualify for tax relief if they use a special tax form, 1099-C, that reflects the amount of debt that the lender has forgiven.

People who live in states with their own income taxes may avoid a big bill as well. Some states, like Arizona and California, have introduced or passed legislation that echoes the federal laws, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Many others tend to mimic most or all federal income tax laws as a general rule, according to CCH. Check with an accountant in your state to be sure.

YOUR CREDIT A short sale, deed in lieu or foreclosure itself will almost certainly damage your credit report and score, and the black mark will last for up to seven years. But the amount of damage it does will depend on how much other credit trouble you’ve gotten yourself into with other lenders.

If you’re giving up the home you own, you’ll probably need to rent soon afterward. Will landlords turn you away once they check your credit and discover your troubled mortgage? “If it’s the only thing marring their credit, it’s probably not a big issue,” said Clay Powell, the director of the Rental Property Owners Association of , who added that good tenants could be scarce in economic environments like this one.

In fact, Todd J. Zywicki, a law professor at George Mason University, predicted that FICO may have to adjust its to lessen the impact of a foreclosure or similar incident. “It just seems obvious that a foreclosure in 2008 or 2009 doesn’t have as much information value as a foreclosure five years ago,” he said. “To the extent that foreclosure doesn’t predict future behavior as much as it did in the past, you’d expect that the FICO algorithm would change to adjust for that.”

Craig Watts, a spokesman for FICO, said that was an interesting idea. “We try not to get involved too much in psychobabble around what is and isn’t predictive,” he said. “If the numbers show that foreclosure is less predictive, then we’ll take it into account in future redevelopments of the formula.” That would take a minimum of two to three years, though.

Some lenders aren’t waiting that long to initiate their own foreclosure destigmatization programs. The Golden 1, one of the nation’s largest credit unions, now has a mortgage repair loan for people who have lost a home to foreclosure but want to buy a new one.

It’s hard to imagine that there won’t be a parade of companies, issuers and mortgage lenders in Golden 1’s wake, even though and may be unwilling to guarantee the mortgages of such borrowers for several years. In fact, Aaron Bresko, the vice president of lending for BECU, another large credit union based in , is putting together a panel called “How to Lend to the Newly Credit Impaired” for a conference later this year.

“Good people have bad things happen to them, so how do you find those people and reach out to them?” he said. “As the year progresses, it’s going to be an emerging market.”
596 2009-03-14 The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which calculates the figures based on a household survey, does not provide seasonal adjustments for the unemployment rates for those groups. As a result, comparing changes over periods of less than a year is subject to seasonal distortions.

The unemployment rates for college-educated men and women are still relatively low, but both are rising. Over the 12 months, the unemployment rate of men with college degrees rose to 4.1 percent, from 2 percent; the figure for educated women went from 2.1 percent to 3.9 percent.

Looking at worker ages also shows a disturbing picture for men in what has been the prime of their careers. Men aged 35 to 44, and those aged 45 to 54, had unemployment rates below the national average a year ago. Now their rates, of 8.5 percent and 8.7 percent, are above the national average. The comparable rates for women are 6.4 percent and 5.7 percent.

In February 2007, the national unemployment rate was 4.5 percent, just a tick above the low for the cycle of 4.4 percent, which was last reached in March 2007. The gain over the next year was a slow one, to 4.8 percent, with women tending to do a little worse than men in terms of rising unemployment rates.

Over all, the unemployment rate for women of 25 and older was 6.2 percent in February 2009, while that for men was 9 percent. That difference, of 2.8 percentage points, was the largest since the Bureau of Labor Statistics began compiling the numbers in 1948.

Before this year, the largest difference for any month had been 1.9 percentage points, recorded in February 1983, during another severe recession. In January of this year, the difference was 2.3 percentage points.

Before the 1980s, recessions did not appear to hurt male workers more than female workers. But since then, employment downturns have generally been worse for men, at least in the later months.

The unemployment rate for men, who are more likely to have outside jobs, tends to rise during the cold weather months. So the fact that the February figures are particularly bad for men is partly due to seasonal factors.

But the recent trend is nonetheless clear. On a year-over-year basis, the relative performance of men became significantly worse in September, when the economy began to weaken drastically, and has stayed that way in every successive month.
597 2009-03-14 COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — Government forces and Tamil rebels may be committing war crimes against civilians trapped in a conflict zone and should suspend their fighting to allow them to escape, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights said Friday.

The military, in what it says is a final assault in a 25-year separatist war, has cornered the remnants of the insurgency on a sliver of land that is packed with civilians — as many as 180,000, according to the United Nations official, Navi Pillay.

In a statement issued in Geneva, Ms. Pillay said the government had repeatedly shelled the area, which it had designated a “no fire” zone for civilians. At the same time, she said, the rebels, known as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, or L.T.T.E., were using the civilians as human shields and had reportedly shot some as they tried to flee.

“Certain actions being undertaken by the Sri Lankan military and by the L.T.T.E. may constitute violations of international human rights and humanitarian law,” Ms. Pillay said.

“The world today is ever sensitive about such acts that could amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity,” she added.
598 2009-03-14 The game was nip and tuck. “I kept waiting for them to put them away, but Kentucky just hung in there,” Hill said Friday during a telephone interview. “Suddenly you realized that this was going to be a tight game. Then you became nervous.”

The Hills were in New York on Thursday to receive an award from the New Heights Youth Educational Foundation, which helps at-risk youths use athletics to gain access to higher education.

All seemed lost for Duke when Sean Woods hit a 13-foot, right-handed push shot over Christian Laettner with 2.1 seconds to play to give Kentucky a 103-102 lead.

“The Kentucky side went ballistic,” said Hill, who was sitting two rows behind the Duke bench. “They’re high-fiving and hugging. People on the Duke side were crying.”

Hill was sitting next to siblings of two Duke players, Antonio Lang and Bobby Hurley. “They were in tears,” he said. Duke called timeout immediately. Hill remembers Coach Mike Krzyzewski’s composure. He told the players to sit down, and through the bedlam and chaos on one side, the gloom on the other, he began diagramming a play.

Later, Grant told his mother that Krzyzewski had jumped in his face as Grant walked toward the bench and asked if he could throw a 75-foot pass. When Hill said he could, Krzyzewski began drawing up a play they had worked on in practice.

Hill said he turned to his wife and said: “I don’t know what he’s going to do, but Coach K has a play. They’ve got a play.”

Indeed. The rest was college basketball history.

With 2.1 seconds on the clock, Hill took the ball from under his basket. He threw the perfect pass, Laettner made the perfect catch, turned and shot the ball, converting a 17-foot jumper just before the buzzer. Duke had won, 104-103, in overtime.

Just like that, emotions had changed. Now the Kentucky side was drenched in sudden gloom and the Duke side was ecstatic.

“I remember when he hit the shot, I jumped down on the floor from two rows back and I hit my midsection on the back of a chair,” Calvin Hill said. “Ordinarily, I’d been rolling over on the ground, but I said the heck with that, I’m going to enjoy this moment.”

Janet Hill remembers that a number of the players’ mothers took the unusual step of barreling into the Duke locker room to celebrate with their sons. She did not. She vividly remembers waiting in the rain for nearly an hour for her husband to emerge from the locker room.

The next morning in Washington, as President George H. W. Bush took a Sunday walk around Lafayette Park, he asked reporters, “Did you see the ending of the Duke game?”

Seventeen years later, Janet and Calvin Hill still remember every detail of that March 28 game between Duke and Kentucky.

“That’s what sports can do,” Hill said. “When you see a great player or a great play, it takes your breath away, uplifts your spirits. I guarantee you that everybody loved everybody in Syracuse last night.”
599 2009-03-14 Simpler needs were addressed. On Friday, he made his first purchases: a pair of shiny black loafers and a tan windbreaker.

Mr. Yang gained his freedom the same day as his friend, Zhang Honghai, 36, a freelance writer who was also a member of the New Youth Society, a study group that sought to tackle topics like government corruption, democracy and the unrelenting poverty of rural China. The group rarely drew more than four or five participants and met sporadically during the course of a few months before its members were detained.

Two other defendants, Xu Wei and Jin Haike, are scheduled to be released next year.

The defendants, who came to be known as the Four Gentlemen of Beijing, were convicted during a trial that relied on their Internet postings advocating political liberalization and the written testimony of three friends who later recanted those accounts.

One of those friends, Li Yizhou, fled to Thailand and tried to help the defendants by submitting letters to the court saying his reports to security officials were exaggerated or fabricated.

Human rights organizations have long sought the release of the men, citing the severity of their sentences and pointing out that none of those convicted were veteran dissidents. They say the defendants, all in their 20s and graduates of the country’s most prestigious universities, were simply earnest young men eager to debate the problems that face a rapidly modernizing China.

“The authorities destroyed the lives of young people who were simply exercising freedoms that are supposedly protected by Chinese law,” said Sharon Hom, executive director of Human Rights in China, a group based in New York. For Mr. Yang and Mr. Zhang, those freedoms are now proscribed by the terms of their release. For two years, they have no right to free speech, assembly or association, and are forbidden to discuss politics.

Even Mr. Yang’s carefully chosen words with a reporter at McDonald’s could put him at risk.

Although prison dulled what friends describe as an infectious optimism and an ardor for verbal polemics, it has not dimmed his admiration for democracy, Mr. Yang said.

He brightened slightly when recalling his final words before the sentence was read. “Imprisonment is not my shame,” he announced to the court. “It’s my honor.”

He acknowledges that his defiance probably contributed to the relatively harsh treatment he endured in prison. He said he had been kept in a cell with rapists, murderers and drug dealers, and could receive visitors only once a month.

Every phone call — and what he planned to talk about — had to be approved in advance.

The son of poor farmers who started his own software company, Mr. Yang said that books and magazines had sustained him — the French philosopher Montesquieu and Vaclav Havel, the Czech the playwright and dissident who was elected president, were favorites — along with the reams of poetry and essays he wrote. He also taught other inmates how to use computers, although he was not allowed to use the Internet.

Overall, Mr. Yang said that his treatment was far better than that of his friends, who have reportedly been ailing. According to Human Rights in China, Mr. Xu became mentally ill after being subjected to torture and hard labor, and Mr. Jin has been suffering from an untreated intestinal ailment.

Before heading back out to the street on Friday, Mr. Yang said he was not bitter about what happened to him, just sad that the group he helped start had indirectly destroyed the lives of so many friends. “I couldn’t have imagined,” he said, “that spreading ideas such as freedom and democracy would lead to something so horrible.”
600 2009-03-14 HONG KONG — In a move to safeguard vital oil shipments, Japan said Friday it will deploy two warships to join anti-piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden.

“Piracy is a threat to the international community, including Japan, and it is an issue that should be dealt with immediately,” the defense minister, Yasukazu Hamada, said Friday in Tokyo.

Two destroyers from Japan’s Maritime Self-Defense Force are due to leave southern Japan on Saturday. They will join a flotilla from the European Union, a task force led by the United States and other navies operating independently in the gulf. China has two destroyers and a supply ship there, and Iran and Russia have mounted anti-piracy patrols as well.

Japan’s pacifist Constitution restricts the activities of its military, although the navy is allowed to conduct policing patrols and protect Japanese vessels. The deployment to the gulf would almost certainly put the destroyers in the position of having to aid ships from other nations, and Mr. Hamada said new legislation would be submitted to parliament to extend the navy’s mandate.

The deployment was not expected to be as politically sensitive as other missions in recent years. Japan sent ground troops to Iraq as part of a humanitarian mission and its naval forces to the Indian Ocean on refueling duties as part of the war in Afghanistan.
601 2009-03-14 Three missiles thought to have been fired from remotely piloted American aircraft struck a Taliban training camp in northwestern Pakistan and killed 21 militants, according to a local government official and news reports on Friday.     Fifteen  ot...
602 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. The entire TEAK Fellowship Community expresses its deepest sympathies to our friend, Jeff Gural, on the loss of his father....
603 2009-03-14 FLEMISTER--Yolanda Sciorta, wife of Jonathan Carl Flemister, mother of Summer Grace, daughter of Anne and the late Joseph Sciorta. Family and friends will gather at 6pm on March 19th in Christ's Chapel of the Riverside Church, to celebrate her lif...
604 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. The entire organization of Excel Security mourns the passing of Aaron Gural. We extend our sincerest condolences to our Partners Jeff, Jane and Barbara as well as the entire Gural family....
605 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. The Board of Directors and staff of the Fashion Center BID mourn the passing of Mr. Aaron Gural. He was one of our founders, served on our Board for many years and helped set the course for this organization. Our sincere condolences ...
606 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Aaron Gural. All New Yorkers have lost a terrific friend and benefactor. He will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathies to the entire Gural family. CB Richard Ellis, Inc....
607 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jeff and the Gural family on the passing of Aaron Gural. He was truly a real estate icon whose leadership has left an imprint on his City and our industry. Respectfully, the Partners of FirstSer...
608 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of our good friend. May his vision, leadership and charitable works serve as a guide to all that follow. We extend our thoughts and heartfelt sympathy to Jeff, Paula, Jane, Barbara, Eric, Brian, and the entire Gural...
609 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. The faculty, staff, students, alumni, and Advisory Board of The NYU Schack Institute of Real Estate and the New York University School of Continuing and Professional Studies mourn the passing of a great friend, supporter, and benefac...
610 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. In loving memory of Aaron Gural, a dear friend to my parents and me forever. My heartfelt condolences go out to the entire Gural family. Love, Ann and Jeff Mann...
611 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. The Board of Directors and Officers of the Associated Builders and Owners of Greater NY, (ABO) note with great sadness the passing of Aaron Gural, who died peacefully on Tuesday, March 10th, surrounded by his family. An honorary dire...
612 2009-03-14 GURAL--Aaron. The members and employees of Steinberg & Pokoik, including his life long friend Arnold Steinberg, extend their sincere and heartfelt sympathies to his children and family on the passing of our colleague and business partner, Aaron Gu...
613 2009-03-15 Luxury and escapism on the country’s idyllic southern coast....
614 2009-03-15 Some Web applications get an unexpected spotlight as cellphones lose service and Twitter is overrun with updates....
615 2009-03-15 Danielle Gant scored 22 points and Sydney Colson added a career-best 15 as No. 10 Texas A&M advanced to the Big 12 Conference championship game by beating No. 3 Oklahoma, 74-62, on Saturday in Oklahoma City.

The Aggies advanced to play No. 7 Baylor, which defeated No. 18 Iowa State by 63-57, in the final on Sunday.

Oklahoma (28-4) was able to rally once after Courtney Paris got into foul trouble, but the Aggies (25-6) pulled away with an 11-1 second-half run.

In the Big 12’s other semifinal, Jessica Morrow scored a season-high 24 points and hit six 3-pointers for Baylor (26-5).

MONTANA TAKES BIG SKY TITLE Mandy Morales scored 23 points and Sarah Ena added 19 points and 14 rebounds as Montana claimed the Big Sky Conference tournament championship with a 69-62 win over Portland State in Missoula, Mont. Montana (28-7) earned the league’s automatic N.C.A.A. berth.
616 2009-03-15 North Carolina (28-4) played without point guard Ty Lawson, the A.C.C. player of the year, who has an injured toe. The Tar Heels are nevertheless expected to get one of the four No. 1 seeds when the N.C.A.A. tournament field was announced Sunday, although it was not certain when Lawson would return.

No. 22 Florida State will be in the field for the first time since 1998, and for the first time under Hamilton, who is in his seventh season.

Douglas, who is from nearby Jonesboro, Ga., has played a significant role in the success of the program, averaging 20.9 points a game this season. He did not spend all his time in the off-season in the F.S.U. gym, but also worked out in Chicago against the N.B.A. players Derrick Rose, O. J. Mayo, and T. J. Ford. He cultivated his offense, learning moves off the dribble and how to handle a defense that was focusing on him.

N.B.A. players are not the only athletes Douglas has associated with lately. He is also allied with an N.F.L. player, his brother, Harry Douglas, a receiver and kick returner for the Atlanta Falcons who was an all-American at Louisville.

Under the same roof where Harry Douglas plays for the Falcons, Toney Douglas gave Florida State the lead for good over North Carolina. The Seminoles trailed, 70-69, when Douglas was fouled with 47 seconds to play. He hit both free throws to give the Seminoles the lead.

North Carolina tried to respond, going inside to Tyler Hansbrough, its all-American forward. Hansbrough went to his favorite spot on the floor, to the right of the lane. He got the ball and spun to the middle, but F.S.U’s Uche Echefu knocked it away as Hansbrough tried to make contact.

“I was behind him,” Echefu said. “He posted me up and tried to go middle, so I jumped back and hit it. He was trying get some body on me to take contact; I jumped back.”

F.S.U. grabbed the loose ball and Derwin Kitchen was fouled and made two free throws with 15.7 seconds to play to make the score 73-70. North Carolina’s Wayne Ellington and Danny Green then shot contested 3-pointers that missed.

Green was just 1 of 12 from the field. Ellington led North Carolina with 24 points and Hansbrough had 22.

“Let’s face it, we’ve been something of a mystery to people all year long,” Hamilton said. “Even though we had an awful lot of confidence of what we could become, not very many people thought what we are now was possible. We felt all along that we had a chance to be a team of significance in the A.C.C.”
617 2009-03-15 No one loves calling the Bronx his baseball home more than Jeter, but I am guessing he would deal with a hypothetical separation better than most Yankees fans.

The average Mets supporter probably wondered, “What’s up with that?” when Rodríguez, after getting the last out in a W.B.C. victory over the United States on Wednesday, said: “For some reason I feel like right now I’m at another level. Just to be able to wear a Venezuelan jersey, it’s totally different for some reason.”

Why wouldn’t he feel that way? The Angels, whose bullpen K-Rod anchored for six seasons, made a business decision not to outbid the Mets and to change closers as easily as they switched their primary civic identification from Anaheim to Los Angeles. Rodríguez will work hard for the Mets, but go tell him that Venezuela’s bid to reach the semifinals in Los Angeles next weekend doesn’t count in the grand scheme of a major leaguer’s life.

Nor do Big East tournament games mean much in the context of the N.C.A.A. tournament, or rate much in Nielsen’s America, but Syracuse and Connecticut summoned the will to play six overtimes at Madison Square Garden on Thursday night. Why? Because that’s what competitors do when given the chance.

I’ve heard some sports radio yakkers dismiss the Classic as a contrived exhibition, while the Yankees, who believe all global marketing of the game ought to begin and end with them, chafed when the Dominicans Robinson Canó and Dámaso Marte returned from the Classic with minor injuries. Not to minimize the investment or risk, but there is such a thing as the interest of the sport at large.

Personally, I especially enjoy seeing all the Latino ballplayers line up for countries with different cultures and traditions. Beyond the obvious associations, I am trying to create a little scorecard inside my head that I can draw on during the baseball season.

As was the case when Omar Minaya began to remake the Mets with a strong Caribbean flavor, many Americans act as if Hispanic players hail from the same place, south of Miami, the republic of Hispanica. But here at Dolphin Stadium, the Venezuelans even took sides against one of their own, Magglio Ordóñez, whose outs were cheered by his country’s fans in the United States because he is a supporter of the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chávez.

“So that’s why they boo me, they heckle me, they criticize me, because I made a personal decision,” Ordóñez said. His teammates weren’t pleased by the political intrusion, but it was another example of why lumping Hispanic players and countries is like conflating China and Japan. The common language of Spanish is no doubt a contributing factor in a way it isn’t for, say, Europeans in hockey. But American baseball has also long had an aura of insularity that has deemed other versions of the sport inauthentic, unworthy, and some of that shows up in response to the Classic.

Far from perfect, the tournament at least makes the American purists and old-school elite sit up straight on their high horse for fear of being knocked off, the way the Dominicans were by the Dutch.

If nothing else, the drubbing by Puerto Rico should have dampened America’s competitive conceit, assuming the results of the inaugural W.B.C. in 2006, won by Japan over Cuba, didn’t do the trick. Maybe it will get more people in this country to pay closer attention, the way a couple of Team USA players wistfully said they would.

Who can so easily ignore a train wreck?
618 2009-03-15 OKLAHOMA CITY — Standing on a stage after winning the Big 12 tournament championship Saturday night, Missouri Coach Mike Anderson served notice to the N.C.A.A. tournament field.

“We’re just getting started,” he said.

With its 73-60 victory against ninth-seeded Baylor at the Ford Center, No. 3 seed Missouri may be peaking in time for the N.C.A.A. tournament. Saturday’s championship was its first Big 12 tournament title.

The Tigers had not won a tournament championship since the Big Eight tournament in 1993. Their automatic bid to the N.C.A.A. tournament gives them a possibility of playing in Kansas City, Mo., in the first round.

It will be the first time that the Tigers have been to the N.C.A.A. tournament since 2003.

“This is the little goal we had,” said the Missouri senior forward DeMarre Carroll, who finished with 20 points and 9 rebounds and was named the tournament’s most outstanding player. “We had a bigger goal. Our bigger goal is to win the N.C.A.A. tournament.”

Missouri’s victory equaled the largest one-season turnaround in the program’s history. The Tigers, who rely on pressure defense and an up-tempo offense, are 28-6, surprising for a team that went 16-16 last season and was picked to finish seventh in the conference in the preseason coaches poll.

“It has definitely been a roller-coaster ride,” guard Matt Lawrence said.

Leading by 4 points at halftime, Missouri started to pull away in the opening minutes of the second half. A layup by Lawrence capped a 7-0 run and put the Tigers ahead by 46-35 with 16 minutes 24 seconds remaining.

Baylor (20-14) pulled to 5 behind at 11:39 but never got closer. The Bears had beaten three higher-ranked teams in the previous three days.
619 2009-03-15 Mr. Orszag, an economist who has served as director of the Congressional Budget Office, has written favorably of taxing some employer-provided health benefits and using the revenue savings for other health-related incentives. So has another Obama adviser, Jason Furman, the deputy director of the White House National Economic Council.

They, like other proponents, cite evidence that tax-free benefits encourage what Mr. McCain called “gold-plated” policies, resulting in inefficient and costly demands for health care and pressure on employers to hold down workers’ pay as insurance expenses rise. And, they say, the policy discriminates against those — many of whom are low-income workers — who do not have employer-provided coverage.

When Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, advocated taxing benefits at a recent hearing of the Finance Committee, which he leads, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner assured him that the administration was open to all ideas from Congress. Mr. Geithner did, however, allude to the position that Mr. Obama had taken as a candidate.

The administration’s receptivity to the idea is owed partly to the advocacy of Mr. Baucus, whose committee has jurisdiction over tax policy and health programs, and to support from Republicans. There is less enthusiasm among Democrats in the House, though the health debate is at an early stage and no comprehensive plans are on the table.

Also, Mr. Obama’s own idea for raising revenues for health care — limiting the income tax deductions that the most affluent taxpayers claim — has run into opposition not only from Mr. Baucus but also from his counterpart in the House, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, who is chairman of the Ways and Means Committee.

Mr. Obama’s proposed limit on deductions would raise an estimated $318 billion over 10 years, or half of his proposed “health care reserve fund.” That is a fraction of the revenues that could be raised from taxing employer-provided health benefits.

In the campaign, Mr. McCain estimated that taxing all health benefits would raise $3.6 trillion over a decade — “a multitrillion-dollar tax hike,” one Obama advertisement said.

The Congressional Budget Office says that including health benefits in taxable income could mean $246 billion in additional revenue for a single year. Stopping short of full taxation, as Mr. Baucus and others suggest, would mean less new revenue.

The latest government figures, for 2007, show that 70 percent of the 253 million people with health insurance received at least some of their coverage through employers. Employment-based insurance covers three-fifths of the population under 65.

Those who want to tax benefits in whole or in part make two main arguments. They say the tax exclusion is a generous subsidy that insulates employees from the true costs of health care, leading them to demand more of it and driving up overall costs. Critics also say the policy is unfair because it favors higher-income people. “It’s too regressive,” Mr. Baucus said. “It just skews the system.”

But in a blueprint for health legislation that he issued last November, Mr. Baucus said taking the exclusion on health benefits out of the tax code would go “too far” and “cause widespread disruption in employer-based health benefits.” Mr. Obama has also said he wants to preserve employer-provided coverage. Mr. Baucus, in his paper, cited other options, like taxing benefits above some value, taxing only wealthy employees or both.

However the proposal is devised, advocates will not have an easy time selling it.

Republicans, like Mr. McCain and former President George W. Bush before him, tend to favor taxing the benefits to finance other incentives for people to buy their own insurance. But given Mr. Obama’s use of the issue in his campaign, Republicans are unlikely to support a change unless the president himself proposes it, a senior adviser to Senate Republicans said.

Many Democrats, especially House liberals, are opposed. “It’s a dumb idea,” said Representative Pete Stark of California, chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health. “We have to maintain as much as we can of the employer payments.”

Administration officials often say they will not repeat the mistakes of former President Bill Clinton, whose plan for universal health insurance collapsed in 1994. But Frank B. McArdle, a health policy expert at Hewitt Associates, a benefits consulting firm, said, “If President Obama agrees to cut back the tax break for employee health benefits, he will risk repeating one of Mr. Clinton’s errors by disrupting health insurance for people who have it and like it.”

Some big businesses consider nontaxable employment benefits a tool for recruiting and retaining workers. The United States Chamber of Commerce opposes eliminating the exclusion on health benefits, but James P. Gelfand, senior manager of health policy, said the group had not taken a position on limiting it.

Organized labor, a pillar of the Democratic Party base, considers the benefits among the union movement’s historic achievements for the middle class. But a split could be developing between the manufacturing unions, which have negotiated rich benefit packages, and the growing service employees unions, which include many low-wage workers without generous benefits.

Alan V. Reuther, legislative director of the United Automobile Workers, said: “These proposals would represent a tax increase on working families. They would undermine good health care coverage.”

But at the Service Employees International Union, which was an early supporter of Mr. Obama, Dennis Rivera, the coordinator of the union’s health care campaign, said that while his organization was “predisposed not to agree to the taxing of health benefits,” he would wait to pass judgment. The union, Mr. Rivera said, wants to see how any tax changes fit into the overall effort to revamp the health care system. “We need to see the total picture,” he said.
620 2009-03-15 “We cannot attract and retain the best and the brightest talent to lead and staff the A.I.G. businesses — which are now being operated principally on behalf of American taxpayers — if employees believe their compensation is subject to continued and arbitrary adjustment by the U.S. Treasury,” he wrote Mr. Geithner on Saturday.

Still, Mr. Liddy seemed stung by his talk with Mr. Geithner, calling their conversation last Wednesday “a difficult one for me” and noting that he receives no bonus himself. “Needless to say, in the current circumstances,” Mr. Liddy wrote, “I do not like these arrangements and find it distasteful and difficult to recommend to you that we must proceed with them.”

An A.I.G. spokeswoman said Saturday that the company had no comment beyond the letter. The bonuses were first reported by Bloomberg News.

The senior government official, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said the administration was outraged. “It is unacceptable for Wall Street firms receiving government assistance to hand out million-dollar bonuses, while hard-working Americans bear the burden of this economic crisis,” the official said.

Of all the financial institutions that have been propped up by taxpayer dollars, none has received more money than A.I.G. and none has infuriated lawmakers more with practices that policy makers have called reckless.

The bonuses will be paid to executives at A.I.G.’s financial products division, the unit that wrote trillions of dollars’ worth of that protected investors from defaults on backed in many cases by subprime .

The bonus plan covers 400 employees, and the bonuses range from as little as $1,000 to as much as $6.5 million. Seven executives at the financial products unit were entitled to receive more than $3 million in bonuses.

Mr. Liddy, whom Federal Reserve and Treasury officials recruited after A.I.G. faltered last September and received its first round of bailout money, said the bonuses and “retention pay” had been agreed to in early 2008 and were for the most part legally required.

The company told the Treasury that there were two categories of bonus payments, with the first to be given to senior executives. The administration official said Mr. Geithner had told A.I.G. to revise them to protect taxpayer dollars and tie future payments to performance.

The second group of bonuses covers some 2008 retention payments from contracts entered into before government involvement in A.I.G. Indeed, in his letter to Mr. Geithner, Mr. Liddy wrote that he had shown the details of the $450 million bonus pool to outside lawyers and been told that A.I.G. had no choice but to follow through with the payment schedule.

The administration official said the Treasury Department did its own legal analysis and concluded that those contracts could not be broken. The official noted that even a provision recently pushed through Congress by Senator , a Democrat, had an exemption for such bonus agreements already in place.

But the official said the administration will force A.I.G. to eventually repay the cost of the bonuses to the taxpayers as part of the agreement with the firm, which is being restructured.

A.I.G. did cut other bonuses, Mr. Liddy explained, but those were part of the compensation for people who dealt in other parts of the company and had no direct involvement with the derivatives.

Mr. Liddy wrote that A.I.G. hoped to reduce its retention bonuses for 2009 by 30 percent. He said the top 25 executives at the financial products division had also agreed to reduce their salary for the rest of 2009 to $1.

Ever since it was bailed out by the government last fall, A.I.G. has been defending itself against accusations that it was richly compensating people who caused one of the biggest financial crises in American history.

A.I.G.’s main business is , but the financial products unit sold hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of derivatives, the notorious credit-default swaps that nearly toppled the entire company last fall.

A.I.G. had set up a special bonus pool for the financial products unit early in 2008, before the company’s near collapse, when problems stemming from the mortgage crisis were becoming clear and there were concerns that some of the best-informed derivatives specialists might leave. It locked in a total amount, $450 million, for the financial products unit and prepared to pay it in a series of installments, to encourage people to stay.

Only part of the payments had been made by last fall, when A.I.G. nearly collapsed. In documents provided to the Treasury, A.I.G. said it was required to pay about $165 million in bonuses on or before Sunday. That is in addition to $55 million in December.

Under a deal reached last week, A.I.G. agreed that the top 50 executives would get half of the $9.6 million they were supposed to get by March 15. The second half of their bonuses would be paid out in two installments in July and in September. To get those payments, Treasury officials said, A.I.G. would have to show that it had made progress toward its goal of selling off business units and repaying the government.

The financial products unit is now being painstakingly wound down.
621 2009-03-15 BOSTON — Matt Knapp, a middle school history teacher, used to spend a lot of his own money on supplies for his classroom. Now, he goes to the warehouse-style shop of Extras for Creative Learning.

“I come here for the free loot,” Mr. Knapp said, holding two reams of paper above his head.

Extras for Creative Learning is a nonprofit organization that funnels castoff items from businesses into the hands of teachers, day care providers and parents. And the economic downturn is fueling a boom in some donations.

“We actually have been getting all kinds of office things from places that are either downsizing or moving to smaller offices,” said Jodi Schmidt, the director of the group.

Mr. Knapp pays $40 a year for eight visits to the warehouse, during which he can take as much as he wants. He usually stocks up on poster board and drawing paper, markers and pens, binders, and sometimes cups, fake coins and other props for skits in his classes at the Lilla G. Frederick Pilot Middle School in Boston.

Ms. Schmidt said the center received items that would otherwise be destined for landfills or incinerators, allowing businesses a tax write-off.

The center, which has an annual budget of $175,000, picks up donated items at no charge. To raise money, it sells new and used donated furniture, like filing cabinets, tables, desks and chairs.
622 2009-03-15 But the details of the InterMedia deal and a broader review of Mr. DiNapoli’s campaign finance records suggest that some of the practices that plunged previous comptrollers into ethical disrepute have not ended.

Mr. DiNapoli has won praise for imposing new ethical guidelines on the pension fund and accepting no campaign contribution larger than $20,000 — less than half of what is allowed under state law. He has supported a proposal to publicly finance campaigns for his office.

But he also routinely accepts contributions from those seeking to do business with his office, from investment firms, executives and law firms to intermediaries known as placement agents.

“I’ve gone further than anybody else in this office to limit the opportunity for money to be a key factor in what we’re doing, but it’s not the perfect solution,” Mr. DiNapoli said in a recent interview. “Unless we have public financing, I’m going to do the best I can with the limits I’ve put forward.”

Mr. DiNapoli was installed by the Legislature in February 2007 after his predecessor, Alan G. Hevesi, pleaded guilty to a felony and resigned. A longtime assemblyman from Long Island, he is one of the most well-liked politicians in Albany, but has been criticized for his lack of financial acumen. Eliot Spitzer, then the governor, panned his selection as “an insider’s game of self-dealing that unfortunately confirms every New Yorker’s worst fears and image of all that goes on in the Legislature.”

The management structure of New York’s pension fund is unusual, relying on the comptroller as the fund’s sole trustee, placing significant power over the $120 billion fund in the hands of one elected official. Many states have boards that oversee their funds.

Mr. DiNapoli’s political future is riding in part on his ability to restore the reputation of the office. Mr. Hevesi’s resignation stemmed from disclosures that he had used state workers as chauffeurs for his ailing wife, but a broader state and federal investigation of the office continues, focusing on the millions of dollars that associates of Mr. Hevesi earned while helping investment firms win business from the pension fund. Those firms, in turn, were showering Mr. Hevesi with hundreds of thousands of dollars’ worth of campaign contributions.

The investigation, undertaken by the office of Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo and the Securities and Exchange Commission, focuses on wrongdoing under Mr. Hevesi’s tenure, and is expected to be completed soon.

Mr. DiNapoli stresses that he has not been a zealous fund-raiser — he said he did not even start fund-raising until after he had been in office for 15 months and now has about $1 million on hand. He said he did so mainly because he needed to appear to be a viable candidate for the 2010 election, which he said he anticipated would cost between $7 million and $10 million.

But he is amassing tens of thousands of dollars in contributions from investment firms, either directly or from their executives, often from little-known money managers, including Quadrant Management, Azimuth Capital and Nemazee Capital.

Mr. DiNapoli is also taking money from law firms that do business with or are seeking business with the fund. Seven partners at the law firm Labaton Sucharow contributed $42,500 to DiNapoli 2010 after the firm was hired by Mr. DiNapoli to represent the office in litigation against Countrywide, the troubled mortgage lender.

Contributions are also coming from placement agents who facilitate deals for investment firms, one of the central ethical morasses that enveloped the office under Mr. Hevesi. Last month, at least two people connected to Arvco Capital, a placement agency, donated $10,000 apiece. Arvco received $3.6 million from two investment firms for serving as a placement agent as recently as January 2008.

Regarding the deal with InterMedia, Mr. DiNapoli said in the interview that it was not unusual for him to meet in person with a representative of a firm like InterMedia, with which the pension fund had an established relationship, having made a $50 million investment with the firm in 2005.

Mr. Hindery, the gregarious former president of the YES Network, the regional sports broadcaster, is a prodigious Democratic fund-raiser and a skilled cultivator of relationships with prominent politicians. It was InterMedia, for example, that provided Tom Daschle the car and driver that Mr. Daschle neglected to report on his taxes, eventually scuttling his nomination to President Obama’s cabinet.

Last month, when The Times originally asked the comptroller’s office about the InterMedia deal, an aide to Mr. DiNapoli said that the fund’s only investment with the firm was made in 2005, when Mr. Hevesi directed $50 million to InterMedia. When The Times pressed further the following day, describing the details of the transaction, the office acknowledged that Mr. DiNapoli had approved an additional $15 million investment in 2007. The InterMedia deal was subsequently reported by The Daily News.

A spokesman for Mr. Ramirez, a longtime colleague of Mr. DiNapoli’s in the Assembly and a lobbyist, said he was not paid by InterMedia and only appeared as a friend of Mr. Hindery’s, helping to put through the transaction.

Barbara Bartoletti, the legislative director of the League of Women Voters in New York, said that Mr. DiNapoli appeared to have made some strides in cleaning up the comptroller’s office, but she said she worried that the overall environment was not changing.

“These pay-to-play guys can only give him $20,000? I guess that’s something,” she added. “I think Tom DiNapoli is a good guy, and he’s trying to do good things. Of course, I thought Hevesi was a good guy, too.”

Even some of the steps Mr. DiNapoli has taken to bring a new ethical climate to the office raise questions. When he named a six-member task force in 2007 to examine his ethics and oversight of the fund, he included a representative from New York State United Teachers. The union had to pay $100,000 the previous year to settle state charges that it misled its members about high-cost retirement products it was encouraging them to buy and quietly took payments from the company selling the investments.

Asked about the union’s previous problems, Mr. DiNapoli said, “We did not see that as an impediment.”
623 2009-03-15 TOKYO (AP) — Two navy destroyers left Japan on Saturday to join an international anti-piracy mission off the coast of Somalia, despite concerns that the country’s troops could be pressed into combat in violation of the Japan’s pacifist Constitution.

The five-month deployment is the first overseas policing action for Japan’s military, which is limited by the country’s post-World War II charter to defensive missions. The military’s forays abroad have been largely restricted to refueling, airlifting and humanitarian activities.

The decision to join the fight against piracy has been controversial because opposition lawmakers say Japanese ships could be drawn into combat or protecting foreign ships in an emergency. Governing party members, however, have argued that the battle against piracy is more a crime-fighting operation than a military one and therefore is not banned by the Constitution.

The two destroyers, the Sazanami and the Samidare, carrying two SH-60K patrol helicopters and a pair of speedboats, are expected to reach Somali waters in early April. Together they carry about 400 sailors, including specially trained commandos.

With about 1,000 people watching from the dock, a brass band played as the Japanese prime minister, Taro Aso, saw the ships off.
624 2009-03-15 “The answer is yes, he is all of those things, but none of them in toto,” said Michael Berman, a longtime Democratic strategist. “I would likely describe him as a moderate who is instinctively comfortable with a variety of progressive positions. He is very hard to label. And my guess is that that is the way he likes it.”

That has sometimes confused opponents trying to pin down his philosophy. “You could pick any moment out of the last few weeks and make a diametrically opposite conclusion, so I just don’t know,” said Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin. “He just got here, and when he got to the Senate he started running for president. So nobody up here really knows him.”

Other presidents came to office with longer histories on the national stage and more defined ideological identities, even if actions in office did not always match their images. Ronald Reagan was the Cold Warrior denouncing government as the problem, not the solution. Bill Clinton was the original New Democrat nudging his party toward the center. George W. Bush was the compassionate conservative sanding the harsher edges off Newt Gingrich’s revolution.

Mr. Obama, with only two years in the Senate before starting his presidential campaign, arrived as something of a cipher — a “Rorschach test,” as he once put it — who often seemed to be whatever people wanted to him to be. While compiling a reliably liberal record, he made enough nods toward the other side that he put moderates and some conservatives at ease.

Just before his inauguration, 40 percent of Americans surveyed by The New York Times and CBS News considered Mr. Obama a liberal, while 34 percent called him a moderate and 13 percent a conservative. Even now, aides point to high approval ratings to argue that Americans are comfortable with his approach and that his critics are out of step.

“He’s not an ideologue,” said David Axelrod, his senior White House adviser. “He’s a pragmatist. He’s someone who’s interested in ideas that will work. Some may have their roots in one doctrine; some may have roots in another. But he’s not concerned about that. He’s less concerned about how he’s described than what he can accomplish.”

During a recent interview with The Times, Mr. Obama rejected the “socialist” tag, arguing that he was only returning top tax rates to where they were before Mr. Bush. Asked if “liberal” or “progressive” better defined his philosophy, he said, “I’m not going to engage in that.”

Days later, though, he did engage during a closed-door meeting with moderate House Democrats, later reported by Politico.com. Mr. Obama called himself a New Democrat, a term popularized under Mr. Clinton referring to Democrats who are fiscally conservative, socially liberal and relatively hawkish on foreign affairs.

“If you asked him, I think he’d put himself on the ideological scale as a New Democrat,” said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff. “But I think he’d say that doesn’t fully capture it.”

Others said Mr. Obama does not fit the New Democrat model. Where Mr. Clinton overhauled welfare and balanced the budget, Mr. Obama has overseen more than $1 trillion in spending to fix the economy, set aside $634 billion over 10 years to expand health coverage and proposed forcing industry to pay for pollution credits.

“President Obama is turning out to be utterly and conventionally liberal, embracing record-breaking spending programs and record-breaking tax increases and giving us a record-breaking deficit and record-breaking debt,” Peter Wehner, a former Bush aide, wrote on Commentary magazine’s Web site.

Liberals likewise do not view him as a New Democrat. “Here’s a label if you want one — pragmatic populist progressive,” said Justin Ruben, executive director of MoveOn.org, an influential group on the left. “It’s not fire-breathing populism. It doesn’t necessarily look the same. But what he’s saying is this has to work for everyone but in a pragmatic way.”

John D. Podesta, who led Mr. Obama’s transition, says the president has embraced the trial-and-error approach employed by predecessors. “That traces back to progressive roots in the kinds of experimentation in reform you saw under Teddy Roosevelt and the experimentation you saw under Franklin Roosevelt,” he said.

At the same time, Mr. Obama has upheld much of the Bush security architecture. While ordering the closing of the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, Mr. Obama endorsed some Bush positions on holding detainees, guarding state secrets and snatching terrorism suspects from other countries.

On the cultural front, Mr. Obama has liberalized policies on abortion and stem cell research, but also embraced issues favored by the other side, making “responsibility” a regular theme of his rhetoric and retaining Mr. Bush’s office of faith-based initiatives. And he has resisted calls by liberal allies to investigate the Bush team.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who proposed such a “truth commission,” said he understood Mr. Obama’s position. “He has to govern the whole country,” Mr. Leahy said. “He has to bring us back together.”

Former Representative Tom Davis of Virginia, a Republican, said Mr. Obama was smart to avoid fights on secondary issues. “What’s really dominant right now is the economy,” Mr. Davis said. “You can’t afford to alienate people on the cultural front or the national security front while you’re fixing the economy.”
625 2009-03-15 The average annual growth in direct sales in nonrecessionary years is 3.3 percent; during the last three recessionary years — 1990, 1991 and 2001 — it was 4.5 percent, said Amy Robinson, spokeswoman for the Direct Selling Association, the industry’s trade group.

People may use their earnings to pay off specific debts like credit cards or as a way to bring in cash while they — or their spouses — look for jobs, Ms. Robinson said. The barriers to entry are fairly minimal. Start-up kits — required by most companies — cost about $99 on average.

Products are generally sold at small parties and earn the seller a commission of about 20 to 50 percent on their sales, usually several hundred dollars a party. The median income from direct selling is $2,400 annually, according to the association, but those who recruit and manage others can earn significantly more.

People interested in direct sales often sell products they use themselves. Mindy Kershnar, who owns four Siberian Huskies, turned to selling pet products for Shure Pets of Chicago when she was laid off from her job in administration at Oracle in January.

Ms. Kershnar telecommuted from Greeley, Colo., where she and her husband recently bought a house. They need two incomes to pay the mortgage and credit cards, so Ms. Kershnar is selling Shure Pets products while looking for another job.

Products moved through direct sales, like jewelry, cosmetics or home décor items, are sometimes considered recession-resistant because most are priced under $50. And economists have made note of the lipstick factor, a term coined when lipstick sales rose during the last recession in the United States, in 2001. The belief is that in tough economic times, women cut back on pricey purchases but splurge instead on inexpensive luxuries.

The need for quick cash, however, can lead some salespeople to sign on with companies that are really pyramid or recruitment schemes, rather than true direct-sales companies. Consumer watchdog groups and the Federal Trade Commission (ftc.gov/bcp/edu/pubs/consumer/invest/inv12.shtm) advise would-be sales representatives to scrutinize a company first. If a seller’s earnings grow mainly by recruiting other sellers rather than selling the product, that is a red flag.

“Most of the commission should go to the salesperson, not the recruiters above her,” said Robert L. FitzPatrick, founder of PyramidSchemeAlert.org, a nonprofit consumer education Web site. He advised asking a company how sellers are compensated

Another red flag: companies that require upfront purchases of their products, which could wind up unsold and sitting in the seller’s basement for years.

The Direct Selling Association, which requires member companies to go through a review and waiting period before admitting them, has at least one member — www.YourTravelBiz.com — now under investigation by the attorney general of California under suspicion of being a pyramid scheme. The company says the allegations are without merit.

There are many legitimate direct sales organizations, and in addition to the earnings, the experience itself — selling and possibly managing a sales team — can be valuable professionally, said Joel Whalen, academic director of the Center for Sales Leadership at the Charles H. Kellstadt Graduate School of Business at DePaul University in Chicago. He expects that about 30 percent of recent recruits will stick with direct sales even after the economy recovers.

THAT is Amanda McCrary’s plan. She began selling Mary Kay cosmetics in December, when her husband was told he might be laid off. “We decided we needed to be proactive and put together our own bailout plan,” said Ms. McCrary, who also works full time as a human resources manager.

The couple live in suburban Detroit with their young son and are paying off college loans and other debts. Ms. McCrary sold $1,500 worth of products her first month, pocketing 40 percent as commission.

“We are putting it all into savings until we find out if my husband is getting laid off,” she said. “If he keeps his job, we will use it to pay down our debt.”
626 2009-03-15 Re “A.I.G., Where Taxpayers’ Dollars Go to Die” (Fair Game, March 8), in which Gretchen Morgenson described the bailout of the American International Group:

During the long debate about regulation of the financial services industry, the “free marketers” have argued against regulation with respect to new products. Regulation for credit default and interest rate swaps was deemed unnecessary because it would supposedly cause more harm than good by limiting innovation.

But such swaps are a form of insurance and should have been regulated as such. Failure to do so has required the American taxpayer to clean up the mess.

As a taxpayer, I would like to see free-market apologists at A.I.G.’s counterparties acknowledge the fundamental flaws in their philosophy. Otherwise taxpayers should not cover A.I.G. obligations on credit default and interest rate swap contracts.
627 2009-03-15 LURGAN, Northern Ireland (AP) — Irish nationalist gangs hurled gasoline bombs at police officers on Saturday after three suspected Irish Republican Army dissidents were arrested on suspicion of killing two British soldiers in an attack designed to stir up wider violence in Northern Ireland.

Police officers in armored cars and flame-retardant suits said no members of their force were injured during the rising mob violence in the Irish Catholic end of Lurgan, a religiously divided town southwest of Belfast. Rioters also blocked the main railroad that goes between Belfast and Dublin, which runs alongside the town’s hard-line Kilwilkie district.

The police also said they arrested a 37-year-old man and 30-year-old woman, and seized a gun and ammunition in the neighboring town of Craigavon, where I.R.A. dissidents shot to death a police officer on Monday.

The police would not say whether those arrests and the arms were connected to the March 7 shooting of the soldiers or the killing of the police officer.

The unrest came in direct response to the arrest on Saturday of Colin Duffy, 41, who was a top I.R.A. figure. The police arrested two other suspected I.R.A. dissidents in the overwhelmingly Catholic village of Bellaghy — all on suspicion of shooting to death the two soldiers.
628 2009-03-15 “On that score, I think we need to enforce the laws we have right now,” said Ms. Pelosi, echoing the position often taken by advocates of gun rights.

Gun rights are probably equaled only by rights in their ability to split Democrats and create political havoc.

Well aware of the Democratic sensitivity on guns and the reluctance of suburban and rural lawmakers to cast any vote that could be perceived as anti-gun, Republicans see the issue as one of their most effective poison pills to sabotage legislation. They were able to add an expansion of gun ownership in the to a long-sought measure giving the district a full-voting seat in the House of Representatives. Now the gun issue is an anchor on the bill in the House.

Democrats also came up just short of winning approval of a public lands bill this week because of three Democratic holdouts. They were influenced in part by concerns that the bill would upset gun owners even though the had already signed off after a promise that the bill would not curtail hunting on federal land.

Democratic leaders admit they are confounded by the mounting problems with gun votes and are trying to find a way out of a situation that is partly a product of their own success. The wider their majority, the more members Democrats have from swing districts where gun rights are likely to be a prominent issue.

One of those members, Representative Travis Childers of , last year was able to win House approval of his plan to let residents of the District of Columbia buy and keep guns in their homes for self-protection, a further retreat from the district’s virtually universal ban on legal handgun ownership that had already been relaxed by the .

“The Second Amendment right is a long-standing pillar in our system of government, and I believe law-abiding citizens should have the right to defend their homes in the District of Columbia, just like they have the ability to do so in the First Congressional District of Mississippi,” said Mr. Childers, who persuaded 81 other Democrats to side with him.

Democratic leaders say that baseline of 80 or so Democrats has undoubtedly grown, given gains in moderate districts last November, providing a solid House majority for gun rights when combined when strong support among Republicans. The cultural shift is pronounced — this week’s mass shootings in and stirred hardly a Congressional call for new gun restrictions, a contrast from past episodes.

Even with important legislation on the line, Ms. Pelosi and other Democratic leaders seem unwilling to demand that Democrats with a record of backing gun rights relent when the issue is secondary, as is the case with the District of Columbia voting-rights bill.

“Members come here to represent their districts, and I respect that,” Ms. Pelosi said.

And the fact is many conservative and moderate Democrats are not simply acting out of worry of getting a black mark from the N.R.A — they are hunters and sportsmen and strongly believe in the right to own and bear arms.

But what some Democratic leaders fear is that Republicans are taking better advantage of the party divide on the subject and will step up their use of gun rights to derail other issues in the months ahead.

Mr. Boyd, the Florida lawmaker, said that Democrats cannot let that happen.

“The truth is this administration and this Congress have some very serious economic problems to deal with and we are going to get through them,” he said. “Hopefully we will work around these distractions.”
629 2009-03-15 Melissa Lynn Weiss and Kenneth Lee Mazer are to be married Sunday evening at the Brown Hotel in Louisville, Ky. Rabbi Robert B. Slosberg is to officiate.

The bride, 39, was until December a vice president and senior counsel of OppenheimerFunds in New York. She graduated from Harvard, where she also received a law degree.

She is a daughter of Sandra T. Weiss and Mark S. Weiss of Louisville. Her father is the chief executive of Memi Tech, a company there that sells medical information stored on electronic memory cards. From 2005 to 2007, her mother was the president of the Louisville section of the National Council of Jewish Women.

The bridegroom, 45, is a founder and the vice president of Global Textile Partners, an importer in New York. He graduated from the University of Vermont and received an M.B.A. from New York University. He was a widower.

His mother, Lois M. Zelman of Harrison, N.Y., retired as a stockbroker for Gilford Securities in New York. His father, Richard H. Mazer of Windham, Vt., retired as an executive vice president of Hudson Pulp and Paper of New York. The bridegroom is the stepson of Martin Zelman.
630 2009-03-15 Paige Emily Farber and David Kent Joslin were married Thursday afternoon at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau by Blanca Martinez, a member of the city clerk’s office.

The following Thursday, the couple is to have another ceremony at the home of Sue and Larry O’Donnell at Pointe Milou on St. Barts with Daniel Blanchard, a former mayor there, officiating.

The bride, 38, works in New York as a vice president in the wealth management unit of Barclays, the British bank. She is in charge of marketing in the United States. She graduated from the University of Vermont and received an M.B.A. from the University of Denver.

She is a daughter of Jan Farber and William A. Farber of New York. Her father is the chief executive of Levin Management Corporation, a real estate firm in North Plainfield, N.J., and a trustee of the Philip and Janice Levin Foundation, which supports the arts. Her mother is a curatorial research assistant at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

The bridegroom, also 38, works in New York as a vice president in the mergers and acquisitions group of Alliance HealthCare Services, which provides services and leases medical equipment. He is also the president of InSight Radiology Puerto Rico in Canóvanas, an owner and operator of radiology facilities. He graduated from Duke and received an M.B.A. from Columbia.

Mr. Joslin is a son of Francene Kipp of Newport Beach, Calif., and Raymond E. Joslin of Greenwich, Conn., and is a stepson of Alicia L. Joslin and of the late John D. Kipp. The bridegroom’s father retired as a senior vice president of Hearst Corporation in New York and the president of its entertainment group, where he played a leading role in developing A&E, Lifetime Television and ESPN.
631 2009-03-15 The drilling cutback has been particularly stark for natural gas. Gas exploration had soared in recent years after technology advances enabled the exploitation of gas trapped in huge shale beds found around Fort Worth, western Pennsylvania, upstate New York and elsewhere.

But that boom has created such abundant supplies that companies are not only drilling less but also deciding not to pump from wells already drilled.

Thousands of oil and gas workers who migrated around the country to work in new fields for fat salaries have been laid off.

“The big bonanza is over,” said Jay Ewing, the completion and construction manager for Devon Energy in the Barnett Shale field here, where so far this year his company has brought its rig count from 35 to 8. “Everyone is really shocked how fast everything has turned.”

Energy experts and company executives warn that oil and gas companies now cutting back on investments will be unable to respond quickly to a future economic recovery. John Richels, Devon’s president, said that if the slump lasted two years, it could then take 18 to 24 months for companies to reassemble rig crews.

That means a glut could rapidly turn to scarcity, sending energy prices soaring again. Already, experts are predicting that lower domestic gas production by the end of the year will require increased imports of liquefied natural gas from places like Qatar.

Through most of this year, gas supplies are not likely to decline sharply because so many shale wells came on line recently. But those wells should start to decline in productivity by next year, potentially leading to tight gas supplies if industrial and residential use picks up significantly in the second half of 2010.

“Inevitably, the market doesn’t react; it overreacts and shoots itself in the foot,” said Adam J. Robinson, director of commodities at Armored Wolf, a California hedge fund.

Domestic oil production is expected to increase this year over last, for the first time since 1991, according to projections by the Energy Department. That swing is attributable in part to increased production in the Gulf of Mexico from two giant new platforms that were years in the making. But some potential onshore production is likely to go untapped, as companies cut back on new drilling and abandon expensive efforts to flush extra oil from aging fields.

Many energy executives had thought the drilling renaissance, coming after years of declines, represented a new era, particularly for gas production. Domestic natural gas output rose by almost 8 percent last year from 2007, the biggest annual jump in more than a generation.

That jump reversed the widely held notion that domestic gas fields were in irreversible decline. It enabled the Texas billionaire T. Boone Pickens to promote a plan to use natural gas instead of gasoline in the nation’s cars.

But such ambitions are sputtering, as falling prices force companies to cut their drilling expenditures. Oil now costs $46.25 a barrel, down from a peak of more than $145 in July, and natural gas costs just less than $4 per thousand cubic feet, down from a peak of more than $13.

One reason companies need to make cuts is that the cost of drilling and servicing operations, while falling, is still roughly double the 2005 level, while the prices oil and gas companies earn from their production are suddenly below the 2005 level. Meanwhile, the cost of borrowing money for exploration and production has soared recently in the credit crisis.

“When everybody sobers up after the first quarter and sees what their real cash flow is going to be,” said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive of the energy company Apache, “people are going to be very discouraged about how much capital they have to spend and that will depress the rig count even further.”

So far economists say the energy patch is still doing better economically than the rest of the country. The surge of drilling and leasing poured enough money into communities with oil and gas resources that they did not begin to feel the pain of the recession until the end of last year.

However, a slowdown appears to be coming in local tax revenue and businesses like restaurants that cater to oil workers. Residents here who receive monthly royalty checks for gas pumped through long horizontal wells tapping gas deposits deep below their homes say their payments are getting smaller or disappearing altogether.

Perhaps most nervous are the rig workers themselves. With the rig count in the Barnett Shale field down to less than 100 from a high of 227 in October — and expected to go as low as 60 before the year is over — thousands of gas field workers have already lost their jobs here.

One who is worried is Chris Stamper, 32, a derrick hand from Union, Miss. A former furniture factory worker, he doubled his salary, to $80,000 a year, when he came to the Barnett Shale field two years ago to learn to work on a rig. Fifteen of 20 workers on Mr. Stamper’s crew have already been laid off, replaced by more senior workers from other crews that were disassembled in recent weeks.

He keeps thinking about the $216,000 house he bought for his family back in Union.

“I have to pay for it,” he said. “That’s what I worry about.”
632 2009-03-15 An article on Page 40 of The Times Magazine this week, about the George W. Bush library being planned at Southern Methodist University, referred incorrectly to the former president's departure from Washington on Jan. 20. He left from the Capitol, not the White House. And though he was aboard a Marine helicopter, it was not "Marine One." (A Marine helicopter uses that call sign only when the incumbent president is aboard.)
633 2009-03-15 A review of preliminary figures for the first quarter, through last week, put the average condo closing price at $1.82 million, with a median price of $1.195 million. The average price was about 14 percent above that of the second half of 2008, and only 4 percent below the peak average price in the first quarter of 2008, when many apartments were closing at very expensive new developments like 15 Central Park West.

But the higher average prices, might, perversely, represent some bad news.

Dolly Lenz, a top-selling broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, said major banks had recently cut back on lending in new condominiums, especially those with many unsold units, reducing closings. Wealthy buyers paying cash for more expensive apartments were not affected.

The banks, she said, are now requiring that 70 percent of new apartments be sold or in contract before they will issue mortgages, a policy based on new federal guidelines. This requirement is jeopardizing many newer projects.

The co-op market is faring far worse so far this quarter, as many brokers and analysts had predicted. Prices are down sharply, and deed filings have fallen by more than 60 percent this year compared with the same period in 2008, with the steepest decline in sales among the most expensive units.

Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist at Halstead and Brown Harris Stevens, said that the decline in co-op prices occurred several months ago, but is appearing only now in property records because co-op closings are often delayed until the buyer is approved by the co-op board. As a result, the average co-op sale price recorded by the Department of Finance fell below $1 million for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2006; it is now just under $930,000, preliminary figures show. The median fell to $598,250, its first time below $600,000 since the same quarter in 2006.

Average co-op prices were off 18 percent from the second half of 2008, and 28 percent from the record high prices in the first quarter of 2008, according to the preliminary figures.

Kirk Henckels, the director of Stribling Private Brokerage, said that for the last few weeks, the high-end market had been “picking up momentum,” with more deals every week. But last week, he said, with more worries about the banks, insurance companies and the auto industry, there appeared to be yet another pause.

“That has caused another little intake of air,” he said. “Let’s hope it doesn’t last.”
634 2009-03-15 In Darien, more than a quarter of the houses listed for sale are priced below $1 million, a “very large percentage for Darien,” according to Jeffrey Kelly, the vice president of Kelly Associates. Last week, Mr. Kelly counted 11 houses listed under $600,000 — a price range that before the recession would have primarily been condominium territory.

Most of these homes “tend to be on the major arteries through town,” he said. “Obviously, they’re not on idyllic cul-de-sacs. But they are very livable.”

In Wilton over the last 12 months, there have been almost twice as many sales under $600,000 as there were during the same period two years ago, said Theresa Blinder, the principal at Theresa Blinder & Company.

A four-bedroom garrison colonial that has received a deposit has come down in price by $160,000, to $569,000, since it was first listed almost a year ago, she said.

Farther away from the coast, the town of Ridgefield has two two-bedroom homes available in the $200,000 range, both near lakes in the northern end of town. “We haven’t seen one of those since around 2001,” marveled Brad Kimmelman, a sales associate with Keller Williams Realty.

The availability of homes in lower prices ranges has pleasantly surprised Rachel and Ed Boyer in their search for a home in Ridgefield. Currently renters in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, the Boyers are just beginning their house hunt. They have visited only five properties, but have already found some houses “we think could work for us,” said Ms. Boyer, a high school guidance counselor.

A year ago, she explained, she and her husband, a musician, wouldn’t have thought they could afford to buy a house in decent shape in Ridgefield. Now, “we’re fairly certain that we want to buy, because it seems that there are more options,” she said. “People are really trying to get rid of their houses.”

One property was a three-bedroom two-bath ranch with an updated kitchen and a two-car garage. According to the listing agent, Lonnie Shapiro of Prudential Connecticut Realty, the owners paid $440,000 for the home in 2006, and put about $25,000 into it. Now listed at $390,000, it is competing with at least 10 other Ridgefield houses in the $300,000 range. “I think we’re back to 2003 prices,” Ms. Shapiro said.

But price alone hasn’t been enough to entice many first-timers still waiting on the sidelines. Martha Jeffrey, a sales associate with David Ogilvy & Associates in Greenwich, has been trying to sell a two-family home in a single-family neighborhood in the Glenville section since October 2007. The current price, $550,000, is down 40 percent from the starting price, yet she still can’t find a taker.

Tougher credit conditions are counteracting the lower prices, said Paul Lebowitz, the owner of the Westport Mortgage Company. The 20 percent down payment now commonly required is too steep for many mortgage applicants, he said. “They usually have the income,” he added. “They don’t have the down payment. That’s always been a problem in Fairfield County.”

Beyond that obstacle are psychological ones. “These things can look like bargains,” said Steven P. Lanza, the executive editor of The Connecticut Economy, a quarterly publication based at the University of Connecticut, “but if you’re worried about whether you’re going to have a job in a year, you’re not going to buy. Then, there’s the issue of continued price drops.”

The question of how much further home values may fall certainly weighed on Michael and Amy Andre in their house search in the Fairfield area over the past year or so. Married in August and living in Mr. Andre’s two-room loft in downtown Bridgeport, the couple weren’t in a hurry to buy.

But when a three-bedroom Cape came on the market in the city’s waterfront community of Black Rock, the Andres decided that at a list price of $285,000, the property was too good a deal to pass up. The house has views of the inner harbor, said Mr. Andre, a graphic designer and avid sailor. It is also around the corner from the yacht club where he is a member.

If all goes well, the couple will close on the house in April. As to the risk, Mr. Andre said, “I’m of the school of thought that opportunity happens when you kind of go against the grain.”

The Boyers have a similarly optimistic outlook. Even if values were to keep falling after they bought, Ms. Boyer said, they would be unlikely to suffer a loss because they plan on staying put for at least five years.

And anyway, if they find an affordable house that they absolutely love, she said, it would be silly “to sit around for a year looking at house prices and waiting.”
635 2009-03-15 About a dozen of Westchester County’s 45 municipalities already had idling laws. The countywide law puts responsibility for its enforcement on both the county and the local police, while the health department had been responsible for the law for diesels.

Local police departments said that they were still figuring out an enforcement plan but that it was likely that informing the public would be the initial step.

“We first have to educate these people and then provide a solution,” said Lt. James Gaffney, a Mamaroneck police spokesman. “The key is to educate and get compliance, not write tickets.”

Before the law went into effect, environmental advocates and concerned parents worked to inform drivers about the effects of idling engines, which produce carbon dioxide and other damaging emissions.

“People need to understand that not only is idling bad for the environment, but it’s bad for your car and bad for your kids,” said Lori Stevenson, 48, a Larchmont mother and a member of the village’s Environmental Committee. “Some still live with a 1970s attitude where they think they need to warm up their car, when in fact idling uses more gas and is worse for cars than turning them off and on.”

Last spring, Daniel Warren School’s principal, Joan Babcock, and a team of parents began an anti-idling initiative using fliers, street signs and a program called Walking Wednesdays. Recently, Ms. Babcock began knocking on the windows of cars that are not idling to thank the driver for turning off the engine.

“We also talk to the children about car-pooling and what’s best for the planet,” she said. “If you get the kids to tell the parents not to idle, it can be very effective.”

But it is ultimately up to the driver. Gina Calcagni, 39, a Rye Neck mother of four, joins the line of cars along Harrison Avenue every morning at 8:30, 15 minutes before her first grader can enter the building. Even if it is below freezing, Ms. Calcagni said, she and her children wear a hat and gloves inside the car, prepared to sit without heat.

“Sometimes the kids want me to turn on the engine to get a blast of hot air,” she said. “But they know the engine stays off. They don’t even question it.”

Local officials say it is hard to know how effective the law will be. But Mr. Abinanti said, “The measure of the new law’s success will not be the number of summonses issued, but rather the number of vehicles we stop from idling.”
636 2009-03-15 This was not the Cambodia I expected — the tiny bubbles Cambodia. I’d had a sneaking suspicion that my first trip to the land of Angkor Wat and ancestor worship and rampant friendliness might somehow change me, but I expected this change to be triggered by the fact that about one fifth of this country’s population, including most anyone educated, was wiped out by Pol Pot in the 1970s, or that the United States probably dropped more bombs on Cambodia during Richard Nixon’s presidency than it dropped on Japan in World War II.

Y OU’D be hard-pressed to find a town center, let alone a bricks-and-mortar store, in Kep’s bucolic center, but there’s a buzz of activity at the series of shacks along the water that form the crab market. Here fresh crabs are pulled out of wooden cages that you can see just offshore, and, for $7, cooked with curry and stalks of local Kampot peppercorns to produce an exciting variation of everything I’d ever eaten while wearing a lobster bib. Kep is also, oddly, without a decent beach — the sienna-colored sand at the half-mile-long town beach is clearly the world’s largest accumulation of Cajun rub — but you can take a 20-minute boat ride out to Rabbit Island, where a scattering of pale, tubby Britons and gorgeous Danish girls laze on good sand or on the porch of rented huts and sunning platforms, all amid a scrum of mangrove trees, chickens and slightly confused cows. We set ourselves beachside and Greg pulled out a cigarette pack emblazoned with the name of France’s handsomest-ever movie star — Alain Delon — which he’d bought for 30 cents in town. I thought, I am surrounded by at least three kinds of beauty.

We also took day trips from Kep to a temple cave and to Bokor Mountain. Although taxis, motorbikes and tuk-tuks are plentiful and cheap in Cambodia, we’d decided to hire, at $45 a day, a kind and shy 28-year-old Phnom Penh driver named Toun Bon Thim to take us around in his car, including our subsequent nine-hour drive from the coast up to Siem Reap to visit Angkor Wat.

When Bon Thim and Greg and I stepped out of the car near the trail to the cave temple, we were greeted by a small band of giddy and adorable Cambodian children who wanted to guide us. The kids — led by a hilarious 14-year-old boy in a T-shirt emblazoned “Parental Advisory” — led us through a muddy rice field to a steep set of wooden stairs (“203 steps. Easy!,” Parental Advisory coached me. “Easy for Mr. New York City!”). Soon we were peering down in a stalactite-dripping cave in which sat a very well-preserved seventh-century brick temple, about the size of four phone booths. Parental Advisory looked at my popped eyes and, aping the helium-pitched voice of a flip teenage girl, he exclaimed, “Ohmygod!” Suddenly I wanted to revoke every sarcastic comment I’d ever made about Angelina Jolie and her Cambodian child; I longed to take Parental Advisory back to New York with us, and turn him into America’s next comedy sensation.

Although most of the two-lane roads that link Cambodia’s bigger cities have been improved and repaved in the past 10 years or so, anyone who jiggles his way in a Jeep up the 19-mile road that is being built on Bokor Mountain in nearby Kampot is vividly, if not violently, reminded of earlier road-based pittedness: by journey’s end you realize that if you were a gallon of paint, not only would you be thoroughly mixed, you would now be a solid. (Loung Ung, a Cambodian writer and land mine activist who has returned to Cambodia some 30 times since escaping in 1980 and moving to Cleveland, told me that before the roads got better, she always packed sports bras for her trips back there.) The top of Bokor Mountain is the site of an abandoned hill station, including an eerie, burned-out palace hotel and a Catholic church where sometimes the fog sneaks up on you so thick that you can’t see your hand in front of you. The site was the setting for the climax of the 2002 Matt Dillon crime thriller, “City of Ghosts.”

“Almost every place in Cambodia has a ghost story attached to it,” Ms. Ung said. “I think it’s because we practice Theravada Buddhism: our gods are able to cross between the borders of the world. And we believe that our ancestors are always with us. When so many people died in our country in the ’70s, we ended up with a lot of haunted, unresolved lives. It’s not fear, it’s respect.”

Indeed, Greg and I got our own taste of unresolved living one afternoon in Kep. We were staying at a place called the Veranda — a series of funky bamboo and wood treehouses, many with terrific views of the Gulf of Thailand and the Vietnamese island Phu Quoc. Greg was lying in the hammock on our porch when he heard a series of mewling, feline cries coming from above him, followed by a soft thump. When he went into our bungalow, he saw first the air vent over our bathroom ceiling and then something more unusual: a kitten had landed in our shower. That night over drinks I told a fellow guest, “I think it’s a message from on high.” The man concurred: “Yes. And the message is: a kitten has landed in your shower.”

The theme of untethered animals is one that reasserts itself not infrequently in Cambodia. After Kep, we spent a relaxed day in sleepy Kampot — a placid riverfront lined with colonial-era buildings increasingly being renovated by expatriates — pottering around the second-hand bookstore and taking in the view of Bokor Mountain.

From Kampot we drove three hours to the coast’s most developed town, Sihanoukville, a drive during which we dodged cows, dogs and a monkey that had parked in the road in the manner of an irritable and recently deposed dictator. But the more common life-threateners were other human drivers, whose conception of the word “lane” can only be described as elastic. I asked Bon Thim if most Cambodians believed in reincarnation, and he said yes. I posited, “This may explain why they drive this way.” Equally thrilling to behold were the loads that we saw heaped onto motorbikes — huge, jodhpur-shaped bundles of firewood or morning glories; a bureau and a desk; four twin mattresses; an IV drip; a family of four. Bon Thim told us: “On New Year’s, when workers travel home, there is even more stacking. Sometimes 20 people stacked on the roof of cars or trucks. Sometimes driver has someone seated between him and his door.”

In Sihanoukville, we reveled in the pleasures that the rest of the coast, however lovely, had denied us: white sand beaches, shopping, non-restaurant-based night life. The beaches ranged from the utterly pristine and private one at our hotel, the Independence — where Jackie Kennedy and Ms. Deneuve are said to have stayed and which earned the nickname the Ghost Hotel after the Khmer Rouge used it as a redoubt during their occupation of Sihanoukville — to the very crowded Occheuteal, lined with food shacks and vendors. During our visit to Occheuteal, I bought a bunch of litchis for a dollar from a woman carrying them on her head, but passed up requests to rent an inner tube (50 cents an hour), be massaged in my chair ($6 an hour), have my back hair “threaded” ($5), or hear a blind man sing (unspecified). Greg and I parked ourselves at one of the food shacks and started people-watching; we rewarded ourselves with mango shakes (mango ice and sweetened condensed milk are put in a blender and frothed to a fare-thee-well).

To shop in a country where the average daily wage is less than a dollar a day is to suddenly want to pay retail. Some of the arenas of this strange inclination are more direct than others: both of the shopping haunts that drew our attention were charity-based. On the muddy, trash-flecked dirt road that leads to Serendipity Beach, the northwestern end of Occheuteal Beach, we found the Cambodian Children’s Painting Project, where kids who are kept out of school and forced into selling wares or themselves on the beach are given free language classes and painting lessons. We each bought a painting ($4 each, plus $1.50 each for frames). A few hours later we found ourselves at Rajana, a gift shop whose proceeds go to teaching young Cambodians handicraft skills. We marveled over the jewelry made from recycled bomb shells ($28 to $32) and key rings made from recycled bullets (95 cents), prior to buying lots of silk scarves ($6 to $30) and lemon-grass candles in bamboo holders ($1.75).

Outside of the tinkly piano-bar womb of Sihanoukville’s two high-end hotels — the Independence and the Sokha — the town’s night life caters mostly to backpackers and beach bunnies, some of them just in from party capitals like Phuket or Vang Vieng, and eager to shimmer and effloresce over cocktails. A stroll down Serendipity Beach will bring you in contact with fire throwers, mystics, British Vogue photographers, sex tourists and many, many opportunities to indulge in something called a “vodka bucket.” Here is the youth of the world, working hard to forget the inequities of working for an understaffed and poorly run N.G.O.; here is the youth of the world, working hard to remember the name of the French dude they just made out with. The signs of these revelers’ impact on the local economy are not hard to find — certain beach bar/guesthouses offer a free night’s lodging to those of their young customers willing to hand out fliers on the beach for an hour; the business card for one local bar included a map which pinpointed the locations of 1) the bar 2) an A.T.M. and 3) the hospital.

Once Greg and I had been home for two weeks, I contemplated whether my day-to-day life had been changed by the trip. I’d stopped e-mailing Bon Thim by then; I’d also burned through our lemon-grass candles, and distributed all our scarves and effervescent codeine and Alain Delon cigarettes. I’d given up trying to recreate the fabulousness of the mango shake that I’d had on the beach. I’d even — was it possible? — stared at our sunset-at-Knai Bang Chatt pictures so long that I had robbed them of their power. Things seemed fairly ... status quo. A wonderful status quo — but a status quo nevertheless.

GETTING THERE AND AROUND

Any leg of the triangle that is Phnom Penh-Sihanoukville-Kep will take about three and a half hours by taxi and cost $30 to $60, depending on your negotiation skills. A tuk-tuk to Kampot or Bokor Mountain and back will run about $25. The ever-reliable Toun Bon Thim can be reached at bonthim@yahoo.com. Several airlines, including Cathay Pacific (with a stop in Hong Kong) and Korean Air (with a stop in Seoul), have flights from Kennedy Airport in New York, with round-trip fares in April starting at about $1,300, based on a recent Web search.

Knai Bang Chatt (Phum Thmey Sangat Prey, Thom Khan Kep; 855-12-879-486; www.knaibangchatt.com) serves breakfast at a rough-hewn 24-foot-long table under a palapa overlooking the sea, where dinner (about $38 for two) is also served. Guests have use of Hobie Cat sailboats. Doubles from $150 — U.S. dollars are accepted at hotels, restaurants and shops — in the high season (October through March); otherwise from $110.

At the Veranda (Kep Mountain Hillside Road; 855-12-888-619; www.veranda-resort.com) doubles start at $25. The resort’s bar and restaurant, with the sight of gorgeous sunsets, is quite good, and serves mostly Western food (dinner for two, about $26). Doubles from $25.

The Independence (Street 2 Thnou, Sangkat No. 3; 855-34-943-3003; www.independencehotel.net), stylishly refurbished in 2007, is, along with the Sokha, Sihanoukville’s most luxurious beachfront property. You’ll need to take a tuk-tuk (about $5 one way) if you want to go into town or to the public beaches. Doubles from $140.

At Kimly (to the left of the restaurants at the crab market along the waterfront in Kep; 855-12-435-096), the crab with Kampot pepper is the local specialty. The shrimp tom yum soup and the shrimp with Kampot pepper are also worth trying. Dinner for two, about $20.

Rikitikitavi (River Road, Kampot; 855-12-235-102; www.rikitikitavi-kampot.com) is on a balcony overlooking the river. A delicious fish amok — a kind of Cambodian curry that is steamed instead of boiled — is served in a banana leaf. The cook is a former sous-chef at the InterContinental in Phnom Penh. Lunch for two, about $15.

Chhner Molop Chrey (Krong Street, Mondul 3, along the waterfront of Victory Beach in Sihanoukville; 855-34-933-708) is a long-established seafood restaurant, serving fresh fish, shrimp and crabs along the waterfront. Dinner for two, about $16.

WHAT TO DO

At Massage (Champey Inn, 25 Avenue de la Plage, Kep), the setting (under a palapa, and not too far from the sea) is especially nice. Expect to pay $10 for traditional hourlong massage; $15 for oil massage.

Bokor Mountain. Visits to the top of the mountain are in a state of flux while the road is being built. You may be required to go with a ranger in his Jeep ($40, plus $5 park entrance; ask at the park entrance), or you may be able to go in a group tour (try Sok Lim Tours, 855-12-719-872; www.soklimtours.com) for $10, plus admission fee.

Rajana (down the alley at 62 7 Makara Street; 855-23-993-642; www.rajanacrafts.org) in Sihanoukville is one of a chain of nonprofit stores, with wonderful textiles, and some clothing and knickknacks. The N.G.O.-run garden cafe downstairs serves good light meals, and is a fine place to cool off.
637 2009-03-15 Young Americans wanting to spend up to a year studying or working in Australia or New Zealand have until Oct. 31 to take advantage of two pilot exchange programs.

The two-year agreements between the United States and Australia and New Zealand allow 18- to 30-year-old Americans who are high school graduates with a passport to visit Australia or New Zealand for up to one year. They can leave and re-enter the country as much as they’d like, study for up to four months and work.

In a final push to promote the Australia exchange program, Tourism New South Wales, which promotes the state that includes Sydney has teamed up with MySpace to produce www.myspace.com/mysydney. This site shares visa application information and advice on pursuing a job and studies in Australia. It also profiles young Australians, from surfers to artists to stockbrokers, in short videos.
638 2009-03-15 But despite tag sales’ current relevance, the real estate collapse has led to a sharp decline in the sales, as much as 80 percent in some areas, according to industry experts and town clerks who regulate them. A decline in the number of people selling their homes and emptying the contents before moving has hurt what industry officials say is a $10 million-a-year business in the New York metropolitan area.

Some tag-sale activity had moved online to sites like eBay and Craigslist, but tag-sale brokers said prices for items there had fallen. Helaine Fendelman, a former president of the Appraisers Association of America, said online prices were so low now that Internet sales were no longer compelling.

When tag sales might rebound is a good question, she said.

“I wish I could say it’s going to pick up in the spring, but I just don’t know,” Ms. Fendelman said. A year ago, she said, she was organizing a sale a week in New Jersey, Westchester County and Long Island; this winter, she has been organizing one a month.

Because home sales usually prompt tag sales, when homes sales dip, tag sales do, too. (In fact, the vinyl-sided ranch where Mr. Curreri was working had been listed for two years before selling in February.)

“People can’t sell their house to move to another residence, so they are just sitting there with all this stuff,” said Ms. Fendelman, who hosted her first tag sale in Scarsdale, N.Y., in 1968. “It’s devastating.”

One paradox of the housing downturn, organizers like Ms. Fendelman said, was that the rising number of foreclosures was forcing people to relocate, but without a parallel rise in tag sales.

A possible explanation is that people who lose their homes must vacate quickly, and so throw out possessions rather than deal with time-consuming sales, said Eileen Daly of Port Jefferson on Long Island. Her seven-year-old business, Turn the Page Tag Sales, which generally yields $1,500 to $6,000 per sale, ran 20 sales in 2006 but only 4 last year, she said.

“I have people come in and say: ‘I found Barbies on the side of the road. What are they worth?’ ” said Ms. Daly, who also appraises pieces for clients. “Even I’ve seen a lot more stuff dumped on the side of the road.”

THERE may also be shame involved in calling attention to missed mortgage payments, especially as tag sales can resemble de facto neighborhood goodbye parties, said Bridget Ray, owner of Westport Estate Sales in Westport, Conn.

Though she said she was on track to hold two dozen tag sales in Fairfield County in 2009, as in the past few years, she has still noticed a shift away from the popularity of bigger-ticket objects, like furniture, and leisure-time-focused ones, like a canoe that was for sale. (It didn’t sell.)

Ms. Ray said that the items selling best were those like coffeepots, linens and microwaves and even “canned goods left behind in cupboards.”

“I found the last time we had a recession it was in our favor; they came out and bought everything,” said Ms. Ray, who has been in the business for 38 years. “But this is a whole new kind of thing.”

In a bid to discourage residents from having their driveways cluttered with lawnmowers and bins of old clothes year-round, some municipalities require tag-sale permits. The Village of Great Neck on Long Island charges $35 for a license that allows one tag sale a year, and in Darien, Conn., a $5 fee allows a homeowner to hold two sales every 12 months.

Permits in Great Neck have fallen 50 percent, with 10 issued last year but 20 in 2006, Deputy Clerk Kathy King said. Darien is down 32 percent, with 52 permits in 2008 and 76 in 2007, said Nancy Bussell, its accounts clerk.

Fewer permits mean less revenue, and at a time of shrinking budgets, every dollar matters, said Linda Silvestre, a deputy clerk for Mamaroneck, which experienced a decline in tag-sale permits last year to 36, from 50 in 2006, or a loss of $280.

“Our expenses go up constantly, so of course every little bit helps,” Ms. Silvestre said.

The material world’s loss, however, might be the Web’s gain, said Jonathon Papsin, of Fleetwood, in Westchester.

Betting that in the long term people will increasingly flock to the Internet to buy and sell used goods, and despite the current fall in prices, Mr. Papsin in 2007 launched a company called Tag Sell It. It is an online marketplace similar to Craigslist, though it charges a fee for many listings and more easily allows the sale of multiple items at once.

More items are being put up for sale since his site went live in May 2008, he said, and there has been an increase in the number of daily visitors to the site, to 900 a day now from 10 a day last May. Still, it’s not clear how many people are buying items, and Mr. Papsin doesn’t release his sales figures.

“Tag sales aren’t as popular as they once were,” Mr. Papsin said. “But sellers realize they can reach out to a lot more buyers with that online exposure.”

Still, Mr. Papsin is not quitting his day job as a New York City real estate broker just yet. “You have to diversify in this economy,” he said.
639 2009-03-15 Whether or not the New York State Legislature adopts Gov. David A. Paterson’s proposal to let food stores sell wine, as 35 states already do, the future of Long Island’s wine industry is being shaped by other outside forces.

If wines go into small grocery stores and supermarkets, favorites like Jamesport sauvignon blanc, Lenz gewürztraminer, Lieb pinot blanc, Paumanok chenin blanc, Pellegrini merlot and Wölffer rosé could find new customers throughout the state in the coming years.

Meanwhile, the sinking economy is forcing producers to reconsider their pricing, to develop new programs in their tasting rooms and to create inducements for retailers and restaurateurs to carry their wines.

For example, Raphael, in Peconic, is cutting prices and doing more in-store tastings and restaurant wine dinners and has just begun offering free shipping on Internet sales, said Richard Olsen-Harbich, the winemaker.

Americans’ rising interest in wine is a crucial factor in determining the fate of the Island’s wine industry. By 2012 the United States is expected to become the world’s biggest consumer of still wine, according to a study conducted by The International Wine and Spirit Record, in London, for Vinexpo, an exposition sponsor in Bordeaux.

Wine blogs are an increasingly important source of news and commentary. For example, comments about Long Island wines and information about visiting the region turn up regularly on eRobertParker.com, the heavily trafficked Web site of the critic Robert M. Parker Jr.

Tom Wark, who operates Fermentation, a popular California blog, estimates that 800 wine blogs exist. They are replacing dwindling newspaper coverage of wine and compete with wine magazines, which offer their own Web sites containing blogs.
640 2009-03-15 Perhaps you’ve heard of the Snuggie — you know, the blanket with sleeves. Or rather, a blanket with sleeves: the Slanket, the Freedom Blanket, the Book Blanket are all quite similar, and all predated the Snuggie. But why the Snuggie? Surely no one thought that the startling success of this oddity — sales topping $60 million — was a story of innovation, or an engineering or design breakthrough.

One theory is that the Snuggie has caught on because it’s comforting — as if, in these recessionary times, we have become a nation of Linuses. Indeed, the near-ubiquitous TV pitches push it as something that lets you turn down your thermostat: at two for $19.95, the Snuggie allows you and your spouse to trim that heating bill while nesting in your security-blanket garments. Meanwhile, however, the cowering-at-home explanation is undercut by the most recent iteration of sleeve-blanket culture: Snuggie pub crawls, now happening or planned in more than a dozen cities. (These invert the more obvious chronology of getting drunk and then parading about in public with your robe on backward.)

A second theory holds, more prosaically, that when rates for television commercials fell as mainstream advertisers started pulling back, infomercial-style peddlers took up the slack — promptly boosting sales of “revolutionary foot file” PedEggs and similar fare. (Casting doubt, yet again, on the assertions of those who claim TV advertising doesn’t move merchandise.) This factor is hard to dispute, but it cannot, by itself, explain why this specific bit of “As Seen on TV” flotsam has attracted so much interest.

Probably the crucial factor isn’t the frequency of Snuggie ads but rather their spectacular absurdity — the woman who finds it difficult to answer the phone if she’s under a blanket, the Snuggie-wearing family roasting marshmallows or attending a game, the disturbingly sedentary man with a remote control, a newspaper and a bowl of popcorn. The idea seems to be that if the product is goofy, it ought to be pitched in the most ridiculous manner imaginable. Don’t turn into camp; create camp. The upshot is something like the Pet Rock of the Depression 2.0 era.

If slumpy economic stretches have included silly fads before, this may be the first time it has happened in the era of the mainstream Web, where Snuggie advertising inspired an immediate wave of YouTube parodies and jokey Facebook groups. These propelled the product onto the radar of talk-show monologists and otherwise-serious news organizations, all of whom played the thing for laughs. “There is a bit of the ridiculous to it,” allows Scott Boilen, president of Allstar Products, which makes the Snuggie as well as Bendaroos and Strap Perfect (the Ultimate Bra Strap Solution!), among other things. “So that catches people’s attention.” But he also says that he doesn’t mind the laughter, since sales suggest the message is getting through anyway. (Indeed, while watching one particularly merciless parody, I was startled when YouTube served up a pop-over ad link for the actual Snuggie — a weird case of a brand sponsoring its own satirist.) And of course he maintains that there is in fact a real and nonjokey message: “If you think about it, why wouldn’t a blanket have sleeves?”

The best-known Snuggie predecessor, the Slanket, has been sold on QVC and through the SkyMall catalog for a couple of years. Its inventor, a good-humored 29-year-old named Gary Clegg, says skeptics poked fun from the beginning. “That’s a benefit, it’s a talking point,” he observes. “That’s why the commercials have become so popular — there are people on both sides.” He notes that Slanket sales doubled in January and February from the previous year as the Snuggie onslaught turned sleeved blankets into a recognizable product category. He predicts that next year will be even better. “We’re really positive, optimistic people,” he says, brushing away any talk of hard feelings about his rival’s success. “It’s just business. There are wars raging; these are just blankets with sleeves.”
641 2009-03-15 The phrase that Keynes made famous in economics has a long history. “Physitions teache that there ben thre kindes of spirites,” wrote Bartholomew Traheron in his 1543 translation of a text on surgery, “animal, vital, and naturall. The animal spirite hath his seate in the brayne . . . called animal, bycause it is the first instrument of the soule, which the Latins call animam.” William Wood in 1719 was the first to apply it in economics: “The Increase of our Foreign Trade . . . whence has arisen all those Animal Spirits, those Springs of Riches which has enabled us to spend so many millions for the preservation of our Liberties.” Hear, hear.

Novelists seized its upbeat sense with enthusiasm. Daniel Defoe, in “Robinson Crusoe”: “That the surprise may not drive the Animal Spirits from the Heart.” Jane Austen used it to mean “ebullience” in “Pride and Prejudice”: “She had high animal spirits.” Benjamin Disraeli, a novelist in 1844, used it in that sense: “He . . . had great animal spirits, and a keen sense of enjoyment.” Feel better? “Haste thee, Nymph, and bring with thee/Jest, and youthful jollity.” Now let’s look into Depression.

Word has been bruited about that President Herbert Hoover used the word depression after the market crash of 1929 as a euphemism to avoid the more alarming panic. That does not check out. His earliest use of the word that the historian George Nash, author of a three-volume biography of Hoover, can find is in a speech in Colorado in 1928, near the end of his presidential campaign: “If you will study the consumption of meat, dairy products and fruit during the great depression and unemployment of 1920, you will find that in the necessary tightening of belts, the first economy was in the refined products of agriculture.”

After the October ’29 market crash he used the word depression on Dec. 3 of that year, and “the recent panic” two days later. In May 1930, he said, “We have been passing through one of those great economic storms which periodically bring hardship and suffering upon our people” and urged business and labor “to avoid accelerating the depression by the hardship and disarrangement of strikes and lockouts.”

“So far as I know,” Nash says, “this was the very first time Hoover publicly used the word depression to describe the current economic situation.”

THE IDES HAVE IT

Today is the Ides of March. Thanks to a Shakespearean soothsayer who yelled, “Beware the Ides of March!” to Julius Caesar, warning of his impending assassination, March 15 is jocularly remembered as a good day to watch your back. But who or what are the Ides, anyway?

The ancient Romans used the days called the Nones, the Ides and the Calends to divide the month. These tranches of time can be construed as singular or plural, and it is jarring for us to say either “Today are the Ides” or “the Ides is today.” I say in sooth (meaning “truth”) to go with the singular, but either way, this is one day to curb your animal spirits.
642 2009-03-15 Though his father had established a degree-granting graduate school at Texas A&M, Bush 43 wanted to devote his post-presidential career to advancing the causes dearest to him. And he “liked the idea of himself being able to engage fellows and scholars,” recalls Donald Evans, an old friend who served as commerce secretary in his first term. In early 2005, Bush and a few advisers began to visit places that might serve as a model for the planned institute, including the Hoover Institution, at Stanford, one of the nation’s most important right-leaning academic centers. John Raisian, Hoover’s director, told me that the president came to see him for a long conversation; he also conducted about half a dozen talks in person and by phone with Evans and Rove. All three men, Raisian said, asked him about the relationship between the institute and the university. Hoover, though substantially autonomous in its day-to-day operations, is ultimately responsible to the president of Stanford.

Raisian said that he spoke to all of them about the “delicate” bond of trust between an institute and its host university. Raisian recalls explaining to Bush, “If you’re not part of the university, you can be your own entity right across the street; but you can’t wear its badge, if that was important to you.” Raisian was struck by the fact that Bush, Evans and Rove were apprehensive about the kind of relationship that obtained at Hoover and at other presidential institutes. He “was just nervous that the scholarly appointees of the institute would have to be cleared by either the administration or the faculty of S.M.U.,” Raisian said. The president was “musing about what the alternatives were.” And he found one: When the Bush Foundation issued a request for proposals in July 2005, it sought a home for a library and a museum, as was expected, and for a policy institute to be “separately managed” by the foundation.

S.M.U., like most major universities, already has plenty of institutes, but they are typically bound by academic principles and by university governance. That was why Raisian had said that Bush would have to either accept those strictures or forgo the university’s imprimatur. But the Bush Foundation wanted it both ways. R. Gerald Turner, S.M.U.’s president and an ardent supporter of the project, says that after he received the bid solicitation, he called Donald Evans, who had become co-chairman of the foundation, and said, “Can any of these parts be differentiated?” Evans replied, “No, it’s a unit.”

When I asked why the foundation insisted on controlling the institute, I received a range of answers. (Bush declined to be interviewed for this article.) Mark Langdale, president of the Bush Foundation, told me the president and his advisers “wanted an environment that is free of campus politics,” though of what nature he didn’t specify. Turner, S.M.U.’s president, explained about as carefully as was humanly possible, “They wanted to make sure that all points of view, including their own point of view, have a chance to be expressed.” Donald Evans said it was a matter of fiduciary responsibility. “If I’m going to ask someone to be supportive of this with their generous contribution,” he said, “I need to able to tell them that I will be fully responsible to them.” It seems, however, from Raisian’s recollections, that an administration notoriously distrustful of academia — at least liberal academia — and doggedly certain of its own principles did not want to subject itself to the intellectual standards of whatever university would serve as its host, even one as relatively conservative as S.M.U.

BY 2006, when the Bush Foundation was preparing to choose a home for the presidential complex, the Freedom Agenda had come to feel less like a legacy than a misbegotten, and abandoned, crusade. Iraq had spiraled downward into sectarian slaughter. President Mubarak supported free parliamentary elections until opposition parties began to make gains, at which time he sent in his thugs; hundreds of activists and ordinary voters were beaten, and about 20 killed. In January 2006, the extremists of Hamas soundly defeated the relatively moderate forces of Fatah in Palestinian legislative elections that had been championed by Washington. The president thereafter pulled back from the ambitious language of the second inaugural, while Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice began lining up autocratic allies like Egypt and Saudi Arabia against a resurgent Iran. Lorne Craner, a former Bush State Department official and now the president of the International Republican Institute, a democracy-promotion body, told me, “I have come to look at the Inaugural Address as the culmination of something, not the announcement of something.”

Some members of the S.M.U. community, who had not found the prospect of housing the Bush center terribly appealing in mid-2005, now viewed it with horror. In November 2006, William McElvaney, a United Methodist minister and former faculty member, now retired, at S.M.U.’s Perkins School of Theology, and a younger colleague, Susanne Johnson, wrote an article in The Daily Campus, the school paper, that bluntly asked: “Do we want S.M.U. to benefit financially from a legacy of massive violence, destruction and death brought about by the Bush presidency in dismissal of broad international opinion?” Still, many faculty members did not share McElvaney and Johnson’s view of the Bush administration; and others who did were not prepared to simply reject so prestigious a facility. Thomas Knock, a leading scholar of Woodrow Wilson, has done some of his most important research work in presidential libraries and archives. Whatever he thought about the Bush presidency, he says, “A presidential library could only be a positive thing for a university.” And he could accept a policy institute. But the prospect of a George W. Bush policy institute inside the walls of S.M.U. that was in no way beholden to academic principles or standards, responsible only to itself, appalled him, and many of his colleagues as well.

In December 2006 the foundation announced, to no one’s surprise, that it was focusing on S.M.U. And only then did it become fully clear that the board of the institute would report not to the university but to the Bush Foundation — and thus that S.M.U. would not be able to control its programs or political impulses. As Benjamin Johnson, another historian, puts it, “The Bush circle has done so much damage to every institution they’ve touched, it would be naïve not to worry about the damage they could do to S.M.U.”

So the battle over the proposed complex was joined. In early 2007, faculty members on both sides of the issue conducted a very public debate in the pages of The Daily Campus, in the Dallas newspapers and elsewhere (including in The New York Times). President Turner and his chief administrators met with the faculty in the hope of assuaging these and other concerns; they didn’t succeed. The drama reached its climax at a meeting of the normally sedate Faculty Senate two years ago. Opponents proposed a resolution calling on S.M.U. to choose one of two options: either insist that the institute forswear its partisan ambitions and accept S.M.U. governance, or require the institute to remove itself from the campus and disclaim an affiliation with the university. The final vote was a 13-13 tie.

A tie vote meant that the resolution failed, thus precluding the grave consequences of which administrators had warned. The memory of that excruciating moment seems to have faded: board members and Bush Foundation officials informed me that only a few malcontents had expressed misgivings about the institute. The controversy has died down as opponents resign themselves to the inevitable. But the institute remains a source of neuralgia. A few days before I arrived on campus, an article in the local paper revealed that according to early plans from the architect Robert A. M. Stern, the institute would be in the same collegiate Georgian structure as the library and museum. The buildings were supposed to be separate. This had become such a sensitive matter that when Mark Langdale showed me the plans, he insisted that they showed two distinct structures “jammed together like town houses.”

THE BUSH CENTER is still four years from completion, but the institute is to begin operating from temporary quarters off-campus by the end of the year. Bush’s friends and associates say that he is eager to invite the dissidents whom he made a point of meeting throughout his presidency — Natan Sharansky, the Russian activist Garry Kasparov and other such figures from China, Venezuela or the Middle East. Elliott Abrams, who had a controversial tenure in the Reagan administration and who led the democracy-promotion bureau in Bush’s National Security Council, says that Bush “met with more democracy activists and dissidents than any other president.” Bush identified deeply with these lonely champions of principle, and by the end of his time in office had come to regard himself as a dissident, as Sharansky had called him. Saad Eddin Ibrahim, a prominent Egyptian democracy activist, says that Bush described himself as “a fellow dissident” when he met with a group of activists in Prague in 2007. “Everybody laughed,” Ibrahim recalls. The president explained that the Congress, the news media and the bureaucracy wanted to preserve the status quo; he was an outnumbered minority in his own government.

Abrams and others say Bush hopes his institute will provide a platform for such embattled figures. Bush has spoken of offering a place for Vaclav Havel, the dissident hero and former president of the Czech Republic, to write his next book. Karen Hughes says that Bush might want to provide an opportunity for training and study to officials from nascent democracies, or AIDS doctors who work in the developing world, or women’s-rights activists from Afghanistan. And with the foundation hoping to raise more than $300 million — though the lion’s share will go to the library — the institute is likely to become an attractive destination.

But it’s far from clear that Bush’s deep feeling for these brave men and women is fully requited. On the advice of Carl Gershman, the president of the National Endowment for Democracy and a leading supporter of the Freedom Agenda, I talked to Wang Tiancheng, a Chinese legal activist who spoke with Bush last year after receiving the endowment’s annual Democracy Award on behalf of two imprisoned colleagues in China. I asked Wang, who is now doing research at Columbia University, what he felt the president had accomplished, and he said, “He did very little in terms of human rights in China — almost nothing.” For Bush, he said, as for his predecessors, trade trumped human rights — as did cooperation on terrorism, energy and a range of other issues. (Not true, Abrams says; pressure from the Bush administration caused the Chinese to release a number of political prisoners.)

It is in the Middle East that the Freedom Agenda had its greatest ambitions — and it is there where the sense of failure is most marked. Last winter, Marina Ottaway, a leading authority on democracy promotion at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, wrote that “the Bush administration’s Freedom Agenda — an undertaking rich in rhetoric and bombast and poor on substance — has been an unqualified disaster. It has not helped bring about change in the region, but it has undermined U.S. credibility.”

Few have experienced the vagaries of the Freedom Agenda so personally as Saad Eddin Ibrahim, who was released from an Egyptian jail thanks partly to pressure from the administration, who met with both Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney and who courted criticism at home by openly welcoming Bush’s call for a democratic opening. In retrospect, says Ibrahim, the Freedom Agenda “made rulers in the region realize that democracy is the only way to legitimacy.” Nevertheless, his judgment is every bit as damning as Ottaway’s. At first, he says, he and his fellow activists were “energized” by Bush’s sweeping language; then they felt “disillusioned” by “the speedy retreat” after the Hamas victory; and finally, they came to feel, he said, “betrayed” when they found that they had sacrificed their credibility to a halfhearted and largely rhetorical campaign. Bush’s defenders say that he pushed Mubarak as hard as he could, though Lorne Craner is far from alone in arguing that the Freedom Agenda had slackened by 2006.

Mark Langdale, director of the foundation, corrected me when I asked him about the Freedom Institute. “We may not call it that,” he said. The current front-runner was “The George W. Bush Policy Institute.” Langdale, a hotel developer and an old Bush friend, insisted that the original name had led to some unintentional misunderstandings. “Freedom also means freedom from disease, free trade, the freedom to be educated,” he explained. In fact, Langdale said, initial programming might involve education reform — a rather remote item on the Freedom Agenda. You get the distinct impression of strategic recalibration in the face of controversy. In one of his exit interviews, the president insisted that the proposed institute would not be “George Bush’s wonderful place” but rather “a place were smart people come and debate issues and talk about issues.”

Even Turner, S.M.U.’s president, is hedging his bets. He expects there to be an “adjustment period” during which the institute may feel a little bit like George Bush’s wonderful place but that over time, “Bush’s views will become irrelevant.” That may be; the Hoover Institution eventually outgrew its namesake. But since the process took half a century, and involved some very ugly battles with Stanford, that may not be the most encouraging precedent.

Right now, skeptical faculty members and enthusiastic administrators alike are looking to the foundation’s choice of executive director as a signal of its intentions. Turner told me he is hoping that the foundation chooses someone who will “have the support of the Bush family, but also the academic credentials” — a Condi Rice figure. When I mentioned these expectations to Donald Evans, there was a silence at the other end of the line; perhaps he was deciding how reassuring he cared to be. Finally, he said, “I am confident that we’ll choose an individual whom all sides will be pleased with.” It could be a long adjustment period.
643 2009-03-15 OPEN THE DOOR TO LIBERTY  A Biography of Toussaint L'Ouverture.  By Anne Rockwell. Illustrated by R. Gregory Christie.  Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $18. (Ages 9 to 12)       The story of L'Ouverture, who led a successful rebellion in the French sla...
644 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. I remember years ago my dad Ben introduced me to Aaron. We hit it off right away and became successful business partners. Newmark and Kaufman Organizations have continued the legacy as business partners over the years. More important...
645 2009-03-15 HONDA has advanced the on-sale date of its new 2010 Insight gas-electric hybrid to March 24 and announced a starting price for the base LX model of $20,470, with delivery charges, or about $2,250 less than its archrival, the current Toyota Prius h...
646 2009-03-15 GEZARI--Temima. Artist, died peacefully March 5, age 103. Memorial festival in June: temimagezari@gmail.com...
647 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of Aaron Gural, our dear friend and business partner. Our deepest condolences to the entire Gural family. Aaron was a patriarch of New York City Real Estate, philanthropies and of course, to his beloved family. Look...
648 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of Aaron, our dear friend of 50 years. He was a leader in his industry and a man of honor and integrity. He possessed a unique sense of humor and was universally respected for his numerous philanthropic endeavors. O...
649 2009-03-15 Has the power lunch lost some of its wattage? Business at two of its bastions -- the ''21'' Club and the Four Seasons in Manhattan -- has been down this winter compared with last. But on a dreary Monday last week, the Four Seasons Grill Room was f...
650 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. The Board of Directors and staff of Wildcat Service Corporation extend their heartfelt sympathies to Jeff Gural and his family on the loss of his father....
651 2009-03-15 RISKIN--Kiki. (nee Leila) after a long struggle died March 13. She was a most extraordinary person radiating love, creativity and humor to the extent that those who knew her knew they were blessed. She is survived by her husband Robert, her childr...
652 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. I thank you for short but a beautiful life together. My sincere condolences to the family. Rest in peace. Connie Mann-Gural...
653 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jeff and the Gural family on the passing of Aaron Gural. He was truly a real estate icon whose leadership has left an imprint on his City and our industry. Respectfully, the Partners of FirstSer...
654 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. The members and employees of Steinberg & Pokoik, including his life long friend Arnold Steinberg, extend their sincere and heartfelt sympathies to his children and family on the passing of our colleague and business partner, Aaron Gu...
655 2009-03-15 GURAL--Aaron. The Board of Directors and Officers of the Associated Builders and Owners of Greater NY, (ABO) note with great sadness the passing of Aaron Gural, who died peacefully on Tuesday, March 10th, surrounded by his family. An honorary dire...
656 2009-03-16 Monday's game in Russia....
657 2009-03-16 But one day, our residents will leave the protective cocoon of training and go out on their own. Have we struck the right balance among education and training and patient safety to produce psychiatrists who can function independently? I’m not sure we have.

Late one night not long ago, a senior resident called me to the emergency room. The patient, who was well known to this resident, was a young woman with borderline personality disorder who had superficially cut her wrists after an argument with her boyfriend — something she had done numerous times before.

The patient almost immediately regretted her behavior. She never had any serious suicidal intent; she was just enraged with the boyfriend.

The doctor was just two months shy of completing her residency, and evaluating a patient’s risk of harm to self or others is a critical skill that is taught early and often to psychiatric residents. She knew perfectly well that the patient was prone to dramatic gestures, but not to suicide.

Why, then, was she calling me to ask about such a basic issue? Despite having all the knowledge about risk at her fingertips, she didn’t feel confident in her judgment.

She is hardly alone, of course. I have received more phone calls from recent graduates in the past several years than I can ever recall. While I can’t pretend this is a representative survey, many of my colleagues have noticed the same trend. And the questions, like my resident’s, are basic ones: when a patient should be hospitalized, how far to push a medication.

Also, more graduates are reaching out to me to ask for extra supervision. Almost always, they “know” what they are doing, but don’t feel confident about it.

The fault, I believe, lies with medical educators like me. In the pursuit of patient safety, we have deliberately prevented residents from acting independently on their own judgment in situations where a patient poses a theoretical risk.

The situation reflects a series of reforms that began in the 1980s with limits on residents’ work hours. More recently, the Accreditation Council of Graduate Medical Education set a maximum workweek of 80 hours for residents, with a maximum shift of 30 hours. And in 2008, the Institute of Medicine recommended further limiting the maximum shift to 16 hours.

Don’t get me wrong. I’m all for minimizing risk and medical error. And we want regulatory oversight and supervision to be most stringent where the stakes are highest, as they are in an emergency room.

Still, there are no reliable national data that these regulatory changes have had a significant impact on preventable medical error or patient mortality rates. And I think there is a cost to the development of professional identity of young doctors. It is hard to feel confident and independent unless you are given ample opportunity to stand on your own — and risk making a mistake.

The fact is that all physicians in training pose an inherent risk to patients. We should do everything we can to minimize this risk but recognize that it may impair physicians’ self-confidence.

If the changes in residency training are shown to enhance patient safety — and that is a big if — they will certainly be worth it. And who knows: it might even shift the stereotype of the omnipotent physician to a more humble one.

Just don’t be surprised if your doctor seems a little more hesitant and uncertain than you might like.
658 2009-03-16 Ninth Street Espresso switches to Intelligentsia from Stumptown coffee....
659 2009-03-16 Starting this week, Ninth Street Espresso will be pulling shots of Alphabet City Blend, a custom-designed espresso from Intelligentsia, the Chicago-based roaster. The switch will be made on Wednesday or Thursday. Until then Ninth Street Espresso w...
660 2009-03-16 I also want to thank the Chair and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Senators Mary Landrieu and Olympia Snowe. Please give them a big round of applause. (Applause.) As well as the Chair and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Small Business, Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez and Congressman Sam Graves, who are here as well. (Applause.) I want to thank them publicly for being here, but also so much of the good work that our proposals today are building on has to do with the vigilance that they've shown on their committees. So we very much appreciate that.

Now before I talk about the new steps we're taking to get credit flowing to small businesses across our country, I do want to comment on the news about executive bonuses at AIG. I think some of you have heard a little bit about this over the last few days. This is a corporation that finds itself in financial distress due to recklessness and greed. Under these circumstances, it's hard to understand how derivative traders at AIG warranted any bonuses, much less $165 million in extra pay. I mean, how do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat?

In the last six months, AIG has received substantial sums from the U.S. Treasury. And I've asked Secretary Geithner to use that leverage and pursue every single legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayers whole. (Applause.) I want everybody to be clear that Secretary Geithner has been on the case. He's working to resolve this matter with the new CEO, Edward Liddy -- who, by the way, everybody needs to understand came on board after the contracts that led to these bonuses were agreed to last year.

But I think Mr. Liddy and certainly everybody involved needs to understand this is not just a matter of dollars and cents. It's about our fundamental values. All across the country, there are people who are working hard and meeting their responsibilities every day, without the benefit of government bailouts or multi-million dollar bonuses. You've got a bunch of small business people here who are struggling just to keep their credit line open -- that they are foregoing pay, as one of our entrepreneurs talked about, they are in some cases mortgaging their homes, and doing a whole host of things just in order to keep things afloat. All they ask is that everyone, from Main Street to Wall Street to Washington, play by the same rules. And that is an ethic that we have to demand.

And what this situation also underscores is the need for overall financial regulatory reform, so we don't find ourselves in this position again, and for some form of resolution mechanism in dealing with troubled financial institutions, so that we've got greater authority to protect American taxpayers and our financial system in cases such as this.

Now, we already have resolution authority -- excuse me, I'm choked up with anger here -- (laughter) -- we always -- already have some of that resolution authority when it comes to a traditional bank. But when you start getting into AIGs and some of these other operations that have a whole bunch of different financial instruments, then we don't have all the regulatory power that we need. And this is something that I expect to work with Congress to deal with in the weeks and months to come.

Well, we're here today to talk about how my administration can help the millions of small businesses bearing the brunt of this credit crisis. And Secretary Geithner and I just met with not only Marco and Cynthia, but a number of other small business owners and community lenders who shared with us experiences that are familiar to so many.

Small businesses are the heart of the American economy. They're responsible for half of all private sector jobs –- and they create roughly 70 percent of all new jobs in the past decade. So small businesses are not only job generators, they're also at the heart of the American Dream. After all, these are businesses born in family meetings around kitchen tables. They're born when a worker takes a chance on her desire to be her own boss. They're born when a part-time inventor becomes a full-time entrepreneur, or when somebody sees a product that could be better or a service that could be smarter, and they think, "Well, why not me? Let me try it. Let me take my shot." That's Marco's story, which he just shared with us.

That's Brian Conrad's story. When Brian's company eliminated his department -- Brian is sitting right there, so I don't want to embarrass him here, but it's a great story -- he lost his job, but he found his calling and started, you know, doing all kinds of work on a restaurant called the Blue Monkey, which now employs some 40 people in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley.

That's Carmen Jones's story. Carmen is over there. Carmen was disabled in an accident a few years ago. And in facing personal trials, she discovered a reservoir of strength and an untapped market. So today she helps companies advertise and sell their services to people living with disabilities.

This is America's story –- a place where we believe all things are possible; where we are limited only by our willingness to take a chance and work hard to achieve our dreams. But today, too many entrepreneurs can't access the capital to start, operate, or grow their business. Too many dreams are being deferred or denied by a form letter cancelling a line of credit.

And this is a consequence of the credit crisis, which began when some banks bundled and sold mortgages in complex ways to hide risk and avoid responsibility. The collapse of these mortgage-backed securities and other complex financial instruments froze the credit markets, including the markets that help small businesses access loans to cover payroll, to purchase supplies, or to expand in ways that create new jobs.

And I think it's important just to take a moment to understand -- here's how these markets work. A community bank, like the one run by Cynthia, offers an entrepreneur, like Marco, a loan to open up a restaurant. Before this crisis, Cynthia had two options. Her bank could hold the loan and receive regular payments from Marco as he pays back the amount that he borrowed plus interest. But another option was the bank could also sell part of the loan as an asset to a larger bank or to an investor. And that means that her bank could then use these new funds for more business loans and auto loans and home loans and student loans.

That's why this secondary market -- Cynthia's ability to resell loans -- is so important: It means banks can offer small businesses and families more credit because the bank has more money on hand. If Cynthia could get that $11 million of SBA loans that she currently holds in her portfolio, if she can get that into the secondary market, that's now $11 million that she can make work back in her community.

Today, unfortunately, there aren't nearly as many secondary buyers for these kinds of loans -- even when they're guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. So community banks cannot bring in the funds necessary to provide as many loans. And as a result, we've seen a precipitous drop in lending to small business.

The SBA typically guarantees $20 billion in loans annually. But this year, lending may fall below $10 billion. Even businesses with impeccable credit can't access loans.

So entrepreneurs and their employees pay an enormous price. But the whole country pays a price, as well, because less lending leads to fewer jobs and lower spending, which leads to less lending -- a vicious cycle that delays our recovery. And small businesses don't just provide jobs -- they provide the innovations that help us lead in the global economy.

Smaller companies produce 13 times more patents per employee than large companies. Now, think about it. Hewlett-Packard began in a garage. It was a small business. Google began as a research project -- small business. The first Apple computers were built by hand one at a time -- small business. McDonald's started with one restaurant. Marco, I know you've got ideas. (Laughter.) Small business.

Our recovery in the present and our prosperity in the future depend upon the success of America's small businesses and entrepreneurs. And that's why my administration has already taken aggressive action on their behalf.

My recovery plan, as already been noted, raises the guarantees on SBA loans to 90 percent and eliminates costly fees for borrowers and lenders that can be too costly in a recession. And these changes are being implemented now, fulfilling a campaign promise that I made. The recovery plan also includes a series of tax cuts for small businesses and tax incentives to encourage investments in small businesses. And the Treasury Department has launched the Consumer and Business Lending Initiative to help unfreeze the credit markets.

I've also proposed, as part of my budget, that we reduce to zero the capital gains tax for investments in small or startup businesses -- expanding and making permanent one of the tax cuts in the recovery plan. And my budget, as part of our health care reform efforts, calls for tax credits and other assistance to help small businesses offer coverage to their workers.

So we've already done a lot. But we've got to do more. And none of these steps will be effective unless we unlock the credit markets that are denying small businesses the loans they need to grow.

Therefore, as part of my Financial Stability Plan, the Treasury Department will begin purchasing up to $15 billion of SBA loans through the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. We will immediately unfreeze the secondary market for SBA loans and increase the liquidity of community banks. Cynthia's bank is going to be able to sell those $11 million loans so that she's got more money to lend. (Applause.)

So with this action, any lender that provides SBA small business loans will have a buyer for those loans. And in turn, community banks will no longer have to choose between providing loans to creditworthy small businesses and maintaining the required capital and liquidity.

Now, this plan is the latest step –- but by no means the last step –- in our ongoing efforts to stabilize the financial markets on behalf of businesses and consumers. We'll be outlining further steps on behalf of small businesses in the weeks and months ahead. And we will continue to do whatever is necessary to lead this economy out of recession and lay the foundation for long-term prosperity.

That's what the small business owners in this room expect us to do. They're folks like John Wilson, the president and part owner of a small business in Raleigh, North Carolina. He wrote to me a few weeks ago and participated in the meeting we just held.

And John's business, NC Design Group, sells cabinets and interior design services. And not surprisingly, it's been a tough year. Sales have fallen by half. And keep in mind, John had previously doubled what had started off as a very small business, to the point where he's providing a living for -- it was up to 40 -- 48 people. And John did all that he could to save loans. The owners, including John, have taken no compensation. But they had to reduce the size of their company from 48 employees to 34. And John just told the group of us that he personally took the time to speak to each and every person that he had to lay off. And I don't think he minds me sharing that he cried each time he did it, because it's a hard thing when somebody is working hard and committed to helping you build your business, you having to lay them off.

And now, even though they've never been late on a payment to the bank, they're having trouble keeping a credit line. It's putting his small business –- and the 34 jobs left –- in jeopardy.

Now, John is not looking for a handout. He's looking for the opportunity to succeed. And he said it best himself in his letter, and I'm quoting from the letter here: "Small business people are incredibly resilient and resourceful given half a chance," he said. "But we need the chance."

Well, I want to say to John and to every American running a small business or hoping to run a small business one day: You deserve a chance. America needs you to have that chance. And as President, I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that you have the opportunity to contribute to your community, to our economy, and to the future of the United States of America.

Thank you, everybody. Thank you. (Applause.)
661 2009-03-16 Though California is still drawing up its guidelines for how it will disperse the state's new tax incentives for film and TV production, the preliminary rules have some very peculiar twists....
662 2009-03-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
663 2009-03-16 The Obama administration, seeking to ease the credit freeze for small businesses, will inject $15 billion into the industry, buying up securities that are linked to small business loans....
664 2009-03-16 After reading about broadband service around the world, readers debate if and how the United States should promote faster Internet access....
665 2009-03-16 Although President Obama's popularity is high now, Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight predicts that by next year, the public will be blaming the president for the economic slump....
666 2009-03-16 Agrium stepped up its hostile bid for CF Industries on Monday by unveiling an exchange offer, escalating an unusual three-way battle in the fertilizer industry. CF, which has already rejected Agrium's advances, is pursuing a hostile bid of its own...
667 2009-03-16 Every era gets the clichés it deserves. Only a year ago, style scribes were still writing trend pieces that reveled in the language of new money and good times: "models and bottles" was the favorite catchphrase of "I-bankers" who "rolled" in the ...
668 2009-03-16 A few business cards are printed on recycled paper -- and some are getting smaller to save paper....
669 2009-03-16 A closer look, and some outrage, at the A.I.G. bailout; resisting Obama's foreign policy changes; a science fiction plot line in Washington?...
670 2009-03-16 The bankruptcy field has gotten so busy that outsiders want a piece of the action. That's apparently the case with Computershare Limited's announcement on Monday that it will buy Kurtzman Carson Consultants, one of the biggest claims and noticing ...
671 2009-03-16 President Obama will announce steps on Monday to make it easier for small business owners to borrow money, using $730 million in stimulus funds to cut lending fees, increase loan guarantees and expand other programs, Reuters said. "We know that sm...
672 2009-03-16 The outsourcer iGate's bid for fraud-hit Satyam Computer Services will be well short of the current market price, its chief executive told a television channel on Monday. "I mean what we have picked up in terms of the financial, I do believe our b...
673 2009-03-16 The CME Group and the hedge fund firm Citadel Investment Group got the nod Friday from the Securities and Exchange Commission to clear credit default swaps in their joint venture. The approval was the last regulatory hurdle facing Citadel and the ...
674 2009-03-16 The Obama administration is increasingly concerned about a populist backlash against banks and Wall Street, worried that anger at financial institutions could also end up being directed at Congress and the White House and could complicate Presiden...
675 2009-03-16 Benjamin Satterfield, a 33-year-old Internet entrepreneur, knows how fickle the Web's taste makers can be. Last year he unveiled an online collaboration tool called Twiddla at the annual South by Southwest Interactive conference in Austin, Tex., w...
676 2009-03-16 Investors will ponder this week whether the worst of a bear market in world stocks and other risky assets may be behind them as the resolve of central banks on monetary easing helped bolster equities last week, Reuters said. World stocks, measured...
677 2009-03-16 As General Motors and Chrysler struggle to remain solvent, the railroad bailout of a generation ago could offer a template to the Obama administration - one in which the federal government would run the auto companies until they are back on their ...
678 2009-03-16 A look at designs submitted for the Slussen project in Stockholm....
679 2009-03-16 President Obama's choice to head the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, a nomination which raised concern among some lawmakers, cleared a hurdle toward Senate confirmation on Monday, The Associated Press reported. The Senate Agriculture Committ...
680 2009-03-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
681 2009-03-16 There are always upsets in the N.C.A.A. tournament -- a No. 12 over a 5 seed, 11 downs a 6 -- but picking which one will come to pass is the tricky part.
682 2009-03-16 Every new administration arrives heady with resolve to make history. Unfortunately, the Bush administration was determined to hide a lot of it. It somehow deleted hundreds of days’ worth of official White House e-mail from the public record. Also gone missing are messages from top Bush appointees who improperly used private Republican Party e-mail accounts to conduct public business.

All this underscores the need for legal protections to ensure that the nation’s increasingly electronic history is preserved.

A measure moving through Congress would strengthen the power of the National Archives to require that the White House and other related agencies preserve all of their electronic records. The office of the archivist would establish better procedures and would be required to check and certify that the systems are doing the job. This is crucial, since Congressional investigators found that archive officials backed off from inspections of e-mail storage during the last administration.

Bush officials pleaded faulty technology as the cause of the missing e-mail. Maybe it was an accident that entire workdays turned up blank at the offices of President George Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney. Maybe it was a coincidence that hundreds of thousands of the missing e-mail messages went missing during the lead-up to the Iraq war — with its manipulated intelligence — and the outing of Valerie Plame and the decision to destroy C.I.A. interrogation tapes.

All such maybes are no substitute for the actual historic record. Congress must protect this priceless taxpayer property before any more history goes missing.
683 2009-03-16 In this lesson, students create posters that weigh the pros and cons of President Obama's proposed plan for education reform....
684 2009-03-16 Shortly after Mr. Bloomberg’s comments, Ms. Stark issued a written statement announcing her resignation from the board: “Although it was cleared by the city’s Law Department and the Conflict of Interest Board prior to my agreeing to serve as a board member for Tarragon Corporation, and all income was fully and accurately reported to the appropriate oversight agencies, I do not want this issue to become a distraction from the work we do at the Department of Finance.”

Ms. Stark’s spokesman, Owen Stone, provided a copy of a letter dated April 11, 2005, from the president of the city’s Conflict of Interest Board saying that as long as her service on Tarragon’s board was not in conflict with her official duties, it would not violate the City Charter. The letter suggested that Ms. Stark had also been told by the city’s Department of Law that her board service would not violate the city’s rule barring department heads from engaging in “any other occupation, profession or employment.”

Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the Law Department, confirmed that in 2005 it had advised Ms. Stark that a board with three or four meetings a year would not be a problem.

But in 2007, federal filings show, the board had 16 meetings, and each member attended at least 75 percent of them. Ms. Stark also served that year on a special panel of the Tarragon board looking into the credit crisis, for which she was paid $50,000. William S. Friedman, Tarragon’s chief executive, said that the panel required significant extra work, though he said it was “never more than five hours in one week.”

Federal filings show that company directors are paid about $20,000 a year for attending occasional meetings, plus stock options and bonuses for serving on committees. In 2007, federal filings show, Ms. Stark was paid $90,316, mostly in cash. In 2006, when there were six board meetings, she received $44,126, about half in cash. The company is not yet required to file its 2008 payments.

Ms. Stark, whose city biography calls her the first African-American woman to serve as finance commissioner, first worked at the department from 1990 to 1993. She then was a White House fellow assigned to the State Department, and later served as director of policy and development in the Manhattan borough president’s office.

Mr. Friedman said Sunday that he sought out Ms. Stark for the board for “the combination of her experience, her forcefulness and diversity.” Traditionally, he said, “we have had one person from the public sector.”

In 1989, Carl B. Weisbrod, a former executive director of the New York City Planning Commission, and Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, a former city commissioner of financial services, were elected to the company’s board. Mr. Weisbrod, who still serves on it, did not return a call on Sunday.

Founded in 1973, Tarragon is based in Manhattan and has offices in Wallingford, Conn.; Dallas; and Florida. It is described on its Web site as “a high-density, urban homebuilder” and mixed-use developer with “a track record of navigating complex political and procedural processes to produce award-winning communities.”

Battered by the financial downturn, the company entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings on Jan. 12. (It continues to operate.)

Mr. Friedman said the company had no projects in the city “and if we ever did, Martha would be the first to recuse herself.” Speaking before she announced her resignation, he said, “It would be a loss to shareholders.”

The mayor, for his part, called Ms. Stark “somebody who probably works, if I had to guess, 40, 50 or 60 hours a week on a normal week, so it isn’t like she isn’t working very hard for the city.” Still, he drew a distinction between Ms. Stark’s service on the board of New York University, her alma mater, and on the board of a commercial corporation.
685 2009-03-16 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
686 2009-03-16 But Mr. Cowen was cheered Sunday, at least in some quarters, for his proposal to ease naturalization by allowing Americans whose nearest Irish ancestor is a great-grandparent to qualify for citizenship, provided that they have spent considerable time studying or working in Ireland. Under current law, the most distant forebear an American could claim and still qualify for Irish citizenship is a grandparent.

“There’s an awful lot of Irish-Americans who feel very cut off by the ‘grandfather rule,’ ” said Niall O’Dowd, the former chairman of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform and a founder of the Irish Voice newspaper in New York as well as of a new Web site, Irishcentral.com, that started Sunday night. “This would open up Irish citizenship to a whole new generation of Irish-Americans.”

The number of Americans with Irish ancestry has been estimated to be as high as 40 million, and millions of those people have no closer blood tie to Ireland than a great-grandparent.

The immigration proposal grew out of a “strategic review” of Irish-American relations Mr. Cowen ordered up last year, the first such review performed by the government since the 1930s, he said.

For Irish professionals looking to find work in the United States, Mr. Cowen, 49, who worked doing demolition in Midtown Manhattan on a summer off from college, said he hoped the American government would enact something like the E-3 visas it has offered to a set number Australians a year since 2005.

Not all the economic news on the visit was grim. In addition to taking part in holiday festivities in New York and Washington, Mr. Cowen was due to preside Monday over a ceremony at the New York Academy of Sciences in which smaller Irish-owned companies would sign $130 million worth of contracts to do work in the United States.

“That’s an interesting breakthrough for those companies in a time of turmoil,” he said in an interview at the Fitzpatrick Manhattan Hotel on Lexington Avenue before his speech. “Often that basic thing is lost when people talk about the high politics of these sorts of visits. It’s all about retaining and creating jobs.”

Relations between the American and Irish governments suffered under the Bush administration, in part over the administration’s war policies. On his St. Patrick’s Day visit in 2006, Bertie Ahern, then the prime minister, asked President George W. Bush for more “transparency” about C.I.A. flights over Europe that had been said to contain prisoners en route to secret rendition sessions. Mr. Cowen declined to talk about difficulties during the Bush administration, but he said he looked forward to working with President Obama.

After Mr. Cowen’s speech at the historical society, Daniel Neely, 35, a musician from Sunnyside, Queens, said the prime minister had “hit all the right notes.”

He added: “I think he really wants to work together with Obama, and I don’t think that there really was an opportunity beforehand with Bush.”

Of the loosened requirements for Irish citizenship, Mr. Neely, who had a maternal great-grandfather born in Ireland, said, “I think I actually could take advantage of that. It’s not something I’ve ever thought about, but now that the opportunity could be available, I’ll think about it.”
687 2009-03-16 Passed over by the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, St. Mary’s did not even manage a top seed in the National Invitation Tournament.

The Gaels and the playmaking guard Patrick Mills fell to a No. 2 seed Sunday for the 32-team tournament.

“We did get our hopes up a little,” Mills said, “but there’s a great lesson to be learned on how to handle adversity and how to handle distractions and making the most of your opportunities.”

The top seeds were San Diego State, Auburn, Creighton and Florida, which became the first team to follow consecutive national titles with consecutive N.I.T. berths.

Penn State, a No. 2 seed, will play George Mason in the first round. The Nittany Lions had been hoping to be the eighth Big Ten team selected for the N.C.A.A. tournament.

Another Big Ten team, Northwestern, ended its 10-year postseason drought; it will play at Tulsa on Wednesday in the first round of the N.I.T.
688 2009-03-16 Beyond that, a shifting political mood challenges Mr. Obama’s political skills, as he seeks to acknowledge the anger without becoming a target of it. A central question for Mr. Obama is whether his cool style — “in a time of crisis, we cannot afford to govern out of anger,” he said in his address to Congress last month — will prove effective when the country may be feeling more emotional.

Even as Mr. Summers was denouncing A.I.G. for the bonuses, he suggested that there was little if anything the government could do to stop them, seconding the conclusion of Secretary . But even if their reasoning was legally sound, they also risked having the administration look ineffectual in the face of what Mr. Summers said was the worst financial abuse of the last 18 months, since the economy began turning down in earnest.

“Never underestimate the capacity of angry populism in times of economic stress,” said Robert Reich, a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, and labor secretary under President . “A big challenge for President Obama will be to maintain a rational and tactical public discussion in the midst of this severe downturn. The desire for culprits at times like this is strong.”

In a further development, A.I.G. on Sunday named dozens of financial institutions that benefited from its huge rescue from the Federal Reserve last fall. The list included , and Wachovia.

On Monday, the White House is expected to unveil proposals to help small businesses, an effort to make clear that the administration is not only focusing its attentions on Wall Street and big corporations like the automakers.

But the is the most acute problem facing the administration, one it will not be able to play down. , the White House’s chief economist, said Sunday on “Meet the Press” on that the administration was close to unveiling details of its plan to remove the worst of the bad assets from the books of banks, a move sure to refocus attention on winners and losers from bailouts.

The disclosure that A.I.G., which has received $170 billion in government assistance to remain afloat and avert a cascade of failures in the financial system, is paying bonuses to its executives is the latest in a series of episodes that Mr. Obama’s aides said seemed to be feeding a resurgence of public anger.

The public responded angrily to previous disclosures of large bonuses on Wall Street, to auto executives who flew on corporate jets to Washington for Congressional bailout hearings, and to last week’s face-off between of “The Daily Show” and , the CNBC financial commentator, over the network’s reporting on the crisis.

“There’s unquestionably a strong populist surge out there,” said Joel Benenson, Mr. Obama’s pollster, citing his own polls and focus groups. “It’s been brewing for close to four years. For the last two years, Americans were clearly indicating that they believe that one of the biggest obstacles to progress on America’s toughest challenges — notably health care and energy independence — was the influence of special interests and corporate interests on the agenda in Washington.”

A New York Times/CBS News Poll in February found that 83 percent of respondents said the government should cap the amount of compensation earned by executives of companies that are getting federal assistance.

Mr. Obama’s advisers argued that to at least some extent, this was a sentiment they could tap to push through his measures in Congress, including raising on the wealthy. They pointed out that in his speech to Congress, Mr. Obama denounced corporations that “use taxpayer money to pad their paychecks or buy fancy drapes or disappear on a private jet.”

“The president has been very clear about this,” Mr. Axelrod said. “There is reason for anger, but we also have to solve the problem. We need a functioning system. That’s our responsibility, and he intends to meet it.”

Still, aides acknowledged the risks of a backlash as Mr. Obama tries to signal that he shares American anger but pushes for more bail-out money for banks and Wall Street.

For all his political skills and his capturing of the nation’s desire for change in the 2008 election, Mr. Obama, a product of Law School who calls upscale Hyde Park in home, has shown little inclination to strike a more populist tone. The danger, aides said, is that if he were to become identified as an advocate for the banks and Wall Street, people could take out their anger on him.

“The change now is you have a free-floating economic that has expressed itself in a kind of lashing out at those being bailed out and people who are bailing out,” Michael Kazin, a professor at who has written extensively on populism. “There’s not really a sense of what the solution is.”

“I do think there’s a potential for a ‘damn everybody in power’ kind of sentiment,” Mr. Kazin said.
689 2009-03-16 Amid rising pressure from Congress and taxpayers, the American International Group on Sunday released the names of dozens of financial institutions that benefited from the Federal Reserve’s decision last fall to save the giant insurer from collapse with a huge rescue loan.

Financial companies that received multibillion-dollar payments owed by A.I.G. include Goldman Sachs ($12.9 billion), Merrill Lynch ($6.8 billion), Bank of America ($5.2 billion), Citigroup ($2.3 billion) and Wachovia ($1.5 billion).

Big foreign banks also received large sums from the rescue, including Société Générale of France and Deutsche Bank of Germany, which each received nearly $12 billion; Barclays of Britain ($8.5 billion); and UBS of Switzerland ($5 billion).

A.I.G. also named the 20 largest states, starting with California, that stood to lose billions last fall because A.I.G. was holding money they had raised with bond sales.

In total, A.I.G. named nearly 80 companies and municipalities that benefited most from the Fed rescue, though many more that received smaller payments were left out.

The list, long sought by lawmakers, was released a day after the disclosure that A.I.G. was paying out hundreds of millions of dollars in bonuses to executives at the A.I.G. division where the company’s crisis originated. That drew anger from Democratic and Republican lawmakers alike on Sunday and left the Obama administration scrambling to distance itself from A.I.G.

“There are a lot of terrible things that have happened in the last 18 months, but what’s happened at A.I.G. is the most outrageous,” Lawrence H. Summers, an economic adviser to President Obama who was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, said Sunday on “This Week” on ABC. He said the administration had determined that it could not stop the bonuses.

But some members of Congress expressed outrage over the bonuses. Representative Elijah E. Cummings, a Democrat of Maryland who had demanded more information about the bonuses last December, accused the company’s chief executive, Edward M. Liddy, of rewarding reckless business practices.

“A.I.G. has been trying to play the American people for fools by giving nearly $1 billion in bonuses by the name of retention payments,” Mr. Cummings said on Sunday. “These payments are nothing but a reward for obvious failure, and it is an egregious offense to have the American taxpayers foot the bill.”

An A.I.G. spokeswoman said Sunday that the company would not identify the recipients of these bonuses, citing privacy obligations.

Ever since the insurer’s rescue began, with the Fed’s $85 billion emergency loan last fall, there have been demands for a full public accounting of how the money was used. The taxpayer assistance has now grown to $170 billion, and the government owns nearly 80 percent of the company.

But the insurance giant has refused until now to disclose the names of its trading partners, or the amounts they received, citing business confidentiality.

A.I.G. finally relented after consulting with the companies that received the government support. Mr. Liddy said in a statement on Sunday: “Our decision to disclose these transactions was made following conversations with the counterparties and the recognition of the extraordinary nature of these transactions.”

Still, the disclosure is not likely to calm the ire aimed at the company and its trading partners.

The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, appearing on “60 Minutes” on CBS on Sunday night, said: “Of all the events and all of the things we’ve done in the last 18 months, the single one that makes me the angriest, that gives me the most angst, is the intervention with A.I.G.”

He went on: “Here was a company that made all kinds of unconscionable bets. Then, when those bets went wrong, they had a  we had a situation where the failure of that company would have brought down the financial system.”

In deciding to rescue A.I.G., the government worried that if it did not bail out the company, its collapse could lead to a cascading chain reaction of losses, jeopardizing the stability of the worldwide financial system.

The list released by A.I.G. on Sunday, detailing payments made between September and December of last year, could bolster that justification by illustrating the breadth of losses that might have occurred had A.I.G. been allowed to fail. Some of the companies, like Goldman Sachs and Société Générale, had exposure mainly through A.I.G.’s derivatives program. Others, though, like Barclays and Citigroup, stood to lose mainly because they were customers of A.I.G.’s securities-lending program, which does not involve derivatives.

But taxpayers may have a hard time accepting that so many marquee financial companies  including some American banks that received separate government help and others based overseas  benefiting from government money.

The outrage that has been aimed at A.I.G. could complicate the Obama administration’s ability to persuade Congress to authorize future bailouts.

Patience with the company’s silence began to run out this month after it disclosed the largest loss in United States history and had to get a new round of government support. Members of Congress demanded in two hearings to know who was benefiting from the bailout and threatened to vote against future bailouts for anybody if they did not get the information.

“A.I.G.’s trading partners were not innocent victims here,” said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who presided over one recent hearing. “They were sophisticated investors who took enormous, irresponsible risks.”

The anger peaked over the weekend when correspondence surfaced showing that A.I.G. was on the brink of paying rich bonuses to executives who had dealt in the derivative contracts at the center of A.I.G.’s troubles.

Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, implicitly questioned the Treasury Department’s judgment about the whether the bonuses were binding.

“We need to find out whether these bonuses are legally recoverable,” Mr. Frank said in an interview on "Fox News Sunday."

Many of the institutions that received the Fed payments were owed money by A.I.G. because they had bought its credit derivatives  in essence, a type of insurance intended to protect buyers should their investments turn sour.

As it turned out, many of their investments did sour, because they were linked to subprime mortgages and other shaky loans. But A.I.G. was suddenly unable to honor its promises last fall, leaving its trading partners exposed to potentially big losses.

When A.I.G. received its first rescue loan of $85 billion from the Fed, in September, it forwarded about $22 billion to the companies holding its shakiest derivatives contracts. Those contracts required large collateral payments if A.I.G.’s credit was downgraded, as it was that month.

Among the beneficiaries of the government rescue were Wall Street firms, like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and Merrill Lynch that had argued in the past that derivatives were valuable risk-management tools that skilled investors could use wisely without any intervention from federal regulators. Initiatives to regulate financial derivatives were beaten back during the administrations of Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.

Goldman Sachs had said in the past that its exposure to A.I.G.’s financial trouble was “immaterial.” A Goldman Sachs representative was not reachable on Sunday to address whether that characterization still held. When asked about its exposure to A.I.G. in the past, Goldman Sachs has said that it used hedging strategies with other investments to reduce its exposure.

Until last fall’s liquidity squeeze, A.I.G. officials also dismissed those who questioned its derivatives operation, saying losses were out of the question.
690 2009-03-16 Historically, movies have to be shown in theaters for a week in New York or to get a review in the national media, but “Alexander the Last,” which was shot digitally and had yet to be seen inside the movie house, was written up by in last week and was reviewed in The by on Saturday. (She suggested Mr. Swanberg had improved with each new movie, among other things.)

“Joe will have his world premiere here, a lot will be written about it and people will want to see it right away,” said Janet Pierson, producer of the South by Southwest film festival. “Publicity is very expensive, and this is a very economical way to reach and grow the fan base.”

It amounts to what could be a new future for film — one that has nothing to do with movie theaters and studio lots but everything to do with the audience. Creating movies, historically a cumbersome, expensive enterprise, has become far more accessible by dint of cheap digital filmmaking. And the results are not always diminutive — was shot digitally and won the Oscar for best picture and has surpassed $130 million in sales.

But the fact that almost anyone with a can now make a movie means they often do, creating a huge surplus of small films. Even after running the gantlet and making it into one of the premier American festivals (a very long shot) and getting picked up for distribution (lotto territory), finding a slot at the movie house is a very expensive proposition.

So IFC is working on a hybrid model where movies pick up sparkle and reviews at film festivals and are then pushed out through an on-demand grid. There may come a day when much of the film business is a digital-in/digital-out affair, with all manner of “films” showing up on all manner of devices, and a consumer algorithm — think — driving what people end up seeing.

Mr. Swanberg is a young auteur of the so-called mumblecore movement, films that are generally shot quickly and inexpensively, usually featuring a few characters. At the tender age of 27, he has completed his sixth feature film, and hence the so-called day-and-date release with an assist from the festival here suits his needs from a financial and artistic perspective.

While many directors insist that their work must be seen in the churchlike confines of a movie theater with a big screen and great sound, Mr. Swanberg is far less picky as long as he is able to continue working.

“I don’t care what kind of screen they watch it on,” he said by phone the week before the festival. “New films are having a hard time finding an audience, and as a filmmaker I don’t really care how the audiences access the work.”

It’s not as experimental as it sounds. ’s which opened at and had a limited run in theaters, has already reached 150,000 viewers through IFC’s video-on-demand service. Mr. Soderbergh is an acclaimed director whose work includes the franchise, so he’s not exactly hurting for outlets, but for a certain kind of film — say a subtitled one about a guerrilla leader that’s in two parts and lasts four-and-a-half hours — the alliance with IFC and its outlets makes sense.

“We are partnered with Joe, utilizing the attention of the festival and the press that goes with it and trying to leverage that moment by releasing it on-demand at the same time,” said Jonathan Sehring, president of IFC Entertainment.

Mr. Sehring points out that IFC has its own exhibition space in and its parent company, Cablevision, operates Clearview Cinemas. But he is looking for distribution beyond the movie house: both he and Mr. Swanberg envision a time when his movies will have their premieres on iTunes and ’s Unbox video player, as well.

Given the installed base of giant HD screens in American homes, it’s hard to argue that video on demand is an inferior option to lining up at the theater.

“Right now Joe’s movie is blowing up on ,” said Barry Jenkins, the director of another film IFC is showing here and on demand. Standing apart from the party waiting to get in, he pointed out that “many of the people who hear about it can just see it right then and there, not five months from now when all of the excitement has calmed down. And that’s amazing.”

The IFC approach also broadens and democratizes access to independent films beyond certain neighborhoods in downtown New York. Many people who live in so-called B and C markets no longer have to cross their fingers and hope that the next small big thing makes it to their town. Now the house lives in the remote.

“I have a lot of films that I’d like to do that don’t require a lot of money or people, so I’d like to get the work out there,” Mr. Swanberg said. The revenue streams coming off of a single film may be small, but someone as prolific as Mr. Swanberg can end up sitting on a catalog of films. And as any studio executive can tell you, at a time of multiplying V’s — DVD, VOD, PPV — the catalog business is where the money is.

“We are getting to the point where the means of production are cheap enough so that a filmmaker can work like painters or writers,” he said. “And it should not take millions and millions of dollars to find an audience for that work.”
691 2009-03-16 The railroad failures in the Northeast, vividly evident in the 1970 bankruptcy of the Penn Central network, endangered an industry that President Gerald Ford and Congress considered vital to the nation’s well-being. The American-owned automakers are similarly regarded as vital; if not all three, then at least General Motors and Ford. Automaking in this country might not survive, this argument goes, without American companies at its core.

Their footprint in manufacturing is huge. Even now, no other industrial sector, except perhaps pharmaceuticals, spends more on research than the Big Three, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. The automakers are also the principal customers for the nation’s 6,000 independent auto parts makers.

“The hit to the parts makers if one or two of the Big Three disappeared would be so great that Toyota and Honda would have difficulty operating here, and they have said so publicly,” said Sean McAlinden, the center’s chief economist.

The Obama administration’s reaction, so far, has been to appoint a task force that is sorting out the viability of G.M. and Chrysler. The goal of the task force is to determine whether the automakers’ plans for survival — even the best laid plans — justify the risk of billions more in bridge loans, on top of the $17.4 billion already lent. The goal is to keep the companies alive, and out of bankruptcy, until auto sales climb back to a level that would permit them to survive on their own.

For that to happen, vehicle sales nationwide would have to reach at least 12.5 million to 13 million a year, G.M. said in the survival plan that it submitted to support its case for more federal loans. Ford and Chrysler offer similar estimates. The annualized sales rate in February, in contrast, was only nine million. And months may pass before that rate climbs back to 12.5 million or 13 million — a pace associated with upturns in the economy or milder recessions than this one.

Whatever the dangers of persistently weak sales, “the task force does not seem to be going in the direction of running the auto companies, even though that might be a fine idea,” said Dan Luria, research director for the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center, who has spoken with some of the 21 task force members.

None has spoken publicly yet. But there are eerie similarities in the unwinding of the railroads in the 1970s and the American-owned automakers today.

Hurricane Agnes, sweeping through the Northeast in 1972, did roughly the same damage to the railroads as the devastating recession is doing today to the auto industry. The hurricane flooded hundreds of miles of track, precipitating more bankruptcies among already weakened railroad companies operating lines from Boston west to Chicago and St. Louis.

The biggest bankruptcy was in 1970, when Penn Central went under, leaving lenders, mainly banks, holding $100 million in suddenly worthless commercial paper. In what turned out to be a preview for today, the Federal Reserve pumped reserves into the damaged banks, just as it is doing now on a broader basis.

More to the point, if the auto companies declared bankruptcy, shedding their debts, then Washington would be under pressure to cover a shortfall of more than $30 billion in retiree benefits, mainly for health care.

The Obama task force itself has a rough parallel in the railroad crisis. Congress created a similar commission in 1973, on the heels of Agnes, to lay out a course of action that would make the railroads workable in their competition with truckers for freight. About 12,000 miles of underused track were abandoned, the work force was cut to 50,000 from 100,000, and unprofitable passenger services were jettisoned.

The American auto companies are similarly slimming down, but ad hoc in response to a recession that has destroyed their sales. Factories have been closed, car models dropped and 235,000 auto workers have lost their jobs in the last year, or 25 percent of those making vehicles and parts.

Pay is also shrinking. With the tacit agreement of the United Automobile Workers, wage rates are gradually being cut to the levels paid by the foreign auto companies assembling vehicles here, in nonunion plants.

“The U.A.W. realized that bailout money would not be provided unless it brought wages and even benefits into line with those of the transplants,” said Harry Katz, a labor economist and dean of Cornell’s School of Industrial and Labor Relations. “That was the standard that moderate Democrats accepted.”

Despite the cost cutting, the American auto companies may need federal loans for many months to stay afloat. Faced with that same situation in the 1970s, Congress created Conrail to run bankrupt freight lines in the Northeast and Midwest.

Five years later, the government-run company earned its first profit. In time Conrail disappeared, its operations sold to commercial railroads that dominate freight traffic today across the country and do so profitably.

But there is a difference. Railroads, regulated for decades, had come to be viewed as public utilities, and federal ownership was not unimaginable, said John McArthur, dean emeritus of the Harvard Business School and a Penn Central bankruptcy trustee.

“Discussions about the American railroad system and its shortcomings went on all through the first half of the 20th century,” he said, “and when the crisis came, there was a consensus how to proceed. Today, our society has yet to decide whether we want government-owned auto companies.”
692 2009-03-16 Mr. Satterfield is one of many entrepreneurs who flock to the conference in the hope of capturing the attention of attendees and elevating their product or service out of obscurity.

Twitter, the chatty Web service that is quickly entering the mainstream, first hit it big during the 2007 conference because of giant screens installed around the convention center displaying Twitter messages from the crowd. Shawn O’Keefe, who has been helping organize the tech-oriented portion of South by Southwest for nearly a decade, said that in the early days the conference also helped give a lift to the makers of the blogging tools Blogger and Movable Type.

But wooing the technorati is a tricky business. Start-up companies are aware that in-your-face marketing is a good way to scare off the kinds of people who go to South by Southwest.

JagTag, a company based in Princeton, N.J., that incorporates barcodes into marketing campaigns for the benefit of camera-phone users, decided not to attend the conference. Instead, the company sent a single employee loaded with several thousand promotional postcards bearing barcodes. “We didn’t want to do a hard sell,” said Dudley Fitzpatrick, the chief executive. “We just wanted to show it to them.”

“I’ve just been dropping them off at tables where people were taking a break,” said Scott Falconer, the JagTag employee assigned to promote the company. Attendees who snapped a photo of the barcode and sent it to JagTag were rewarded with listings of parties and events around Austin.

To some, though, handing out pieces of paper seemed a little primitive and, well, uncool. Rohan Walder and Mark Sando, who traveled from London to represent Rawrip, the music discovery site they work for, were not impressed by the fliers in the free swag bag that attendees received.

“When we first got our gift bags, we went through and threw away every bit of paper,” Mr. Sando said. “You would think that at a digital conference, they’d think of more intelligent ways” to promote a company.

The team behind PeopleBrowsr, an online dashboard that tracks updates across social networking Web sites like Flickr and Twitter, elected not to overtly market their Web application at all. “If we had a booth, I would be slashing my wrists,” said Jodee Rich, the chief executive.

Instead, they decided to release a special version of their service for South by Southwest attendees that lets users track events here. They got a few write-ups from tech blogs before the conference, and they plan to spend their time in Austin gathering feedback on the tool.

“We’re not pushing to the community anymore. We’re no longer hiring girls to pass out cards,” Mr. Rich said. “The community either loves it or they don’t.”

Jeremiah Owyang, an analyst with Forrester Research who specializes in social media, put it succinctly: “Heavy marketing doesn’t work with the cool kids.” Those “cool kids” are the prominent bloggers or influential Twitterers whose endorsement could be valuable.

For Mr. Satterfield, even the best-laid plans were not a sure thing. Throughout the conference, cellphone coverage suffered as the influx of smartphone users overwhelmed networks. That could cut into the number of people trying out the new version of Gigotron during the music portion of the conference.

“I’m definitely worried,” Mr. Satterfield said, as the cellular network overload is “only going to get worse.” But he made arrangements to set up his own Wi-Fi router. That way, he said, “at least we’ll have a decent shot at getting some people to try it out.”
693 2009-03-16 The American catcher Brian McCann shook his head late Saturday night and said, with some degree of bewilderment, “The talent that’s in our clubhouse is through the roof, and to come out and get run-ruled. ...”

So what is it, exactly? Will the apathetic or the injured be a valid excuse if the Americans fail to make it west for the semis, or win the tournament? During the early part of this decade, we perfected the attitudinal condemnation drill for American international sporting failure when the N.B.A.’s dunk-and-pony shows were no longer intimidating enough to keep the Spaniards, Lithuanians, Argentines and others from crashing proverbial borders.

In fact, it was probably a drubbing by Puerto Rico in the 2004 Athens Olympics that more than any other game motivated the basketball people to tear down their McMansion of a program and replace it with an old-fashioned dormitory that could incubate a more cohesive team.

But there are significant differences in the basketball and baseball missions, beginning with the considerably greater support Americans have for the Olympics than they have for the three-year-old W.B.C. Moreover, with basketball, there was always an unshakeable belief that if the United States sent its absolute best — if Shaq had played, if Kobe would come — one or two megastars could tilt the competitive axis.

Does that extraordinary baseball disruptor exist? Three years ago, the United States failed to survive the Classic’s second round despite the presence of Alex Rodriguez, who has been tagged as possibly the most talented player in the history of the sport.

Would the Americans be better if the newest handsomely paid Yankees — pitchers C. C. Sabathia and A. J. Burnett, and first baseman Mark Teixeira — were here instead of across the state in Tampa? If the Red Sox’ Jonathan Papelbon were in the bullpen instead of LaTroy Hawkins? If the power bat of Ryan Howard were in the middle of the lineup?

Without a doubt they would, but some star-caliber players are also sitting out the tournament from other quality teams, and we may also wonder how good Cuba would be if it didn’t leak defected talent year after year.

The bottom line is that there are just too many superb major league ballplayers being produced outside the United States for the Americans to promote themselves as the preeminent global superpower, or even the W.B.C. team to be beat, as their manager, Davey Johnson, did in the run-up to the tournament.

More than basketball’s Olympic Dream Teams, which ultimately required last summer’s Redeem Team in Beijing, the truer parallel is with Canada, always a gold medal contender in hockey but capable of losing on any given night to a number of European countries with lineups of affluent earners in North America.

There was even an Olympic night three years ago in Turin, Italy, when the Canadians looked up at the scoreboard and found themselves on the short end of a 2-0 decision to Switzerland — a country they once beat in Olympic play, 33-0, albeit in 1924. Losing to the Swiss was an experience between humbling and humiliating, but Canada moved on without its flag at half-staff.

Last week in San Juan, P.R., the Dutch were the W.B.C. version of the Swiss — inspiring but not exactly baseball’s Miracle on Ice — when they twice beat the Dominican Republic with their mix of homegrown and Dutch Antilles-born talent. Here, they were edged Saturday by Venezuela and hammered by the United States in a face-saving performance the Americans were not inclined to brag about but were nonetheless desperate for.

As Jeter said, that’s baseball. Honk if you’re impressed.
694 2009-03-16 One F.T.C. commissioner, Jon Leibowitz, warned that if the industry did not respond, intervention would be next.

“Put simply, this could be the last clear chance to show that self-regulation can — and will — effectively protect consumers’ privacy,” Mr. Leibowitz said, or else “it will certainly invite legislation by Congress and a more regulatory approach by our commission.”

Some technology companies are making changes on their own. Yahoo recently shortened the amount of time it keeps data derived from searches. It is also including a link in some ads that explains how the viewer’s browsing history resulted in the ad shown.

Google, as it introduces its own behavioral advertising system, is allowing consumers to see what information it has gathered about them for advertising purposes. Given the concern over privacy in the TRUSTe survey, respondents’ knowledge of how to protect themselves online was relatively low, said Alissa Cooper, chief computer scientist at the Center for Democracy and Technology, a civil liberties group that supports a national consumer privacy law.

“There does seem to be a disconnect in awareness,” Ms. Cooper said after reviewing the survey. Consumers may not know “how much data is collected, and what the data is. There may be a high level of understanding but not enough to allow them to make an informed choice.”

For instance, only 15 percent of respondents read Web site privacy statements most of the time. Fewer than half frequently checked whether sites even had privacy statements, the survey said.

Respondents used various tactics to be more anonymous online. Forty-one percent used a Web browser that deleted cookies and the history of the sites they had visited. About the same number used software to use the Internet anonymously.

Around one-third of respondents said they chose “do not track” options on Web sites that offered them. Eleven percent used a proxy server to mask the Internet address of the computer they were using, and 36 percent gave false information when registering for Web sites.

More than half of respondents said government should be “wholly” or “very” responsible for protecting an individual’s online privacy.

But there was a note of self-reliance, too: more than 75 percent of respondents said individuals themselves should also be wholly or very responsible for protecting their own privacy.
695 2009-03-16 At the immaculate booth of S. Marchant & Son of London, prominently situated near the elevators, the display of rare imperial porcelain includes a covered bowl from the court of the Qing dynasty emperor Yongzheng.

Another orderly, museumlike display can be found at Douglas Dawson, one of four exhibitors joining the show from the International. At his sleek, gray-painted booth Buddhas and other statues rest on minimal metal pedestals. One highlight is a large cast-bronze bell, from an early-16th-century Chinese temple.

Thomas Murray combines objects from different cultures with a curator’s eye. An ancient female ancestor form from the Indonesian island of Sulawesi mingles with an 18th-century Portuguese textile and masks from Japan and the Himalayas.

Other textiles can be found on the walls and floor of Joss Graham’s booth, which has a cheerful bazaarlike atmosphere. Mr. Graham has also organized a tented installation of Indian turbans from Rajasthan near the cafe area. The sheer cloths share a pink-and-yellow palette and a chevron pattern created by wrapping fine cotton threads around rolled cloth at spaced intervals during the dyeing process.

The dealer Jon Eric Riis has a striking booth of Chinese and Tibetan court robes, feathered crowns, and other garments and accessories. Mr. Riis also makes lavishly beaded and embroidered robes inspired by some of the objects in his inventory; one of them, hanging on the booth’s outside wall, has an unmistakably contemporary skull motif.

Other compelling garments include the 18th- and 19th-century Taoist priest robes at Chinalai Tribal Antiques. They are painted, rather than embroidered, with figures like the Jade Emperor and a unicornlike creature.

A fearsome suit of Japanese samurai armor from the early Edo period, at Axel Michels, has a helmet with twisted gold horns and a white animal-hair mustache and goatee. Also at Michels are two carved-wood ancestor figures from the Heian period (794-1185). They are among the oldest works at the fair.

It’s easy to overlook the smaller objects, most of which are housed in glass cases, but you shouldn’t. They include brightly colored glass snuff bottles at Asian Art Studio, Chinese and Mongolian shrine boxes at Dragon House San Francisco, and carved jade at Mark Walberg, the Jade Dragon and elsewhere.

The same level of intricacy can be seen in many larger works. At Jeff Shore, an 18th-century wooden door frame from South India is adorned with painstakingly carved figures of the Hindu pantheon. At Flying Crane Antiques, blossoming cherry trees modeled in high relief decorate a silver Meiji period punch service from around 1900.

Painting is not the dominant art form here, but Art Passages has a stunning group of Indian miniatures. Nearby, at Anavian Gallery, is an Iranian miniature from a Safavid era copy of the Shah-nameh epic; in the painting, a hero beheads a villain as trumpeters and courtiers watch.

Contemporary Chinese painting can be found at J. R. Richards, Japanese outsider art at Cavin-Morris and recent Korean art (paintings and abstract photography) at Kang Collection and KooNewYork. But at this fair brand-new art knows its place in a parade of objects from different centuries and cultures.
696 2009-03-16 “I think those programs were absolutely essential to the success we enjoyed of being able to collect the intelligence that let us defeat all further attempts to launch attacks against the United States since 9/11,” Mr. Cheney said of Bush administration policies, echoing statements he made in an interview last month with the Web site Politico.com.

“I think that’s a great success story,” he said. “It was done legally. It was done in accordance with our constitutional practices and principles.”

Mr. Cheney said the Bush administration decided after the 2001 attacks to make fighting terrorism a function of the military rather than law enforcement.

“Up until 9/11, it was treated as a law enforcement problem,” he said. “You go find the bad guy, put him on trial, put him in jail.

“Once you go into a wartime situation and it’s a strategic threat, then you use all of your assets to go after the enemy. You go after the state sponsors of terror, places where they’ve got sanctuary. You use your intelligence resources, your military resources, your financial resources — everything you can — in order to shut down that terrorist threat against you.

“When you go back to the law enforcement mode, which I sense is what they’re doing, closing Guantánamo and so forth, that they are very much giving up that center of attention and focus that’s required, and that concept of military threat that is essential if you’re going to successfully defend the nation against further attacks.”

In what CNN promoted as his first televised interview since leaving office in January, Mr. Cheney touched on a number of other subjects, including the economy, his failure to persuade Mr. Bush to pardon his former aide I. Lewis Libby Jr. and the war in Iraq.

“We’ve accomplished nearly everything we set out to do,” he said about Iraq. “Now, I don’t hear much talk about that, but the fact is, the violence level is down 90 percent. The number of casualties and Iraqis and Americans is significantly diminished. There’s been elections, a constitution. They’re about to have another presidential election here in the near future.”

“We have succeeded in creating in the heart of the Middle East a democratically governed Iraq, and that is a big deal,” Mr. Cheney said. “And it is, in fact, what we set out to do.”
697 2009-03-16 So far, these cuts have been successful in stemming the drop in prices and stabilizing the market. After peaking at $147 a barrel in July, oil now trades at $47 a barrel.

Producers are torn by contradictory forces. On one hand, the sharp drop in oil demand during the global financial crisis suggests the need for members of the cartel to keep slashing their output to prevent a price collapse.

Algeria, as well as Venezuela, favors more cuts, but the most powerful member, Saudi Arabia, is wary of putting more strains on customers whose economies are deep in recession.

Before the meeting, Chakib Khelil, the Algerian energy and mines minister, said he favored both better compliance and another cut, and suggested that if OPEC did not act, crude prices could resume the steep fall they have experienced since oil peaked last summer near $150 a barrel.

In a speech opening the meeting, José Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos, OPEC’s president and the minister of petroleum of Angola, said: “Without any doubt, we are living in exceptional times. Long-established practices and procedures in the world’s financial sector are breaking down.”

He added that while better compliance has helped stabilize oil prices, “these are still at low levels.” In addition, he said: “The outlook for oil demand in the coming months — and longer — concerns all of us in the industry. Crude oil prices are at levels that do not support sound investment strategies for the future.”

For many producers, today’s prices remain too low. Iraq, which does not participate in the group’s quota system, has urged more cuts in production. Like many countries that rely on exports to provide the bulk of their revenue, Iraq has been badly hurt by the recent slump in oil prices.

But at the same time, the producer group cannot ignore that the global economy remains extremely weak. Some members of the cartel, especially Saudi Arabia, fear that any further attempts to raise prices could cripple the global recovery.

The Obama administration has also weighed in heavily in recent days. On Friday, President Barack Obama called King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to discuss ways to help the global economy, according to the White House, which provided no details about the call. Saudi Arabia, the world’s top exporter, is the most influential member of the oil-producing group.

The administration also sought to signal a clear shift in its energy policy before the first OPEC meeting since it came into office. Steven Chu, the United States secretary of energy, who initially distanced himself from any involvement in oil policy, said Friday that “the most effective way” to make the world economy less vulnerable to volatile prices was to use less oil.

“We will continue to send a strong and clear message to OPEC nations about the importance of protecting the world economy from significant price increases that aren’t good for any nation,” Secretary Chu said. “But the ultimate answer is to depend less on oil and more on clean and renewable energy.”

Relations between consumers and producers are clearly straining. Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the leading energy advisor to industrialized countries, urged producers not to cut their output. He said that if oil prices stayed around $40 a barrel through the end of the year, that would amount to a stimulus of $1 trillion for the global economy.

Such advice did not please Mr. Badri, who responded curtly to the comments, saying they were “confusing and misleading.”
698 2009-03-16 The Obama administration is increasingly concerned about a populist backlash against banks and Wall Street, worried that anger at financial institutions could also end up being directed at Congress and the White House and could complicate Presiden...
699 2009-03-16 The railroad failures in the Northeast, vividly evident in the 1970 bankruptcy of the Penn Central network, endangered an industry that President Gerald Ford and Congress considered vital to the nation’s well-being. The American-owned automakers are similarly regarded as vital; if not all three, then at least General Motors and Ford. Automaking in this country might not survive, this argument goes, without American companies at its core.

Their footprint in manufacturing is huge. Even now, no other industrial sector, except perhaps pharmaceuticals, spends more on research than the Big Three, according to the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. The automakers are also the principal customers for the nation’s 6,000 independent auto parts makers.

“The hit to the parts makers if one or two of the Big Three disappeared would be so great that Toyota and Honda would have difficulty operating here, and they have said so publicly,” said Sean McAlinden, the center’s chief economist.

The Obama administration’s reaction, so far, has been to appoint a task force that is sorting out the viability of G.M. and Chrysler. The goal of the task force is to determine whether the automakers’ plans for survival — even the best laid plans — justify the risk of billions more in bridge loans, on top of the $17.4 billion already lent. The goal is to keep the companies alive, and out of bankruptcy, until auto sales climb back to a level that would permit them to survive on their own.

For that to happen, vehicle sales nationwide would have to reach at least 12.5 million to 13 million a year, G.M. said in the survival plan that it submitted to support its case for more federal loans. Ford and Chrysler offer similar estimates. The annualized sales rate in February, in contrast, was only nine million. And months may pass before that rate climbs back to 12.5 million or 13 million — a pace associated with upturns in the economy or milder recessions than this one.

Whatever the dangers of persistently weak sales, “the task force does not seem to be going in the direction of running the auto companies, even though that might be a fine idea,” said Dan Luria, research director for the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center, who has spoken with some of the 21 task force members.

None has spoken publicly yet. But there are eerie similarities in the unwinding of the railroads in the 1970s and the American-owned automakers today.

Hurricane Agnes, sweeping through the Northeast in 1972, did roughly the same damage to the railroads as the devastating recession is doing today to the auto industry. The hurricane flooded hundreds of miles of track, precipitating more bankruptcies among already weakened railroad companies operating lines from Boston west to Chicago and St. Louis.

The biggest bankruptcy was in 1970, when Penn Central went under, leaving lenders, mainly banks, holding $100 million in suddenly worthless commercial paper. In what turned out to be a preview for today, the Federal Reserve pumped reserves into the damaged banks, just as it is doing now on a broader basis.

More to the point, if the auto companies declared bankruptcy, shedding their debts, then Washington would be under pressure to cover a shortfall of more than $30 billion in retiree benefits, mainly for health care.

The Obama task force itself has a rough parallel in the railroad crisis. Congress created a similar commission in 1973, on the heels of Agnes, to lay out a course of action that would make the railroads workable in their competition with truckers for freight. About 12,000 miles of underused track were abandoned, the work force was cut to 50,000 from 100,000, and unprofitable passenger services were jettisoned.

The American auto companies are similarly slimming down, but ad hoc in response to a recession that has destroyed their sales. Factories have been closed, car models dropped and 235,000 auto workers have lost their jobs in the last year, or 25 percent of those making vehicles and parts.

Pay is also shrinking. With the tacit agreement of the United Automobile Workers, wage rates are gradually being cut to the levels paid by the foreign auto companies assembling vehicles here, in nonunion plants.

“The U.A.W. realized that bailout money would not be provided unless it brought wages and even benefits into line with those of the transplants,” said Harry Katz, a labor economist and dean of Cornell’s School of Industrial and Labor Relations. “That was the standard that moderate Democrats accepted.”

Despite the cost cutting, the American auto companies may need federal loans for many months to stay afloat. Faced with that same situation in the 1970s, Congress created Conrail to run bankrupt freight lines in the Northeast and Midwest.

Five years later, the government-run company earned its first profit. In time Conrail disappeared, its operations sold to commercial railroads that dominate freight traffic today across the country and do so profitably.

But there is a difference. Railroads, regulated for decades, had come to be viewed as public utilities, and federal ownership was not unimaginable, said John McArthur, dean emeritus of the Harvard Business School and a Penn Central bankruptcy trustee.

“Discussions about the American railroad system and its shortcomings went on all through the first half of the 20th century,” he said, “and when the crisis came, there was a consensus how to proceed. Today, our society has yet to decide whether we want government-owned auto companies.”
700 2009-03-16 But Mr. Cowen was cheered Sunday, at least in some quarters, for his proposal to ease naturalization by allowing Americans whose nearest Irish ancestor is a great-grandparent to qualify for citizenship, provided that they have spent considerable time studying or working in Ireland. Under current law, the most distant forebear an American could claim and still qualify for Irish citizenship is a grandparent.

“There’s an awful lot of Irish-Americans who feel very cut off by the ‘grandfather rule,’ ” said Niall O’Dowd, the former chairman of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform and a founder of the Irish Voice newspaper in New York as well as of a new Web site, Irishcentral.com, that started Sunday night. “This would open up Irish citizenship to a whole new generation of Irish-Americans.”

The number of Americans with Irish ancestry has been estimated to be as high as 40 million, and millions of those people have no closer blood tie to Ireland than a great-grandparent.

The immigration proposal grew out of a “strategic review” of Irish-American relations Mr. Cowen ordered up last year, the first such review performed by the government since the 1930s, he said.

For Irish professionals looking to find work in the United States, Mr. Cowen, 49, who worked doing demolition in Midtown Manhattan on a summer off from college, said he hoped the American government would enact something like the E-3 visas it has offered to a set number Australians a year since 2005.

Not all the economic news on the visit was grim. In addition to taking part in holiday festivities in New York and Washington, Mr. Cowen was due to preside Monday over a ceremony at the New York Academy of Sciences in which smaller Irish-owned companies would sign $130 million worth of contracts to do work in the United States.

“That’s an interesting breakthrough for those companies in a time of turmoil,” he said in an interview at the Fitzpatrick Manhattan Hotel on Lexington Avenue before his speech. “Often that basic thing is lost when people talk about the high politics of these sorts of visits. It’s all about retaining and creating jobs.”

Relations between the American and Irish governments suffered under the Bush administration, in part over the administration’s war policies. On his St. Patrick’s Day visit in 2006, Bertie Ahern, then the prime minister, asked President George W. Bush for more “transparency” about C.I.A. flights over Europe that had been said to contain prisoners en route to secret rendition sessions. Mr. Cowen declined to talk about difficulties during the Bush administration, but he said he looked forward to working with President Obama.

After Mr. Cowen’s speech at the historical society, Daniel Neely, 35, a musician from Sunnyside, Queens, said the prime minister had “hit all the right notes.”

He added: “I think he really wants to work together with Obama, and I don’t think that there really was an opportunity beforehand with Bush.”

Of the loosened requirements for Irish citizenship, Mr. Neely, who had a maternal great-grandfather born in Ireland, said, “I think I actually could take advantage of that. It’s not something I’ve ever thought about, but now that the opportunity could be available, I’ll think about it.”
701 2009-03-16 GLASER--Muriel Weiss, of Warwick, NY on March 14, 2009. Beloved mother of Jonathan and his wife Stacey. Devoted grandmother of Andrew. Former copywriter at Young & Rubicam. Services today 1pm at Riverside Memorial Chapel 21 West Broad Street, Mt. ...
702 2009-03-16 DISCLOSURES FROM A.I.G. With public anger rising, the American International Group disclosed some financial institutions that benefited from the federal bailouts meant to prop up the troubled insurance giant.      G.M. UNDER MICROSCOPE More than t...
703 2009-03-16 At the immaculate booth of S. Marchant & Son of London, prominently situated near the elevators, the display of rare imperial porcelain includes a covered bowl from the court of the Qing dynasty emperor Yongzheng.

Another orderly, museumlike display can be found at Douglas Dawson, one of four exhibitors joining the show from the International. At his sleek, gray-painted booth Buddhas and other statues rest on minimal metal pedestals. One highlight is a large cast-bronze bell, from an early-16th-century Chinese temple.

Thomas Murray combines objects from different cultures with a curator’s eye. An ancient female ancestor form from the Indonesian island of Sulawesi mingles with an 18th-century Portuguese textile and masks from Japan and the Himalayas.

Other textiles can be found on the walls and floor of Joss Graham’s booth, which has a cheerful bazaarlike atmosphere. Mr. Graham has also organized a tented installation of Indian turbans from Rajasthan near the cafe area. The sheer cloths share a pink-and-yellow palette and a chevron pattern created by wrapping fine cotton threads around rolled cloth at spaced intervals during the dyeing process.

The dealer Jon Eric Riis has a striking booth of Chinese and Tibetan court robes, feathered crowns, and other garments and accessories. Mr. Riis also makes lavishly beaded and embroidered robes inspired by some of the objects in his inventory; one of them, hanging on the booth’s outside wall, has an unmistakably contemporary skull motif.

Other compelling garments include the 18th- and 19th-century Taoist priest robes at Chinalai Tribal Antiques. They are painted, rather than embroidered, with figures like the Jade Emperor and a unicornlike creature.

A fearsome suit of Japanese samurai armor from the early Edo period, at Axel Michels, has a helmet with twisted gold horns and a white animal-hair mustache and goatee. Also at Michels are two carved-wood ancestor figures from the Heian period (794-1185). They are among the oldest works at the fair.

It’s easy to overlook the smaller objects, most of which are housed in glass cases, but you shouldn’t. They include brightly colored glass snuff bottles at Asian Art Studio, Chinese and Mongolian shrine boxes at Dragon House San Francisco, and carved jade at Mark Walberg, the Jade Dragon and elsewhere.

The same level of intricacy can be seen in many larger works. At Jeff Shore, an 18th-century wooden door frame from South India is adorned with painstakingly carved figures of the Hindu pantheon. At Flying Crane Antiques, blossoming cherry trees modeled in high relief decorate a silver Meiji period punch service from around 1900.

Painting is not the dominant art form here, but Art Passages has a stunning group of Indian miniatures. Nearby, at Anavian Gallery, is an Iranian miniature from a Safavid era copy of the Shah-nameh epic; in the painting, a hero beheads a villain as trumpeters and courtiers watch.

Contemporary Chinese painting can be found at J. R. Richards, Japanese outsider art at Cavin-Morris and recent Korean art (paintings and abstract photography) at Kang Collection and KooNewYork. But at this fair brand-new art knows its place in a parade of objects from different centuries and cultures.
704 2009-03-16 So far, these cuts have been successful in stemming the drop in prices and stabilizing the market. After peaking at $147 a barrel in July, oil now trades at $47 a barrel.

Producers are torn by contradictory forces. On one hand, the sharp drop in oil demand during the global financial crisis suggests the need for members of the cartel to keep slashing their output to prevent a price collapse.

Algeria, as well as Venezuela, favors more cuts, but the most powerful member, Saudi Arabia, is wary of putting more strains on customers whose economies are deep in recession.

Before the meeting, Chakib Khelil, the Algerian energy and mines minister, said he favored both better compliance and another cut, and suggested that if OPEC did not act, crude prices could resume the steep fall they have experienced since oil peaked last summer near $150 a barrel.

In a speech opening the meeting, José Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos, OPEC’s president and the minister of petroleum of Angola, said: “Without any doubt, we are living in exceptional times. Long-established practices and procedures in the world’s financial sector are breaking down.”

He added that while better compliance has helped stabilize oil prices, “these are still at low levels.” In addition, he said: “The outlook for oil demand in the coming months — and longer — concerns all of us in the industry. Crude oil prices are at levels that do not support sound investment strategies for the future.”

For many producers, today’s prices remain too low. Iraq, which does not participate in the group’s quota system, has urged more cuts in production. Like many countries that rely on exports to provide the bulk of their revenue, Iraq has been badly hurt by the recent slump in oil prices.

But at the same time, the producer group cannot ignore that the global economy remains extremely weak. Some members of the cartel, especially Saudi Arabia, fear that any further attempts to raise prices could cripple the global recovery.

The Obama administration has also weighed in heavily in recent days. On Friday, President Barack Obama called King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to discuss ways to help the global economy, according to the White House, which provided no details about the call. Saudi Arabia, the world’s top exporter, is the most influential member of the oil-producing group.

The administration also sought to signal a clear shift in its energy policy before the first OPEC meeting since it came into office. Steven Chu, the United States secretary of energy, who initially distanced himself from any involvement in oil policy, said Friday that “the most effective way” to make the world economy less vulnerable to volatile prices was to use less oil.

“We will continue to send a strong and clear message to OPEC nations about the importance of protecting the world economy from significant price increases that aren’t good for any nation,” Secretary Chu said. “But the ultimate answer is to depend less on oil and more on clean and renewable energy.”

Relations between consumers and producers are clearly straining. Nobuo Tanaka, the executive director of the International Energy Agency, the leading energy advisor to industrialized countries, urged producers not to cut their output. He said that if oil prices stayed around $40 a barrel through the end of the year, that would amount to a stimulus of $1 trillion for the global economy.

Such advice did not please Mr. Badri, who responded curtly to the comments, saying they were “confusing and misleading.”
705 2009-03-16 One F.T.C. commissioner, Jon Leibowitz, warned that if the industry did not respond, intervention would be next.

“Put simply, this could be the last clear chance to show that self-regulation can — and will — effectively protect consumers’ privacy,” Mr. Leibowitz said, or else “it will certainly invite legislation by Congress and a more regulatory approach by our commission.”

Some technology companies are making changes on their own. Yahoo recently shortened the amount of time it keeps data derived from searches. It is also including a link in some ads that explains how the viewer’s browsing history resulted in the ad shown.

Google, as it introduces its own behavioral advertising system, is allowing consumers to see what information it has gathered about them for advertising purposes. Given the concern over privacy in the TRUSTe survey, respondents’ knowledge of how to protect themselves online was relatively low, said Alissa Cooper, chief computer scientist at the Center for Democracy and Technology, a civil liberties group that supports a national consumer privacy law.

“There does seem to be a disconnect in awareness,” Ms. Cooper said after reviewing the survey. Consumers may not know “how much data is collected, and what the data is. There may be a high level of understanding but not enough to allow them to make an informed choice.”

For instance, only 15 percent of respondents read Web site privacy statements most of the time. Fewer than half frequently checked whether sites even had privacy statements, the survey said.

Respondents used various tactics to be more anonymous online. Forty-one percent used a Web browser that deleted cookies and the history of the sites they had visited. About the same number used software to use the Internet anonymously.

Around one-third of respondents said they chose “do not track” options on Web sites that offered them. Eleven percent used a proxy server to mask the Internet address of the computer they were using, and 36 percent gave false information when registering for Web sites.

More than half of respondents said government should be “wholly” or “very” responsible for protecting an individual’s online privacy.

But there was a note of self-reliance, too: more than 75 percent of respondents said individuals themselves should also be wholly or very responsible for protecting their own privacy.
706 2009-03-16 GURAL--Aaron. We mourn the loss of Aaron Gural, our dear friend and business partner. Our deepest condolences to the entire Gural family. Aaron was a patriarch of New York City Real Estate, philanthropies and of course, to his beloved family. Look...
707 2009-03-16 “I think those programs were absolutely essential to the success we enjoyed of being able to collect the intelligence that let us defeat all further attempts to launch attacks against the United States since 9/11,” Mr. Cheney said of Bush administration policies, echoing statements he made in an interview last month with the Web site Politico.com.

“I think that’s a great success story,” he said. “It was done legally. It was done in accordance with our constitutional practices and principles.”

Mr. Cheney said the Bush administration decided after the 2001 attacks to make fighting terrorism a function of the military rather than law enforcement.

“Up until 9/11, it was treated as a law enforcement problem,” he said. “You go find the bad guy, put him on trial, put him in jail.

“Once you go into a wartime situation and it’s a strategic threat, then you use all of your assets to go after the enemy. You go after the state sponsors of terror, places where they’ve got sanctuary. You use your intelligence resources, your military resources, your financial resources — everything you can — in order to shut down that terrorist threat against you.

“When you go back to the law enforcement mode, which I sense is what they’re doing, closing Guantánamo and so forth, that they are very much giving up that center of attention and focus that’s required, and that concept of military threat that is essential if you’re going to successfully defend the nation against further attacks.”

In what CNN promoted as his first televised interview since leaving office in January, Mr. Cheney touched on a number of other subjects, including the economy, his failure to persuade Mr. Bush to pardon his former aide I. Lewis Libby Jr. and the war in Iraq.

“We’ve accomplished nearly everything we set out to do,” he said about Iraq. “Now, I don’t hear much talk about that, but the fact is, the violence level is down 90 percent. The number of casualties and Iraqis and Americans is significantly diminished. There’s been elections, a constitution. They’re about to have another presidential election here in the near future.”

“We have succeeded in creating in the heart of the Middle East a democratically governed Iraq, and that is a big deal,” Mr. Cheney said. “And it is, in fact, what we set out to do.”
708 2009-03-16 Shortly after Mr. Bloomberg’s comments, Ms. Stark issued a written statement announcing her resignation from the board: “Although it was cleared by the city’s Law Department and the Conflict of Interest Board prior to my agreeing to serve as a board member for Tarragon Corporation, and all income was fully and accurately reported to the appropriate oversight agencies, I do not want this issue to become a distraction from the work we do at the Department of Finance.”

Ms. Stark’s spokesman, Owen Stone, provided a copy of a letter dated April 11, 2005, from the president of the city’s Conflict of Interest Board saying that as long as her service on Tarragon’s board was not in conflict with her official duties, it would not violate the City Charter. The letter suggested that Ms. Stark had also been told by the city’s Department of Law that her board service would not violate the city’s rule barring department heads from engaging in “any other occupation, profession or employment.”

Kate O’Brien Ahlers, a spokeswoman for the Law Department, confirmed that in 2005 it had advised Ms. Stark that a board with three or four meetings a year would not be a problem.

But in 2007, federal filings show, the board had 16 meetings, and each member attended at least 75 percent of them. Ms. Stark also served that year on a special panel of the Tarragon board looking into the credit crisis, for which she was paid $50,000. William S. Friedman, Tarragon’s chief executive, said that the panel required significant extra work, though he said it was “never more than five hours in one week.”

Federal filings show that company directors are paid about $20,000 a year for attending occasional meetings, plus stock options and bonuses for serving on committees. In 2007, federal filings show, Ms. Stark was paid $90,316, mostly in cash. In 2006, when there were six board meetings, she received $44,126, about half in cash. The company is not yet required to file its 2008 payments.

Ms. Stark, whose city biography calls her the first African-American woman to serve as finance commissioner, first worked at the department from 1990 to 1993. She then was a White House fellow assigned to the State Department, and later served as director of policy and development in the Manhattan borough president’s office.

Mr. Friedman said Sunday that he sought out Ms. Stark for the board for “the combination of her experience, her forcefulness and diversity.” Traditionally, he said, “we have had one person from the public sector.”

In 1989, Carl B. Weisbrod, a former executive director of the New York City Planning Commission, and Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, a former city commissioner of financial services, were elected to the company’s board. Mr. Weisbrod, who still serves on it, did not return a call on Sunday.

Founded in 1973, Tarragon is based in Manhattan and has offices in Wallingford, Conn.; Dallas; and Florida. It is described on its Web site as “a high-density, urban homebuilder” and mixed-use developer with “a track record of navigating complex political and procedural processes to produce award-winning communities.”

Battered by the financial downturn, the company entered Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings on Jan. 12. (It continues to operate.)

Mr. Friedman said the company had no projects in the city “and if we ever did, Martha would be the first to recuse herself.” Speaking before she announced her resignation, he said, “It would be a loss to shareholders.”

The mayor, for his part, called Ms. Stark “somebody who probably works, if I had to guess, 40, 50 or 60 hours a week on a normal week, so it isn’t like she isn’t working very hard for the city.” Still, he drew a distinction between Ms. Stark’s service on the board of New York University, her alma mater, and on the board of a commercial corporation.
709 2009-03-16 Every new administration arrives heady with resolve to make history. Unfortunately, the Bush administration was determined to hide a lot of it. It somehow deleted hundreds of days’ worth of official White House e-mail from the public record. Also gone missing are messages from top Bush appointees who improperly used private Republican Party e-mail accounts to conduct public business.

All this underscores the need for legal protections to ensure that the nation’s increasingly electronic history is preserved.

A measure moving through Congress would strengthen the power of the National Archives to require that the White House and other related agencies preserve all of their electronic records. The office of the archivist would establish better procedures and would be required to check and certify that the systems are doing the job. This is crucial, since Congressional investigators found that archive officials backed off from inspections of e-mail storage during the last administration.

Bush officials pleaded faulty technology as the cause of the missing e-mail. Maybe it was an accident that entire workdays turned up blank at the offices of President George Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney. Maybe it was a coincidence that hundreds of thousands of the missing e-mail messages went missing during the lead-up to the Iraq war — with its manipulated intelligence — and the outing of Valerie Plame and the decision to destroy C.I.A. interrogation tapes.

All such maybes are no substitute for the actual historic record. Congress must protect this priceless taxpayer property before any more history goes missing.
710 2009-03-17 EMI Music Publishing said that it had signed a deal with the estate of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to represent the intellectual property of the civil rights leader....
711 2009-03-17 Tyra Banks said that casting for the reality series “America’s Next Top Model” would resume after an incident Saturday in which a stampede broke out at an audition for the show in New York....
712 2009-03-17 Apple's new iPhone software encourages paid applications that offer to sell users more content for an additional fee. But it's keeping free apps from doing the same thing....
713 2009-03-17 Cut-and-paste, picture messaging and other long-desired features are slated for an update later this summer....
714 2009-03-17 Now that it's no longer chic (or feasible) to order those $2,200 cocktails, Dave Hanson of The New Yorker offers a menu of the latest recession-ready drinks....
715 2009-03-17 Upstairs at Anthos will have more casual food from Michael Psilakis at lower prices....
716 2009-03-17 Lawmakers are busily trying to figure out ways to recover money paid out in bonuses to a bailed-out company....
717 2009-03-17 Up Next in Video
718 2009-03-17 In a shot across the bow of other mobile phone makers who are rushing to emulate aspects of its popular iPhone, Apple previewed features of the next version of the phone's software....
719 2009-03-17 Of the $170 billion in government funds used to prop up American International Group, a large chunk has gone to buy soured securities - at full price - from big banks like Goldman Sachs. Though it was somewhat lost amid the public howls of protest...
720 2009-03-17 Apple demonstrated a multiplayer games feature and a long-awaited "cut, copy and paste" function....
721 2009-03-17 The sniping has been fast and furious between two Republican observers....
722 2009-03-17 There is no raisinet recession at Carmike Cinemas, where concession sales are up....
723 2009-03-17 The 248th St. Patrick's Day parade marched up Fifth Avenue, in an annual ritual marked this year by concerns about the recession....
724 2009-03-17 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
725 2009-03-17 Credit Suisse's top banker in Asia excluding Japan, Paul Raphael, is leaving the firm, according to an internal memo obtained by Dealbook. The Swiss firm named Vikram Malhotra, currently the head of the global market solutions group, and Helman Si...
726 2009-03-17 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
727 2009-03-17 Researchers in Europe have designed a facility in Italy that can test the real carbon footprint from trucks and buses in different climatic conditions....
728 2009-03-17 The Obama administration said on Monday that it would try to ease a credit squeeze afflicting small businesses by buying up to $15 billion of securities that are linked to small-business loans. Speaking to an audience of small-business owners at t...
729 2009-03-17 The Mets signed Rodríguez to a three-year, $37 million free-agent contract in the off-season and are hopeful that he can help remedy the bullpen problems that plagued them last season. So far, Rodriguez has looked superb saving games for his country, but he has yet to save one for his new team.

Before a win Saturday over the Netherlands, Rodríguez had not had a four-out save in the regular season since July 1, 2007. But Rodríguez said the Angels limited him to one-inning saves last season because they had a deep bullpen and did not need him in the eighth. Rodríguez believes he can be more than a one-inning closer for the Mets.

“I just got to make sure when they call me or they bring me in, I just get my job done,” Rodríguez said. “It doesn’t matter if I come in with one out in the eighth or start the whole inning in the ninth.”

Guillén drove in the first run with a single off Ian Snell in the third, but the second run was more complicated. Ramón Hernández homered, but it only became official after the umpires spent about 10 minutes trying to review a videotape replay of the shot. Hernández hit a ball off Giancarlo Alavarado that cleared the fence in left-center, hit in front of the first row of seats and caromed back onto the field.

When Carlos Beltrán threw the ball back to the infield, Hernández stopped at third. Ed Rapuano, the chief crew, said two of the umpires thought it was a homer and two thought it was not. The umpires attempted to watch a replay, but Rapuano said the feed from New York did not work so they did not see it. Since there was no replay, Rapuano based his decision on Hitoshi Watarida, the third-base umpire, who was insistent that the ball was a homer.

“The third-base umpire was absolutely positive the ball went over the wall,” Rapuano said. “He had a great angle on it. The other three umpires did not. That’s what I based the home run on. The way it came back onto the field was another reason why I changed it.”

Now that the Venezuelans are one of the semifinalists, Rodríguez said their goal was “to win it all.” With Rodríguez closing games, and even getting four outs, the Venezuelans may do it. Their famous closer could lead the way.

“Everybody in the world knows who is K-Rod,” Guillén said.
730 2009-03-17 Several lawyers predicted that Mr. Chaudhry would open cases against both President Asif Ali Zardari and his predecessor, Pervez Musharraf, concerning past deeds.

One of the first issues he had to tackle was the position of all the judges appointed under President Musharraf, and the ruling they gave to validate Mr. Musharraf’s imposition of emergency rule, Mr. Malik said.

“He has to stand watch and protect our independence, and ensure access to justice for the weaker sections of society,” he said of the chief justice.

For Mr. Chaudhry, the government’s announcement of his reinstatement ends an on-and-off suspension, with intervals of house arrest, that began on March 9, 2007, when Mr. Musharraf took action against him, apparently fearing that the judge would prevent the general from seeking another term.

Before then, there was little to indicate that Justice Chaudhry would become a crusader against the powerful military establishment, friends and supporters say.

Born in 1948 to a lower-middle-class family in the small provincial town of Quetta, he studied and practiced law there.

He became a judge on the high court of Baluchistan in 1990, was appointed to the Pakistani Supreme Court in 2000 and became chief justice in 2005.

At first, he accepted military rule by Mr. Musharraf, who as head of the armed forces had seized power in a coup in 1999. Mr. Chaudhry was one of the judges who validated constitutional changes that the general pushed through to consolidate his rule.

Lawyers who worked with Chief Justice Chaudhry, and later became supporters, acknowledge that at the time they did not like him. He was known for losing his temper and throwing files back in their faces.

“He acted like a Texan bandit,” Hassan Akhtar, 34, a lawyer who was trained in Britain, said.

Chief Justice Chaudhry worked hard to clear a backlog of cases at the Supreme Court and took on politically controversial issues, but lawyers complained that he rushed cases through, opened his own cases to address injustices he had come across, and forced lawyers and government officials to jump to his orders.

He began to emerge as a maverick chief justice in 2006 when he blocked the privatization of the Pakistan Steel Mills Corporation, infuriating the prime minister at the time, Shaukat Aziz.

He also took on the military establishment over hundreds of missing people who were alleged to have been held without judicial process in secret detention centers, as Pakistan’s part in the campaign against terrorism.

As Mr. Musharraf began to look ahead to securing a second term as president, which would involve bypassing constitutional constraints, he sought to replace Chief Justice Chaudhry with someone more biddable.

Two years ago, when the general called Mr. Chaudhry to his military residence and, in the presence of several other military officials, asked the judge to resign, he refused. The president did not expect the chief justice to show such courage and stubbornness.

Mr. Musharraf dismissed him anyway, setting off a constitutional crisis. The refrain among average people in this impoverished country was that the attempt to remove the justice summed up all the social and economic inequities they suffered at the hands of a corrupt and abusive system.

“Whoever gets power here, gets his way,” said Maulana Muhammad Ameer Khan, a lawyer and cleric from the strife-torn North-West Frontier Province, who said the chief justice had helped resolve a case for him three years ago.

“Unless the rule of law on the ground is achieved,” he said, “the situation will not improve.”

People rallied to the judge’s cause, among them the politician and lawyer Aitzaz Ahsan and an influential group of constitutional lawyers who had long opposed the various periods of military rule in Pakistan’s short history. Together they orchestrated a campaign of motorcades taking the chief justice to speak to bar associations around the country.

The marathon road show gathered thousands of lawyers and demonstrators and drew hours of television coverage, which fatally undermined Mr. Musharraf’s hold on power.

The Supreme Court reinstated Mr. Chaudhry in July 2007, and Mr. Musharraf managed to secure his election to another presidential term that October. But as the constitutionality of his election came under increased questioning, he declared a state of emergency on Nov. 3, suspending the Constitution and placing Mr. Chaudhry under house arrest once again.

Mr. Chaudhry was released four months later, after the Pakistan Peoples Party won elections, led by Mr. Zardari after the death of his wife, Benazir Bhutto on Dec. 27, 2007, in a suicide bombing attack.

The new government promised to establish an independent judiciary, but it repeatedly delayed any decision on reinstating the chief justice.

Underlying the reluctance was the deal that Ms. Bhutto struck with Mr. Musharraf before her death that allowed her to return to the country from self-imposed exile and have all corruption cases against her, her husband and other party officials dropped.

Mr. Zardari, who was elected president last September, gave repeated pledges to his rival and coalition partner, Nawaz Sharif, that he would reinstate the judges, but he never did, until now.
731 2009-03-17 Charles W. Freeman Jr.’s withdrawal of his name from consideration for a top intelligence post amid pressure from pro-Israel groups reveals a disturbing undercurrent in American politics: criticism, no matter how legitimate, of Israeli actions will not be tolerated.

Mr. Freeman’s comments about Israel addressed specific Israeli policies that he believed were counterproductive. They hardly constituted an “irrational hatred of Israel,” as Senator Charles E. Schumer claimed.

While Israel’s policies have generated controversy even within Israel itself, discussion and debate of these policies are conspicuously absent from the political arena in the United States.

Data, not dogma, should drive America’s foreign policy decisions. When unconditional support for a foreign country becomes a prerequisite for governmental positions, the very tenets of our democracy prove precarious.
732 2009-03-17 Though they have done little fighting, the Europeans have been an important deterrent. But the situation on the ground remains deeply uncertain, given the anarchy of Chad, the unbroken war in Darfur and the international arrest warrant issued for Mr. Bashir this month.

Attacks by bandits continue on women and young men, along with efforts to recruit child soldiers. Refugees like Mr. Ali say that it is dangerous to go even two miles outside the camp, making increasingly perilous the treks of seven or eight miles to find firewood in this desperately poor and now overpopulated region, where the stunted donkeys are known as the Ministers of Transport.

Serge Malé, the representative in Chad of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees, said that with new instability in Sudan, aid groups were preparing contingency plans for 50,000 more Darfur refugees. He said, “Darfur creates the earthquake that impacts the whole region.”

On Sunday, in a spit-and-polish ceremony in Abéché, attended by the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, as well as European politicians and United Nations officials, the Europeans transferred command to the United Nations. The new force begins with about 2,300 soldiers, 750 of them French, and expects to have 3,900 by June, when the rainy season starts, and 5,200 by the end of the year.

For Alain Le Roy, United Nations under secretary general for peacekeeping operations, Chad is a model. “The E.U. is developing its rapid deployment capacity,” he said. “They can deploy quickly and work to stabilize the situation. Then the U.N., which takes much longer to get into gear, can take over.”

About 2,000 European troops will remain, changing their berets from green to United Nations blue, until the end of this year, to prevent a deterrent vacuum.

Mr. Le Roy is running 18 missions, with 115,000 troops drawn from 118 countries, which he called “the second largest deployed army in the world.” Chad is secondary to the far more difficult missions in Congo and Darfur itself. But he is also hoping that this mission will set another precedent, because previously only 2 percent of his troops in Africa were European.

For Mr. Kouchner, a founder of Doctors Without Borders who seems much happier chatting with refugees than getting a Chadian decoration hung around his neck on a yellow ribbon, the success of the European deployment helps show that France can reintegrate in NATO and keep its independence.

But Mr. Kouchner, on his fourth visit here, also insisted that the previous French policy of intervention in former colonies to prop up favored rulers — including a 2006 intervention in Chad — is over. Still, 1,100 French troops remain in Chad under an earlier agreement with the government.

“We won’t intervene ever again in internal affairs,” he insisted. France will operate, he said, with transparent accords or mandates from the European Union, African Union or United Nations. “There are sentiments and feelings that are something familial,” he said. “But France-Afrique, it’s finished. We are working to turn this enormous page.”

Still, suspicion that France pushed this European mission as a way to sugarcoat French interests and support the vulnerable Chadian president, Idriss Déby, kept Germany and Britain from significant participation.

In the end, most agree, the European force, with Lt. Gen. Patrick Nash of Ireland in command and a French general on the ground, strictly followed its mandate to protect refugees, the displaced and aid workers, and did not intervene in Chad’s internal conflicts. Even last June, when rebels attacked and briefly occupied Goz Beida, the Europeans protected refugees and aid workers, but did not try to defend the city.

Gen. David Leakey, director-general of the European Union’s military staff, said that the Irish had worked hard to keep the force’s neutrality. “Look at the balance,” General Leakey said. “This has not been a French operation in an E.U. flag, but it delivered some significant security here. It’s served as a bridge for the U.N. to come and gave some more confidence to the people of Chad.”

He praised the Europeans for moving relatively quickly with force into one of the most isolated and severe environments possible.

But it was “not a war-fighting operation,” he emphasized. “We need to be careful that the E.U. not be stereotyped as a tree-hugging operation. Next time we might face something rather more vigorous.”
733 2009-03-17 “We’re not in Canada, where you can hike for hours in vast forests,” said Markus Dörig, 49, spokesman for the local government, a look of exasperation on his face. “Here you meet other hikers every few minutes. It was bothersome.”

Konrad Hepenstrick says he almost never meets people who are bothered. “You greet them, and they greet you, though in winter, of course, many ask, ‘Aren’t you cold?’” he said, picking at a lunch of coarse, spicy Appenzeller sausage in a restaurant high on the slopes over the town. Unseasonable snow showers clouded the view of the surrounding peaks, thwarting plans for a nude hike with this reporter.

Mr. Hepenstrick, 54, is an architect who loves to hike in the altogether. In winter, he said, he has hiked for hours in temperatures well below freezing, though he does concede the need for a hat and gloves. He has hiked in the nude for about 30 years, he said, and has crisscrossed the hills and mountains around Appenzell, as well as in France, Germany, Italy and even the Appalachians.

His companion, a schoolteacher, also hikes, though she will not do so au naturel, he said. So why does he take off his clothes? “There’s not much to discuss,” he said. “It’s freedom. First, freedom in your head; then, freedom of the body.”

With some Swiss legal experts arguing that banning nudity in public would be unconstitutional, the government has been hamstrung in responding to the hikers. It has drafted legislation that, if enacted, would outlaw “abusive behavior that offends against custom and decency,” but it seems likely to be challenged. Daniel Kettiger, a legal expert, published a six-page paper last month titled, predictably enough, “The Bare Facts: On the Criminal Prosecution of Nude Hiking,” pointing out that in 1991 Switzerland struck a law from its books that banned nudity in public.

“Simply being naked without any sexual connotation is no longer illegal,” Mr. Kettiger said by telephone, adding, “at the time there was a wave of nudism.” Was he himself a hiker? “Yes, but never nude,” he replied. “First there is the danger of sunburn, and then there are ticks all over the place in the Alps, which carry Boreliosa,” or Lyme disease.

The Appenzeller justice minister, Melchior Looser, is sure he can frame a law that will force the naked to cover up. “I think the measure will work the way we have fashioned it,” said Mr. Looser, 63, noting that offenders would be fined the equivalent of $170.

He would like to have the law in place by springtime, when hikers again take to the hills. But he concedes that it must be approved by the grand assembly of the people, a gathering of all citizens of voting age once a year on the town’s main square, which is scheduled to convene April 26. Passage is by no means assured.

Hans Eggimann believes it will be enacted. “I hike around the house naked, but outside I put my pants on,” said Mr. Eggimann, 57, a large man who sells more than 60 types of cheese in his shop in the town center.

Others are not so sure. “Many Appenzellers I know say it doesn’t bother them,” said Alessandra Maselli, who works in a dry goods store not far from Mr. Eggimann’s cheese emporium. “I’d say it’s about half and half, with a slight majority for the law,” she said.

Over in the Bücherladen bookstore, Caroline Habazin, 46, said the controversy gave everyone a good laugh at the town Carnival parade last month. One float featured a male and a female hiker in flesh-colored tights, their arm and leg muscles and their rear ends stuffed up steroid-style with filling, though the man’s private parts were mostly covered by fake grape leaves. “I think it’s only a pretty small group,” she said.

Her colleague, Edith Sklorz, 48, said why anyone would want to hike nude was puzzling to her, though her husband felt differently. “I can understand swimming nude,” she said, “but not hiking.”

What offended her equally though, was the government’s choice of responding to the hikers with a law. Recently, the neighboring town of Gossau passed a measure banning spitting in public, she said, threatening offenders with a $50 fine; and now a law to ban nude hikers. “For every tiny thing, there’s a law,” she said.

Ursula Heller has been selling apparel for hikers and trekkers for five years in her shop just off the town’s main square. A threat to her business from nude hikers? She laughed deeply. She and her husband are avid hikers, she said, but she is against nudity.

“If you want to get undressed,” she said, “you can always wear shorts or a bikini.”
734 2009-03-17 Just after the turnstiles were opened on a shiny new subway station Monday at South Ferry to replace the existing 104-year-old station in Lower Manhattan, train service to the new station had to be shut down when an even older water main burst near Canal Street.

The first train left the new station at 12:05 p.m.; just 20 minutes later came the announcement that water was on the tracks at Canal Street, some 30 blocks uptown. One more train left before service was halted entirely.

The disruption lasted for about three and a half hours and tangled subway service on the West Side of Manhattan, in Brooklyn and the Bronx.

The 12-inch cast iron water main that broke was installed in 1870, according to Steven W. Lawitts, the acting commissioner of the City Department of Environmental Protection.

The spurting water caused a section of Varick Street, just north of Canal Street, to buckle. The water flowed into the subway tunnel, where it rose to the height of the third rail.

Service on the Nos. 1, 2 and 3 trains was disrupted while subway workers at Canal Street pumped the water out and dried out and tested the signals.

Earlier in the day, Metropolitan Transportation Authority officials proudly showed off the new South Ferry station during a grand opening ceremony attended by Gov. David A. Paterson.

The new station was meant to eliminate one of the great anachronisms of the subway system.

The old station was opened in 1905, when local trains ran with just four cars. But in the 1940s and ’50s, most stations were enlarged to make room for 10-car trains. But there was no room to do that at South Ferry, where only five cars fit along the platform, because of the station’s layout.

For years, riders have had to move to the first five cars if they wanted to get off at South Ferry, the southern terminus on the No. 1 line. Inevitably, riders would get stuck in the back of the train and found themselves riding around the loop, heading uptown to the next stop at Rector Street.

The South Ferry station also had creaky motorized platform extensions to bridge the big gap to the car doors on the tightly curved platform. (In the old station’s last hours on Monday, one of the moving platforms malfunctioned and service into the station was disrupted for about half an hour.)

The new station cost $527 million. Of that amount, $420 million came from the federal government as part of an injection of money into Lower Manhattan after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Officials said that the new station would speed travel on the line by eliminating delays at South Ferry.

The project was finished more than a year behind its original schedule. Transit officials had hoped to open the station a few weeks earlier but were delayed when it was discovered that the gap between the platform and the trains at the new station was up to an inch wider than allowed by federal rules. That had to be corrected before Monday’s opening.

The new station brought out many subway buffs, some of whom lamented the passing of the old.

“They’re killing every part of New York,” said Jonathan Fuchs, 44, a lawyer who lives in Brooklyn and who stood in the old station taking photographs. He pointed out the terra-cotta tiles with a bas relief of a sailboat and the decorative tops of station columns. “I’m going to start crying,” he said.

But at the new station, adjacent to the old, many riders marveled at the wide platforms, pristine white walls and bright lights.

“After 104 years to finally get a proper terminal down here,” said Kenneth Barr, 51, of Manhattan, who was first customer through the turnstiles and rode in the first car of the first train out of the station. “It’s beautiful.”
735 2009-03-17 Lebanon opened its embassy in Damascus, the Syrian capital, on Monday, the latest step in establishing diplomatic relations between the neighboring countries for the first time since they gained independence about six decades ago. Syria opened an embassy in Beirut in December. Syria occupied Lebanon militarily for almost three decades before withdrawing in 2005.
736 2009-03-17 These days, Dr. Flaherty is preoccupied with the neuroanatomy of empathy — especially the mirror neuron system in the insula, cingulate and inferior frontal parts of the brain, which become active when one person witnesses another experiencing emotion. The routes to her interest were interconnected and highly personal.

“What made me empathic was my depressions,” she said recently. “People’s emotions were pounding me in the face. The mania is like wasps under the skin, like my head’s going to explode with ideas. But the depressions help the doctor aspect of me.”

When Dr. Flaherty lost her first set of twins (she and her husband, a book editor, are now rearing healthy twin daughters), she experienced a natural yearning for empathy from her own doctor. But as a scientist she wondered, was she yearning for his empathy or an appearance of empathic actions?

Years later, she consulted on a pilot for a television drama based on her life: doctor develops mania after personal catastrophe. Although the show never got off the ground, the experience became a roomful of mirrors and mirror neurons, for who better to teach empathy to a doctor than an actor?

“The actress playing me was trying to pick up my mannerisms. At the same time,” she said, recalling professional lessons learned, “I was trying to pick up hers, because she was much more convincing than I am — she had a little smile that was triumphant, but also just so happy for the patient. I was imitating her imitating me.”

The office in which Dr. Flaherty writes is one floor down from her movement disorders clinic at Massachusetts General — filled with fossils and masks, neurological instruments pinned to a corkboard, books by Darwin, Mann and Virginia Woolf, posters of seminars and art exhibits based on “The Midnight Disease.”

Letters run up the back of her wrist. They are one consequence of hypergraphia, the overwhelming urge to write; she writes during manias and edits during depressions. (She keeps the illness under control with medication.) Dr. Jerrold F. Rosenbaum, chief of psychiatry at Mass General, says he used to get notes from Dr. Flaherty on napkins.

“I save everything she sends me, which I don’t do with anyone else,” he said. “She has enhanced theories of the mind — enhanced in quantity, quality, volume and intensity.”

The wrist notes could be on any of a dozen topics. They may be more thoughts on empathic pain, or about research she is conducting on the side about light boxes and creativity in Harvard undergraduates.

Maybe they are about the informal consultation she made several years ago to an Off Broadway adaptation of “A Doll’s House,” directed by Lee Breuer, a former colleague of hers at the Radcliffe Institute at Harvard, where they were both fellows in 2005.

When weeping during a scene, the actress who played Nora was alarmed upon noticing that the mascara ran from her left eye more quickly than from her right. Dr. Flaherty reassured her that the neurology was normal: the right brain, which controls the opposite side of the body, also controls negative emotions. Therefore, one side seems, and is, sadder than the other. This will go in Dr. Flaherty’s next book, which will be about the neurobiology of illness behaviors ranging from hysteria to stoicism, and, of course, empathy.

In the movement disorders clinic, she follows about 130 patients — the stable ones annually, the still suffering every few weeks. She specializes in deep brain stimulation; electrodes are implanted in the brain to treat Parkinson’s disease, tremors, dystonias and depressions. Within this specialty, she has developed a subspecialty appropriate to someone still struggling with her own moods.

“People can become manic or depressed as a side effect of deep brain stimulation,” said Dr. Anne B. Young, director of the Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease at Mass General. “Alice is a master at managing this.”

Dr. Flaherty’s explanation was simple. “Neurology and psychiatry should be treating the same organ,” she said.

At a recent clinic day, she managed to look professional in ski pants and a Spandex top, without a white coat. The patient who arrived was far more elegantly dressed.

For years, the woman suffered intractable depression. Brain stimulators were implanted in both frontal lobes, near an area called the anterior cingulate cortex. So far the treatment, augmented with medications, has been more successful than drugs alone or electroconvulsive therapy.

On this day, though, she was not feeling hopeful. “There’s a parasite eating my brain,” she said. “I’m dull, dumb, mindless.”

Dr. Flaherty leaned forward. “The one thing I can say is, I believe you,” she said. “I believe you used to be smarter, and your brain worked better.”

“It took you eight years to feel your brain was intact, didn’t it?” the patient asked with longing.

“For me,” Dr. Flaherty replied, “it wasn’t memory, but getting my brain to feel right. The psychiatrists said, ‘You should get used to this as your new normal,’ but I never did. It was always alienating when people said, ‘Oh, that’s just bipolar illness talking.’ No, hello — that’s me.”

The woman held a programmer, a device that looked like an electronic toll tag, to each side of her chest. “Stimulator’s still on, everything looks good,” Dr. Flaherty said. She made notes in the chart before changing the parameters — volts, microseconds per pulse, hertz — that are the map of this world.

“Feel any tingling?” Experimentally, she turned both batteries off.

“Did you turn them back on?” the patient asked anxiously.

Afterward, Dr. Flaherty reflected on the anxiety. “It’s no fun feeling your thoughts are being controlled by an electrode, and someone else is holding the clicker,” she said. “I love the sensation of giving people their own clickers. I say, ‘Here, you can have your own, I’ll teach you how to use it, and within this safe range you can adjust it yourself.’ ”

It was an example of physician empathy, but also of identification. For Dr. Flaherty, each day holds reminders of her dual citizenship. Recently, she was interviewing someone with a rare brain lesion when her cellphone rang. She was needed for another interview across town in front of a class of Harvard Medical psychiatry students. She was the patient.
737 2009-03-17 The prime minister and his cabinet resigned on Monday after members of Parliament moved to question the prime minister, state media said, deepening a political crisis. It was the fourth time the cabinet had quit in two years. The last cabinet resigned in November after a similar request to question the prime minister, who has been accused of mismanagement. Questioning the prime minister has never been allowed here, and the current one, Sheik Nasser al-Mohamed al-Ahmad al-Sabah, is the emir’s nephew. The emir may either appoint a new prime minister or dissolve Parliament, which would lead to elections.
738 2009-03-17 Ms. Lubecke, for instance, has frequently chosen assignments because of their proximity to birding habitats that she has wanted to visit but might not otherwise have been able to afford. “My colleagues have loved me for that,” she said, “because my choices were places like Toledo, Ohio, and Fayetteville, Ark. — places they didn’t want to go.”

Once, when required to choose between trips to New York City, Los Angeles or Birmingham, Ala., she picked Birmingham for the possibility of viewing the endangered red cockaded woodpecker, resident at nearby Talladega National Forest. “Twice I’d gone on trips on my own to find it, with no luck,” she said. But on that business trip, “I saw it!” And she was able to add the bird to her life list, a compilation of species seen that many birders maintain. (Ms. Lubecke’s list is an impressive one, in the mid-400s.)

Bird watching’s hours also mesh well with business travel. While golfers need half a day to pursue their game, and hockey fans may be forced to choose between entertaining clients in the evenings and watching an important game, birds are most easily observed in the early morning, before the work day begins. “You can get up a little early, take a walk through the park for an hour and still make it in time for your breakfast meeting,” said John Flicker, president of the National Audubon Society.

Mr. Flicker calls bird watching a great “ice breaker” for business travelers seeking to create a rapport with clients or audiences. “I go to Nebraska a fair amount, and I love going to the Platte River and watching the sandhill crane migration.” But, he said, many Nebraskans think outsiders do not know much about their state. “So if I can come from across the country and talk about why the crane migration is so cool, it creates a bond that wouldn’t exist otherwise,” he said.

And some say the practice may also help them become more proficient at what they do for a living. “It has made me more observant,” said Bob Smith, a stand-up comic and novelist from New York who describes himself as an openly gay comic but a closeted bird watcher. (“Bird watching has a real nerdy image,” he said.)

“To really see something is a great thing for an artist, and bird watching teaches you that,” Mr. Smith said. “That focus has translated into everything I do, including into writing more interesting jokes.”

As a self-employed person, Mr. Smith is careful to separate his business travel expenses from his bird-watching ones for tax purposes. But some bird watchers stretch the line between legitimate business travel and bird watching in pursuit of, say, an elusive and endangered black-necked stilt.

After Steven Servantez, a veterinarian in Janesville, Wis., and his wife, Julie, received some notoriety in the birding world for being the first to spot the tufted flycatcher in Arizona, Dr. Servantez said he “got a call from a vet I didn’t know who wanted me to come out to Hawaii to a veterinary conference with him.” The veterinarian wanted Dr. Servantez to join him “not so much to go to the conference, but to go birding.”

In fact, bird watching and business travel can enrich each other, changing how travelers experience their business trips. “To have to go 5,000 miles to give a talk is one thing,” said Mr. Rosen, the author. “But to go 5,000 miles to see a painted redstart. That’s a whole different story.”
739 2009-03-17 PITTSBURGH (AP) — The aluminum producer Alcoa said Monday that it planned to cut its quarterly dividend by 82 percent and sell $1.1 billion worth of shares to build up a cash cushion.

The company also said it plans to cut costs by more than $2.4 billion annually by 2010.

Alcoa said its actions would increase working capital by $800 million this year and reduce capital spending by an additional $1 billion in 2010.

The announcement, made after the market closed Monday, follows news in January that Alcoa plans to lay off about 13 percent of its global work force by the end of 2009, cut production and spending, and sell four subsidiaries.
740 2009-03-17 A severe rabies outbreak in Luanda, the capital of Angola, has killed at least 93 children in three months, according to the United Nations.

Because of a shortage of vaccines, doctors were unable to save any of the children taken to the city’s main pediatric hospital, the hospital’s chief, Dr. Luis Bernardino, told the United Nations’ Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. In any case, many of the children were brought in too late to save, he added.

Rabies deaths in Luanda, where more than four million people are jammed into vast slums, may actually be much higher; the count was based on one hospital.

Roaming packs of dogs have been blamed. Even after deaths began last year, the city did little, Dr. Bernardino said, because it has no service to vaccinate dogs. However, recent news reports from Angola have been contradictory. One said thousands of dogs had been rounded up for vaccination, tested and released if they were rabies-free — but that can be determined only after the dog has died, by taking a brain sample.

There has been a global shortage of human rabies vaccine since 2007, when Sanofi Pasteur began renovating a factory. Unexpected outbreaks drained a rival supplier, and a Chinese maker has had quality problems.

Rabies vaccine and immunoglobulin also cost about $50 per treatment, a United Nations rabies expert said. Angola is one of the world’s poorest countries, and about a quarter of all children die before age 5.
741 2009-03-17 Stethoscopes carried by ambulance crews are not always cleaned as often as they should be, and as a result they may be exposing some patients to drug-resistant bacteria, a new study reports.

Researchers who looked at stethoscopes used by emergency medical services workers in New Jersey found that a significant number carried methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, bacteria known as MRSA that are resistant to standard drugs.

Some of the ambulance workers could not recall the last time the instruments had been cleaned, said the researchers, whose report appears in the current issue of Prehospital Emergency Care.

The study’s lead author, Dr. Mark A. Merlin of Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, said it was unclear how big a threat MRSA on a stethoscope posed to a patient. But as incidents of infection by the bacteria become more common, and with the possibility that it will become more resistant to antibiotics, it is important to reduce its spread, he said.

Researchers asked ambulance crews arriving at an emergency department over a 24-hour period to let their stethoscopes be tested. They also asked when the instruments had last been cleaned.

Of 50 stethoscopes tested, 16 had the bacteria, which a simple alcohol swab is usually enough to kill, the researchers said. “The concept of cleaning an entire ambulance after every patient is not practical,” they wrote. “Cleaning a stethoscope, however, is not labor-intensive, does not require much time, and does not require any special equipment beyond currently stocked items.”
742 2009-03-17 Mr. Obama said the small-business credit squeeze was linked to the overall credit crisis, which, he said, “began when some banks bundled and sold mortgages in complex ways to hide risk and avoid responsibility.”

“The collapse of these mortgage-backed securities and other complex financial instruments froze the credit markets, including the markets that help small businesses access loans to cover payroll, to purchase supplies, or to expand in ways that create new jobs,” he said.

The White House said in a statement that the Obama administration believed that the country’s “economic recovery will be driven in large part by America’s small businesses” and noted that small companies had generated some 70 percent of net new jobs annually over the last decade.

Administration officials said that by the end of March the Treasury Department would begin making direct purchases of securities backed by loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. Even small businesses with good credit histories had lost the ability to borrow, administration officials said.

The initiatives are intended to encourage new lending to creditworthy small companies by making loans more attractive. In addition, the administration wants to ease the secondary market for loans backed by the Small Business Administration, which has been frozen since last fall.

During a conference call with reporters, administration officials said they expected that most of the $15 billion would be used to buy newly issued securities, at prices high enough to attract sellers, but not so high that taxpayers would be overcharged. Officials played down fears that taxpayers could end up rescuing small businesses that might be better left to sink. A senior administration official said that delinquencies among small businesses would decrease when the economy turned around.

As part of the administration’s small-business initiative, the I.R.S. announced Monday that small businesses with deductions exceeding their income in 2008 could use a new net operating loss tax provision to get a refund of taxes paid in prior years. The provision, enacted as part of the economic recovery plan, enables small businesses with a net operating loss in 2008 to elect to offset this loss against income earned in up to five prior years, instead of the usual two-year limit.

“The new net operating loss provisions could throw a lifeline to struggling businesses, providing them with a quick infusion of cash,” said the I.R.S. commissioner, Doug Shulman, in a statement. “We want to make it as easy as possible for small businesses to take advantage of these key tax benefits.”
743 2009-03-17 ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — A missile strike from a remotely piloted American aircraft hit the house of a local militant commander in the Frontier Region Bannu killing four people, including two Arabs, residents and intelligence officials said.

The attack late Sunday targeted the compound of a local militant commander, Taj Ali Khan, in Sain Tanga village in the Jaani Khel frontier region of Bannu. Pakistan has six frontier regions that act as buffers between settled districts and tribal areas. Bannu borders North Waziristan. Five people were killed in the same area last November.

Local and Western intelligence officials say Jaani Khel has a significant number of Arab residents and serves as a transit route into and out Afghanistan.
744 2009-03-17 GURAL--Aaron. With sincerest and heartfelt condolences to the entire Gural family from everyone at the Museum at Eldridge Street....
745 2009-03-17 WEISS--Aaron J.,Ph.D., Rabbi, passed away on March 15, 2009. Husband of Sondra, Father of Baht and Joshua (Leah). Grandfather of Lev, Asher and Shayna. Brother of Samuel (Alice). Rabbi and Psychologist revered for his keen intellect and sharp wit....
746 2009-03-17 GURAL--Aaron. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our partner and friend. We will miss our many years of business, civic and philanthropic partnerships. We worked together to make New York City a better place. Our heartfelt condolences go...
747 2009-03-17 A MORE ASSERTIVE POWER China is becoming a more assertive and capable rival of the United States as it exploits its unusually flush position and strong banking system while much of the rest of the world wallows in a financial crisis.      A CRASH-...
748 2009-03-18 Parker Posey will take a break from her schedule of what seems like 50 movies a year to appear in a new stage work at Playwrights Horizons....
749 2009-03-18 The long list for the Orange Prize, the finalists for the Man Booker Prize and the winner of the New York Public Library Young Lions Fiction Award have been announced....
750 2009-03-18 The new International LoneStar Harley-Davidson Special Edition starts at $155,000 and has many Harley touches....
751 2009-03-18 A Brooklyn judge has cleared the way for the city's Department of Correction to reoccupy and potentially expand the Brooklyn House of Detention, which stopped housing inmates overnight in 2003....
752 2009-03-18 Washington is filled with outrage over the $165 million in bonuses given out by the American International Group. Yet, as I said in my post on Tuesday, "Seven Sad Truths About A.I.G.," the real concern over the insurance giant should be about the ...
753 2009-03-18 The Obama administration announced Wednesday that it would support a United Nations declaration to decriminalize homosexuality, just months after the Bush administration refused to back the measure....
754 2009-03-18 Which teams are over-hyped heading into the first day of the N.C.A.A. tournament? Sports Editor Tom Jolly joins Connor Ennis to preview Thursday's action.
755 2009-03-18 Yes, Aaron Boone needs open-heart surgery and may never play baseball again. But his prognosis is good and his career has been a blast....
756 2009-03-18 A Statue of Liberty made out of 36,000 tulip bulbs was unveiled this week at the Keukenhof Gardens near Amsterdam....
757 2009-03-18 Shares of Bank of America climbed on Wednesday after its chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, said he thought the bank could pay back its $45 billion in government bailout money by early next year if the recession eased. "In terms of paying it total...
758 2009-03-18 Most passengers did not have particularly strong feelings about the new Port Authority ferry terminal at the World Financial Center, which serves passengers from New Jersey....
759 2009-03-18 Over on The Lede blog, Robert Mackey reported that British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has rejected a new proposal by England's chief medical officer, Sir Liam Donaldson, to combat binge-drinking by introducing a minimum price for alcohol, which w...
760 2009-03-18 With so many fashion people dabbling in hotels lately - witness Armani's plans for Egypt and Milan, Bulgari's properties in Bali and Milan, and the forthcoming Missonis in Cape Town and Kuwait - one can grow weary from all those exciting brand ext...
761 2009-03-18 What you need to know about sensor size before you buy a new digital camera....
762 2009-03-18 Russia announces subsidies for the nesting doll industry....
763 2009-03-18 News from Singapore, Brazil, the U.K. and St. Lucia....
764 2009-03-18 The European Commission said Wednesday it expects electricity savings equivalent to the electricity consumption of Belgium - or the yearly output of 20 power stations of 500 megawatts - from phasing out incandescent bulbs....
765 2009-03-18 A new policy from the credit-card company allows them to call you at any number you've used to contact them--whether it's your phone or someone else's....
766 2009-03-18 To protect its business model, Goldman Sachs is risking "TARP rage," the special wrath that taxpayers and lawmakers reserve for potentially questionable actions by those that receive money under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, Breakingviews say...
767 2009-03-18 Thornburg Mortgage, a large and troubled provider of "jumbo" mortgage loans, said Tuesday that it might file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The company, based in Santa Fe, N.M., has struggled with liquidity problems since the summer of 2007...
768 2009-03-18 Some of the billions of dollars the federal government paid to bail out the American International Group stand to benefit hedge funds that bet on a falling housing market, The Wall Street Journal said, citing people familiar with the matter and do...
769 2009-03-18 Pfizer, the giant drug maker, has sold $13.5 billion worth of bonds to replace short-term loans covering about one-third of the cost of its planned acquisition of its rival Wyeth, The Associated Press said. The senior, unsecured bonds were sold in...
770 2009-03-18 Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson called for an overhaul of financial regulation in an opinion piece in the Financial Times on Tuesday, largely reiterating a plan he proposed in March 2008. The former secretary's article comes amid e...
771 2009-03-18 In a new twist on the pay-what-you-want concept, the Y.M.C.A. of Greater New York will allow families this year to choose among three prices for its sleepaway camps....
772 2009-03-18 Unemployment may still be rising and the economy may be nowhere near a bottom, but optimism reigned on Wall Street Tuesday, The New York Times's Jack Healy reported. Cheered by reports showing a surprising increase in home building last month, sto...
773 2009-03-18 A Palestinian-born businessman was convicted in New York Tuesday on charges that he conspired with the Syrian arms dealer Monzer al-Kassar in a plot to sell weapons, including 15 surface-to-air missiles, to a Colombian terrorist organization.

The businessman, Tareq Mousa al-Ghazi, was told that the arms would be used to kill American military officers, the evidence showed.

Mr. Ghazi, 62, is the third man found guilty in the plot, which involved an elaborate sting operation run by the Drug Enforcement Administration, which used informants who posed as middlemen and said they were seeking the weapons for a Columbian rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, which has been designated by the United States government as a terrorist organization.

Prosecutors said the men also agreed to sell 4,000 grenades, nearly 9,000 assault rifles and thousands of pounds of explosives to the FARC for a profit of more than $1 million.

Mr. Ghazi was acquitted of a broader charge, conspiring to kill Americans generally. But he was convicted of three conspiracy counts, including the plot to kill American military officers and providing material support to a foreign terrorist group.
774 2009-03-18 A Palestinian-born businessman was convicted in New York Tuesday on charges that he conspired with the Syrian arms dealer Monzer al-Kassar in a plot to sell weapons, including 15 surface-to-air missiles, to a Columbian terrorist organization.

The businessman, Tareq Mousa al-Ghazi, was told that the arms would be used to kill American military officers, the evidence showed.

Mr. Ghazi, 62, is the third man found guilty in the plot, which involved an elaborate sting operation run by the Drug Enforcement Administration, which used informants who posed as middlemen and said they were seeking the weapons for a Columbian rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC.

Prosecutors said the men also agreed to sell 4,000 grenades, nearly 9,000 assault rifles and thousands of pounds of explosives to the FARC for a profit of more than $1 million.

Mr. Ghazi was acquitted of a broader charge, conspiring to kill Americans generally. But he was convicted of three conspiracy counts, including the plot to kill American military officers and providing material assistance to a terrorist group.
775 2009-03-18 Every day, insurance companies sell policies to homeowners to cover the cost of damage in the case of fire. Why would those companies agree to pay out in full to a policyholder even if a fire had not occurred?

That is the type of question being asked about the federal government’s bailout of American International Group in which the insurance company funneled $49.5 billion in taxpayer funds to financial institutions, including Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch. The payments, which amount to almost 30 percent of the $170 billion in taxpayer commitments provided to A.I.G. since its near collapse last September, were disclosed by the company on Sunday.

The company had resisted identifying the recipients of the taxpayers’ money for months, citing confidentiality agreements.

But instead of quieting the controversy, the disclosure of the amounts paid to A.I.G.’s customers has created still more questions and unease over the insurer’s rescue, arranged by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the United States Treasury.

Critics argue that the government’s decision to pay buyers of A.I.G. credit insurance in full and across the board was an inappropriate use of taxpayer money. In addition, these people say, options not pursued by the government could have allowed taxpayers to benefit from future gains or at least have done a better job of limiting the potential for losses.

The criticism surrounds the action taken by the government on credit insurance that A.I.G. had written and sold to large and sophisticated investors, mostly financial institutions. The banks that did business with A.I.G. bought credit insurance to protect against possible defaults on debt securities they held or had underwritten.

But when A.I.G.’s credit rating was cut last year, the company was required to post collateral on these insurance contracts. The need to quickly deliver cash that it did not have created the downward spiral that brought it to the brink.

What upsets some people is that the government paid the counterparties in full even though the underlying securities had not experienced widespread, or perhaps even any, defaults.

“It is inappropriate to be giving money to A.I.G. for them to give it out to their counterparties equally,” said Robert Arvanitis, chief executive of Risk Finance Advisors in Westport, Conn., and an expert in insurance. “If we decide that another bank will be in trouble because A.I.G. fails, then we should decide explicitly that the bank should be supported. We should not simply give everybody 100 cents on the dollar.”

When the government bought the underlying securities to cancel the insurance, the taxpayer became the owner of these pools of debt issues. Because the government chose to pay par or 100 percent of the face value, the taxpayer has downside risk if the securities lose value but virtually no upside.

Even if none of the debt securities in the pools experience a default, the taxpayer is likely to receive no more than par  what the government paid  when they mature.

Had the government negotiated for a lower price, say 75 cents on the dollar, the taxpayer might have been able to reap gains down the road.

The top three recipients of money from the government related to the credit insurance A.I.G. had written are Société Générale, a French bank, at $11 billion; Goldman Sachs, at $8.1 billion; and Deustche Bank, at $5.4 billion.

A.I.G.’s disclosure of payments to its counterparties did not provide any details of how the government arrived at the prices it paid for the underlying securities. If it overpaid, the taxpayer is at greater risk of loss and the recipients may have received more than they were due.

Another troubling aspect to some is that so many of the counterparties are foreign institutions. Indeed, of the 22 institutions that have received either collateral from the government or cash payments to close out credit insurance deals, 16 are foreign.

“I find it impossible to understand why we as taxpayers are bailing out foreign banks,” said Thomas H. Patrick, a founder of new Vernon Capital and a former top executive at Merrill Lynch. “If the shoe was on the other foot and major U.S. institutions were exposed to those banks, would the U.K. or the E.U. tax their citizens to pay off JPMorgan? There has to be some explanation of why we decided to do that.”

The decision to protect foreign institutions from losses in an A.I.G. collapse may reflect how interrelated the global financial markets have become. That is the view of Adam Glass, a partner at Linklaters in New York and co-head of the firm’s structured finance and derivatives practice.

“It is an interconnected world,” Mr. Glass said. “If UBS or these French banks collapsed, it is not just their problem. It is our problem because world economic activity would have been further impaired.”

Even though A.I.G. finally disclosed the names of the institutions that received so much of the government money that was thought to be going to A.I.G., the idea that it took six months still rankles some market participants.

“The system was undermined by asking the American people, under the veil of secrecy, to bail out one company when in fact they wanted to bail out someone else,” said Sylvain R. Raynes, an authority in structured finance and a founder of R & R Consulting, a firm that helps investors gauge debt risks. “The prospectus for the bailout was not delivered to the people. And it was not delivered because if it had been, the deal would not have gone through.”
776 2009-03-18 Congressional auditors estimated that the national missile defense programs could have cost overruns of $2 billion to $3 billion, reinforcing widespread expectations that they will be subject to cuts by the Obama administration.

The estimate was released by the Government Accountability Office on Monday, as Pentagon officials stepped up a review of the military’s most expensive acquisition programs.

The defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, has said he expects to propose cuts in some of the most troubled programs as part of an effort to remake a contracting system that has been plagued by cost overruns and delays.

The G.A.O. said that the Pentagon’s Missile Defense Agency has spent almost $56 billion since it began developing and fielding defense systems in 2002, and it is likely to spend $50 billion more over the next five years.

The auditors also said the agency’s budgeting practices were not precise enough, and that 2008 was the sixth consecutive year they could not determine its actual costs.
777 2009-03-18 To protect its business model, Goldman Sachs is risking “TARP rage,” the special wrath that taxpayers and lawmakers reserve for potentially questionable actions by those that receive money under the Troubled Asset Relief Program.

The bank is providing loans to up to 1,000 employees so they can meet capital calls related to their investments in funds that Goldman manages. Doing so after taking TARP money, rather than using the government largess to increase lending, sounds like a recipe for a public relations disaster. But it may be essential if Goldman is to make sure that other investors in its funds follow through on their commitments.

Like investors everywhere, some of Goldman’s finance gurus are having money problems. Because in-house investors typically account for up to a third of the equity in a Goldman buyout fund, for instance, that’s a big problem in the making. Having its own employees unable — or unwilling — to meet their commitments could set a precedent for outside investors. Big pension funds, for example, have lost money across the board, are short of cash and are keen to get out of the promises they made to invest more in funds like Goldman’s. They might like a justification for walking away.

So Goldman’s commercial banking group will give employees loans collateralized by their assets in the fund concerned. The firm has taken a fairly hard line: employees who eventually refuse to make good on their commitments put their jobs in peril.

Of course, if Goldman’s fund managers invest wisely, the employees will easily pay off the loans, and they’ll get a return on their fund investment juiced by leverage. But even if the funds just slog along, the firm needed to spur its employees to put up what they’ve committed. There’s little chance its funds’ already reluctant outside investors will tolerate a double standard.

Tariffs imposed on Monday by Mexico on $2.4 billion of imports from the United States are both modest and permitted under the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement. But they run two risks: that protectionists both sides of the border will use them to pick apart Nafta, and that resulting economic problems could further stoke anti-American feeling in Mexico and harm relations.
778 2009-03-18 As I tasted the reds from Bierzo, I wanted food that was dark, rich and earthy. Why not morcilla — Spanish blood sausage? A plate of nicely seared morcilla, or French boudin noir, would be enough alongside these wines.

But in this dish of chicken on a bed of cannellini beans, the morcilla provides just an accent, albeit forceful, like a spoonful of horseradish on boiled beef. Another kind of sausage — or none at all — could be used, though it would change the dish’s character and color.

I cooked the beans separately to guarantee their tenderness. Canned beans provide an acceptable shortcut. For six servings, I used chicken breasts, thighs and wings, briefly seared. With one chicken cut up, double the amount of sausage. Some guests may be delighted.

1. Separate wings from breasts. Cut each breast in half. Dry all chicken pieces. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a 12-inch skillet. Add chicken, skin side down, and cook over medium-high heat, just until skin is golden. Do not turn pieces; cook in stages if they do not all fit in pan at once.

2. Place chicken in a bowl and rub with paprika, salt and pepper. Toss beans with garlic, season with salt and pepper, and spread in a large, shallow casserole that can hold chicken in a single layer. Place chicken, skin side up, on bed of beans. Heat oven to 400 degrees.

3. Heat remaining oil in skillet, add peppers and onion chunks and sauté until starting to brown. Scatter around chicken. Add sausage to skillet, sauté, stirring, a couple of minutes until just starting to sizzle. Tuck sausage pieces into casserole. Pour wine in skillet, deglaze pan and pour over ingredients in casserole. Scatter rosemary on top. Place in oven and bake 45 minutes, basting chicken with juices once or twice. Serve.
779 2009-03-18 Tyra Banks, right, said casting for the CW reality series “America’s Next Top Model” would resume after an incident Saturday in which a stampede broke out at an audition for the show in New York, The Associated Press reported. In a statement, Ms. Banks, the host and an executive producer of the show, said, “We are doing everything we can to make sure that all the girls who weren’t seen get an opportunity to audition.” On Saturday an open casting call for the show at the Park Central Hotel in Midtown Manhattan erupted in mayhem as thousands of aspiring contestants pushed into the crowd, a situation made worse when someone screamed that a smoking overheated car was on fire and about to explode. Three people were arrested, and six were treated for minor injuries. No rescheduled casting dates were announced.
780 2009-03-18 EMI Music Publishing said that it had signed a deal with the estate of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to represent the civil rights leader’s intellectual property. In a news release, EMI, which handles publishing rights for musical artists like Beyoncé and Kanye West as well as songs like “Over the Rainbow” and “I Heard It Through the Grapevine,” said it would represent the use of Dr. King’s words in recordings and music as well as his words and image in online and digital media. EMI said it would also work with Intellectual Properties Management, an Atlanta company that licenses Dr. King’s image, likeness and recorded voice for nonmusical works. In recent years samples of Dr. King’s speeches have turned up in songs like “Long Way to Go” by Gwen Stefani and “Madagascar” by Guns N’ Roses.
781 2009-03-18 Estimates of the cost of South Stream vary. Mr. Putin said last week that the sum would be about 10 billion euros, or $13 billion. The Russian president, Dmitri Medvedev, who has questioned whether the project should go ahead, told investors last month that it might cost as much as 20 billion euros.

South Stream’s northern branch would run from Bulgaria to Serbia, Hungary and Austria.

The 3,000-kilometer, or 1,865 -mile Nabucco pipeline is to be completed in 2013 at an estimated cost of 8 billion euros. It is supposed to bring gas to Europe from Azerbaijan and eventually Iran.

Doubts have grown about the feasibility of Nabucco because of uncertainty over both the source of the gas and the level of public financing. Hungary received a 25-billion-euro rescue package from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union in October.

Mr. Gyurcsany agreed nearly two years ago to support Gazprom’s plans to build South Stream, saying he saw no conflict in supporting both the European and Russian pipeline projects.

For Russia, South Stream would reduce dependence on Ukraine, with which Moscow has continuing political conflicts. It would also lock countries in Central and Southern Europe into long-term Russian energy contracts that would prevent them from diversifying their sources.

“This is all about weakening its dependence on Ukraine,” said Peter Kaderjak, director of the Regional Center for Energy Policy Research in Budapest. “But it is also about Russia extending its economic, if not political, influence here in Hungary.”

The other deal involves Gazprom and MOL, Hungary’s oil and gas company, establishing a gas storage site in Hungary. The new company will be owned equally by Gazprom Export and MOL and will have a capacity of 1.3 billion cubic meters, or 46 billion cubic feet, of gas.

MOL said Tuesday that the deal would increase Hungary’s energy security, saying that Ukraine was becoming increasingly unreliable as a transit country for sending Russian gas to its customers in Eastern and Western Europe.

MOL recently sold its gas storage operations to the German company E.On Ruhrgas and, according to analysts, now seeks to re-enter this sector to meet all its domestic needs in times of shortages and also supply gas to its neighbors.

Russia has its own interest in teaming with MOL. In a bid to weaken its dependence on Ukraine, Russia wants to build storage facilities in Europe as well as new pipelines that bypass Ukraine.

Gazprom is building big storage units in Germany, Austria and Hungary, and it plans to acquire a site in Slovakia.
782 2009-03-18 The plan also calls for regulators to pre-emptively question any money market fund that offers yields that are significantly above its peers, to determine whether the fund is taking undisclosed or unacceptable risks.

These steps would lower most fund yields, but the industry is betting that lower risks will reassure most mainstream investors.

“The major money managers already apply these policies, and they are still competitive,” said George Gatch, a study group member and president of the JPMorgan Funds unit at JPMorgan Chase. “So if you’re not willing to comply with these policies, you shouldn’t be in the business.”

To protect funds from runs like the one that started the September crisis, the industry will ask regulators to give money funds greater leeway to halt redemptions temporarily or liquidate entirely if they are hit by a flood of redemptions.

That would reassure investors that all shareholders would be treated equally if disaster struck, John W. McGonigle, vice chairman of Federated Investors, said.

“When the hundred-year storm hits, it would allow you to press the ‘pause’ button,” he said. “Then you could protect everybody — you wouldn’t have to let the first people to reach the window get their money out at the expense of the other people in line.”

These proposals differ sharply from those offered in January by the Group of 30, an international forum of senior public and private sector representatives whose chairman is Paul A. Volcker, an influential adviser to the Obama administration.

The Volcker panel recommended that money funds be stripped of their check-writing feature and their fixed dollar-a-share pricing unless they submitted to regulations similar to those that govern banks — steps that would eliminate the defining features of the modern money fund.

“We disagree with that approach," said John J. Brennan, the chairman of Vanguard and the head of the money fund study group, called the Brennan Commission. "Will our ideas satisfy every member of the Obama team? Probably not. But my hope is that they’ll say we’ve addressed their concerns, item by item, and will be receptive to our effort.”

The fixed one-dollar share price simplifies tax and accounting issues and reduces recordkeeping burdens, the trade group’s president, Paul Schott Stevens, said. With more than $8 trillion in foreign and offshore money funds, investors seeking a fixed share price will simply move to other options that are “less regulated, less transparent and perhaps destabilizing to the system as a whole,” he said.

The first-ever panic in the money fund industry came after Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy protection on Sept. 15. That prompted an avalanche of redemptions from the Reserve Primary Fund, a multibillion-dollar money fund with a big stack of Lehman notes in its portfolio.

The next day, the fund reported it had “broken the buck,” reporting a share value below a dollar. That spurred widespread concern among money fund investors who have long trusted that they could always redeem a money fund share for a dollar without the risk of losses.

As hundreds of billions of dollars were withdrawn from money funds, the Treasury rushed to create a temporary money-fund insurance program, which will expire no later than September — ideally, after these new rules are in place, the president of Invesco, Martin L. Flanagan, said.

Given public skepticism about financial self-regulation, why should the fund industry be trusted to write its own prescription for reform?

“Because we have a good track record of doing exactly that,” said Mr. Brennan. “And history matters: You can’t base your recommendations just on the past six months. You must base them on the past 25 years, plus the past six months. We are in a position to do that.”
783 2009-03-18 Unemployment may still be rising and the economy may be nowhere near a bottom, but optimism reigned on Wall Street Tuesday.

Cheered by reports showing a surprising increase in home building last month, stock markets climbed higher throughout the day, with major market indexes rising to their highest levels since late February.

Stocks of home builders like KB Home, the Centex Corporation and Toll Brothers set off a rally in the broader markets after the government reported that new-home construction rose 22 percent in February from January’s levels to a seasonally adjusted annual pace of 583,000. It was the biggest percentage gain since January 1990 and the first increase since last April.

Economists had expected housing starts to decline slightly in the face of dwindling demand and competition from a flood of foreclosed properties.

The buying spree in the markets cut across all sectors. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 178.73 points, or 2.5 percent, to 7,395.70. The broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 3.2 percent, or 24.23 points, to 778.12. The Nasdaq gained 58.09 points, or 4.1 percent, to 1,462.11.
784 2009-03-18 SHANGHAI — A bomb hurled into a government building exploded Monday in a predominantly Tibetan area of west China as concern over unrest in the region heightened.

China’s state-controlled media said Tuesday that no one was injured in what it called a terrorist attack.

The blast occurred during a sensitive period for Tibet, just days after the 50th anniversary of a failed Tibetan rebellion against Chinese rule that led the Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of Tibetans, to flee into exile.

The Associated Press reported Tuesday that a public security officer in the Tibetan Ganzi prefecture of Sichuan Province said the blast damaged a newly built police station. Last week, a police car and fire engine in another Tibetan region were struck by a homemade bomb.

Human rights activists also have reported a handful of protests in Tibetan regions over the past week. China recently stepped up its police and security presence in Tibetan regions over worries that unrest could occur this year.
785 2009-03-18 As I tasted the reds from Bierzo, I wanted food that was dark, rich and earthy. Why not morcilla -- Spanish blood sausage? A plate of nicely seared morcilla, or French boudin noir,   would be enough alongside these wines.      But in this dish of ...
786 2009-03-18 POINTING FINGERS OVER A.I.G. Congress, the Obama administration and the Federal Reserve all sought to deflect blame for the decision by the insurance giant A.I.G. to pay $165 million in bonuses.       PAYOUTS QUESTIONED A.I.G. funneled $49.5 billi...
787 2009-03-18 TURETSKY--Noemie. Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourns the passing of Noemie Turetsky, wife of our late beloved Rabbi Emeritus Arnold Turetsky. Noemie was a model of elegance, compassion, and devotion to family, community, and the Jewish pe...
788 2009-03-19 The caressing, honeyed light in “Sin Nombre” beautifies and softens every ugly moment in this equivocating (inspirational yet hard-boiled) story about geographic and moral border crossings. Written and directed by the young American Cary Joji Fukunaga making his feature debut, the film comes with a veritable certificate of authenticity: it was shot in Mexico and is performed in Spanish by Latin American actors. The credits are also in Spanish, including the information that the project was “developed with the assistance of the Sundance Institute Feature Film Program,” an acknowledgment of its truer, more complex provenance.

In brief, “Sin Nombre” — “without name” in Spanish — tracks two parallel journeys that inevitably meet, brought together after a fatal encounter. The first, by far liveliest voyage begins in the chaos of Tapachula in Chiapas, Mexico, where Casper (Edgar Flores), a teenage member of the vicious street gang Mara Salvatrucha, is making a fast run toward an early grave. Casper meets his destiny when his story collides with that of Sayra (Paulina Gaitan), a solemn-eyed, none-too-sharp Honduran teenager who is riding the rails to Texas with her father and uncle. The teenagers meet cute, gangsta style, when another Salvatrucha member attacks her during a heist on the train and is assaulted in turn.

The real Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, has a wretched, perverse history: the gang is thought to have been started in the 1980s in Los Angeles by Salvadoran immigrants whose families had fled the civil war in their country, a war partly paid for by the United States. The decentralized gang soon branched out, infiltrating most of the rest of the United States. And then, after members were deported to their native country, it spread beyond Central America, taking its brand of street terrorism transnational. You don’t learn any of this in “Sin Nombre,” despite the film’s veneer of (gritty yet lovingly lighted) realism. Mr. Fukunaga may have traveled through Mexico to research the film, but he hasn’t strayed far from Hollywood to tell his tale.

To that end, “Sin Nombre,” despite its location shooting and unnerving glimpses into the Mara Salvatrucha, unwinds exactly like any number of movies juiced up by graphic violence and hinged to ritualistic redemption: terrible things happen, but the bad times and vibes are nominally assuaged by some final-act uplift. Thus Casper suffers horribly because of the Mara Salvatrucha, whose vile rituals get plenty of screen time, including the gang initiation of his 12-year-old friend Smiley (Kristyan Ferrer). Members need to be baptized in blood to join, and so Smiley puts a bullet in a tied-up, whimpering gang rival, who is then — cut to the shot of a bowl of coarsely chopped raw meat — fed to the gang’s dogs.

What is objectionable about this scene isn’t its shock value — there’s a similar, more unsettling dog-eats-man scene in Johnnie To’s great mob movie “Election II” — it’s how the violence is exploited within the context of the story. In “Election II,” the man-is-meat scene underscores the essential moral rot of the mobsters, whom Mr. To refuses to sentimentalize. In “Sin Nombre,” the guy is fed to the dogs both to titillate the audience (hence the shot of the dog bowl) and to show the look of disgust on Casper’s face. His revulsion is critical, because without it he wouldn’t be as likable — character likability is a creative imperative as much in Sundance as in Hollywood — which makes him more like a person and less like a screenwriting conceit.

However street, Casper is as sentimentalized a fiction as one of those dirty-faced angels who ran around studio back lots in the 1930s, and his means of salvation, Sayra, isn’t any better. The roads they travel and hardships they endure are finally narrative arcs, calibrated for maximum drama, excitement and entertainment. What keeps the movie from tipping into full-blown exploitation like “City of God,” which turns third-world misery into art-house thrills, is Mr. Fukunaga’s sincerity. What keeps you watching is his superb eye. Working with his cinematographer, Adriano Goldman, he fills in the cracks of his story with moments of beauty — children tossing oranges up to the train, Casper sleeping under a canopy of trees — that make you want to see what comes next.
789 2009-03-19 U.C.L.A.'s Tyus Edney went coast to coast in the final seconds to beat the Tigers in the 1995 N.C.A.A. tournament....
790 2009-03-19 PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) -- Thanks to Quincy Pondexter, even the supposedly vulnerable Washington Huskies didn't go out early.

Pondexter scored a season-high 23 points and fourth-seeded Washington took advantage of early foul trouble to Mississippi State's menacing Jarvis Varnado to race past the 13th-seeded Bulldogs 71-58 in the first round of the NCAA tournament on Thursday.

Jon Brockman had 14 rebounds and 10 points for the Huskies (26-8), who looked far better than the last time they played in this city, losing to Portland of the West Coast Conference to begin the season.

Barry Stewart had 11 points but was able to get off just five shots for Mississippi State (23-13), which reached the NCAAs for the sixth time in eight years by winning six consecutive games -- including four in its surprising romp to the Southeastern Conference tournament title.
791 2009-03-19 Thomas Keller discusses Per Se's new à la carte salon menu....
792 2009-03-19 Is it just me, or does anybody else feel a wave of nostalgia about New York is opening the Major League Soccer season at Seattle on Thursday night?...
793 2009-03-19 A peek at some personal snapshots of the Burberry designer Christopher Bailey's charmed life....
794 2009-03-19 With the N.C.A.A. basketball tournament under way, Sports Editor Tom Jolly and Connor Ennis preview Friday's action.
795 2009-03-19 Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein announced new programs for gifted students in Fort Greene and Bay Ridge, in Brooklyn, and in Astoria, Queens....
796 2009-03-19 General Electric said Thursday that its finance arm, GE Capital, would not need more funding, even using pessimistic assumptions about where the economy is headed. G.E., which was recently stripped of its AAA credit rating by Standard & Poor's, ma...
797 2009-03-19 Blogtalk: Selling the A.I.G. headquarters; the fish and the governor; farewell, Airbus A380; and more New York links from around the Web....
798 2009-03-19 As his former team, the Red Bulls, kick off a new season Thursday night in Seattle, Jozy Altidore is cooling his heels in Spain....
799 2009-03-19 Thursday's games in Russia, Finland, Sweden, the Czech and Slovak Republics and Switzerland....
800 2009-03-19 News, notes, results and more from the world of junior hockey....
801 2009-03-19 Citigroup said Thursday it plans to propose a reverse stock split for its common shares, as well as an increase in its authorized shares outstanding, as the embattled bank moves ahead with a previously announced plan to convert preferred shares to...
802 2009-03-19 Chemtura, a troubled maker of specialty chemicals, filed for bankruptcy protection for its United States operations on Wednesday after it failed to sell enough assets to raise cash for its debt obligations. Chemical makers have been hit hard over ...
803 2009-03-19 Hundreds of hedge funds and funds of hedge funds shut their doors last year as the fallout from the global financial crisis and Bernard L. Madoff's $65 billion Ponzi scheme proved to be too much to bear. In North America, more than 200 hedge funds...
804 2009-03-19 Among the latest to enter the bike-sharing business is B-cycle, an American company that touts itself as the "zero-hassle, zero-emissions way to get around town."...
805 2009-03-19 The British financial regulator proposed several sweeping changes Wednesday, calling for stricter capital rules for banks, greater scrutiny for hedge funds and new compensation policies, The New York Times's Julia Werdigier reported. The regulator...
806 2009-03-19 China's rejection of Coca-Cola's bid to buy the country's top juice maker, China Huiyuan Juice Group, marked no retreat from government policies welcoming foreign investment, the government said on Thursday. Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Chinese F...
807 2009-03-19 The Marsh & McLennan Companies said Wednesday it has priced a public offering of $400 million in 9.25 percent senior notes due 2019 and will use the proceeds to repay $400 million of senior notes due this year, The Associated Press reported. The i...
808 2009-03-19 The Federal Reserve's decision to buy $1 trillion of government debt and mortgage-backed securities jolted Wall Street on Wednesday. Within moments of the announcement, stocks and Treasury prices soared while the value of the dollar tumbled, The N...
809 2009-03-19 The Senate voted 92 to 5 to confirm a former mayor of Dallas, Ron Kirk, as the Obama administration’s senior official in charge of trade policy. As United States trade representative, Mr. Kirk is expected to oversee a shift in the nation’s trade priorities. While the Bush administration concentrated on expanding free-trade agreements, Mr. Kirk made clear in his confirmation hearing that a priority would be ensuring that the nation’s trading partners abide by existing agreements.
810 2009-03-19 A Brooklyn judge has cleared the way for the city to resume sending inmates to the Brooklyn House of Detention, which stopped housing them overnight in 2003, but has ruled that the city’s effort to nearly double the size of the jail required environmental and land-use reviews.

The ruling, released on Wednesday by Justice Sylvia O. Hinds-Radix of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, was a partial victory for the city and a partial victory for opponents of the jail, including community groups and elected officials.

“The court’s decision clears the way for the city to continue to use the Brooklyn Detention Center as a jail for Brooklyn, just as it has since 1957,” Correction Commissioner Martin F. Horn said in a statement. “We will continue to maintain the jail in a condition for occupancy at its capacity.”

Randy M. Mastro, a lawyer for the jail’s opponents, called the ruling “a huge victory for the community and a vindication of its right to meaningful public input before the city commits itself to such massive projects.”

The judge rejected the argument by community groups and the city comptroller that reopening the jail, which has 759 beds, required additional reviews. But she ruled that the city may not proceed on expanding the jail without such reviews. Plans call for a 720-bed expansion.

The jail, at 275 Atlantic Avenue in Boerum Hill, was not used to house inmates overnight from June 2003 until last November, when the department placed 31 inmates there. During those five years, the jail was used during the day to hold hundreds of inmates scheduled to appear at the adjacent courthouse.
811 2009-03-19 For Boone, the news was another unexpected turn in an eventful career. In January 2004, three months after propelling the Yankees to the World Series with a homer in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series against the Boston Red Sox, Boone tore a knee ligament playing pickup basketball. He forfeited most of a $5.75 million salary and cleared a path for Alex Rodriguez to join the Yankees.

Since then, Boone has bounced from Cleveland to Florida to Washington to Houston, where he was projected to start at third base against left-handers. He has had two more knee operations since the basketball injury, robbing him of speed and agility.

“Now I’m always like an alligator,” Boone said. “One way at a time.”

Boone said he expected to be able to play again, but he understands he may have few options. He will be 37 next spring training, with a year out of baseball and little mobility because of the knee.

Although Boone never again earned the salary he would have made in 2004, he has made more than $15.5 million in his career and may retire. But that question is secondary to Boone’s next challenge.

Doug Brocail, an Astros reliever who had two angioplasties in 2006, can relate. As Boone explained his condition in a clubhouse meeting Wednesday morning, Brocail recognized the severity of the aortic-valve replacement that Boone faces.

“I didn’t want to be cracked open because I didn’t want it to end my career,” Brocail said. “Obviously, when it’s over, and you sit back and think: ‘Oh my God, to heck with my career. I have five daughters, a wife.’ That’s what hit me hardest: this is going to be serious.

“I think by him knowing in advance that he had this, and doing some due diligence on it, he’s prepared and educated enough that he can go into this thing.”

Boone is a .264 career hitter over 11 seasons, but his character has made him popular within baseball.

Executives respect him for disclosing the origin of his knee injury to the Yankees, knowing the gesture would cost him. Reporters have never forgotten his encouragement to the veteran writer Hal McCoy in 2003, when McCoy considered retirement after becoming legally blind.

“There’s a few guys that have a reputation around the league as just being consummate teammates and professionals and guys you’d love to have on your team,” Berkman said. “And he’s one of those guys.”

Even if Boone comes back, he is unlikely to top his moment of glory in 2003. Although the Yankees lost that year’s World Series, the Boone game, for some, was the single greatest victory in the Joe Torre years.

It also stands out as the Yankees’ final postseason clincher at Yankee Stadium, and the last time they truly had the advantage in their rivalry with the Red Sox. Since then, Boston has won seven postseason series and the Yankees have won one.

“People ask me about it a lot,” Boone said. “Initially, in a way, I tried to distance myself from it, especially when I first signed with Cleveland. It was like, I’m in the middle of this, I don’t want to talk about it. I’m more than that.

“But now, I don’t want to say I’ve grown, but I appreciate it. At the end of the day, it’s pretty cool. It’s pretty neat.”

Boone, who will have the operation at Stanford University Hospital in California, said his prognosis was good. His wife is pregnant with the couple’s second child, and he said he had always had perspective on the fleeting nature of baseball.

The best part of his career, Boone said, is the friendships he has made with teammates. Boone lingered in the clubhouse close to game time Wednesday, wearing jeans and a T-shirt, sitting by his locker, talking to his friends. He has made plans to visit the Astros in May when they travel to Arizona, where he lives.

If he never returns to uniform, Boone said, he will have no regrets.

“I’ve had a pretty good run, and I wouldn’t really change anything,” he said. “I’ve definitely had my share of injuries, but I’ve embraced that and it’s part of it. It’s been a pretty blessed run. I might be able to keep doing it. Who knows?”
812 2009-03-19 The emir of Kuwait dissolved Parliament on Wednesday and called for new elections within two months, saying some lawmakers had abused democracy and become a threat to stability. “God knows the decision I made today was not easy for me,” the emir, Sheik Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah, said in a televised speech. He said national unity was in danger. The move was largely expected after the cabinet resigned two days ago to prevent lawmakers from questioning the prime minister. Parliament has a large contingent of conservative Islamist members, some of whom accuse the prime minister, Sheik Nasser al-Mohamed al-Ahmad al-Sabah — who is the emir’s nephew — of misusing funds.
813 2009-03-19 The glass walls were cleaned and workers were still mopping the floors and polishing the handrails as the first commuters stepped into the new Port Authority Ferry Terminal at the World Financial Center on Wednesday morning.

Except for officials from the Port Authority and New York Waterway, few people waited in the large glass-enclosed terminal. Commuters mostly got off the ferries and walked quickly toward the exit.

“It’s nice, but the other one was fine,” said Andrew Thompson, 33, who works for a Japanese equities company and has commuted to Manhattan from Hoboken, N.J., by ferry for six years. “All this money. It’s got a bathroom. That’s the only benefit I see to it.”

Mr. Thompson and other commuters said they were worried about the financial side of the ferries.

“It certainly took a long time to get going, but it’s certainly very nice,” said Pete Radke, 46, from Glen Rock, N.J. He works as a commodities trader at the New York Mercantile Exchange, which is just steps from the new terminal. He said he had noticed decreased ridership in the past few months and speculated that part of it had to do with futures pits that were closed at the mercantile exchange.

“A lot of people are now working from home and from offices in other places in New Jersey,” he said.

He said he suspected that when the Goldman Sachs headquarters is finished, ridership will go up, but said he was worried about the ferries during the economic downturn. It did not matter to him that the new terminal was built.

“I’m a creature of habit who uses this means to get to work,” he said.

Dan Kohn, 35, who takes the ferry to New Jersey every morning, was there with his wife and had a 5-week-old son in a carrier on his chest. “Hopefully they won’t go out of business, but if they do, maybe the Port Authority will take them over,” he said.

Paul Goodman, chief executive of the BillyBey Ferry Company, which is operating and maintaining the terminal under a contract with the Port Authority, was there in the morning to watch the first ferries come in. He said ridership in the first two months of 2009 was down 10 percent from ridership in the first two months of 2008. He said the new terminal, which he said was at less than 50 percent capacity, was “built for growth.”

“We have been profitable in the last couple of years so we have the reserves to weather the storm,” he said.

He said, though, that if ridership declined or even continued at current levels, “it’s not a prescription for long-term health.”

The terminal’s opening coincides with the news, reported in Crain’s New York Business on Sunday, that New York Waterway may go bankrupt this year.

Both BillyBey and New York Waterway, whose chief executive is Arthur Imperatore Sr., operate under the New York Waterway flag, and both will serve the downtown terminal. (BillyBey owns 15 of the vessels in the combined fleet of 34.) But Mr. Goodman emphasized that BillyBey, which draws most of its passengers from Hoboken, owns its own boats and runs its own routes.

“All the financial issues will in no way lead to a disruption in services,” Mr. Goodman said.
814 2009-03-19 Agatha Christie’s home is a mystery no more. Greenway, a Georgian-style house on a bluff overlooking the River Dart in the County of Devon, was donated to Britain’s National Trust by the writer’s daughter, Rosalind Hicks, nine years ago. She and her husband lived there until their deaths in 2004 and 2005; now, after several years of fund-raising and restoration, it is open to the public.

“It’s not a connoisseur’s house, where you’d have the best Chippendale chair,” said John Oddy, executive director of the Royal Oak Foundation, the National Trust’s United States affiliate. “There’s prints on the wall that every upper-middle-class household would’ve had. It has the feeling of being a lived-in home.” Murals painted in the library, below, by Lt. Marshall Lee, an American serviceman, while the house was an officers’ mess during World War II, show just how well lived-in. Information: (800) 913-6565 or royal-oak.org.
815 2009-03-19 SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — The Oracle Corporation, the business software maker, said profit and revenue from new software licenses fell in the latest quarter, but were better than Wall Street forecasts.

The company also declared its first quarterly dividend of 5 cents a share. Oracle’s results, reported after the market closed Wednesday, demonstrated that the company was able to sustain a better-than-expected pace of contract signings even as companies pulled back on technology spending.

Shares of Oracle jumped $1.09, or 6.9 percent, to $16.92 in after-hours trading. They gained 43 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $15.83 during the regular trading session.

In the latest quarter, Oracle said it earned $1.33 billion, or 26 cents a share, compared with $1.34 billion, or 26 cents a share, a year earlier.

Stripping out one-time charges, profit was 35 cents a share, 3 cents better than the estimates from analysts.

Revenue in the period, which ended Feb. 28 and was the third quarter of Oracle’s fiscal year, was $5.45 billion, a 2 percent increase over sales of $5.35 billion a year earlier. Oracle said sales would have risen 11 percent without the currency fluctuations. Analysts predicted $5.42 billion in sales.
816 2009-03-19 The 122-page report, published before a debate on the issue at a coming meeting of the Group of 20 developed and emerging economies, was welcomed by organizations representing British banks, hedge funds and the City of London, the British financial center, as “an excellent starting point for an important debate.”

But an employers’ group, the Confederation of British Industry, criticized the recommendations as potentially harming the competitiveness of British financial services firms.

Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer, ordered the review in October and called for recommendations to create a more stable banking system. The review will be used as a starting point for new legislation.

Mr. Turner — who was a banker at Merrill Lynch and a director of the consulting firm McKinsey & Company before he was appointed to lead the F.S.A. — said the crisis exposed flaws of the previous regulatory framework. The independent agency’s so-called soft-touch regulation “is over,” he said, and the crisis proved that such an approach was unable to cope with the “inherent systemic risks in banking.”

“The financial crisis has challenged the intellectual assumptions on which previous regulatory approaches were largely built, and in particular the theory of rational and self-correcting markets,” Mr. Turner said. “Much financial innovation has proved of little value, and market discipline of individual bank strategies has often proved ineffective.”

He also said that regulatory powers should extend beyond the banking system to hedge funds. “We need to gather the information required for regulators and central banks to assess the systemic impact of these institutions, and powers to extend prudential regulation to them,” he said.

The Confederation of British Industry, for its part, warned that “rushing ahead with requirements for bank liquidity could put the U.K. out of step with other countries and force firms to manage their reserves on a country-by-country basis, which would be a blow to the U.K.’s competitiveness.”

Mr. Turner rejected such claims and reiterated the importance of cooperation with other regulators.

He acknowledged that the new rules would inevitably impose costs on banks, which might make their stocks slightly less attractive but a safer investment. The need to hold more capital would provide disincentives for banks to take excessive risks, he said. He also said Canada and Switzerland had already forced banks to set aside more capital.
817 2009-03-19 It’s been a busy few days for literary honors. The Orange Prize, given annually to a female fiction writer, announced Wednesday its list of 20 contenders, including Marilynne Robinson (for “Home”), Toni Morrison (for “A Mercy”), Allegra Goodman (“Intuition”) and Curtis Sittenfeld (“American Wife”). Finalists will be announced on April 21, and a winner will be named on June 3. The New York Public Library announced that Salvatore Scibona had won its Young Lions Fiction Award for “The End”; that novel was also a finalist for the National Book Award. The finalists for the Man Booker International Prize, a lifetime achievement award given every other year, have been announced. They include E. L. Doctorow, V. S. Naipaul, Joyce Carol Oates, Mario Vargas Llosa and Alice Munro. A winner will be announced in May. And the poet Seamus Heaney received the David Cohen Prize for Literature, a lifetime achievement honor, in a ceremony on Wednesday in London.
818 2009-03-19 But there is also a growing sense that outsiders do not understand Israel’s predicament, so criticism is dismissed.

“People here feel that no matter what you do you are going to be blamed for all the problems in the Middle East,” said Eytan Gilboa, a professor of politics and international communication at Bar Ilan University. “Even suicide bombings by Palestinians are seen as our fault for not establishing a Palestinian state.”

Of course, for Israel’s critics, including those who firmly support the existence of a Jewish state, the problem is not one of image but of policy. They point to four decades of occupation, the settling of half a million Israeli Jews on land captured in 1967, the economic strangling of Gaza for the past few years and the society’s growing indifference toward the creation of a Palestinian state as reasons Israel has lost favor abroad, and they say that no amount of image buffing will change that.

Israel’s use of enormous force in the Gaza war in January crystallized much of this criticism.

The issue of a Palestinian state is central to Israel’s reputation abroad, because so many governments and international organizations favor its establishment in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem. And while the departing government of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert negotiated for such a state, the incoming one of Benjamin Netanyahu says that item is not on its immediate agenda.

Javier Solana, foreign policy chief for the European Union, said in Brussels on Monday that the group would reconsider its relationship with Israel if it did not remain committed to establishing a Palestinian state.

Moreover, Mr. Netanyahu is expected to appoint Avigdor Lieberman, leader of the ultranationalist Yisrael Beiteinu party, as his foreign minister. This alone has Israelis and their allies in Europe and the United States worried because of Mr. Lieberman’s views of Israeli Arabs that some have called racist.

Mr. Lieberman had campaigned on the need for a loyalty oath in Israel so that those who did not support a Jewish democratic state would lose their citizenship. One-fifth of Israeli citizens are Arabs, and many do not support defining the state as Jewish.

Mr. Lieberman also has few fans in Egypt, which has acted as an intermediary for Israel in several matters. Some months ago Mr. Lieberman complained that President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt had not agreed to come to Israel. “If he doesn’t want to, he can go to hell,” he added.

“Imagine that Hossein Mousavi wins the Iranian presidency this spring and he names Mohammad Khatami as his foreign minister,” said Meir Javedanfar, an Iran analyst in Israel, referring to two Iranian leaders widely viewed as in the pragmatist camp. “With Lieberman as foreign minister here, Israel will have a much harder time demonstrating to the world that Iran is the destabilizing factor in the region.”

Of course, all of this is being seen in the context of a new, Democratic administration in the United States that has announced a desire to press for a two-state solution. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has already criticized Israeli plans to demolish Palestinian homes in East Jerusalem, and her department has criticized Israel’s banning of certain goods from Gaza.

This represents a distinct shift in tone from the Bush era. An internal Israeli Foreign Ministry report during the Gaza war noted that compared with others in the United States, “liberals and Democrats show far less enthusiasm for Israel and its leadership.”

The gap between Israelis and many liberal American Jews could be seen Tuesday in a blog by Bradley Burston, who writes on the Web site of the left-leaning newspaper Haaretz. He said that while visiting Los Angeles he faced many questions that amounted to “What is wrong with these people, your friends, the Israelis?”

He quoted an article by Anne Roiphe, an American Jewish liberal, which said that witnessing the popularity of Mr. Lieberman in Israel made her feel “as if my spouse had cheated on me with Mussolini.”

She added: “We here in America are waiting as of this writing for a government to emerge in Jerusalem, and most of us keep on hoping that its shape will not preclude the peace process, will not doom a two-state solution, will not destroy the hope that our new president brings to the table.”

Mr. Burston pointed to the thousands of rockets fired from Gaza into Sderot and other Israeli cities and towns and titled his piece “The Racist Israeli Fascist in Me.”

Some Israeli officials say they believe that what the country needs is to “rebrand” itself. They say Israel spends far too much time defending actions against its enemies. By doing so, they say, the narrative is always about conflict.

“When we show Sderot, others also see Gaza,” said Ido Aharoni, manager of a rebranding team at the Foreign Ministry. “Everything is twinned when seen through the conflict. The country needs to position itself as an attractive personality, to make outsiders see it in all its reality. Instead, we are focusing on crisis management. And that is never going to get us where we need to go over the long term.”

Mr. Gilboa, the political scientist, said branding was not enough.

“We need to do much more to educate the world about our situation,” he said. Regarding the extra $2 million budgeted for this, he said: “We need 50 million. We need 100 million.”
819 2009-03-19 In Saginaw, city leaders acknowledge that some people have been skeptical, or at least puzzled, by the notion that Habitat for Humanity would tear down houses. But these leaders contend that the move makes sense: workers will remove (and resell) reusable housing material rather than send it to landfills, some homeless or unemployed people will be paid to work on the program, and money earned through the demolitions will go toward the organization’s longtime goal of getting poor families into new or rehabbed homes.

“You have to look at the mission; the mission is to make housing more affordable,” said Paul Warriner, the executive director of Saginaw’s Habitat for Humanity affiliate. “And when you think about this, that isn’t too much of a stretch.”

Still, it is an untested realm for volunteers, many of whom have spent years hammering nails and painting boards in new houses, never thinking of trying to take one apart. Last week, a chilly group from Habitat for Humanity, including several people fulfilling community service requirements and one who was staying in a homeless shelter, ripped wallboards and windows from a house as a fire still burned in its fireplace.

“It’s more challenging than building, where you go in linear steps,” said Chuck Aubin, a longtime volunteer who helped lead efforts to demolish a credit union — one of the affiliate’s first tests in taking apart a building here. “With deconstruction, you don’t know what you’re getting into until you tear that panel off the wall.”

Saginaw, with some 56,000 people, was, by some estimates, nearly twice as populous when the automobile business boomed. These days, the biggest employer is the health care industry, city officials said. Saginaw, a 100-mile drive from Detroit, is a city of contrasts: neighborhoods of enormous, well-kept homes (this was, after all, a lumber town before it was a car town) but also blocks of vacant lots and shuttered houses.

“The problem is endemic throughout the Midwestern, older industrial towns,” said Darnell Earley, Saginaw’s city manager. “It’s going to be very difficult to catch up with it.”

On the city’s east side on a recent afternoon, a mail carrier stepped onto the porch of what appeared to be the only occupied house in sight and then drove off, past a whirring bulldozer demolishing the remains of a burned house and past every other house on the block, boarded and abandoned.

There is something jarring at the sight of hundreds of houses sitting empty, while many poor families need a place to live.

“Yeah, we might have enough homes here,” John C. Stemple, the city’s zoning and development coordinator, said, peering around the empty neighborhood. “But they’re not quality choices.”

Many of the houses exceed Habitat for Humanity’s modest size requirements.

“A lot of these are just too big for us to use,” said Mr. Warriner, noting that there was no point in restoring a house that someone then could not afford to maintain or heat. “Some of them are not in real good areas, perhaps. And some of them are just too far gone, too dangerous.”

Inside Habitat for Humanity’s ReStore, where the group sells discounted items from demolitions, the floor is lined with sink basins, cabinets, doors, bathtubs, counters and wood. Leaders here hope that the program will ultimately pay for itself, that the profits from selling recycled items will one day cover the cost of taking down homes.

In a nearby office, Cameron Brady, Habitat for Humanity’s development manager, shows a visitor the latest photographs from a project. There are the volunteers, ripping away at walls and pulling down pieces in one of the few buildings they have removed so far. In later scenes, tired workers stand proudly in all that is left, a foundation.
820 2009-03-19 In V.C.U.’s opening-round game against Duke two years ago, Maynor made a 17-footer with 1.8 seconds left to send the No. 11 Rams to a 79-77 victory over the No. 6 Blue Devils.

In June, Maynor is expected to become the first C.A.A. player selected in the N.B.A. draft since Old Dominion’s Cal Bowdler was taken 17th over all by the Atlanta Hawks in 1999.

“Obviously, he has blossomed,” said Ryan Blake, the N.B.A.’s assistant director of scouting. “He’s shot the ball a lot better this year, and his strength is the way he handles the ball and his ability to dish it.”

That ability developed out of the spotlight. Raeford has a population of fewer than 4,000, and it may be best known as the home of the North Carolina turkey festival.

Maynor worked for the city’s parks department for several summers, tending to Little League fields and operating the clock during youth basketball games. During those games, it was a struggle for him to stay off the court.

In junior high school, he began playing in pickup games with his father and his older brother, Rodney. In those games, where Maynor was told he should never call a foul, he developed the high-arching teardrop shot that opponents now struggle to defend.

Even though he became one of the top high school players in North Carolina, few college teams from major conferences seemed to notice. Clemson, Florida State and Wake Forest sent letters, and Maynor said that was where those courtships ended.

“It frustrated people close to me that wanted me to go to a big-name school,” Maynor said. “But all I thought about was going somewhere and playing for four years.”

Maynor committed to Virginia Commonwealth, but after his freshman season, Coach Jeff Capel was hired by Oklahoma. Maynor considered transferring until his father encouraged him to wait until V.C.U. picked a new coach.

When Anthony Grant was hired after spending 10 seasons as Billy Donovan’s lead assistant at Florida, Maynor knew little about him but plenty about the Gators, who had just won the 2006 national championship.

“I told Eric we were going to win championships, and we were going to do it right,” Grant said. “There was going to be hard work involved, but we were going to have the most fun he’s ever had playing basketball.”

Maynor stayed, and in his sophomore season he scored 9 consecutive points in the final 2 minutes 22 seconds of the C.A.A. final, leading the Rams past George Mason and into the N.C.A.A. tournament. That was followed by his game-winner against Duke.

“I always thought I could play on the level of an A.C.C. team,” Maynor said. “When I get a chance to play against teams like that, teams that didn’t really look at me, I really turn it up a notch.”

Maynor considered declaring for the N.B.A. draft after V.C.U. did not reach the N.C.A.A. tournament last season. But he met with his father and Grant, and realized he wanted to graduate and have one more chance on a college court.

“I think Eric had some unfinished business from last year,” C.A.A. Commissioner Tom Yeager said. “And as far as his draft status goes, it appears his stock has improved.”

Most draft experts predict Maynor will be selected in the mid-to-late first round. Maynor will focus on that after this season ends, which he hopes will not happen too soon.

“We’ve been able to accomplish a lot,” he said. “But we’re not done.”
821 2009-03-19 March Madness has now officially taken over the world. We have hockey players cutting down nets (snip away, Martin Brodeur), baseball players staging last-minute heroics (Team USA: “We’re not just mailing it in!”) and president of the United States taking time from thrashing financial leaders to make his N.C.A.A. tournament picks. Move over SARS, this is officially an epidemic. Where are the scientists at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in all this?

Oh yeah, filling out a bracket. Silly us.

It was a little piece of wonder watching Brodeur celebrate breaking the all-time victories record for a goalie by hacking at the goalie net with a pair of scissors and realizing that little basketball tradition doesn’t translate so well on ice. It took teammates to help him. “This is a big net,” he marveled.

So it is our turn to marvel at him, with help from the experts at ESPN.com, as well as NHL.com, which has at least temporarily become the “Marty Channel.” The Newark Star-Ledger’s Steve Politi reminds us why Brodeur stayed a Devil all these years.

For a night, though, Brodeur was joined in giddiness by a United States team whose main goal had seemed to be avoiding injury in the World Baseball Classic. But thanks to some ninth-inning heroics by the Mets’ David Wright, fans in Miami were actually chanting “U.S.A.” and an American soldier got a special treat by joining the locker room celebration.

If you need to see this to believe it, there is video, and CBSSports.com’s Danny Knobler is here to confirm that yes, Team USA actually does care.
822 2009-03-19 Consumer prices rose slightly for a second month in February, the government reported on Wednesday, calming fears that the economy was veering toward a chronic spiral of falling prices known as deflation.

As retail and wholesale prices fell sharply in the last months of 2008, economists and some officials at the Federal Reserve said the risks of deflation had increased slightly.

But producer prices have increased in the first two months of the year. The Labor Department reported Wednesday that its Consumer Price Index rose 0.4 percent in February after a 0.3 percent rise in January. Excluding volatile food and energy prices, the so-called core price index rose 0.2 percent.

“Worries about deflation can be set aside right now,” said Bernard Baumohl, managing director of the Economic Outlook Group. “It’s unlikely we would have seen inflation drop to negative levels for more than a year, given all the fiscal and monetary stimulus that’s in the economy. The math just didn’t work out.”

Still, with the United States mired in one of the worst economic downturns since the Depression, economists said that reduced demand and lower consumer spending would probably keep downward pressure on prices. The Fed expects inflation from 0.3 percent to 1 percent this year as the economy searches for a bottom and unemployment swells.

“There is just so much excess capacity, so much underutilized labor, so many commodities that are not being tapped,” Mr. Baumohl said.
823 2009-03-19 The Federal Reserve’s decision to buy $1 trillion of government debt and mortgage-backed securities jolted Wall Street on Wednesday. Within moments of the announcement, stocks and Treasury prices soared while the value of the dollar tumbled.

With financial companies leading the markets higher, the Dow Jones industrial average rose to its highest levels in about a month and the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 2.1 percent to end just shy of 800 points. Investors applauded the move and said the Fed’s decision to essentially print money could help to lower borrowing costs and allow more people to refinance mortgages.

In all, the Fed announced it would buy $750 billion in mortgage-backed securities and $300 billion in longer-term Treasuries in a push to loosen credit markets and restart lending, which froze as the financial crisis erupted in the fall. The central bank said it would “employ all available tools to promote economic recovery and to preserve price stability.”

The price of long-term Treasuries surged higher, and the yield on the benchmark 10-year note posted its biggest one-day drop in years, falling to 2.53 percent, from 3.01 percent late Tuesday. Yields fell on 30-year bonds as well as 2- and 5-year notes.

The price on the 10-year note, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 4 2/32, to 101 28/32.
824 2009-03-19 SAN DIEGO — Korea has beaten archrival Japan three times in two World Baseball Classics. But never when it truly mattered.

In 2006, Korea defeated Japan two times in round-robin play before losing in a one-and-done semifinal rematch that knocked them out of the tournament Japan ultimately won. And in this year’s first round, Korea was trounced by Japan 14-2 in an important early game, and later won 1-0 only in an essentially meaningless contest to determine second-round seeding.

Tuesday night’s second-round showdown was crucial: The winner would advance to the W.B.C. semifinal this weekend and be able to relax for a few days; the loser would have to face sleeping-giant Cuba in less than 24 hours. This time, Korea came through.

Korea scored three runs in the bottom of the first inning off Japanese phenom Yu Darvish and held on, 4-1, earning a spot in the semifinal with Venezuela and the United States. Jubilant players celebrated by planting a Korean flag on the pitcher’s mound.

“In the first case, Japan was one level higher than the Korean team, and also players thought that way,” Korean right fielder Jin Young Lee said, referring to the 2006 W.B.C. It was Lee’s first-inning, two-run single that gave Korea a comfortable cushion throughout the game.
825 2009-03-19 FED TO BUY TREASURY BONDS The Federal Reserve said it would pump an extra $1 trillion into the financial system by purchasing Treasury bonds and mortgage securities.       ANGER OVER BONUSES Both President Obama and Edward M. Liddy, the chief of t...
826 2009-03-19 The Federal Reserve's decision to buy $1 trillion of government debt and mortgage-backed securities jolted Wall Street on Wednesday. Within moments of the announcement, stocks and Treasury prices soared while the value of the dollar tumbled.     W...
827 2009-03-20 The wall-to-wall quilt of sound leads to some interesting collisions in the night air, and the silence in the hotel room later sounds eeriest of all....
828 2009-03-20 In this era of outrage over c-suite perquisites and high-flying bonuses, it's a little easy to get wrapped up in the outrage. JetBlue has tapped into that zeitgeist with its latest ad. The airline helpful sells itself on its ability to get executi...
829 2009-03-20 Reading this article about the global manufacturing plunge, I wondered: how does the current slump stack up against the early stages of the Great Depression? The US has consistent industrial production data back to 1919, so it's a fairly straightf...
830 2009-03-20 A spokesman for the Canadian government's immigration minister explained that Canada has decided to stop a Scottish member of the British parliament from entering Canada because he is an "infandous street-corner Cromwell."...
831 2009-03-20 Willie Sutton robbed banks because "that's where the money is." Steve Ballmer says Microsoft continues to pursue Web search for the same reason....
832 2009-03-20 The Department of Energy has tentatively awarded its first alternative-energy loan guarantee, breaking a four-year logjam in the federal loan program....
833 2009-03-20 A quirky charm bracelet is quickly joining fast cars, yachts and Malibu beach homes as the latest Alpha-Male accoutrement...
834 2009-03-20 The discussion will no doubt focus on the English teams, but who realistically has a chance to win the UEFA Champions League crown?...
835 2009-03-20 Occidental Petroleum Chairman Ray Irani's finances seem to be unusually complicated, judging from the proxy statement that the company filed this week....
836 2009-03-20 The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining whether hedge funds allowed favored clients or employees to withdraw their money while freezing redemptions or liquidating funds for other clients, Commissioner Elisse B. Walter said Friday. A su...
837 2009-03-20 The White House has nominated New York's labor commissioner, M. Patricia Smith, to serve as the federal Labor Department's No. 3 official, its solicitor....
838 2009-03-20 Update | 2:21 p.m. Amid public outrage over employee bonuses at troubled firms like Merrill Lynch and the American International Group, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, called on Friday for executive pay policies that are created wit...
839 2009-03-20 Microsoft knows what it wants to offer to companies through its new cloud-based services: absolutely everything it sells as software....
840 2009-03-20 We've been busier than JFK airport sniffing out what's new, now and not-to-be-missed in the world this spring. There's no better way to begin than with a cover shot in Chicago: avant garde fashion shot against modern architecture in a city of newf...
841 2009-03-20 The big policy news this week has been the Fed's decision to buy $1 trillion of long-term bonds, going beyond the normal policy of buying only short-term debt. Good move - but it's probably worth pointing out that yes, this does expose the Fed, an...
842 2009-03-20 Chip maker National Semiconductor said Thursday it had signed a deal to buy Act Solar, a maker of solar technology. Act Solar, sells something called PowerString, which it says improves solar efficiency by six to 11 percent by re-circulating small...
843 2009-03-20 At least 13 companies receiving billions of dollars in bailout money owe more than $220 million in unpaid federal taxes, a lawmaker said Thursday. The lawmaker, Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia and chairman of a House subcommittee ov...
844 2009-03-20 Citigroup surprised Wall Street on Thursday with news that it was considering a bit of financial gymnastics to raise its sunken share price. The financial giant said it might execute what is known as a reverse stock split - the market equivalent o...
845 2009-03-20 Microsoft chief Steve Ballmer said on Thursday the only discussion he's had with Yahoo's top executive was a single phone call, but is holding out hopes for further talks. "I'm sure when it's appropriate, we will have a chance to sit down and talk...
846 2009-03-20 The head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said Thursday that the government's strategy in the financial crisis of bailing out huge institutions deemed "too big to fail" must be replaced by a new model. The official, Sheila C. Bair, tol...
847 2009-03-20 At 30 Rockefeller Plaza, in the Art Deco theater that is home to "Saturday Night Live," humor was not part of the program on Thursday. Instead, General Electric executives were doggedly making the case that the company's huge finance arm is not ju...
848 2009-03-20 It took a 21st century recession to do what the Great Depression and the Cold War could not: drive the historic Greenbrier resort, the playground of presidents and royalty, into bankruptcy. The company that runs the 231-year-old resort, which is p...
849 2009-03-20 First the newspaper industry began suffering. Now it is newsprint. AbitibiBowater, the giant purveyor of newsprint, was struggling Thursday to restructure its debt and avert bankruptcy, The New York Times's Michael J. de la Merced and Geraldine Fa...
850 2009-03-20 Fredy Montero had two goals and an assist, and the expansion Seattle Sounders F.C. looked like a seasoned team in their inaugural game with a convincing 3-0 victory over the visiting Red Bulls to begin the 14th season of Major League Soccer.
851 2009-03-20 The United Nations AIDS agency has joined the chorus of politicians and activists critical of Pope Benedict XVI for saying as he embarked on a tour of Africa this week that condoms “increase the problem” of the disease. With more than 7,400 new infections of H.I.V., which causes AIDS, reported daily, “condoms are an essential part of combination prevention,” the agency, Unaids, said Thursday in a statement issued from its Geneva headquarters. The statement added that the condom was “the single, most efficient, available technology to reduce the sexual transmission of H.I.V. and other sexually transmitted infections.” Unaids said it had made strides in getting sexually active young people in many African countries to start using condoms. The pope, who said Mass before some 60,000 people in Yaoundé, Cameroon, on Thursday, had stressed abstinence as the key method to combat AIDS.
852 2009-03-20 SEATTLE (AP) — It did not take long for the newest Major League Soccer franchise to make the pregame fireworks and the red-carpet arrivals an afterthought with its play on the field.

Young Colombian Fredy Montero had a two goals and an assist Thursday night, and the expansion Seattle Sounders looked like a seasoned juggernaut in their inaugural game with a convincing 3-0 victory against the Red Bulls, beginning the 14th season of M.L.S.

Brad Evans scored later in the first half on a spinning left-footed shot that split the legs of Red Bulls goalkeeper Danny Cepero, and the 32,523 fans that turned Qwest Field into a sea of neon green excitement had reason to leave impressed and satisfied with Seattle’s first result.

For a franchise that has already set M.L.S. benchmarks for support with a cap on season tickets at 22,000 and the first sports marketing partnership with Microsoft Corporation, living up to all the hype surrounding opening night appeared challenging.

But Seattle’s players made it look simple, none more than the 21-year-old Montero. Employing the attacking, offensive-focused style that was the desire of the majority owner Joe Roth and General Manager Adrian Hanauer, the Sounders spent most of the game keeping Cepero wondering just where the next rush was coming from, even with the designated player Freddie Ljungberg a spectator while still recovering from hip surgery.
853 2009-03-20 “Bob Funk” looks like a comedy, acts like a comedy and sounds like a comedy, but it isn’t funny. This is a problem in a movie that aims for laughs. It’s also part of the point. “Bob Funk” has sadder things on its mind.

Written and directed by Craig Carlisle, the film stars Michael Leydon Campbell as the loudmouth, alcoholic Bob, the most disaffected employee of the family business, a high-end bedding emporium called Funk Foam and Futon. Bob straggles in with hangovers only to hit on customers or pass out. He is in, well, a funk. Mom (Grace Zabriskie) demotes him to janitor.

Everything in “Bob Funk” — characters, sets, situations — has a perky, glossy feel to it, the slightly heightened reality of an upscale sitcom. Mr. Carlisle adapted the material from his own play, yet it doesn’t have the stilted, suffocating atmosphere of most stage-to-screen works. It also doesn’t have a coherent point of view; it’s pitched uneasily between affable slacker yuks that fall flat and a more sentimental agenda about Bob becoming sober and learning life lessons.

Enter Miss Thorne (Rachel Leigh Cook), a slightly goofy but eminently lovable addition to the Funk family business and the object of Bob’s affections. Given the ham-handed nomenclature, she might just as easily have been called Little Miss Sunshine.

“Bob Funk” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for heavy drinking, vulgar womanizing and language.

Written and directed by Craig Carlisle, based on his play “Bob Funk in Therapy”; director of photography, Lisa Wiegand; music by Tim Montijo; production designer, April Glover; produced by Keith Kjarval, Kurt Rauer and Mr. Montijo; released by Cinema Epoch. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.
854 2009-03-20 The Metropolitan Museum’s small show of Korean objects delivers beauty, history, unfamiliarity, deep research and fresh ideas....
855 2009-03-20 Congress is regularly mocked for earmarking taxpayer money to study exotic life cycles; this year’s favorite target is the Mormon cricket’s pestilential threat to agriculture in Utah. Too bad the Capitol has no appetite to study the ultimate in symbiotic survival: the relationship between campaign donors and the customized appropriations they are fed by grateful lawmakers.

Democratic leaders in the House have been swatting back Representative Jeff Flake as if he were a Mormon cricket as he repeatedly proposes that the ethics committee start a cause-and-effect study of earmarking and campaign money. Mr. Flake, a Republican from Arizona who is an earmark battler, is now calling on the committee to investigate the large donations to defense appropriators made by the PMA Group, the lobbying powerhouse that recently shut itself down after an F.B.I. raid over election-law violations.

Mr. Flake has picked the right place to start the investigating: some of the PMA Group’s lobbyists learned their craft as staffers in the appropriations subcommittee led by Representative John Murtha of Pennsylvania. Once in the free-enterprise zone, the PMA Group scored numerous defense earmarks and doled out generous gifts to Mr. Murtha and other subcommittee members.

This relationship cries out for an ethics inquiry. And we are pleased that Mr. Flake is refusing to be discouraged by his colleagues’ lack of courage. He reports that he picks up a few more supporters with each new challenge to the House ways of doing business. Mr. Flake is now bolstered by Peter Visclosky, a top Democrat on appropriations who announced after the F.B.I. raid that he’s returning $271,000 in donations from the PMA Group.

Mr. Visclosky has endorsed Mr. Flake’s quest, urging fellow Democratic leaders to push for an investigation of how the PMA Group’s clout worked. Of course, everyone on the Hill already knows the answer. But the best hope of ending this cynical influence trading is for the taxpayers to hear the full and shameful truth.
856 2009-03-20 NATO will be marking its 60th anniversary with a summit in early April, which will be hosted by France and Germany. Much of the preparatory hoopla has been celebratory, in large part because an eight-year chill in trans-Atlantic relations is seen as drawing to an end. President Obama is still soaring on European popularity charts, and Europe’s current leaders are a pro-American bunch. France’s president, Nicolas Sarkozy, has also decided to lead his country back into full NATO membership, putting to rest the Gaullists’ longstanding ambition to be a counterweight to Washington.

All that has inspired hopes of shaping a meaningful mission for the alliance after 20 years of post-cold-war drift. For that to happen, NATO must succeed in Afghanistan. Right now, it is frighteningly close to failing.

The fight against the Taliban and Al Qaeda is the alliance’s first major operation outside of Europe. And it is a battle against the new enemies of the new century: nihilistic terrorism, corrupt and unstable rule. Yet of the alliance’s 26 NATO members, the brunt of the real fighting has been borne by only five: the United States, Britain, Canada, the Netherlands and Denmark.

Many other NATO countries have hobbled their forces with “national exceptions” — self-imposed restrictions on how and where they may be deployed. German soldiers, for example, can only be used in a noncombat role in the relatively peaceful north. The effect on relations among allied forces is corrosive.

President Obama and his aides seem to recognize how fast things are coming apart in Afghanistan and the need for a better strategy. He has sent in another 17,000 American troops and has ordered a thorough review of the operation there; he has even opened the door to talks with moderate members of the Taliban.

That should be more than enough reassurance to NATO’s laggards that the United States is now prepared to use any combination of hard and soft power to get results. Yet the real reason the Europeans need to do more in Afghanistan is not to “help” the United States, but because failure would be a disaster for them as well.

Al Qaeda’s sanctuaries on both sides of the Afghanistan-Pakistan border are where terrorists are hatching new atrocities of the sort visited on New York and Washington but also on London, Madrid and Mumbai.
857 2009-03-20 LOS ANGELES — Three former employees of reality television shows, including “American Idol,” claim in a lawsuit filed here Thursday that the producer forced them to work under “sweatshop” conditions and failed to pay for overtime hours they worked.

The employees say they were forced by the producer, Fremantle North America, to work up to 20 hours a day, seven days a week, sometimes without meal and rest periods, and that Fremantle falsified payroll records.

The lawsuit, filed in Los Angeles Superior Court, seeks class-action status for all employees who worked in various job classifications — including field producer, segment producer, talent coordinator, music coordinator and others — for Fremantle and its related production companies.

A spokesman for Fremantle North America said in an e-mail message that the company did not comment on pending litigation.

Among the plaintiffs are Melody Murray, who worked in Los Angeles last year as a segment producer on “Osbournes: Reloaded,” a reality series scheduled to be broadcast beginning March 31 on Fox.
858 2009-03-20 First the newspaper industry began suffering. Now it is newsprint.

AbitibiBowater, the giant purveyor of newsprint, was struggling Thursday to restructure its debt and avert bankruptcy.

The company faces a Friday deadline to reach an agreement with its bondholders. If it fails to do so, it may be forced to file for bankruptcy protection, according to people briefed on the matter.

As newspaper companies grapple with a sharp decline in advertising, AbitibiBowater — which provides what is often the biggest expense for publishers, has come under pressure. The price of newsprint has plummeted in recent years, forcing paper companies to shutter mills and take losses.

Newspaper companies as big as the Tribune Company and as small as Philadelphia Newspapers, the publisher of The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Philadelphia Daily News, have filed for bankruptcy recently.

Other publishers have been hard-pressed to cope with the pressures facing the media industry.

Last year, newsprint consumption tumbled 14 percent, and 16 percent among daily newspapers, Paul Quinn, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a research note this week. He called the drop-off “staggering.”
859 2009-03-20 Since January, there have been seven horse deaths at Aqueduct. Since Nov. 14, 12 horses have been euthanized there, and another horse died of a heart attack.

The story of breakdowns goes beyond one race and one track. At Santa Anita, on a synthetic racing surface, seven horses have died since late December.

Nancy Heitzeg, a professor at St. Catherine’s University in Minnesota, has attempted to track all horse racing fatalities in the United States. She calculated that there had been approximately three breakdowns a day nationwide since last year’s Kentucky Derby.

The answers to why are elusive and involve everything from what a horse has on its feet, to how intensely it is trained, to what medication it might be on, to the racing surface under hoof. Although many tracks have installed synthetic tracks, Aqueduct uses dirt.

Are the breakdowns the outgrowth of a meat-grinder industry, or evidence of a horse population spread too thin? Or, as Aqueduct officials say, do they simply represent a spate of bad luck?

“I don’t think there is any explanation to it,” Campo said in his office at Aqueduct on Wednesday. “It’s an unfortunate part of our industry that we don’t like. But we try to minimize any type of breakdowns we have using all the policies and procedures we have in place.”

What part do legal drugs play in a steady flow of breakdowns? Is it possible that any of the fallen horses had previous injuries being masked by legal drugs? Is it possible that legal drugs gave fatigued horses the ability to run?

Dr. Rick Arthur, the equine medical director of the California Horse Racing Board, said, “There has been expressed concern, primarily among examining veterinarians and those who observe the industry, about whether the current medication practices are in the best interest of the horse.”

He said industry concern focuses on three major types of legal drugs. One is Lasix, a race-day drug many in the industry agree is beneficial to the horse because it prevents bleeding in the lungs, a common problem.

The second type is nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs, typically phenylbutazone, flunixin and ketoprofen. Most racing jurisdictions allow the use of one of those drugs over a prescribed period of time before a horse’s race. Arthur said that a number of veterinarians who examine horses for soundness before they race are concerned that the presence of those drugs compromises their ability to properly evaluate horses.

“Obviously, the patients can’t talk to us so if some medication is hiding or is masking some problem, it’s difficult to determine,” he said.

The third type of drugs most frequently mentioned as being overused are steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, which Arthur described as “cortisone-type drugs” typically used in a joint to decrease inflammation.

Steroidal drugs are not permitted in international racing. America, historically, has been more permissive, Arthur said, because there was the belief that these medications were beneficial to the horse.

“There are people who still believe that,” he said. “It’s not proven either way, but it is an issue that has caused concern to a number of people who have seriously examined horse racing and the medication policy.”

His philosophy is that less is better.

“But I’m an older guy and I was raised around horses and I don’t have quite the medication bent that some younger horsemen and veterinarians do.”

Dr. Susan Stover of the University of California-Davis appeared as a panelist in June before the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Commerce, Trade and Consumer Protection, which was looking into how to help remedy the problems plaguing the industry: on-track deaths of horses, over-medicating and over-breeding.

Dr. Stover said the industry needed to rethink legal drugs and should consider confining their application to the treatment of identified disease.

“If a horse has pneumonia, you need to treat it for pneumonia; if it has a foot abscess, you need to treat it for a foot abscess,” she said. “I think what we need to consider is whether we need medication for training purposes.”

Racing enthusiasts seem to feel that the general public, rather than being horrified, should view these breakdowns the way boxing fans and pro football fans look at catastrophic injuries: as unfortunate but inevitable consequences of difficult sports.

Boxers and football players volunteer for duty, and presumably know what they’re getting into. If players died more frequently, the government would force reform.

But who speaks for the horses?
860 2009-03-20 The smugglers moved their goods across borders using secret compartments, a Maryland meat processing plant and the help of a corrupt Louisiana turtle farm. Their lucrative product: rattlesnakes, snapping turtles and salamanders.

This was the portrait of a trade in illegal reptiles and amphibians that New York State environmental authorities painted on Thursday, when a two-year undercover investigation called Operation Shellshock ended with criminal charges against 17 people. More charges were filed by officials in other states and Canada, the New York officials said.

The case had the familiar ring of a drug bust, but it was instead built in the unlikely world of herpetological shows and included charges against leaders at organizations like the New York Turtle and Tortoise Society, the Long Island Herpetological Society, and the pet Web site turtlesale.com, a Florida-based company that is also facing New York charges.

“Our investigators began this operation with a simple question: Is there a commercial threat to our critical wildlife species?” Pete Grannis, the commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Conservation, which conducted the investigation, said in a statement.

What they found alarmed them. “A very lucrative illegal market for these creatures does exist, fostered by a strong, clandestine culture of people who want to exploit wildlife for illegal profit,” Mr. Grannis said.
861 2009-03-20 But GE Capital has applied two different Federal Reserve economic models to its business, a so-called base case and a worse case — both of which assume tougher economic times than G.E. did for its outlook in December. The Fed’s base case assumes that unemployment in the United States averages 8.4 percent for the year and that the economy contracts by 2 percent. In those circumstances, G.E. estimates, GE Capital’s profits for 2009 would fall to $2 billion to $2.5 billion.

The nation’s unemployment rate is already at 8.1 percent, and many economists find the Fed’s more pessimistic outlook more realistic. That model assumes that unemployment averages 8.9 percent for the year and that the economy shrinks by 3.3 percent. In that case, GE Capital would show no profit, the company said.

Still, Mr. Neal said he expected that GE Capital would be profitable during the first quarter and for the year.

Throughout the day, G.E. executives portrayed its practices as a world apart from the missteps that have hobbled many banks. GE Capital, they noted, holds onto the loans it originates instead of selling them off, as so many banks did. The G.E. approach, they said, means the company knows its customers and its risks. GE Capital, they added, is liquid and far less leveraged than most banks, and has shunned complex securities, which have proved toxic in the downturn. “We don’t do bad acronyms, like C.D.O.’s or S.I.V.’s,” Mr. Neal said, referring to collateralized debt obligations and structured investment vehicles.

Another theme, stressed repeatedly, was that the finance business was not so different from G.E.’s trademark industrial side. The G.E. management playbook, they said, applied to both. “We run this like a factory, just like any other G.E. business,” said Ronald Pressman, who heads the commercial real estate finance business.

The GE Capital executives made their case forcefully and articulately. But analysts and investors remain skeptical. G.E. shares rose early, and then slipped to close at $10.13, down a bit under 2 percent, in line with the overall fall in the market.

In a research note after the presentation, Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst at the brokerage Sterne, Agee & Leach, wrote that although GE Capital was well financed, its profit performance would probably come closest to the outcome suggested by the Fed’s pessimistic model. Mr. Heymann estimates the 2009 profit from GE Capital at $900 million, below his previous estimate of $2.8 billion, and well below the company’s December target of $5 billion.

Today, G.E. is actively paring back its finance unit, particularly in areas like consumer lending in the United States and home mortgages in Britain. Yet the presentations also show some of its finance units were growing well into 2007. Its write-offs in commercial real estate last year were clustered in commitments it called vintage 2007.

This year, GE Capital plans to originate only about $100 million in loans in the troubled British home mortgage market, while in 2007 it originated nearly $11 billion. G.E. bought into that business in 2003 by acquiring the mortgage lending arm of a British bank.

G.E. executives pointed out a few times at the presentation that, unlike troubled banks in the United States, it is not a home mortgage lender in the United States. But that is because it got out after getting burned. In 2004, G.E. bought a subprime lender in California, WMC Mortgage, and shed it in 2007, taking a total loss of about $1 billion.

G.E.’s entry into finance goes back to its early days of financing electrical equipment purchases and, later, in consumer lending to finance the purchase of its appliances during the Depression. Yet the finance arm at G.E. grew far beyond the tight links to its basic industrial businesses. In recent years, half of the company’s profits have often come from GE Capital, though no longer.

Over the years, it seems, G.E. got hooked on finance. And it is hardly alone, as the financial sector as a share of the economy increased steadily over the last two decades. Finance rose to 35 percent of total corporate profits in 2006, before falling to 19 percent by the end of last year, according to Economy.com.

“G.E. is symptomatic of what is going on in the United States economy,” said Edward Yardeni, an economist and independent investment adviser. “The easy money from finance is wonderful during the good times, but finance can really turn around and bite you in the bad times. That’s the predicament G.E. is in.”

Eventually, G.E. is expected to come through the credit crisis with a smaller, more focused finance arm, and more attention will be paid to its strong industrial businesses in energy, aviation and health care.

“G.E. is still a huge industrial corporation with a very solid global strategy,” said Noel Tichy, a professor at the University of Michigan business school who once ran G.E.’s management school at Crotonville, N.Y. “But that gets obscured and ignored now because of the financial crisis.”
862 2009-03-20 At least 13 companies receiving billions of dollars in bailout money owe more than $220 million in unpaid federal taxes, a lawmaker said Thursday.

The lawmaker, Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia and chairman of a House subcommittee overseeing the federal bailout, said two companies owed more than $100 million each.

The House Ways and Means Committee’s subcommittee on oversight discovered the unpaid taxes in a review of tax records from 23 of the companies receiving the most bailout money, Mr. Lewis said, as he opened a hearing on the issue.

“This is shameful; it is a disgrace,” he said. “We are going to get to the bottom of what is going on here.”

The subcommittee said it could not legally release the names of the companies owing taxes.

It said one recipient had almost $113 million in unpaid federal income taxes from 2005 and 2006. A second recipient owed almost $102 million dating to before 2004.
863 2009-03-20 WASHINGTON — The volume of toxic chemicals that were released into the environment or sent for disposal in 2007 dropped 5 percent compared with 2006, the Environmental Protection Agency said Thursday. But concealed within the overall numbers was good and bad news.

For example, the volume of released or disposed “persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic chemicals,” substances like lead, dioxin, mercury and PCBs, was up slightly, the agency said. Most of those releases were not to air or water, the agency said, meaning that the material was mostly buried in landfills, injected into deep wells or held in impoundments.

The number given for PCBs was up by 40 percent, but “it’s good news,” said Michael P. Flynn, acting deputy assistant administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Environmental Information.

The E.P.A. banned production of PCBs 30 years ago, so pounds counted now, Mr. Flynn said, represent electrical transformers or other equipment being taken out of service and PCBs disposed of in qualified facilities.

The material released or disposed of in 2007 came to almost 4.1 billion pounds. More than 20 billion pounds, about five times as much material, was recycled, treated to render it nontoxic or burned for energy, the agency said.

The 2007 numbers, from 22,000 sources including factories, refineries, chemical plants, power plants and mines, were gathered under relaxed rules put into effect by the Bush administration in December 2006. Under those rules, smaller producers had the option to report their figures on a simplified form, giving less detail. But Mr. Flynn said that only about 2 percent of reporting companies had taken that option, and that the number of pounds of chemicals involved was probably small.

Those looser rules were revoked this month by a provision inserted into a budget bill by Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, who was an author of the 1986 law that required reporting in the first place. The new E.P.A. administrator, Lisa P. Jackson, who formerly held the top environmental job in New Jersey, said in a statement that Mr. Lautenberg’s provision would restore “the rigorous reporting standards of this vital program.”
864 2009-03-20 Several of the weapons have been recovered in Mexico after shootouts with the police, notably one gunfight last year in which eight officers died in Culiacán, the Sinaloa capital. Federal agents say the smugglers, who have pleaded guilty to lesser charges, recruited at least seven people with clean records as straw purchasers to buy the guns on their behalf, paying them $100 a gun.

But after a week of trial, Judge Robert L. Gottsfield of Maricopa County Superior Court on Wednesday threw out the charges against Mr. Iknadosian, saying no fraud had been committed.

Judge Gottsfield determined that even though the straw buyers had made false statements on federal forms claiming they were buying for themselves, they were legally eligible to buy the weapons, so the deception did not amount to a “material falsification” under state law.

He also asserted that federal gun laws require prosecutors to prove not just that someone lied to a gun dealer to obtain a weapon for someone else, but also that the person who ended up with the gun could not legally buy one.

“There is no proof whatsoever that any prohibited possessor ended up with the firearms,” the judge said in his decision, recorded in the court’s minutes.

Prosecutors said the decision appeared to ignore the heart of their case: testimony from several witnesses, including straw purchasers, indicating Mr. Iknadosian was part of a conspiracy that funneled weapons to Mexican assassins.

The decision was a setback for Mr. Goddard, who has tried to crack down on gun smuggling over the last year, stepping into a role usually played by the United States Attorney’s Office, which is bogged down with immigration cases.

Mr. Goddard said he was searching for a way to appeal the ruling, even though in Arizona such “directed verdicts,” in which a judge rules there is not enough evidence to support charges, are hard to reverse.

“We don’t really understand what the judge did,” he said. “We are trying to make sense of it.”

Federal agents say they have documented that over the two years leading to his arrest last May, Mr. Iknadosian sold hundreds of weapons of the kind currently sought by drug dealers in Mexico.

Scores of rifles were sold to seven Arizona residents who had been recruited by two brothers, Hugo Miguel Gamez, 26, and Cesar Bojorguez Gamez, 27, according to federal investigative reports. Federal agents say the two in turn smuggled the weapons to the Beltrán Leyva cartel in Mexico.
865 2009-03-20 It took a 21st-century recession to do what the Great Depression and the cold war could not: drive the historic Greenbrier resort, the playground of presidents and royalty, into bankruptcy.

The company that runs the 231-year-old resort, which is perched in the mountains of West Virginia, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in federal court in Richmond, Va., on Thursday.

But the company, the Greenbrier Hotel Corporation, held out hope that the resort, famed for its lush golf greens and a once-secret bunker intended to withstand a nuclear attack, may be sold to Marriott later this year.

The Greenbrier, located in White Sulphur Springs and owned since 1910 by the railroad operator CSX, is the latest resort business to fall victim to the recession.

The 721-room compound, a registered national landmark, proclaims that 26 presidents have visited and that it once had Sam Snead as its resident golf pro.

It even hosted a once-secret 112,000-square-foot bunker, known as Project Greek Island, to be used by Congress in case of a nuclear assault.
866 2009-03-20 A reverse stock split reduces the number of shares outstanding, and, as a mere matter of financial logic, the share price increases proportionately. But that is all. Stockholders are neither worse nor better off. They simply hold fewer shares, each of which is worth proportionately more.

In a letter to shareholders, Gary L. Crittenden, Citigroup’s chief financial officer, made clear that Citigroup would pursue this strategy as part of the government’s third bailout plan, announced last month, which involves converting billions of dollars of the government’s preferred stock in the company to common shares.

A result will be a flood of new Citigroup stock. A reverse stock split would simply provide some financial housecleaning to help the bailout plan go smoothly.

“This is cosmetic,” said Stuart Plesser, an analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity Research.

But Citigroup is interested in cosmetics at the moment — in anything that brings even the appearance of stability after two multibillion-dollar lifelines, greatly increased government control and a loss in 2008 of $27.7 billion that is among the largest in corporate history.

According to Richard X. Bove of Rochdale Securities, even if nothing else has changed, a $3 or even $5 share price simply looks better than a dollar a share, and will support investor confidence in the long-term sustainability of the company.

Gerard Cassidy, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, agreed. “Reverse stock splits,” he said, “are often used by companies that realize that having a low stock price is optically not very attractive. It does not pretend to say that the company has improved but optically it looks better on investors’ screens or in the newspaper.”

But a reverse stock split can also have real effects, according to analysts. It can increase demand for a company’s stock by attracting retail investors who feel more comfortable with buying shares with prices in the $10 to $20 range.

Analysts like Mr. Plesser and Mr. Bove said institutional investors are also discouraged by internal rules from buying stocks below a certain price threshold, usually around $5. A reverse stock split may bring these investors into play.

“They are doing it because when a stock sells below $5 a share, it’s not something that many institutions can buy,” Mr. Bove said.

In a memorandum to employees last month, Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup’s chief executive, said that, after more than a year of losses, the company was on track for its strongest quarter since late 2007, when bad loans and trading losses began to crash down on it.

He said the bank generated a combined $19 billion in revenue in January and February, after strong trading results and wider lending margins.

But once the blush of the reverse stock split wears off, a big question remains: Can Citigroup sustain that better operating performance through the quarter and beyond?

Amid uncertainty about the economy, Citigroup and many other banks will probably have to cope with more waves of losses this year on all kinds of loans as the recession deepens.

Mr. Plesser said Citigroup’s share price could be buoyed if the government announces credible plans for a so-called aggregator bank to buy the toxic assets that still weigh down banks’ books.

But even if the stock outlook remains uncertain, Citigroup may have started a trend in reverse stock options. Such a maneuver is rare among big banks, but others may be tempted if their share prices weaken and need to be buttressed.

“In the financial space, I have not seen this happening in a while,” Mr. Cassidy said. “But if other bank stocks don’t recover on their own, you may see more.”
867 2009-03-20 Tampax has been running several ads in the campaign since July, and this month it will introduce another, in which Mother Nature interrupts a woman’s steamy dream with the red gift, as well as an online-only video where the actress thrusts the package at unsuspecting women on the street, an unscripted video using nonactors who subsequently signed releases.

Becky Swanson, a creative director from the Chicago-based Leo Burnett USA on the Tampax account, said that the campaign was intent on avoiding oft-parodied clichés.

“There are no walks on the beach, no riding a white horse or sitting on a white couch, and no conversations between a mother and a daughter about ‘that not-so-clean feeling,’ ” Ms. Swanson said.

The Mother Nature character was developed to be a “worthy opponent who is all-powerful and very much in control, more of a mother-in-law figure,” Ms. Swanson said.

While the target audience is vast, she said, “the idea of having this worthy opponent really resonates with younger girls, because when someone tries to tell them how to lead their life or what they can or cannot do, they want to outsmart that person.”

Using the word “period” in commercials is something Tampax has been doing only in recent years, but Ms. Swanson says that newer spots drop the word as women become more familiar with the campaign, making it unnecessary to spell out what the red gift represents. Procter & Gamble’s most prominent use was in the “Have a happy period” campaign for the company’s Always sanitary napkins, ads that began in 2005 and continue today.

Patricia Perez-Ayala, vice president of Procter & Gamble’s feminine care division, says that while most women alternate between tampons and sanitary napkins depending on the stage of their menstrual cycles, the company’s research indicates that they generally have a preference, or “mind-set.”

“A pad mind-set is much more embracing the period and is much more accepting because it’s part of being a woman,” Ms. Perez-Ayala said. Women who have favored tampons have a different attitude.

“A tampon mind-set is like, ‘Period — what period? I don’t even want to talk about it,’ ” Ms. Perez-Ayala said.

The Always and Tampax campaigns speak to those contrasting views — the idea of Mother Nature’s being an opponent would most likely be anathema to a devoted pad user, as would the notion of a “happy period” for those who favor tampons.

According to a report from Mintel, a market research firm, the United States tampon market was worth $610 million in 2008, a drop of nearly 1 percent from the previous year. The report also said growth in the market had been sluggish since 2005 because baby boomers were reaching menopause and were no longer using menstrual and birth control products. Tampax brands lead the tampon category, with 49 percent of the market, followed by Playtex brands (25 percent), Kotex (10 percent) and O.B. (6 percent), according to Mintel.

Kotex, made by Kimberly-Clark, declined a request for an interview about its marketing efforts, as did representatives from O.B. (made by Johnson & Johnson) and Playtex (a division of Energizer Holdings Inc.).

While tampons have been advertised in print since Tampax first sold them commercially in the 1930s, they were not advertised on television until 1977, and ads skirted the word “period” until 2000, when Kotex unveiled a campaign with the theme “Kotex fits. Period.”

Kotex caused a stir in Australia last year when it ran a series of humorous ads for its Kotex U brand that struck some as being in bad taste, and others as hilarious. The ads, by the Sydney agency Brandshop, feature a woman and a joking reference to slang for female genitalia, and ended with the tag line, “You’ve only got one. So for the ultimate care down there, make it U.”

The ads, which attracted about 300,000 views on YouTube, also drew more than 185 complaints to Australia’s Advertising Standards Bureau.

While the feminine care industry prides itself on empowering women and giving them confidence, critics fault it for doing just the opposite.

Elizabeth Arveda Kissling, author of the book “Capitalizing on the Curse: The Business of Menstruation” and a professor of media studies and women’s studies at Eastern Washington University, echoes other scholars who find fault with the term “feminine hygiene,” a term popular with industry watchers and on signs in drugstore aisles.

“It suggests that femaleness itself is a little dirty and you have to clean it up, and it goes back to ancient taboos about menstruation being a pollution,” Ms. Kissling said by telephone.

As for advertisements getting more candid, Ms. Kissling wrote in her book, which predates Tampax’s Mother Nature campaign, that while “often they give the appearance of breaking menstrual taboos by speaking openly about the management of menstruation,” commercials still were highly euphemistic, never even showing the products in bathrooms, where “they are usually kept and used.”

Still, Ms. Kissling recently screened some ads for the new Tampax campaign for her women’s studies class, and she said her students had been impressed.

“My students thought the ads were hilarious,” she said. “There’s still a powerful taboo about talking about menstruation, and being able to laugh about it is a big change.”
868 2009-03-20 As the first afternoon of the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament struggled to produce any of the memorable upsets college basketball has come to expect, the drama became much more about who was not there, instead of who was.

Connecticut Coach Jim Calhoun was the most notably absent from the scene, missing the top-seeded Huskies’ game against No. 16 Tennessee-Chattanooga in Philadelphia with a somewhat mysterious illness that Huskies’ administrators did not completely explain. Not that UConn needed any extra wisdom from their coach. The assistant George Blaney handled all necessary details in a 103-47 victory.

Similarly, North Carolina point guard Ty Lawson sat out and was hardly missed in the No. 1-seeded Tar Heels’ first-round demolition of No. 16 Radford, 101-58. Lawson jammed his toe during a practice two weeks ago, costing him two games of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament and giving North Carolina something to fret about as it considers its title hopes. That fretting, however, did not include anything about handling Radford, a game played in what could be considered the Tar Heels’ backyard in Greensboro, N.C.

No. 2 seed Memphis was missing a lot (shots, good passes, a sensible approach to defense) for most of its game against No. 15-seeded Cal State Northridge. A good chunk of Memphis’s vaunted lineup went missing for long stretches because of foul trouble and the Tigers shot miserably in the first half. Most of the fans in Kansas City, Mo., jumped on the Matadors’ bandwagon and went berserk when they took a 62-56 lead with 10 minutes 12 seconds left, and Memphis Coach John Calipari acknowledged that he called his team “arrogant” at that juncture. He did not mean it as a compliment.

But the Matadors’ upset hopes unraveled from there. The Tigers forced to sit because of foul trouble opened an opportunity for forward Roburt Sallie, who had previously never scored more than 13 points in a game. He became Memphis’s savior, shooting 10 for 15 from 3-point range and scoring an astounding 35 points. The Tigers made up their deficit and pulled away at the end for their 81-70 victory.

Cal State Northridge might have put up even more of a fight except for who was missing on its end. Coach Bobby Braswell’s team was playing without Deon Tresvant, who was its leading scorer until he was arrested in January along with another player, Dallas Rutherford, and Braswell’s son Jeffrey, felony theft and burglary charges. The coach spent Monday in court learning that his son and players would be headed to trial, before getting his team ready for the trip to Kansas City.
869 2009-03-20 An article last Friday about dog sledding in Montana misspelled the name of a town in which Yellowstone Dog Sled Adventures, an outfitter, is based. It is Emigrant, not Immigrant.
870 2009-03-20 The American West is pockmarked with hot springs. Heated by deep magma chambers, much of the water emerges scalding or inaccessible on private property. But in rare instances it arrives at a delightful temperature on scenic public lands where it is available to all comers as a quasi tax return.

My initiation was as a new college graduate on a westward migration. The hot spring, in Oregon, was as much an introduction to West Coast culture as a means to soothe driving-muscle aches. Nude public bathing was foreign to me at the time, but I soon understood that wearing a bathing suit in this kind of spring was like using a fork in an Ethiopian restaurant: culturally awkward, somewhat antisocial and generally antithetical to the underlying idea. The forced intimacy between undressed strangers actually encourages friendly and inspired chatter, as it might between travelers meeting at a remote oasis.

Since I settled in California, books like “Hot Springs and Hot Pools of the Southwest” by Marjorie Gersh-Young and printouts from soak.net have become my faithful road trip companions. (The location of some undeveloped tubs is closely guarded by locals, revealed only after cultural profiling; wearing a fanny pack would probably not help.)

While driving across the desolate Highway 50 through central Nevada, on a trip from San Francisco to Colorado, I was directed down a washboard side road seemingly toward the middle of nowhere. Wild burros grazed in sagebrush. After a cattle guard and a turn, three steaming tubs were suddenly revealed, perched on the edge of the wide, deserted valley with a stunning panorama of the Toiyabe Range. I recall thinking, as a bargain hunter might: Why would anyone ever pay full retail for this? Someone — hot springing has an industrious volunteer subculture — had laid smooth stone seats inside the tubs and wood platforms on the rim. As I settled into the sublimity, my nose picked up a faint whiff of a deer carcass. Or maybe it was a burro. Either way, aromatherapy it was not, but I was hooked.

Every hot spring has its own authenticity, and over time I have developed an appreciation for their diversity of scenes and settings. A spring on the east bank of the Rio Grande, outside Taos, N.M., invites dips in the warm tubs after lazy floats downriver, a cycle I once repeated for hours, until my raisin hands looked like something I should be concerned about.

Just reaching an isolated spring deep in the mountains of Big Sur requires a 10-mile hike through coastal redwoods and chaparral. I visited with my girlfriend; romantic touches — candles left by previous soakers on the mossy ledges of the rock-lined tubs, the babble of an adjacent river — inspired a communion with the surrounding forest.

When possible, I figure hot springs into my travels abroad. Much like, say, birding, visiting hot springs is a conceit for seeing a country off the beaten track, and their universality allows me to transcend the foreignness of a place. Thermal water is comfortable and familiar, even while the geography or culture is not.

The Blue Lagoon in Iceland may be that geothermal hot spot’s most iconic pool of therapeutic water, but my most memorable Icelandic soak was under the dusky midnight sky on rural land owned by a provincial church, which doesn’t make branded anti-aging creams. The only inhabitant around, a half-mile from the unmarked spring, was the pastor himself, who actually lived with a flock of sheep. After my soak, I visited him, and as we spoke he politely excused himself to assist a ewe in labor, which he did successfully, wearing a tweed sport coat.

Paradoxically, it was at a hot spring in one of the most remote and inhospitable parts of the planet where I was made to feel most deeply at home. The Salar de Chalviri, in southwest Bolivia, is a forbidding volcanic region at about 14,000 feet in elevation, where spring water of pleasurable temperature collects in small pools on the rocky, mineral-stained soil. There is a God’s Country quality to the place. When I passed through there one morning on a Jeep tour, the tubs afforded a sanctuary, a geothermal mikva, amid the denuded landscape. The sun’s slanted light mixed with steam rising off the water to produce an ethereal glow, leaving me to bathe soulfully in the gift of creation.
871 2009-03-20 People from all over the country have since discovered what might be called the western outdoor charm of Cody for vacation and retirement homes. Some are drawn by the horse culture, others by the mountain stream fishing and still others for the hunting.

Many, like Ray Moss, cite the small-town feel. Mr. Moss was a pilot for American Airlines living in Las Vegas 15 years ago. After a trip to the Yellowstone area, his wife, Sharon, announced they were moving to Cody. “Can I come up and look at it?” Mr. Moss recalled asking. “ ‘You can come up and look at it,’ ” Ms. Moss replied, he said, “ ‘but this is where I’m going to live.’ ”

Mr. Moss, 74, who retired about a year after moving, says he loves the folksiness of Cody. “It’s a very, very friendly town,” he said. “Everybody knows everybody.”

The Mosses bought 37 acres on the North Fork of the Shoshone River west of town, where they built a barn and other outbuildings, grubbed out a farm, planted alfalfa and raised horses. “Then after 10 years I decided I’ve worked enough,” he said. “So I moved into town to relax and retire completely.” Three years ago, he bought a 12-year-old house less than a mile from downtown for $285,000. The 2,600-square-foot rambler has three bedrooms and sits on a three-quarter-acre lot.

A big draw to the Cody area is the fishing — some 1,500 miles of trout streams within an hour’s drive of town, said Tim Wade, owner of North Fork Anglers. David Hinkle, a wine importer from Oakland, Calif., found the area after a friend invited him and his wife, Carolann, to come out fly-fishing. “The West — we just loved it,” he recalled.

Returning to the area later, he flew into Cody and fished the Clarks Fork of the Yellowstone River. That’s when he began looking for a vacation home near town. Since then he has bought and sold several properties. In 2001, he built his four-bedroom “dream house” of locally cut logs on 45 acres along the South Fork of the Shoshone, west of town.

When he’s in Cody, Mr. Hinkle fly-fishes the South Fork for cutthroat, brown and rainbow trout. He and his family drive to town for swimming lessons and visits to the library. In the summer, they go to the rodeo, where one of his two daughters competes in barrel racing.

“It’s the family aspect of Cody we love,” he said. “When we go to Cody, it’s family time.” His daughters care for the family’s three horses. “They’re on horses almost every day,” he said. “If we’re in Oakland, I don’t think they would be together. In Cody, they’re together all the time.”

Cody was attractive enough to induce Al List to buy, even though he lives in Embarrass, Wis., a corner of the North Woods that has its own quiet charm. “There’s nothing like the majesty of the mountains as far as I’m concerned,” said Mr. List, who retired from banking in 2003 and had long hunted elk, mule deer and antelope in Wyoming. In October, he and his wife, Sue, paid $152,500 for a cabin 18 miles west of town, near the North Fork of the Shoshone. The one-bedroom, 1,000-square-foot home is on 4.5 acres touching Jim Creek. “It’s a beautiful view,” he said.

Cody, with 9,187 people, according to a 2007 Census estimate, is surrounded by rangeland and, in the farther distance to the west, mountains. The downtown, built largely in the early 1900s, stretches along Sheridan Avenue. The shops give a sense of a thriving city core, and there is comparatively little suburban sprawl. At the west edge of downtown, a statue of Buffalo Bill stands in front of the expansive historical center, which includes museums devoted to Plains Indians, Yellowstone natural history and ecology, firearms, Western art and the life of Cody himself.

In warm months, Sheridan Avenue fills with tourists — families coming and going from Yellowstone, fishermen loading up on the best fly patterns of the season. Over the Fourth of July weekend is the Cody Stampede Rodeo, which draws contestants and spectators from around the country.

For a taste of the town’s history, the Irma Hotel (1192 Sheridan Avenue; 800-745-4762; www.irmahotel.com) offers frontier-era lodging, with original rooms from $57.50 in winter to $149.50 in summer. The Cody Gunfighters stage a shootout in front on summer evenings.

Wildlife is a common sight outside of town. “You see animals everywhere,” Mr. Hinkle said. “My girls are jaded. They see a moose, a fox, a coyote, a bear, hundreds of deer, elk that come through, a bobcat. We’re able to live in nature.”

Attractions like the rodeo and the Cody museums keep out-of-town visitors occupied. Hunting, fishing, hiking and camping are at your doorstep. Wyoming has no state income tax, a bonus for homeowners who retire or otherwise establish residence there.

The wind. “If you didn’t have wind, you wouldn’t have Wyoming,” Mr. Moss said. Shopping and entertainment are limited compared with what’s offered in larger towns.

According to the Park County Board of Realtors, average and median prices held nearly steady last year. The median sale price of homes in Cody was $187,500 in 2008 compared with $189,000 in 2007. Prices rose slightly for rural properties of 40 acres or smaller in surrounding Park County — $298,500 in 2008 compared with $290,000 in 2007.

Buyers come from all over, agents said. “All you have to do is take a map of the United States and play spin the bottle,” said Louis Kousoulos, a broker with Eagle Real Estate. “Wherever it stops, that’s where they come from.”

Most people looking for retirement or vacation property come from larger cities in high-tax states, said John Kendrick of the Sommers & Voerding Real Estate Brokerage, and are attracted not only by the mountains and wide-open spaces, but also by Wyoming’s low income and sales taxes. Popular areas are along the Clarks Fork of the Yellowstone, northwest of Cody, and the North Fork and South Fork of the Shoshone, to the west and southwest.

The upper South Fork, Mr. Kousoulos said, is the “high-rent district,” with big ranches on the hip of the mountains. Many prospective buyers plan to own livestock, he said, but change their minds when the realities of animal husbandry set in. “I don’t like anything that has to be fed every day,” Mr. Kousoulos said. Many landowners eventually agree and move into town.
872 2009-03-20 WASHINGTON (AP) — The head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said Thursday that the government’s strategy in the financial crisis of bailing out huge institutions deemed “too big to fail” must be replaced by a new model.

The official, Sheila C. Bair, told Congress that a new system of supervision was needed to prevent institutions from taking on excessive risk and becoming so large that their failure would threaten the financial system. Such a mechanism would be similar to what the F.D.I.C. does with federally insured banks and thrifts, she added.

Testifying at a packed Senate Banking Committee hearing, Ms. Bair said that simply creating a so-called systemic risk regulator — a central idea in the discussion of overhauling the government financial rules — “is not a panacea.”

Ms. Bair appeared with other top regulators to discuss the high-stakes issue of modernizing oversight of the nation’s financial institutions amid the crisis gripping the United States. and the global economies.

The government’s rescue of the insurance giant American International Group, its pumping of tens of billions of dollars into Citigroup and Bank of America in more than one instance, and other actions in the crisis have put a “too big to fail” stamp on federal policy.
873 2009-03-20 In a statement, suggested he was supportive of the legislation, urging Congress to deliver a “final product that will serve as a strong signal to the executives who run these firms that such compensation will not be tolerated.”

In an appearance later on “The Tonight Show” on , Mr. Obama was measured in his reaction, saying he understood that Congress was “responding, I think, to everybody’s anger” but that the best way to handle the situation was “to make sure you’ve closed the door before the horse gets out of the barn.”

The legislation would apply to bonuses paid to executives at companies holding at least $5 billion in bailout money and would essentially wipe out the phenomenal paydays that have been a tradition on Wall Street, at least until the firms reduce the amount they owe taxpayers to less than $5 billion.

According to a tally by The of bailout recipients, employees at 11 institutions — including , , Citigroup, and — would face restrictions immediately.

The current version of the Senate bill would apply to an even wider array of companies. It would tax bonuses at companies that received as little as $100 million in federal bailout assistance, though at a lower rate.

In response, financial institutions that have received federal bailout money mounted a broad assault Thursday on the House legislation, which was opposed by leading Republicans. But nearly half of House Republicans joined Democrats in supporting the measure, which was approved by a 328-to-93 vote.

Its backers said the companies had forced Congress to act by inexplicably handing out generous rewards to employees after tapping taxpayer funds to survive an economic calamity brought on by irresponsible and risky executive decisions. gave out $165 million in bonuses, saying the payments were essential to retain employees who could help the company sort out its financial problems.

“Have the recipients of these checks no shame at all?” asked Representative Earl Pomeroy, Democrat of . Summing up his personal view of the so-far-anonymous A.I.G. executives, he said: “You are disgraced professional losers. And by the way, give us our money back.”

But several executives at Wall Street banks said they were being unfairly caught up in a hasty response by Washington that would ultimately deliver a sharper blow to their companies than to A.I.G., which set off the furor. One bank executive said employees were coming into his office in tears.

Several banks are considering refusing to participate in government financial rescue programs if the bill passes, according to a person briefed on the banks’ plans. Hedge fund and private equity firms may also be hesitant to work in partnership with the government to purchase bad assets from banks — a central component of the Treasury Department’s coming financial recovery plan — if they think the government might later add restrictions on their pay.

“If this stands, you will destroy the value of institutions where the government is an owner,” said Orin Kramer, who runs a hedge fund and helps oversee the pension plan.

“You will drive people away from being willing to do business with the government,” said Mr. Kramer, a prominent fund-raiser for Mr. Obama.

Members of both parties raised doubt about whether the legislation could survive a court challenge, saying it was tantamount to a retroactive “bill of attainder,” which is banned by the Constitution. Even backers of the bill acknowledged it amounted to an extraordinary use of tax law.

“It is an extreme use of the tax code to correct an extreme and excessive wrong done to the American taxpayer,” said Representative Dave Camp of , senior Republican on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, who backed the measure despite reservations.

But experts on constitutional and tax law said it was likely the House bill could pass muster. Numerous court rulings have upheld retroactive tax provisions, particularly over short periods. The House bill applies back only to Jan. 1, 2009. The measure is also strengthened by the fact that it does not apply to just one company or group of individuals, and does not take aim only at past bonuses but also bonuses to be paid in the future, experts said.

The effort to impose the tax was led by the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, Representative , Democrat of New York, who just days earlier had expressed reluctance at using the tax code for this purpose. Mr. Rangel has also sought donations from A.I.G. for a public policy institute at City College in New York that will bear his name.

But on Thursday Mr. Rangel said that the executives were “getting away with murder.”

“They are getting paid for the destruction they have caused our communities,” he said.

Bank executives, who requested anonymity because they did not want to further alienate lawmakers, said their employees were on edge and many would face severe financial hardship if they were severely taxed on money already paid.

“It’ll impact tens of thousands or maybe hundreds of thousands of people,” said Alan Johnson, managing director at Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm in New York, noting that the tax would apply to a bonus recipient with family income of more than $250,000. “If you’re a receptionist and your husband is a doctor, your $5,000 bonus just vaporized. It’s not just the C.E.O.’s.”

Led by Representative of , the party leader, several House Republicans assailed the legislation, calling it a diversion by Democrats eager to escape scrutiny for failing to block the bonuses.

They also pointed to a last-minute addition to the economic stimulus legislation approved in February that appeared to restrict the federal government’s ability to block bonuses for the most senior executives if they were negotiated into contracts before Feb. 11, including some at A.I.G.

“This bill is nothing more than an attempt for everybody to cover their butt up here on Capitol Hill,” Mr. Boehner said. “It’s full of loopholes. A lot of these people who are getting these bonuses likely live in . And it’s not clear how raising this tax is going to recover that money.”

But their attacks were somewhat undermined by the fact that 85 Republicans, including Representative of , the No. 2 party leader, ended up backing the new tax, suggesting they wanted to be seen as restricting the bonuses even as others in the party were trying to hit Democrats over the issue. In all, 87 Republicans opposed the bill.

Senator Reid said he hoped Congress could send a final tax bill to Mr. Obama by Easter.
874 2009-03-20 TAX ON BONUSES  Responding to public outrage, the House passed a 90 percent tax on bonuses paid to many workers at financial companies that were holding at least $5 billion in federal bailout money.       A.I.G. employees say they are overwhelmed ...
875 2009-03-21 Saturday's results in Russia, Finland, Sweden, the Czech and Slovak Republics and Switzerland....
876 2009-03-21 Part III in a series of New York Times videos following several small businesses in the New York area to see how they are handing the current recession.
877 2009-03-21 Missing from the list of the top Los Angeles-based minority-owned businesses: Any in the entertainment or media field....
878 2009-03-21 The Geithner plan has now been leaked in detail. It's exactly the plan that was widely analyzed - and found wanting - a couple of weeks ago. The zombie ideas have won. The Obama administration is now completely wedded to the idea that there's noth...
879 2009-03-21 WASHINGTON  President Obama issued a directive on Friday requiring that lobbyists put in writing their requests about the projects they believe should be awarded from the $787 billion economic stimulus package, saying the plan “will not be an excuse for waste and abuse.”

In a speech to a group of state lawmakers meeting in the capital, Mr. Obama outlined what he called “unprecedented restrictions” to increase the transparency of how the government spends money on projects intended to lift the economy and create jobs. The discussions between lobbyists and his administration, he said, will be disclosed on the Internet.

“Whenever a project comes up for review, we’re going to ask a simple question,” Mr. Obama said. “Does it advance the core mission of the Recovery Act? Does it jump-start job creation? Does it lay the foundation for lasting prosperity?”

Mr. Obama renewed his pledge to prevent waste from creeping into projects that are paid for through the economic plan. He said he had rejected a proposal to use stimulus money for modernizing the electrical and heating systems in the East Wing of the White House because the project “will not create many jobs or advance our recovery.”

The president provided few details about the disclosure requirements. He said all requests for projects must be made in writing, so their value could be assessed.

“Decisions about how recovery money will be spent will be based on the merits,” Mr. Obama said.

The president announced the accountability plan at the end of a week in which his administration has come under intense criticism for allowing bonuses to be paid to executives at companies that have been given a financial lifeline from the government. Even as he took a tough posture on the spending, he conceded that some projects might not be as worthy as others.

“No plan is perfect,” Mr. Obama said. “And I can’t stand here and promise you that not one single dollar will slip through the cracks, but what I can promise you is that we will do everything in our power to prevent that from happening.”
880 2009-03-21 “He’s a great player,” Djokovic said of Roddick. “He improved a lot in the last seven, eight months, a year.”

Djokovic traces Roddick’s resurgence to a victory over Murray in the 2008 Wimbledon quarterfinals. “And then he just started playing very well,” Djokovic said. “He plays great tennis on hardcourts, so I’m sure he has great chances in this tournament and in the future. So we can expect a lot from him. He was struggling with injuries, but now he’s fit.”

Roddick missed time with shoulder and ankle injuries in 2008, and at times it was difficult to remember that he was ranked No. 1 in the world, in 2003, the year he won the United States Open.

He said he was more fit than he had been in recent years, a major contributor to what he has described as the best start to a season in his career. But he does not discount the difficulty of defeating Nadal, who dismissed Juan Martín del Potro of Argentina, 6-2, 6-4, on the Plexipave hardcourt surface.

“He’s a difficult matchup for anyone,” Roddick said of Nadal. “He seems to like this surface; it probably favors him. But the way I serve, I think I’m always in there with a shot. I’ll obviously have to play very well.”

Roddick added: “Getting in better shape has allowed me to play different ways, in that I can get to balls and do something when I get there, so I’m not forced to go for it on every shot. It just gives you options.”

This is Roddick’s third trip to the semifinals here. He lost to Lleyton Hewitt in 2005 and to Nadal in 2007. He has 27 career tournament victories, including one at Memphis last month.

Against the 21-year-old Djokovic, Roddick seized control early, breaking in the first game. Roddick broke serve again in the sixth game of the second set, and Djokovic provided little resistance thereafter.

Djokovic said he had tried to discover a rhythm, but it was difficult with Roddick playing so well. “I just didn’t have any momentum on the court,” Djokovic said. “No feel for the ball, no movement.”

Nadal celebrated his victory over del Potro by going to a practice court to work on his service toss, which he thought was too low. “It’s going to be a very tough match,” he said, referring to Roddick. “I must serve well if I want to win and be focused all the time and be aggressive on the return.”

Nadal brought two large chocolate-chip cookies to his news conference late Friday. “Before the match, maybe I have five cookies or one steak,” he said, smiling. “You can do everything at the right time. Maybe if I eat 20 cookies, maybe I have indigestion tonight. If I eat two or three cookies, maybe it’s O.K. Maybe not for the stomach, but for the head it’s better. The important thing is to be mentally O.K.”

Earlier Friday, Vera Zvonareva of Russia advanced to the women’s championship by defeating the 19-year-old Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, 6-3, 6-3.

Zvonareva is ranked No. 6 but looked miles better than Azarenka, who has surged to a No. 11 ranking. Azarenka had trouble keeping the ball in play and was in tears after the match. “Vera played good but I didn’t have even 10 percent of my game today,” Azarenka said. “It was all unforced errors.”

Ana Ivanovic, the defending champion, won the last singles match of the day, overcoming Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, a 17-year-old Russian, 6-2, 6-3.

Ivanovic, a 21-year-old Serb ranked No. 7, believes she has regained the form that carried her, briefly, to the world No. 1 ranking after she won the French Open last June.

“I feel much more confident with my game, stepping forward, coming to the net,” she said. “That’s something that’s been the biggest difference since, probably, the French Open. At Wimbledon, I was emotionally flat. And after that I’ve been struggling with injury. It’s been frustrating times. I expected to keep playing at that level, and it didn’t work. After you have a lot of losses, you start to lose your confidence in what you can do. I feel I have that back and know what I should do.”
881 2009-03-21 Gas industry executives expect that liquefied gas imports into the United States will at least triple in the second half of this year. That comes as domestic producers have lowered their rig count in natural gas fields around the country by 50 percent in the last several months because of the fall in prices, leading to an expected drop in production by the end of the year.

Normally a decline in production would result in a rising gas price, leading to an eventual recovery in drilling. But energy executives say that increasing imports will probably delay a recovery in production, which until now depended almost entirely on national market forces.

“The United States used to have gas bubbles all by itself; now the world can have a gas bubble,” said Donald Hertzmark, a consultant who advises energy companies on international gas projects. “Over the next few years, a globalized gas market will exert a moderating influence on gas prices here in the United States.”

For Mr. Hertzmark the decline in natural gas prices will mean a major stimulus for the domestic and world economies. American oil executives see it another way.

Rodney Waller, a senior vice president at the oil and gas company Range Resources, called the expected surge in liquefied natural gas imports part of a “pile on” of problems including plummeting demand, prices and credit besetting companies that stretched their exploration and production budgets in recent years to meet expanding demand.

“Any time you push the price down, you push down the ability of U.S. independents to add reserves and production domestically,” he said. He warned that some small and midsize oil and gas companies “with debt that are in trouble now will simply get pushed over the brink.”

Natural gas is becoming a world commodity like oil. It is still loosely connected to world oil benchmark prices and its price, usually set by longer-term contracts everywhere except for the United States and Britain, can diverge widely from one continent to another. Until the last few years, liquefied natural gas was a high-priced necessity for countries that did not produce their own gas supplies or have access to piped reserves; but it now has become a cheap economic driver for countries like Japan with few energy resources.

But as more terminals have been built, the amount of gas that is shipped from one continent to another in giant tankers has climbed. And now the emergence of the global market in gas is about to take a giant leap.

The global capacity for liquefied natural gas exports of 200 million tons a year will increase by 25 percent with the completion of six new plants in Qatar, Russia, Indonesia and Yemen, totaling $48 billion in investments, and the upgrading of a seventh plant in Malaysia. National energy companies in those countries, assisted by ExxonMobil, Total, BP and Shell, rushed construction of those projects in recent years to satisfy the mushrooming appetite for energy around the world. More large plants are due on line in 2010 and 2011.

“We had many years of ever increasing demand so the world geared up for that, but what the world did not prepare for was an economic recession that is global in scope and in impact,” said Darcel L. Hulse, president and chief executive officer of Sempra LNG, a division of Sempra Energy that operates an import terminal in Mexico and is completing construction on a facility in Louisiana. “That is what has exacerbated the imbalance of supply and demand to such an excess.”

Some analysts say companies may slow completion of a few of the new export terminal projects. “The companies will want to bring them on line because they want to recoup their investments made over four to five years and pay off their loans,” said Nikos Tsafos, an analyst at PFC Energy, a firm that advises governments and energy companies.

The international gas glut and expected surge in gas imports represent a reversal from trends of less than a year ago when the world suffered a shortage of liquefied gas and prices spiked in the United States and elsewhere.

Natural gas in the United States costs a little over $4 per thousand cubic feet, down from a peak of more than $13 last year. Oil now costs a bit more than $51 a barrel, down from a peak of more than $145 in July. On average, world spot prices for liquefied natural gas cargoes have come down by more than two-thirds since last summer.
882 2009-03-21 But with names in hand, the attorney general is experiencing a very Cuomo-esque moment of agonizing about the propriety of exposure. As he watched Edward M. Liddy, chief executive of the American International Group, describe death threats that his employees had received, including a note suggesting hangings with piano wire, Mr. Cuomo began this week to wonder whether the public baying had grown too loud, an aide who was with him said.

“There’s a risk it gets so loud it becomes counterproductive,” he said, the aide recalled. “It’s important to take a deep breath.”

For now, Mr. Cuomo will not publicize the names. Instead, he will give A.I.G. a few days to persuade the top earners to give back their bonuses. Then Mr. Cuomo’s staff will contact the holdouts. And then? Perhaps Mr. Cuomo releases a few names. (He still intends to release the names of Merrill Lynch bonus recipients, aides said.)

All of that would fit Mr. Cuomo’s profile as attorney general and his practice of relying more on his acute political antenna than on lawyerly concern with setting legal precedent. His enthusiasm for the subpoena worries some in the legal community, not least a few prosecutors.

“Evincing outrage is not a legal strategy, so it remains to be seen what he’s going to do with his information,” said Daniel C. Richman, a Columbia law professor and former prosecutor.

Eliot Spitzer, his congenitally combative and competitive predecessor, not too subtly mocked Mr. Cuomo’s subpoena penchant this week.

“Everybody is jumping up and down, serving subpoenas and beating their chest trying to be tougher than the next person,” Mr. Spitzer said on WNYC radio.

At 51, Mr. Cuomo has spent more than three decades around politics — he managed the gubernatorial campaigns of his temperamental father, Mario, while still in his 20s — and his ambition tends to vibrate about him. As Gov. David A. Paterson’s administration lists perilously close to the waterline, many politicians expect Mr. Cuomo to try for that office in 2010.

Mr. Cuomo and his staff dart away from such talk; Mr. Cuomo is aware that many accuse him of wearing the cloth of ambition too publicly in the past. The attorney general has been known to work more than one reporter on a given day, but, after much staff negotiation, he declined an interview for this article.

His allies are less shy.

“How do I answer this? Andrew Cuomo will be the governor of the state of New York,” said Assemblyman Sam Hoyt, a Democrat from Buffalo. “I’m not prepared to say 2010 or 2014.”

Mr. Cuomo walked through the political wilderness after serving as secretary of housing and urban development under President Bill Clinton. He wound up suspending his run for governor in 2002 just before the Democratic primary. Then he endured a nasty dynastic divorce with Kerry Kennedy.

He ran for state attorney general in 2006, embracing the mantle of Eliot Spitzer. But once elected, he quickly fashioned a different image.

Mr. Spitzer had focused, to devastating effect, on the cozy dealings and poor regulation of Wall Street, but Mr. Cuomo retailed himself as tribune of the “little man.”

His cases ran from a headline-grabbing student loan case to forcing operators of coal-fired plants to disclose financial risks related to global warming. He attacked heating contractors in Buffalo, and collaborated with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a two-year investigation of the state comptroller’s office run by Alan G. Hevesi that resulted in a 123-count indictment of two former Hevesi advisers this week.

It was not until 2008 that he turned his gaze on Wall Street. In June, he reached an agreement with the nation’s largest rating agencies, Fitch, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s.

Previously, the agencies had produced “preview” ratings before investment banks decided whether to pay for the service. Mr. Cuomo forced the agencies to toss out that arrangement and to demand payments before giving ratings.

Then he sued UBS, the Swiss banking giant, whose managers had hawked auction rate securities — investments that banks portrayed as being as safe as cash — even as they sent e-mail messages to each other about their risks. He accused UBS of securities fraud.

Many financiers assumed that Mr. Cuomo’s interest was fleeting. It was not. He began talks with Wall Street, and soon enough a banking armada — Citigroup, JPMorgan, Wachovia, Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs among others — collectively agreed to pay more than $60 billion to reimburse investors.

Mr. Cuomo kept marching deeper into Wall Street. His decision, in part, owed to common sense, as collapse had exposed decayed underpinnings.

But he also found a vacuum. Much of New York’s political class stood nearly mute.

So when the federal government bailed out A.I.G. in September, Mr. Cuomo negotiated with Mr. Liddy, the company’s new chief, to cut $160 million in expense and freeze $600 million in deferred bonuses for the unit responsible for the credit default swaps.

Mr. Cuomo’s office took after Merrill Lynch. In early December, when it became public that Merrill’s former chief, John A. Thain, sought a bonus of $10 million, Mr. Cuomo decried it as “nothing less than shocking.”

Then, his staff discovered that more than 700 employees at Merrill had “made a buck” last year, a minimum bonus of $1 million.

“He’s dug in and come up with important information that wasn’t known, and he’s exposed failures,” said Michael Garland, a director at CTW Investment Group, which works with union pension funds.

But Mr. Cuomo missed a beat or two. He did not realize that at A.I.G., the financial unit had another $165 million set aside for another species of bonus, known as retention bonuses.

Some, too, complain that he is too quick to settle. In the case of the rating agencies, the Connecticut attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, pushed on, suing the agencies.

At this point, Mr. Cuomo stands astride an unusual crossroad. A man of the political world, he has preferred negotiation to legal challenges.

Peter B. Pope, who was the chief of the criminal division in the attorney general’s office under Mr. Spitzer, noted, “By throwing sunlight on things, he has the ability to attract all kinds of other regulators, and that is in the end probably something that he is anticipating.”

Long known as his father’s dark prince, as a man with sharp political incisors and many enemies, Mr. Cuomo has crafted a less carnivorous image.

No fund-raiser is too parochial, from Buffalo to the Bronx. He purrs into phones with legislative leaders and chest bumps with assemblymen.

And his staff members are everywhere. When Assemblyman Hoyt traveled to a block association meeting in Buffalo, he found one of Mr. Cuomo’s lawyers there, instructing homeowners about consumer fraud.

Raise the question of his gubernatorial prospects, and Mr. Cuomo changes the subject. Nor does he take the opportunity to rule out a primary challenge to Mr. Paterson. He has more cash on hand than the governor, and he has hired the governor’s former fund-raiser, Cindy Darrison.

It would not be easy for him to challenge a black governor, particularly after Mr. Cuomo angered many black voters by challenging the former comptroller, Carl McCall, in 2002.

“I have no doubt he wants to be governor, but my advice now?” Mr. Hoyt said. “The best politics is to keep on doing what he’s doing.”
883 2009-03-21 The trip has not been nearly as perilous as most expected. On Friday night — six years after the American invasion began — a white-haired British man and woman bought big bottles of cold in central Baghdad, walking home in the dark. The Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, which helped arrange the tour, had provided armed guards for the trip, but Mr. Hann said they were too restrictive. So the group had driven around, in a minibus, with little or no security.

They have been to Babylon and Basra, Ur and Uruk, the Shiite shrines in Karbala and Najaf, places where, not so long ago, a visit would have made the return ticket unnecessary. They made a disappointingly brief visit to the in Samarra, whose bombing in 2006 propelled an already violent Iraq toward all-out civil war.

“The police didn’t want us to stick around at all,” said Mr. Hann, an unassuming man shod in socks and sandals.

Iraq is far more stable and secure than it was two years ago. But the daily episodes of violence continue. On Wednesday night, a Sunni politician was killed in Baghdad when a bomb exploded under his car. On Thursday, an American military spokesman said, allied forces called in airstrikes against insurgent hide-outs in Diyala Province, killing at least 11. On Friday, the loud thumps of explosions could be heard not far from the hotel.

It is not a trip for the squeamish.

Just about everyone in the eight-person group has been to Afghanistan. (Also, perhaps unsurprisingly, everyone is single.) , which is not provided by the company, is nearly impossible to come by. For that reason, the tourists on these trips tend to be older because they have financial support networks and, Mr. Hann said, “because in the end you’ve been to places and you don’t really worry as much, if you know what I mean.”

The youngest is David Chung, 36, a cheerful vice president at an asset management firm in . Mr. Chung has been to , , , , , , — the list goes on.

“I get my best travel ideas from the State Department’s travel warning list,” he said.

“The surge has worked,” he said, describing the safety and ease of travel in most places and the startlingly widespread BlackBerry coverage.

Not that there haven’t been snags.

First, the group arrived in Baghdad on a national holiday, so most sites were closed. Checkpoints have eaten up hours of the tour. Some trips that seemed feasible, like a visit to Assyrian ruins in the north, were declared too dangerous by the government. Others, namely the Shiite sites, were made rather easy by the Shiite-led Iraqi government.

On Friday night Mr. Hann, who first came to Iraq in the mid-1970s and has been back dozens of times since, was nearly apoplectic when ministry officials suddenly told him that the next day’s trip to the Iraqi museum would not work. It was not like last time.

That was in October 2003, well after the war started and as the insurgency was gaining steam. His tour group then saw a man beaten to death by a crowd in Mosul, and heard a bomb explode just up the street at the Turkish Embassy. On the other hand, with war raging and the structures of civilization falling, it turned out to be his best trip: telling tourists where they could and could not go was not a high priority in the country.

Over the next five years he was repeatedly contacted by eager tourists, but the situation was too unpredictable. Religious tourism, mostly Shiite pilgrims visiting the holy cities of Najaf and Karbala, has never really stopped, and there have been a few stray Western tourists, notably a Canadian and an Italian, who ended up being detained. But there were no Western group tours.

In November 2008, Mr. Hann finally returned to Iraq for a tourism conference. He was just about the only Westerner there, except for some Spanish architects. He soon began discussions with the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities about a trip, and on March 8, the group arrived. He is planning future tours.

“At the moment, I’ve got an American group in October from ,” Mr. Hann said. “And I’ve got a lot of odd people who want to go individually. That I dissuade.”
884 2009-03-21 The White House has nominated New York’s state labor commissioner, M. Patricia Smith, to serve as the federal Labor Department’s No. 3 official, its solicitor.

Ms. Smith, whose nomination was announced late Thursday, has developed a reputation as one of the nation’s foremost labor commissioners because of her vigorous efforts to crack down on minimum wage and overtime violations at businesses including restaurants, supermarkets, car washes and racetracks.

As Labor Department solicitor, a position that requires Senate confirmation, Ms. Smith would essentially serve as Labor Secretary Hilda L. Solis’s general counsel, helping shape policy, oversee litigation, and coordinate the activities of the department’s powerful Wage and Hour Division.

Ms. Smith declined to comment about her nomination on Friday.

She headed the labor bureau in the New York State attorney general’s office when Eliot Spitzer was attorney general. He elevated her to state labor commissioner after he was elected governor, and Gov. David A. Paterson kept her in that position.

Ms. Smith has strong backing from labor unions and immigrant groups because of her campaign against wage theft, helping win more than $20 million in back pay for thousands of low-wage workers.

In January, she created a program called New York Wage and Hour Watch, modeled after crime-fighting neighborhood watch groups, in which community organizations, immigrant groups and labor unions will help serve as the department’s eyes and ears to report violations. In addition, those groups will help educate local employers on what they need to do to comply with the law.
885 2009-03-21 Judging by his accomplished new dance, “Sound Memory,” Julian Barnett was once an obsessive maker of mix tapes. In the work, which began a run at Danspace Project on Thursday night, he does more than scratch the surface of sound and memory before the age of digitization. Mr. Barnett places the audience on four sides of the stage, evoking a surround-sound experience for the performers. His musical resources — boomboxes and audiocassettes — remain decidedly low-tech.

In the dance’s opening moments Justin Ternullo and Hanna Kivioja are part of the audience, tethered to their seats by headphones. Amanda K. Ringger’s gorgeous lighting casts the pair in an iridescent glow until the stage suddenly turns dark. Objects skid across the floor, which a laser of green light reveals to be dozens of cassette tapes.

Along with Mr. Barnett, the dancers take turns searching through the mess for the right song; popping a tape into a boombox, they play a minute or two of Fleetwood Mac’s “Rhiannon,” U2’s “Sunday Bloody Sunday” or Madonna’s “Burning Up,” and abandon themselves to wild solos. Mr. Barnett even channels Lloyd Dobler, the character from the 1989 film “Say Anything,” when he holds a boombox overhead as an aria plays.

The cast is splendid: the brooding Mr. Barnett, who bears a passing resemblance to the actor Colin Farrell, moves like a panther, crouching, spinning around and regaining his balance with simmering calculation.

Mr. Ternullo, with a longer, elegant line, is more mysterious, and Ms. Kivioja, a blond Finnish dancer who exudes a sexy earthiness, grounds them both. Throughout there is urgency within the searching and the dancing — it’s as if they were trying to catch a memory with a song.

In the final section the dancers hook three boomboxes onto cords that swing from the ceiling, moving in a repetitive unison that reimagines their earlier solos. The sound design, by Stephan Moore, transforms the everyday into the atmospheric. This time the performers can’t change the music on a whim: poignancy is no longer found by fast-forwarding to the right moment in a song, but in the movement — or moment — itself.
886 2009-03-21 In a deal that will allow him to avoid the death penalty, a man has pleaded guilty to first-degree murder in the shooting deaths of three people at a church in Neosho. The man, Eiken Elam Saimon, pleaded guilty to three counts of first-degree murder and four counts of first-degree assault in the 2007 attack at First Congregational Church. Three people died and four were wounded.
887 2009-03-21 “When you play against teams at this level, athleticism is huge,” Cornell Coach Steve Donahue said. “They took over physically when they needed to.”

Lyons had 23 points and 10 rebounds for Missouri, which also got 13 points off the bench from the freshman guard Kim English, 10 in a second-half run in which Missouri pulled away.

“We had a little quickness advantage when it came to the rebounding,” Lyons said. “I just tried to stay close around the rim and get a lot of those loose balls.”

Cornell was making its second consecutive N.C.A.A. tournament appearance. The Big Red not only looked as if it was better prepared, but it also got a much better matchup.

A year ago, if Cornell was not overwhelmed by the experience, its players were overwhelmed by Stanford’s twin 7-footers, Brook and Robin Lopez, now both in the N.B.A., and a Cardinal team that was not quick on the perimeter but was very long. This bothered Cornell’s 3-point shooters in what turned out to be a 77-53 trouncing.

Missouri (29-6) came at Cornell with its frenetic pace, dictated by Coach Mike Anderson, a disciple of Nolan Richardson and his “40 minutes of hell.” But hell hath no fury like a well-timed pump fake, and Cornell used those often to send Missouri players flying upward, only to move around them for an open jumper or one for a teammate.

Cornell led late in the half and although Missouri had a 29-25 lead at halftime, Cornell carried a little momentum thanks to Chris Wroblewski’s baseline jumper at the buzzer.

But soon Missouri sped up the pace and began leaving its feet only when the ball was up on the rim. Cornell turned the ball over only nine times — a manageable number against the full-court press, Donahue said. But Cornell’s shots would not fall.

Soon, the Big Red was overwhelmed.

Kim English made two long 3-pointers, including one from the wing that put Missouri ahead, 58-41. After Cornell came within 60-48, Lyons bumped the lead to 16 with his three-rebound sequence. Moments later, he scored on another putback of his own miss.

“When you do play defense, force him into a tough shot, and not come up with that big rebound, that can be a back breaker for some teams,” Wittman said. “It was tonight.”

Cornell (21-10) was led by Wittman, the son of the former Timberwolves coach Randy Wittman, who had 18 points. The 7-foot center Jeff Foote had 12 points and 10 rebounds, but missed two shots near the basket when Cornell was trying to mount a comeback. Point guard Louis Dale made just 1 of 11 shots from the field.

On this day, a monumental upset was not going to happen for Cornell, which was unable to make a leap of faith — or any other kind — against the Tigers.
888 2009-03-21 People whose faces turn red when they drink alcohol may be facing more than embarrassment. The flushing may indicate an increased risk for a deadly throat cancer, researchers report.

The flushing response, which may be accompanied by nausea and a rapid heartbeat, is caused mainly by an inherited deficiency in an enzyme called ALDH2, a trait shared by more than a third of people of East Asian ancestry  Japanese, Chinese or Koreans. As little as half a bottle of beer can trigger the reaction.

The deficiency results in problems in metabolizing alcohol, leading to an accumulation in the body of a toxin called acetaldehyde. People with two copies of the gene responsible have such unpleasant reactions that they are unable to consume large amounts of alcohol. This aversion actually protects them against the increased risk for cancer.

But those with only one copy can develop a tolerance to acetaldehyde and become heavy drinkers.

“What we’re trying to do here is raise awareness of this risk factor among doctors and their ALDH2-deficient patients," said Dr. Philip J. Brooks, an investigator with the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and an author of the report published on Monday in the journal PLoS Medicine. “It’s a pretty serious risk."

The malignancy, called squamous cell esophageal cancer, is also caused by smoking and can be treated with surgery, but survival rates are very low. Even moderate drinking increases the risk, but it rises sharply with heavier consumption. An ALDH2-deficient person who has two beers a day has six to 10 times the risk of developing esophageal cancer as a person not deficient in the enzyme.

Reducing drinking can significantly reduce the incidence of this cancer among Asian adults. The researchers calculate that if moderate- or heavy-drinking ALDH2-deficient Japanese men reduced their consumption to under 16 drinks a week, 53 percent of esophageal squamous cell cancers in that group could be prevented.

There is some anecdotal evidence that young people treat the flushing as a cosmetic response to be countered with antihistamines while continuing to drink. Ignoring the symptom and continuing to drink is likely to increase the incidence of esophageal cancer, researchers said.

To determine risk, doctors can ask their patients two simple questions. First, do you flush after drinking a glass of beer? Second, in the first one or two years after you began drinking, did you flush after having a beer?

The second question covers the possibility that a person has become tolerant to the effect.

Dr. Brooks said that the two questions give doctors an easy way to find out if the patient is ALDH2-deficient. There is also a patch test in which an ethanol-soaked pad is applied to the skin. If it causes reddening after 10 or 15 minutes, there is a high likelihood that the person is ALDH2-deficient.
889 2009-03-21 Stocks dropped on Friday as investors worried about the consequences of efforts on Capitol Hill to claw back bonuses from firms that received government bailouts.

Financial shares pulled down the broader markets, giving back many of their gains from earlier in the week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 122.42 points, or 1.65 percent, to 7,278.38, while the broader Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost 15.5 points, or 1.98 percent, to 768.54. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index declined 26.21 points, or 1.77 percent, to 1,457.27.

On Thursday, the House of Representatives responded to growing furor over bonuses at the American International Group by passing a bill that would impose a 90 percent tax on bonuses awarded this year by companies that received $5 billion or more in bailout money. The Senate is expected to take up its version of the bill next week.

Shares of Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and U.S. Bancorp all declined. Bank of America fell 74 cents, 10.68 percent, to $6.19; JPMorgan Chase dropped $1.80, or 7.21 percent, to $23.15; while U.S. Bancorp lost 84 cents, or 5.89 percent, to $13.42.

But investors appeared to applaud a shuffle in management at Citigroup, lifting shares 2 cents, or 0.77 percent, to $2.62, after the bank named a new financial chief and put its current chief financial officer in charge of its Citi Holdings unit, a division the bank created to hold toxic assets and other businesses it plans to sell.
890 2009-03-21 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said Friday that it would reopen a military hot line with the South on Saturday ahead of the North’s widely expected missile launching early next month. The line is the only telephone link between the Koreas.

“North Korea sent us a message today saying that they will restore the communications line as of 8 a.m. Saturday,” said a spokesman for the Defense Ministry, who spoke on the customary condition of anonymity.

North Korea had stopped responding to calls on March 9, at the start of annual military exercises by American and South Korean troops that the North denounced in a wave of belligerent language as preparations for an invasion. The exercises ended Friday.

The North says it will launch a communications satellite into orbit between April 4 and April 8. Neighboring governments say the launching is a cover for testing the North’s ballistic missile technology.

The United States, Japan and South Korea have repeatedly urged North Korea to cancel the launching. They say it violates a 2006 United Nations resolution that bans North Korea from ballistic missile activities.

There was no word on Friday about two American journalists believed to have been detained by North Korean border guards on Tuesday morning. Laura Ling, a Chinese-American, and Euna Lee, a Korean-American, were reporting on conditions faced by North Korean refugees in China. Their Chinese guide, an ethnic Korean, was also detained.
891 2009-03-21 WASHINGTON  The groundbreaking message to Iran that President Obama delivered by videotape on Friday was part of a strategy intended to emphasize a positive message to Iran in the prelude to that nation’s presidential election this summer, according to administration officials and European diplomats.

Among other measures being weighed are a direct communication from Mr. Obama to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran’s supreme leader, and an end to a prohibition on direct contacts between junior American diplomats and their Iranian counterparts around the world, the officials and diplomats said.

At least for now, the American strategy calls for an emphasis on diplomacy, in part out of concern that a more confrontational message that focused on Iran’s nuclear program might prove counterproductive in the political heat of the Iranian election season. The officials said that Mr. Obama had set aside for the next few months a quest for more punitive sanctions aimed at Iran.

After three decades of a freeze in American-Iranian relations, it appeared significant that Mr. Obama directed his comments not just to the Iranian people but to Iran’s leaders, and that he referred to Iran as “the Islamic Republic,” apparently indicating a willingness to deal with the current clerical government.

Iranian officials responded cautiously to Mr. Obama’s message. Administration officials say they have not given up on tougher sanctions for Iran, but have concluded that sending a positive message now offers more chance of success. One reason is that Russia in particular appears unlikely to support tougher sanctions until Mr. Obama demonstrates that he has first gone significantly further than President Bush did to engage Iran.

The administration’s first face-to-face encounter with Iranian officials could come in 10 days, when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will attend a conference on Afghanistan in The Hague. Iran is expected to send a delegation, and a senior administration official said Mrs. Clinton would probably greet Iranian officials on the sidelines.

The video from Mr. Obama that was released by the White House at 12:01 a.m. on Friday, with subtitles in Persian, coincided with the Iranian festival of Nowruz, a 12-day holiday that marks the new year in Iran.

“In this season of new beginnings, I would like to speak clearly to Iran’s leaders,” Mr. Obama said. “My administration is now committed to diplomacy that addresses the full range of issues before us, and to pursuing constructive ties among the United States, Iran and the international community. This process will not be advanced by threats.”

The Israeli government also sent a New Year’s message to the Iranian people on Friday, although administration officials and Israeli officials insisted that the gestures were not part of a coordinated plan. “I know we notified allies about our message last evening,” the White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said, but he added that he did not know if Israel had also notified the United States ahead of time.

Some experts said the fact that the American message was sent on the same day as Israel’s had the potential to dilute the effect of Mr. Obama’s message, by linking it to Israel, whose government has been much more hostile toward Iran.

In his own message, Mr. Obama made a point of saying that “the United States wants the Islamic Republic of Iran to take its rightful place in the community of nations.” The reference to Iran as an “Islamic Republic,” and the direct statement about not threatening Iran, diplomats said, offered a first clear signal from the Obama administration that it would not pursue a change of government in Iran.

“That wording is designed to demonstrate acceptance of the government of Iran,” said Martin S. Indyk, a former United States ambassador to Israel and author of “Innocent Abroad: An Intimate Account of American Diplomacy in the Middle East.”

“The message is dripping with sincerity and directly addresses one of the things they are most concerned about,” he said.

Mr. Obama went so far as to quote the medieval Persian poet Saadi. “The children of Adam are limbs to each other, having been created of one essence,” he said.

In Iran, officials were tepid in their initial response, saying that Mr. Obama’s message must be followed up with concrete actions to address past grievances, like the downing of an Iranian airliner in 1988. Ali Akbar Javanfekr, a high-ranking adviser to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, praised the effort to reach out to Iranians but said that Iran wanted more than words. “This cannot only be done by us, we cannot simply forget what the U.S. did to our nation,” he said. “They need to perceive what wrong orientation they had and make serious efforts to make up for it.”

But Karim Sadjadpour, an Iranian-American expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said that Mr. Obama’s message would force hard-line Iranian officials  like Mr. Ahmadinejad  to put up or shut up on prospects for better relations with the United States.

“What this message does is, it puts the hard-liners in a difficult position, because where the Bush administration united disparate Iranian political leaders against a common threat, what Obama is doing is accentuating the cleavages in Iran,” Mr. Sadjadpour said. “It makes the hard-liners look increasingly like they are the impediment.”

European diplomats applauded the move, but expressed dismay that President Shimon Peres of Israel followed with his own message to the Iranian people. “This is a real shame because the key effect should be Obama, and this dilutes from that,” said one European diplomat, speaking on the condition of anonymity under normal diplomatic rules.

Israeli officials have told the White House that by the end of the year, at the latest, Iran will have everything it needs if it decides to produce a nuclear weapon. The officials have hinted that Israel will take unilateral action against Iran if they believe Mr. Obama’s diplomacy is going nowhere.

Israel has also been pushing the Obama administration to consider new, tougher sanctions. Among those they advocate are a cutoff of refined gasoline to Iran  a sanction that Mr. Obama himself discussed as a last resort during last year’s campaign  and full inspection of all ships leaving Iran, to make sure they are not carrying weapons.

For the Obama administration, time for diplomacy may be short. Iran appears to have solved many of the technological problems that hampered its enrichment of uranium. Today its centrifuges appear to be running at high efficiency, according to reports by the International Atomic Energy Agency. It has already produced roughly the amount of uranium to make, with further enrichment, enough fuel for a single nuclear bomb.
892 2009-03-21 Score and pride aside, the game was costly for both teams. Korea left fielder Yong Kyu Lee was hit in the back of his head by a pitch in the third inning, fell to the ground writhing in pain before walking off the field and might not return this weekend. A half-inning later, Japan first baseman Shuichi Murata pulled his right hamstring while rounding first base and had to be helped off the field; he will be replaced on the roster, probably by Kenta Kurihara of the Japan Central League’s Hiroshima Toyo Carp.

Venezuela will enter the semifinals as the hottest team in the W.B.C., having won five straight games by a combined score of 30-11. Venezuela is expected to start Carlos Silva on Saturday against Korea’s Suk-Min Yoon. Yoon pitched six shutout innings in a start over Chinese Taipei in the first round before working 3 2/3 more scoreless innings of relief in San Diego.

Korea’s players, of whom only two have major league experience, have barely ever seen any Venezuelan player live. But Korea’s manager suggested that the problem might be more Venezuela’s. After all, Korea’s professional baseball league is not exactly nightly television fare.

“We didn’t meet them directly, but we saw them through the TV different times,” Kim said. “Starting from April to October, every day we watch the major league teams playing. We have seen them many times.”

Sunday’s game will probably present a matchup of Major League Baseball aces: Japan’s Daisuke Matsuzaka against the United States’ Jake Peavy. That is, unless Hara instead goes with the young phenom Yu Darvish because major league hitters have never faced him, a possibility Hara implied playfully Thursday night.

“Is there a rule that I have to say? Is there rules of such?” Hara said with a smile. “I don’t think there is a rule of that, so I would like to refrain from mentioning the name. You know, this is part of our game plan.”

All starters from this point forward will be limited to 100 pitches after 85 the first two rounds.

At first glance, the winner of Saturday’s game would appear to have an advantage over the Sunday winner for Monday’s final because of another pitch-limit rule. Relievers who throw between 30 and 49 pitches in a game normally can return after one day of rest, but any pitcher who throws that many on Saturday will be ineligible on Monday, so that Sunday’s winner is not disadvantaged.

The United States, which has withstood several major injuries to reach the semifinal, on Thursday replaced Chipper Jones with Tampa Bay Rays third baseman Evan Longoria, last year’s American League rookie of the year. The second round cost Team USA two other top hitters, Dustin Pedroia and Kevin Youkilis, and reliever Matt Lindstrom.
893 2009-03-21 Stocks dropped on Friday as investors worried about the consequences of efforts on Capitol Hill to claw back bonuses from firms that received government bailouts.      Financial shares pulled down the broader markets, giving back many of their gai...
894 2009-03-22 “People from this generation are so used to every event being sponsored by corporations that at this point it’s like, oh, whatever,” said Callie Thompson, 26, a non-profit administrator in Austin....
895 2009-03-22 Suday's results in Russia, the Slovak and Czech Republics, Germany and Sweden....
896 2009-03-22 Headlines from the world of property: The Wright Stuff Owning a house by Frank Lloyd Wright has become a labor of love-as well as a source of inspiration- for the novelist T.C. Boyle. From the London Times. U.K.: How to Swap Your House Can't buy? ...
897 2009-03-22 What's the Matter With Business? - 20 Hurt in Elevated Smash - Strikers in Paris Return to Work - Strike Sentiment of Miners Grows - Dr. Eliot May Get Embassy in London - Roosevelt on Eve of Sailing - Socialist Pastor Answers Roosevelt - Debate on...
898 2009-03-22 Outside of the underachieving Dominican Republic, no team carries a heavier burden. Venezuela has proved that it can produce great players. Fifty-two Venezuelans were on major league rosters on opening day last season. But despite having a team filled with major leaguers, Venezuela has underperformed in both W.B.C. tournaments. It has not won an international championship since 1945, when it captured the International Baseball Federation’s World Cup.

In 2006 Venezuela was eliminated from the inaugural W.B.C. by the Dominican Republic on a bases-loaded passed ball. That Venezuelan team, loaded with talent, was also loaded with issues, with players pulling out of the Classic or arriving unprepared for the preseason competition played with postseason intensity.

The pieces of Venezuela’s team are a better fit this year, but against a South Korean team that is long on fundamentals and short on major league players, Venezuela looked overmatched.

“I believe the chemistry of the team was important,” Manager Luis Sojo said before Saturday’s game. “Lots of our players said no because maybe they had other opportunities, and we respect this. For me, the most important thing is what the guys are saying in the clubhouse and what they want for the country — that’s personal ego of showing the world that Venezuela has the wherewithal to get a world championship.”

That has yet to be proved.

The bright spot for Venezuela during the tournament had been its surprising catalyst, Magglio Ordóñez, a 35-year-old outfielder who plays for the Detroit Tigers. He was not ripping home runs, but he galvanized Venezuela with what he did off the field.

Last month, Ordóñez appeared in a television ad supporting a referendum proposed by President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela to eliminate constitutional term limits for the president and other elected officials. Voters approved the proposal, much to the consternation of anti-Chávez forces, and many of them attended Venezuela’s W.B.C. games in Toronto and in Miami Gardens, Fla.

Many Venezuelans living in South Florida oppose Chávez and his leftist beliefs; they were not pleased with Ordóñez’s endorsement and let him know it.

Last week in Miami Gardens, Ordóñez was passionately booed by a largely Venezuelan crowd in the team’s 3-1 victory against the Netherlands. Ordóñez was jeered at every plate appearance and cheered after he struck out in the fourth inning. He was cheered again when Sojo removed him in the seventh.

Ordóñez said he was prepared for the reaction.

“In Miami you have a whole host of Venezuelans who live here, and they’re against the government, and I support the government,” he said. “So that’s why they boo me, they heckle me, they criticize me, because I made a personal decision. I am not really hurting anyone. I’m just here to help my team win and take that championship banner to Venezuela.”

Some of his teammates seemed to be more bothered by the boos than Ordóñez was. That, in turn, annoyed Ordóñez.

“I actually feel quite ashamed because the guys do not deserve that,” he said. “When they boo me, they’re also booing them. We came over here to win and bring the championship to Venezuela, which really needs it.”

South Korea could make that same claim about winning a title — and they certainly played that way Saturday. The crowd had no strong reaction to Ordóñez, perhaps because the game was effectively over so early.

The reality is that a roster filled with high-priced major leaguers was outhit and outhustled. For Venezuela, the chance for a championship fizzled yet again.
899 2009-03-22 “We have killed or captured all the fighters, and the rest have fled to Afghanistan or Yemen,” said the commander, in an assessment largely echoed by Western security officials. “All that remains here is some ideological apparatus.”

The extent of that ideological apparatus remains uncertain. The list of 85 suspects that was released in January included 11 men who had been freed from the American prison camp at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, had passed through Saudi Arabia’s widely praised rehabilitation program for jihadists, and then had fled the country. Two of them broadcast their aim of overthrowing the Saudi royal family in a video released on the Internet by the Yemeni branch of Al Qaeda, in an embarrassing moment for the authorities here.

But the Saudi government, which once seemed unwilling to acknowledge this country’s critical role in fostering jihadist violence around the world, has become far more open about the challenges it faces.

“We are still at the beginning, we have a lot to learn,” said Turki al-Otayan, the director of the rehabilitation program’s psychological committee. Like others involved in the program, he conceded that the return of some of its graduates to terrorism was a blow, but he said he believed that the success rate (14 failures out of 218 graduates) was still impressive.

Mr. Otayan and his colleagues won a partial vindication last month when one of the two graduates who had fled to Yemen later returned to Saudi Arabia and gave himself up. But Mr. Otayan shrugged that off.

“We can’t guarantee that he won’t go back to Yemen again,” he added. “You’re dealing with people, not cars.”

Saudi officials are also frank about the fact that Al Qaeda still has some popular sympathy here, though far less than before the bloody attacks from 2003 to 2005.

“Changing mind-sets is not easy, and it takes a long time,” said Abdul Rahman al-Hadlag, the Interior Ministry’s director of ideological security. “We have to monitor mosques and the Internet, because the extremists use these places to recruit people. Sometimes they even use afterschool activities. Sleeper cells exist.”

Some of the softer approaches to fighting terrorism, including the rehabilitation program, have been labeled coddling by Western critics. But the Saudi state must provide many former jihadists with jobs and financial assistance, Mr. Hadlag said, because if it does not, others will.

“Sometimes the extremists leave money in envelopes under the door, with ‘From your mujahedeen brothers’ written on it,” Mr. Hadlag said. “We can’t let them be the good guys.”

The postprison rehabilitation program, which is now being expanded, is only one part of a broader effort to address the issue of violent extremism across Saudi Arabia. It includes dialogues with — or even suppression of — the more extremist clerics. There are also a variety of outreach programs in areas known to harbor extremists, with the Interior Ministry sending its preferred clerics or sheiks to speak in schools and community centers for two or three weeks at a time.

At the same time, the kingdom has completely retooled its prison system, which had been criticized as having inhumane conditions. Five new prisons were built in a matter of months last year — as it happens, by the bin Laden family company — that hold 1,200 to 1,500 prisoners each.

Unlike the old prisons, the new ones allow a maximum of four inmates to a cell, and Islamists are kept separate from common criminals for the first time, minimizing the spread of jihadist ideas, or so the theory goes.

Some internal critics say that the “soft” counterterrorism strategies remain weak, and that the only way to address the roots of jihadist violence is by thoroughly reforming the Saudi educational system, a task that will take decades.

“One major problem is that the sheiks they bring for these programs aren’t authoritative,” said Mshari al-Zaydi, a Saudi journalist and political analyst who is himself a former hard-liner, referring to the rehabilitation efforts. “They don’t have credibility because they are seen as people who take money from the government.”

In the meantime, Saudi Arabia’s main terrorist threat appears to come from Yemen, where a number of Saudi extremists have regrouped in that country’s mountainous, tribal hinterland. They have struck there repeatedly in the past year and have declared a goal of using Yemen as a base for attacks against Saudi Arabia. The border with Yemen is long and porous, and militants appear to have no trouble crossing it at will.

For all their success on the military front, Saudi officials seem cautious about declaring a victory against jihadists, especially when unexpected crises like the recent war between Israel and Hamas can create a sudden upwelling of popular anger that fuels extremist sentiment.

“We are victims of terrorism,” said the commander of the Riyadh training center, where 400 commandos sit ready to respond to attacks 24 hours a day. “It’s not what the world thinks.”
900 2009-03-22 COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Alexis Rack was perfect in eight attempts from the free-throw line down the stretch, and Mississippi State was 19 of 20 from the line Saturday in a 71-63 victory against Texas in the first round of the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament.

The Lady Bulldogs (23-9), seeded 11th in the Berkeley Region, blew an 11-point lead with five minutes left but hung on.

Rack finished with 20 points, her 13th straight game scoring in double digits, Chanel Mokango scored 15 and Mary Kathryn Govero added 11 off the bench for Mississippi State.

Sixth-seeded Texas (21-12) closed the season with losses in seven of its last nine games.

Mississippi State broke a tie at 59-59 on Mokango’s short jumper, then scored its final 10 points on free throws, without a miss.

“We’ve been doing this all year,” Rack said. “We shoot 100 free throws in practice. I felt like I was at practice. I felt comfortable and just focused.”

Later in Columbus, Samantha Prahalis scored a career-high 23 points to lead third-seeded Ohio State (28-5) to a 77-63 victory against 14th-seeded Sacred Heart (25-8). The freshman Callan Taylor scored a career-high 24 points for Sacred Heart.
901 2009-03-22 We’ve seen relatively flat sales in our recreational adult trikes and recreational bicycles. And our food vending cart business has actually seen strong demand. You can get into a business that is relatively inexpensive to start — as little as $3,000 for a cart.

Everybody can picture, back in the Depression, Apple Annie standing on the street and selling her apples. In a way, that might be an extension of what’s happening today. The food vending cart offers someone the opportunity to go out and be entrepreneurial and make a living. So for us, the hot-dog cart might become for us the symbol of this current recession.

The new Yankee Stadium will be outfitted with a lot of our hot-dog carts. It’s great to get an order like that at this time. And certainly, it came at a good time for us. The initial order was for a dozen hot-dog carts, but we think there’s going to be more to follow.

If anyone was asking me what numbers we’re expecting, it would not be a reasonable forecast. I can’t really know at this point. I know we’re going to be down. If we’re not down, it would be a miracle. It’s just a matter of are we going to be down 10 percent or 30 percent.

Ruben Villasante, 47, owns a small contracting firm, V & V Construction, that specializes in painting and home renovations in Ditmas Park, Brooklyn. He cut his staff from nine men to three in the second half of 2008. Now, he says, he has just enough business to keep the four of them working.

The new year started kind of slow. March is the month when everybody starts thinking about what they’re going to do with the house, so we’re getting a lot of calls. But a lot less than last year, about 50 percent less than last year or the year before, even.

When you get calls, it’s, ‘We’re looking at doing something. We’re getting prices.’ They’re not in a big hurry, and they’re more careful about what they’re doing. They’re just waiting. It’s, ‘Thank you for the quote. We’ll call you in two weeks.’ They’ll keep me in mind. Nothing definitive.

There’s less ambition and probably more maintenance than home improvement, just to keep the house in good shape. They won’t go into redoing a whole floor, or a new kitchen or a new bathroom. We’re probably going to be busy with maintenance, painting and windows.

I’m not going to go under because I know what I am doing and I’ve been doing it for many years. I would like to be running around the whole day. But things happen in a free market and the economy, and you have to adapt to the circumstances. This time we went down a lot, so we’re going to climb soon. Next year, if you had to bet, I would say is probably better. I don’t know if it’s going to be 100 percent better, but it’s going to be better.

Michael Menna, 46, is the owner of Menna’s Quality Meats and Salumeria, his family’s 50-year-old meat market in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx. He has had to reduce the hours of his small staff and bring his wife in to help a few days a week. With sales down after the holidays, he managed to persuade Con Edison to accept lower monthly payments and his landlord not to raise the rent.

I’m feeling a little optimistic because I feel as though we got through the toughest months. So if we’re able to withstand these last couple months that have been pretty lousy, I feel optimistic that we’re going to push forward and get to some good times.

I’m not really sure if we hit bottom yet. I’m hoping we did. Like I said, I feel as though there are days where I’m very optimistic, where I feel as though it’s starting to come back, which is a good sign, We’ll have a day and say, ‘Wow, this is where we’re supposed to be.’ But it’s not consistent enough yet. The next day will be off.

A lot of people are still looking for work. I still hear that. A lot of customers, their husbands are in construction, they haven’t worked in months. So it’s definitely still playing out for a lot of my customers. If they want credit, I’ll give it to them. Sometimes when it gets out of hand, I have to kind of stop and just put a limit on it.

Prices have been a little more stable. As soon as the weather breaks, your middle meat will probably go up, your steaks and stuff like that will start going up because of barbecue season. Lamb will start going up because of Easter. It’s a big holiday for us. They’ll still buy their roast, their leg of lamb. They didn’t really cut back for Christmas; let’s hope they don’t cut back for Easter.

We cut back hours and everybody’s been very patient. Whenever I feel that I could give them more hours that week because we have some busy days ahead of us, I do. And people are grateful for that.

I don’t think we’re going to get back to where we were a couple years ago, but I’m hoping to get to a struggle-free year. I think it’s going to take a few more months, but I feel as if there’s been some optimism in the last few weeks, and hopefully the package that the president put together is going to play out and help us all.

You work a lot of hours and sometimes you don’t take a salary, so it’s definitely a wear. It definitely wears you down.

Georgette Blau, 34, is president of On Location Tours in Midtown Manhattan, which gives bus tours of New York locations from popular movies and television shows like “Sex and the City,” “Gossip Girl” and “Confessions of a Shopaholic.” Though sales slumped after the holidays, they have begun to pick up again, Ms. Blau said. She was confident enough to hire a full-time online marketing director this month, but has cut back on ads that have not yielded enough sales and canceled plans to attend two trade shows this year.

As usual, we had a phenomenal end of year, the last 10 days up to Jan. 4. That’s always our best week of the year. A lot of the people we spoke with said, “Yeah, it’s a recession, but we really love New York at New Year’s.”

But it goes from the best time of the year to the worst time of the year, literally, in a two-week period. The rest of January and into February was pretty rough. It was a really, really fearful time for us.

I feel much better since the beginning of March. I’ve been more optimistic because the numbers I’ve seen have been more like 2007. As long as we’re staying at those numbers, we’re O.K. I feel like a lot of people waited until March to book. Once March hit, it’s been consistent.

One thing that’s definitely down from last year is the private tours, private customized limo tours. Last year, we were doing three a weekend; now we’re lucky if we do one or two a weekend. For “Sex and the City,” groups of 9 or 10 girls on a bachelorette tour would definitely have taken a limo, and now they’re riding the buses. They save around $100 a head.

We also have little things that you can purchase, like a bachelorette party kit. Our numbers are drastically down on those. Tipping is down for our tour guides, way down. People are deciding to buy a tour but not to give a few dollars as a tip to the tour guide.

I do get worried for our full-time staff. I think they are getting the message that they have to work hard. I’ve been hearing reports of a payroll tax increase. They should be doing the opposite. We’re hiring; we should be getting some kind of credit for hiring someone.

Mouhamad Shami, 54, the owner of Alfanoose, a Middle Eastern restaurant on Maiden Lane in the financial district, says he would have had to move to a smaller space if his landlord had not reduced his rent for six months. As orders from financial workers have dwindled, he has steadily pared down his staff and is paying only the interest on his debts.

We take it just day by day. One day we have fairly good day and the second day you don’t know. Before, it was pretty consistent Monday through Thursday. At dinner, we used to get orders from companies. Now we can’t tell.

Before they used to work overtime, and at night, they used to order for a group of people. Now, we don’t have that. If we do get a group order, it’s a small group order. It’s not more than $50, $60 an order.

It’s not worth it really sometimes, even, to take these small orders. But in these days, I’m taking anything, just to get the delivery guys going on deliveries to make some money.

My day is longer. I work harder. I work the lunchtime here and then when I finish the lunchtime, I go upstairs and I work in the kitchen doing more preparation, which I didn’t have to do before this all started. The same thing with my wife. My wife, she is helping me more. My son, whenever he gets a chance, he comes down and helps me. So actually we are working harder and making less.

The landlord, he cut down the rent for me. He told me that he would drop the rent for six months, but I’d have to pay it back at the end of the year. So, I told him I can’t do it. He said don’t worry. We’ll see after the first six months expire how things are. If the economy starts to recover, then I’ll go back to my old rent. If not, then we’ll talk about it. If it wasn’t for him with this offer, I’d have to relocate to a smaller place, and it would have been an aggravation for me and more stressful.

I don’t do any changes in my recipes. On quality, I don’t cut corners. Customers, they put their trust in me. I live for that reputation, and that means a lot to me because I want to be remembered that way. That somebody from Lebanese descent, he was in the financial district, he was honest and he served us from his heart, not just to get his living and he didn’t care.
902 2009-03-22 Terrified by the collapse of the global economy? Have plummeting stock markets convinced you that the mattress is the only safe place left to stash whatever is left of your retirement savings?

Chill. The experts in the financial services industry are hard at work sifting for the hidden diamonds amid the financial rough, devising new strategies to invest profitably through these difficult times.

Just Friday morning in my in-box I found a killer suggestion from Goldman Sachs: the timing is ripe, it said, to “open receiver positions in Turkish 1y cross currency swap rates at 11.10 with a target of 9% and a stop of 12.0%.” On Thursday it proposed shorting credit default swaps on Sweden and buying, yes, Fannie- or Freddie-backed mortgages.

If there is a lesson from the galactic financial mess we are in, it seems to be that smart-enough people can always find a way to profit from even the deepest depression.

JPMorgan, for instance, suggests selling the Hungarian forint against the euro, a perfect position to profit from what is likely to be a sharp Hungarian recession this year, which will put pressure on it to devalue its currency.
903 2009-03-22 United had not lost at Fulham since 1964. The match went Fulham’s way after 18 minutes when Bobby Zamora headed on goal after Edwin Van der Sar had saved an effort by Brede Hangeland. Scholes used his hand to stop the ball going over the line.

Scholes was sent off before Murphy, a former Liverpool midfielder, placed his penalty beyond Van der Sar.

United Manager Alex Ferguson replaced the ineffective striker Dimitar Berbatov at halftime and sent on Rooney. But Rooney then compounded United’s miserable day when he appeared to throw the ball toward Referee Phil Dowd and was sent off. United has had three of its players dismissed in its last two games.

BAYERN GAINS GROUND Bayern Munich beat Karlsruhe, 1-0, to close to move a point behind the league leader Hertha Berlin, which lost to VfB Stuttgart, 2-0.

Bayern, with midfielder Franck Ribéry back in action after missing two weeks because of an injury, won the match on a goal by José Sosa.

Wolfsburg joined Bayern on 48 points with its seventh win in a row, a convincing 3-0 victory against host Arminia Bielefeld.

Hoffenheim failed to win for a seventh straight match, needing a late goal from Wellington to tie Hanover, 2-2.

Against Karlsruhe, Bayern was the livelier team from the start, with Ribéry wreaking havoc on the left side. Bastian Schweinsteiger and Mark van Bommel came close to converting his crosses early on, but it was Sosa who grabbed the lead with a close-range effort after a Ribéry solo run and smooth pass into his path.

CHAMPIONS LEAGUE DRAW Liverpool was drawn against Chelsea in the Champions League for the fifth time in five years Friday in Nyon, Switzerland, while the defending champion Manchester United will face Porto in the quarterfinals.

Arsenal plays Villarreal in a repeat of a 2006 semifinal won by the Gunners, who went on to lose to Barcelona in the final. Barcelona will play Bayern Munich.

The first legs will be played April 7-8 and the second legs April 14-15.

Four English clubs are in the quarterfinals for the second straight season. In the semifinals on April 28-29 and May 5-6, the Liverpool-Chelsea winner will meet the Barcelona-Bayern Munich winner, and the Manchester United Porto-winner will play the Arsenal-Villarreal winner.

The final is scheduled for May 27 in Rome. (AP)

WORLD CUP TICKETS England and the United States are the leading ticket-buyers for next year’s World Cup in South Africa.

Jerome Valcke, the FIFA general secretary, said Friday that at least 28 of the 64 matches for next year’s tournament were already sold out, and close to 800,000 tickets have been sold.

“We had a huge demand for tickets for the 2006 World Cup, so I’m not surprised given the growth of the game in the United States and the demographics of the country that we’re at the top of the list again,” the United States Soccer Federation president, Sunil Gulati, said later Friday in Portland, Ore., where M.L.S. awarded the city a 2011 expansion team.

Sales have been slow for this June’s Confederations Cup, however, an eight-nation test event in South Africa that includes the United States.

Valcke said that nine of the 10 World Cup stadiums would be ready by December, with the Cape Town stadium scheduled for completion in February. (AP)
904 2009-03-22 “When the coach first called, I was like: Where is Louisville? Where is this place on the map?” she said recently.

The women’s basketball world knows more about Louisville since McCoughtry arrived. Louisville has won 101 games in the last four years, including 29 this season. The Cardinals have lost to Connecticut in the last two Big East championship games.

McCoughtry, who is averaging 23.5 points, 9.3 rebounds and 4.4 steals, has helped Louisville earn the No. 3 seed in the Raleigh Region for the N.C.A.A. tournament and take a little of the attention — a little — from the Cardinals’ top-seeded men’s team.

“I’m not sure what else she can do for us,” Louisville Coach Jeff Walz said.

Louisville has helped McCoughtry in more ways than she might have imagined. In 2007, Eatman followed the Cardinals’ coach, Tom Collen, when he took over at Arkansas, but McCoughtry has continued to grow, and not just as a player.

“Anything you tell Angel she can’t do, she’ll prove to you that she can,” Eatman said in a telephone interview.

She is a communications major, and people who know her use words like funny, goofy and quirky to describe her. But she is quieter and more humble than she used to be because her perspective has changed.

“To see how she’s grown, to me, has just been phenomenal,” said Denise Vazquez Troutman, the president of the Center for Women and Families in Louisville and Southern Indiana.

Troutman reached out to the university to see if it could help her organization, which strives to eliminate domestic and sexual violence. Two years ago, McCoughtry led a group of players to the West Louisville shelter, where they carpeted and painted a room.

But the team was not finished. McCoughtry taped some 30-second spots for the shelter that were aired on the big screen at Freedom Hall. Included was a spot in which the players asked fans to donate gift cards from places like Wal-Mart to the shelter.

The Louisville women’s program is still nowhere near as popular as the men’s, but people are noticing. There were 1,100 fans at McCoughtry’s first home game. More than 11,000 attended her last game at Freedom Hall.

Her braided hair pulled back into a ponytail, she is graceful and stoic. When a Pittsburgh player elbowed her in the mouth during the second half of a Big East semifinal on March 9, she looked stunned, clasping her hand to her mouth. But she kept playing.

She smiled, revealing braces, when she said, “It’s not volleyball, where you’re behind a net and not hitting anybody.”

The university had wanted to retire her jersey number, 35, at the final home game of the season, but McCoughtry said it could wait.

“She’d like the team to get noticed as much as she does,” Roi McCoughtry said.

Before the conference tournament game against Rutgers, which Louisville won in double overtime, McCoughtry text-messaged the freshman guard Becky Burke and suggested that they get a 6:15 a.m. wake-up call and go to the arena so Burke could work on her shot.

McCoughtry scored 35 points that night. But Burke was 6 for 6 from the field, 4 for 4 from 3-point range. McCoughtry wanted the Cardinals to have other options, though she has become harder to stop, too.

“Angel has the mind-set of wanting to get better, wanting to be great,” the senior forward Candyce Bingham said.

Eatman remembered telling her when she was in prep school that her jump shot needed work. Later, he called the Patterson coach. McCoughtry was taking 500 jump shots a day in practice. The transformation had begun.

“She told me after it was all over, ‘Dad, it really prepared me for college,’ ” Roi McCoughtry said of prep school. “It was secluded; she could really concentrate.”
905 2009-03-22 WIND GAP, Pa. (AP) — A tractor-trailer carrying a dangerous acid overturned on a highway Saturday, prompting the evacuation of thousands of residents from this northeastern Pennsylvania town for almost nine hours.

The tanker, carrying 33,000 pounds of corrosive hydrofluoric acid, flipped over about 3 a.m. on Route 33 on the edge of Wind Gap, about 60 miles north of Philadelphia. The chemical is a component of household detergents.

At 7 a.m., officials ordered an evacuation of 944 houses. About 5,000 people were in the area.

John Conklin, a spokesman for Northampton County, said the truck driver was treated at a hospital and released. One of about 200 people at an evacuation center at a high school was taken to a hospital for a condition unrelated to the spill.

Emergency crews reported that a liquid was dripping from the tanker’s valves or piping, but they managed to stop the flow. The truck was righted about 3:10 p.m., and the evacuation order was lifted soon after. The road, which connects Interstates 78 and 80, remained closed in both directions.

Hydrofluoric acid, even in small amounts, can irritate the eyes, nose and respiratory tract, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said. In larger amounts, exposure can cause severe burns, chronic lung disease or even death, the agency said.

Mr. Conklin said animals in the affected area, including horses from several farms, were moved.
906 2009-03-22 Re “Is It Time to Retrain B-Schools?” (March 15), about how business schools are reacting to the economic crisis:

The American education system has a real deficit: a lack of training in philosophy and ethics. And it should be addressed starting in high school.

The study of these subjects does not tell one what to think, but how to think. Perhaps if business executives had learned to consider more than one side to any question or problem they face, our current leadership problems would not be having cataclysmic consequences.

Study of philosophy and ethics is often time-consuming, and there are often no easy solutions to problems. But leaders of commerce and government need to be weaned away from the bottom-line, easy-answer mode of conducting business, and their responsibility should extend far beyond shareholder value or a personal agenda.

Jay O. Light of Harvard Business School is absolutely correct that during a long period of financial good times, “people became less focused on risk and risk management and more focused on making money.”

But that situation was an inevitable consequence of the phenomenon of “Other People’s Money,” wherein executives garnered a disproportionate share of the rewards and only a tiny fraction of the losses. As a result of this dynamic, no one, from shareholders to employees to executives, wanted to listen to a risk manager. Instead, they preferred to party on.
907 2009-03-22 Thus, the Hudson-Webber chief executive, David O. Egner, is asking himself whether Detroit needs both a world-class symphony and its Michigan Opera Theatre, and, if so, whether they could share an orchestra.

“These are the kinds of questions we need to be asking,” Mr. Egner said.

At the Skillman Foundation, one local charity after another warns that without an infusion of cash, it will have to reduce services or shut down.

The Boys and Girls Clubs of Southeastern Michigan, for example, approached in December to say that one of its three facilities would need to be closed unless it received help from Skillman — even though the foundation had never given it money.

“They’re coming to us because they have nowhere else to go,” said Carol Goss, the chief executive of Skillman.

Foundations like Skillman and Hudson-Webber that are embedded in their communities have a harder time turning away local charities than do large national foundations like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation.

“As a local funder, you don’t get to pick the best programs to work with or the problems you work on,” said Tonya Allen, vice president for programs at Skillman. “You have to deal with what you have in your own backyard.”

The decline of the auto industry, which has long been the bedrock of philanthropy here, is increasing the demand for help, even as assets at the local foundations have fallen.

The Ford Motor Company, financially the strongest of Detroit’s Big Three automakers, expects its giving to fall by about 40 percent from last year’s roughly $35 million, about $12 million of which went to organizations here. “We’re not making any long-term commitments at this time, nothing for capital campaigns, no new exhibitions with cultural partners,” said James G. Vella, president of the Ford Motor Company Fund.

The disappearance of donations from car makers, their suppliers and dealers have dealt a particularly hard hit to Detroit’s arts organizations, which Douglas Bitonti Stewart, the executive director of the Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation, called “the venerable and the vulnerable.” The opera canceled one show, and question marks hang over performances and exhibits at other organizations.

And they, too, are turning to foundations to make up the difference. The McGregor Fund, for instance, increased its annual gift to the opera to $150,000, from $125,000. With the General Motors Foundation pulling out, “I knew they were facing some serious challenges,” said the fund’s president, C. David Campbell.

At the same time, Mr. Campbell and others are pressing cultural organizations to overhaul their operations.

“One of them,” Mr. Stewart said, “has been running an operating deficit of $20 million for two years, which suggests the problem goes beyond the crisis in fund-raising.”

“People won’t come back to Detroit without these organizations, so we have to support them,” Mr. Stewart added. “But they also have to make some hard choices to make our support worthwhile.”

Detroit’s foundations are also supporting each other more than they have in the past and are working to attract national philanthropic money. The Kresge Foundation, in suburban Troy, is considered a national foundation, but it recently gave a $300,000 grant to Matrix Human Services for emergency repairs to its boiler, windows and a parking lot.

Recently, more than a dozen local foundations gathered to discuss whether to pool their money into an emergency fund for struggling charities and to share ideas about how to use resources limited by the stock market’s plunge. A year ago, 10 of them pledged a total of $100 million over eight years to help restructure Detroit’s economy to attract skilled workers and fill its empty houses and storefronts.

That effort attracted money from three national foundations with headquarters in Michigan — W.K. Kellogg, Kresge and Charles Stewart Mott — as well as the Ford Foundation, which is based in New York but came under pressure last year from the Michigan attorney general to spend some of its money in the state where its founder made his fortune. (The Ford Foundation is not affiliated with the Ford Motor Company.)

Detroit’s foundations are also prodding the nonprofit groups they support to share resources. “Strategic pooling of resources by foundations and nonprofits is what is going to get us through this crisis,” said Edsel B. Ford II, a Skillman board member. “Living in silos is a thing of the past.”

YouthVille Detroit, a youth development organization, recently struck an agreement with the Detroit Science Center to create a science program, “Think Squad,” for local public television. The science center is providing money and scientific expertise, and YouthVille is contributing its production facilities and the production expertise of its teenage clients.

“The collaboration doesn’t benefit us financially,” said Judith D. Jackson, the chief executive of YouthVille. “But it does benefit our kids, and it brought us a lot of publicity, too.”

Under the same pressure from foundations to work together to obtain money, the Detroit Hispanic Development Corporation has joined with Southwest Detroit Weed and Seed, a crime prevention program that involves the Detroit Police Department and local businesses and residents. By participating in the program, the Hispanic development organization got federal money to train police officers and school staff members in gang awareness and to run gang-prevention sessions in middle schools.

Angela G. Reyes, the group’s founder and executive director, said her organization would not have received any money for those efforts without the collaboration.

“It has helped us work better together and make better use of resources,” Ms. Reyes said.
908 2009-03-22 If this continues, it will be a puritanical excess that’s the problem, not a jet owner’s or a meeting planner’s.

The truth is that business meetings are usually not a waste of time, even if they are held in Las Vegas or at a resort with a golf course near a Southern California beach. They are not decadent, with rare exceptions. And at the business meetings I see, an incredibly heavy burden of work lies on the shoulders of those who attend.

Of course, I wouldn’t want to see taxpayer money going to buy Piper-Heidsieck for executives of bailed-out companies. Then again, I never see anything even slightly like that at business meetings.

At the gatherings I attend, men and women fly coach, stay in immense, boxy hotels, start their meeting days at breakfast at 7 a.m. and work through the day until far later than seems reasonable to me. Then they do it again the next day and the day after that, finally enduring the torture of waiting at the airport, next to screaming children, in order to get home.

These meetings, while burdensome, are helpful to the businesses involved. They cannot be entirely replaced with teleconferencing or mass e-mailing. The personal touch, the sharing of facts and secrets face to face, are important. Could Congress really do its work if it held its sessions by teleconferencing? Could Congressional committee hearings work as well by conference call? Could the Supreme Court?

Technology is wonderful and indispensable. But for finding out the tricks of the trade, the way business runs in bad times and good, the latest developments in business and the economy, nothing can replace the spark of intelligence that travels from person to person at meetings.

Moreover, it would be harsh in the extreme to kick the hospitality industry when it is down by frowning on business meetings, thereby making hotels lay off cooks and waiters and maids.

I understand the crusade against use of federal money for lavish parties and nauseating bonuses for executives of bailed-out companies — though I have been to a lot of parties at the White House, under previous administrations, and some of these events have been darned lavish, and financed by taxpayers. I do lament that this crackdown on corruption could spread to firing an immigrant (who was just looking for a better life) from her job as a carpet cleaner in a hotel.

MAYBE, with his customary precision of speech, President Obama could make it clear that he has nothing against business travel itself — but that he is only against a glaring abuse of government aid to bailed-out companies.

As my pal, Phil DeMuth, notes, who would be better off if business travel for meetings ground to a halt? No one and nothing. Business meetings are not the enemy. In terms of making the nation more productive and better off, they are builders, not saboteurs.
909 2009-03-22 BERLIN — Hungary’s prime minister, Ferenc Gyurcsany, offered Saturday to resign so that a new government could lead the country out of the recent turmoil that has made it among the most troubled economies in Europe.

Mr. Gyurcsany’s announcement, at a meeting of his Socialist Party this weekend, surprised even seasoned political observers in Budapest, the capital, who were trying to sort out whether it was a serious resignation or a ploy by an unpopular politician to shore up his position in a time of crisis.

Either way, the latest upheaval reinforced the sense of instability in a nation that was once a magnet for investment among former Communist countries and had fallen on hard times even before credit markets began to seize up and the world stumbled toward recession.

“I hear that I am the obstacle to the cooperation required for changes, for a stable governing majority and the responsible behavior of the opposition,” Reuters quoted Mr. Gyurcsany as saying at the party congress on Saturday. “If so, then I am eliminating this obstacle now. I propose that we form a new government under a new prime minister.”

Governments in both the small Baltic nation of Latvia and Iceland have fallen this winter as a result of the economic setbacks those countries faced, and Hungary appears poised to join them.

Mr. Gyurcsany asked his party to come up with a new candidate for prime minister within the next two weeks, but said that he wished to remain the party’s leader. There are no plans for new elections in Hungary.
910 2009-03-22 FORT TOTTEN in Bayside, Queens, sits atop a hilly peninsula near the Throgs Neck Bridge, where the waters of the East River meet Long Island Sound. The fort was built during the Civil War to guard the city against attack from the East River, but it closed in 1995, and since then, much of the land, along with many of its dilapidated Victorian buildings, has been handed over to the city.

A park now covers 50 acres of Fort Totten, and the Fire and Police Departments, as well as the Army Reserve 77th Regional Readiness Command and other groups, use some of the buildings on the remaining 100 or so acres.

Since the fort closed, the Fire Department has been in charge of security there, hiring private guards to patrol the fort and to staff a security booth at its entrance. But in February, the fort’s neighbors learned that the department would eliminate that security detail starting March 1, citing budget cuts.

The move has unleashed local fears that the park and its historic buildings, some of them abandoned, will be vulnerable to vandalism, arson and other crimes. Earlier this month, a few dozen residents held a rally at the fort’s entrance, chanting, “Hey, hey, ho, ho, we say safety, they say no!”

At one point, Councilman Peter Vallone Jr. spoke on a megaphone.

“During the toughest economic times,” Mr. Vallone said, “that’s when you have to keep the community and the people the safest.”
911 2009-03-22 Here on the fast-gentrifying west side of Yonkers, buildings like Riverview II with broad views of the Hudson River are now coveted by developers of luxury housing, said Ken Jenkins, a county legislator representing that section of Yonkers.

The area was far from appealing to developers three decades ago, when its concentrations of poor African-Americans in run-down housing led federal authorities to find Yonkers guilty of racial segregation. One result was that the city built public housing units on its east side — to offset generally more expensive projects to the west.

Despite the progress made within Yonkers since the 1970s, however, segregation remains a problem countywide — as a federal suit brought in 2007 by the Anti-Discrimination Center, an advocacy group in Manhattan, attests. A District Court judge found against Westchester, ruling that it had systematically misrepresented its efforts to desegregate overwhelmingly white communities over a six-year period ended in 2006, even as it applied for and received $50 million in federal funds for that purpose.

Mr. Jenkins, a former chairman of the Yonkers chapter of the N.A.A.C.P., one of the parties that joined the 1970s federal lawsuit against Yonkers, called the suit against the county “basically the Yonkers lawsuit for all of Westchester.”

“The question is how to strike a balance between preserving affordable housing and creating new opportunities in communities where we don’t have any,” said Mr. Jenkins, the chairman of the Board of Legislators’ Government Operations Committee.

The county plans to appeal the ruling. George M. Raymond, the chairman of the Housing Opportunity Commission, a panel that advises the county on affordable housing, is among the officials who say that it is state law that has kept the government from spreading lower-income housing more evenly throughout the county. That law leaves it to localities to make their own land-use and development decisions.

Of the 23 original Mitchell-Lama-era housing developments in Westchester, 14 are still active, in 8 of the county’s 45 municipalities: Bedford, Dobbs Ferry, Mount Kisco, New Rochelle, Peekskill, Port Chester and White Plains, as well as Yonkers.

As for the Yonkers housing complex where Mr. Romero lives, Mr. Jenkins said the city’s interest there was in “preserving what we have, so residents aren’t displaced” — in other words, “doing the anti-gentrification thing.”

The county’s $4.8 million contribution essentially covered the price of the land for Related Affordable, a subsidiary of the Related Companies in Manhattan, on the condition that the project’s affordability be maintained for 40 more years. The rest of the purchase price for the complex was $32 million, which Related Affordable paid the previous owner last spring.

Related, which under another subsidiary built the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle in 2004, has financed or developed more than 300,000 lower-cost housing units throughout the country and has 4,000 under construction. Its lower-income projects include 1,689 units of Section 8 and Mitchell-Lama units on West 43rd Street in Manhattan, which it acquired in 2004. and 308 units in Albany, acquired three years ago.

The company, which will also manage the complex, has spent $11.5 million on upgrading it, said Mark E. Carbone, president of Related Affordable. In addition to installing security systems in the complex — the immediate neighborhood has a high crime rate — Related has restored a fenced-in courtyard and a playground.

To help finance the project, Yonkers issued bonds in December 2007, said Ellen Lynch, the president and chief executive of the city’s Industrial Development Agency. It also provided the developer with sales tax exemptions on products bought for the project, and a payment-in-lieu-of-taxes agreement. The state contributed as well, providing the developer with $14.5 million in low-income housing tax credits.

The incomes of families seeking to rent here must not exceed 60 percent of the county’s median income, which last year was $54,840 for a three-person household. The rent for a two-bedroom apartment is about $1,300 a month.

Thanks to federal Section 8 subsidies, Mr. Romero pays $1,296 a month for a four-bedroom apartment. “Being able to stay here is the best thing that’s happened to us,” he said. “It’s not easy to find affordable housing in an area that’s also safe.”
912 2009-03-22 While many said that the dogs help keep drugs away, some students and civil rights groups called the dog searches not only inaccurate but also frightening.

The atmosphere created by taking police dogs into schools is “incompatible with nurturing environments that are supposed to be conducive to adolescent education,” said Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union.

At Sachem High School North on Long Island, dog searches were instigated as a “preventative deterrent,” said Charles J. Murphy, the district superintendent.

Dogs have searched the school twice since January, and no narcotics have been found, though the dogs did indicate several lockers, which were found to contain nothing illegal, Dr. Murphy said. Since the first dog visit, no student has been found with drugs on school property; previously, about one student was caught with marijuana every month at Sachem North, he said.

Each dog search costs the district $500, Dr. Murphy said.

There are no statistics on how many schools nationwide use dogs to search for drugs, said Brittany A. Brown, a spokeswoman for the Drug Enforcement Administration. Policies on the use of dogs in schools vary by school districts around the region.

Of the districts that allow dog searches, some require students to remain in classrooms when dogs are present; others allow dogs and students to be in the same areas. None allow dogs to search students, only lockers, parking lots and other common areas, school officials said.

The searches are never on a set schedule, and their date is not revealed in advance to the students, officials said.

In North Caldwell, N.J., dogs have searched West Essex Regional High School twice this year, said Joseph F. Clark Jr., chief of the North Caldwell Police Department. Only one locker had to be searched, he said, and it was deemed clean.

“The point isn’t so much to make arrests as it is to just make it as hard as possible for anyone to bring drugs into school,” Chief Clark said.

The Connecticut Association of Boards of Education advocates using drug dogs in schools, said Vincent A. Mustaro, the group’s senior staff associate for policy services.

Joseph V. Erardi Jr., superintendent for the Southington School District in Connecticut, said the district works with the local police, who search the high school randomly and at no charge. He said that after numerous searches during the last five years, the dogs have not led authorities to any illegal narcotics.

Dr. Erardi said he did not believe that the searches interfered with the education process. “It is my belief that when dogs are on campus, teaching is not disrupted,” he said.

The issue made headlines in Connecticut last year when dogs searched Canton High School the day before the senior prom in June. Fifteen students whose lockers or cars were indicated by the dogs were pulled out of class. Drugs — a small amount of marijuana — were found only in one car, and a student was arrested.

Kelsey Jones, 18, now a freshman at the North Carolina School of the Arts, was one of the Canton students whose locker was searched because of a dog’s reaction. She recalled being escorted from class and forced to stand by her locker as an armed officer searched her belongings.

“I was thinking, ‘Oh my God, what have I done?’ ” she said. “I felt extremely accused.”

Jonathan Matthews, legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Connecticut, criticized the school board for the search and succeeded in getting a small policy change. Now when a search dog indicates a locker may hold drugs, a school administrator must take note and then return to search the locker when the police officers are gone.

“It made the police presence a little less than it was before, “ Mr. Matthews said.

The best-trained dogs have an accuracy rate of 85 to 90 percent, said James Greco, head trainer for Long Island K-9 Service, which contracts to conduct drug searches in 15 Long Island public schools, as well as three private schools in Westchester and another in Hartford.

The demand for drug-detecting dogs in New Jersey spurred Debra Stone to start Sniff Dogs, a company based in Summit, in September to provide dogs to private homes to search for drugs. Since then, she has contracted with schools from Bergen County to South Jersey to conduct searches.

“Every month the number of schools increases,” Ms. Stone said.

At Mount Vernon High School in Westchester, law enforcement authorities with dogs search for drugs when they find it necessary, said Desiree Grand, a district spokeswoman. She said there had been one search with dogs in the past year.

Karen Fisher, 14, a freshman at the school, said she thought the police dogs were intimidating and ineffective at rooting out drugs. She said that since the search, she had seen marijuana inside her school three times.

“It’s not necessary to bring dogs here,” she said. “They shouldn’t do it.”
913 2009-03-22 MANY buyers say that jumbo mortgages are hard to come by these days. But don’t tell that to Edward R. Morrison, a law professor and economist at Columbia University, who is something of an expert on these troubled times.

Last month Mr. Morrison and his wife, Anne, bought a restored two-family town house at 357 West 121 Street in Harlem for $2.575 million. Brokers said it was a record price for a town house in the neighborhood — just down the hill from the Columbia campus in Morningside Heights, near Morningside Park — and one of the top 10 town house sales in Harlem in recent years.

Though the market downturn has caused the number of condo and town house sales to drop sharply in Harlem, brokers say there have been a small stream of town house sales at significant but reduced prices. In February, for instanace, Brian Phillips, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, sold a town house on West 143rd Street near Convent Avenue for $1.7 million. The seller had turned down an offer of $1.85 million from the same buyer three months earlier.

The two-family town house bought by the Morrisons was restored over a decade by the prior owner, Peter Marciano, a contractor, who stripped many layers of paint from the woodwork and created a rooftop garden. Mr. Marciano paid $150,000 for the house in 1997, just as new buyers were rediscovering Harlem, and brokers said that after all that hands-on work, he had a hard time deciding to sell it, repeatedly changing his mind.

Meanwhile the Morrisons, with three children and a dog, were outgrowing their apartment in university-owned housing on Morningside Drive and 115th Street. Mr. Morrison, an expert on bankruptcy court and credit markets, recently testified before the House of Representatives on proposed mortgage foreclosure legislation.

After Mr. Morrison received tenure in 2007, the family looked at many houses near Morningside Park, brokers said. Dexter Guerrieri, the founder of Vandenberg Inc., showed them Mr. Marciano’s house at that time: the asking price was $3.1 million. Then it was pulled from the market.
914 2009-03-22 AS a filmmaker William Wellman loved planes, trains and automobiles  but mostly planes. A volunteer member of the Lafayette Flying Corps in World War I, he drew on his experiences as a combat pilot for “Wings” (1927), his first major hit as a director and the first film to win the Academy Award for best picture (then called most outstanding production).

And Wellman continued to draw on his aviation background throughout his long career in Hollywood (including his 1954 hit, “The High and the Mighty”), not only to tap the thrill of fast, free movement but also to create emotionally vivid, male-centered melodramas. His most personal films portray the bonds that develop between men under pressure and what happens when those bonds are threatened by a female presence.

Warner Home Video has devoted this third and latest volume in its “Forbidden Hollywood” series of pre-Code films to six features from Wellman’s most intensely creative period, the years he spent as a contract director at Warner Brothers in the early 1930s: between “Maybe It’s Love” (1930) and “Female” (1933), he directed 17 movies in whole or in part, including a couple of loan-outs to RKO and MGM. Most of these 70- to 80-minute features are swift, hard, topical dramas, filmed in the vigorous, headlong style epitomized by his best-known picture of the time, “The Public Enemy” (1931).

“The Public Enemy,” which made a star of James Cagney, isn’t part of the current collection. (It has already been issued, in a recently rediscovered, uncensored print, as part of the “Warner Gangsters Collection, Volume 1.”) But Wellman’s first film with Cagney is here: the superb “Other Men’s Women” (1931), a railroad drama in which Cagney, billed sixth, makes a remarkable entrance bounding along atop a line of moving boxcars (clearly Wellman’s kind of guy).

The plot of “Other Men’s Women” lays out the archetypical Wellman situation. Bill (Grant Withers) and Jack (Regis Toomey) work together as fireman and engineer, driving freight trains through Southern California; all is well until Bill, a hard-drinking, unsettled type, finds himself falling for Jack’s warmly domestic wife, Lily (Mary Astor). Tensions explode into a fistfight in the engine cab, causing an accident in which Jack is left blinded and Bill burdened with unbearable guilt. Redemption, a recurring motif in Wellman films, is available only through sacrifice in the line of duty, and Bill finds his chance during a spectacular finale, when rising flood waters threaten to wipe out a trestle bridge.

Recently freed from the constraints of studio-bound early-sound technology, Wellman seems almost giddy with the possibilities of location shooting, moving his camera with abandon, staging dialogue scenes atop moving trains, constructing at least one live sound set (a greasy spoon where the waitress is a young Joan Blondell) in the middle of a busy switchyard, where freight trains rumble past. The gigantic engines become the objective correlatives of the characters’ clashing emotions, as the powerful imagery overcomes Wellman’s enduring flaw: a simplistic, often inconsistent sense of character.

That flaw is very much on display in “The Purchase Price” (1932). Barbara Stanwyck stars as a New York showgirl who hides out from a possessive gangster boyfriend (Lyle Talbot) by agreeing to become the mail-order bride of a Midwestern farmer (George Brent). Wellman presents the rural characters, including the miscast Brent, as lumbering cretins, never quite accounting for the sudden change of heart that propels Stanwyck into Brent’s arms and a new identity as a gallant homesteader in a gingham dress.

Women remain abstract figures in “Frisco Jenny” (1932), with Ruth Chatterton as the mannish proprietor of a San Francisco brothel; and “Midnight Mary” (1933), with Loretta Young as (another) Broadway babe prepared to take a murder rap to protect her married lover (a dweeby Franchot Tone).

Made at MGM, “Midnight Mary” smoothes out the rough edges of Wellman’s style: the shots match and the tone is more even, but the vigor and spontaneity of the Warner films is almost gone. Those qualities return in spades in the final two titles in the collection, both superlative examples of Warner Brothers social drama at its grittiest and most engaged. In “Heroes for Sale” (1933), Richard Barthelmess plays Tom Holmes, a Job-like figure who endures most of the horrors that the early 20th century had to offer.

Wounded in trench fighting in the Great War, Tom comes home with a morphine addiction that costs him his job in a bank, the first of many misfortunes that include losing his wife (Loretta Young, whose saintly good looks find better use here) in a violent strike action, serving a jail term as a dangerous radical and finally being forced out on the road with the army of the unemployed, chased from town to town by local cops and railroad dicks. “Anyhow, we’ve got something to be thankful for,” Tom observes near the end of the film. “It’s stopped raining!”

“Wild Boys of the Road” (1933) also takes place in a Depression America of foreclosures, flophouses and freight yards, although this time the characters are a pair of middle-class teenagers (Frankie Darro and Edwin Phillips) who have left home to relieve the burden on their parents. The emotional triangle returns, this time provoked by a buddy who turns out to be a girl in disguise (Dorothy Coonan, Wellman’s future wife and mother of their seven children). (Louise Brooks played a similarly ambiguous figure in his 1928 Paramount silent, “Beggars of Life.”)

As in “Other Men’s Women,” a railroad accident has tragic results for a central character, though the film is not as bleak as “Heroes for Sale.” This time Wellman allows for a distant glimmer of hope, in the form of a judge (Robert Barrat) who is carefully framed alongside a National Recovery Administration poster.

Wellman was not an elegant stylist, like his Warner Brothers colleagues Michael Curtiz and William Dieterle, but his movies, particularly from this period, have a blunt, almost physical force that carries its own conviction. In “The Purchase Price” Wellman has a character punch the camera right in the “face,” a shot that Sam Fuller would rediscover 20 years later.

The enforcement of the Production Code in 1934 would put severe restraints on Wellman’s rambunctiousness, though he would continue to produce films of value until the end of his career (which came, appropriately, with the semi-autobiographical “Lafayette Escadrille” in 1958, with Tab Hunter as an American ace pilot flying for France in World War I).

This collection, assembled with the taste and technical excellence we’ve come to expect from Warner DVDs, offers an outstanding introduction to a very rich body of work. (Warner Home Video, $49.98, not rated)

ALSO OUT THIS WEEK

QUANTUM OF SOLACE James Bond (Daniel Craig) takes on a villain (Mathieu Amalric) with designs on the world’s water supply in this latest installment, directed by Marc Forster, in the long-running franchise. “Bond’s thirst for vengeance seems to have dampened his libido, as well as his wit,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times in November. (MGM, Blu-ray $39.99, two-disc special edition $34.98, single-disc $29.99, PG-13)

GOLDFINGER First-generation Bond, with Sean Connery as Agent 007 and Gert Fröbe as one of his most memorable opponents, now available on Blu-ray. “It is good fun, all right, fast and furious,” Bosley Crowther wrote in The Times in 1964. Also being released this week on Blu-ray “Moonraker” (1979), “Never Say Never Again” (1983) and “The World Is Not Enough” (1999). (MGM, $34.99 each, PG)

THE LAST METRO François Truffaut’s 1980 drama stars Catherine Deneuve and Gérard Depardieu as members of a Parisian theatrical company during the German occupation. In The Times in 1980 Vincent Canby called it “a dazzlingly subversive work.” (Criterion Collection, available in Blu-ray and standard definition, $39.95, not rated)

TO CATCH A THIEF A retired cat burglar (Cary Grant) dallies with a spoiled heiress (Grace Kelly) on the Cote d’Azur in a new transfer of the Alfred Hitchcock classic. The movie “does nothing but give out a good, exciting time,” Crowther said in The Times in 1955. (Paramount, $24.99, not rated)

CAREFUL A newly remastered edition of Guy Maddin’s compelling oddity of 1992, a mountain melodrama fraught with frustrated sexuality and filmed in the style of an early talkie. “The movie’s biggest strength is its knowing burlesques of antiquated cinematic techniques,” Stephen Holden said in The Times in 1992. (Zeitgeist, $29.99, not rated)
915 2009-03-22 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
916 2009-03-22 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
917 2009-03-22 STYLE MAP / FLORENCE, ITALY Rightly celebrated for its history, Florence too often seems like a city-cum-museum, preserved in amber for the enjoyment of the tourist hordes. But lately it is rediscovering its innovative side, as artisans and entrepreneurs are givin the town’s traditional pursuits  art, craft, food, fashion  a distinctly modern sensibility.

This jewel of a wine bar is right next door to the Uffizi, but it feels like a well-kept secret, bringing in a stylish crowd for fine local cheese on house-made focaccia, capers from Pantelleria, truffles from Alba and mandarin orange gelato, along with a thoughtful selection of wine and beer. Via dei Georgofili 3/r-7/r; 011-39-055-219-208.

The restaurant/lounge at this recently restored villa and gardens is one of the cognoscenti’s latest hangouts, where Umberto Montano’s seafood is almost as big a draw as aperitivi on the terrace. The villa also puts up rotating contemporary art exhibits. Costa San Giorgio 6; 011-39-055-200-8444; entrees about $13 to $23.

This contemporary gallery — co-founded by Ori Kafri, the owner of the culty hotel J.K. Place — shows work by mostly Italian photographers like Massimo Listri, Pierpaolo Ferrari and Giacomo Salizzoni. Via dei Fossi 45/r; 011-39-055-094-6444; forgallery.it.

This new spa is the only one in the world to use products by the local apothecary Officina Profumo-Farmaceutica Santa Maria Novella. Get the Iris Sensations treatment and emerge smelling of the city’s token flower. Borgo Pinti 99; 011-39-055-26-261.

The German shoemaker Vivian Saskia Wittmer caters mostly to men in her ground-floor atelier (where she draws the draperies for those who’d rather not display their feet), crafting shoes with such precision that it can take six months to make a pair. Via di S. Lucia 24/r; 011-39-055-293-291.
918 2009-03-22 “In this economy, people don’t want to pay to do things,” Mr. Pace said.

“If they go to the beach and Pepsi, for example, is keeping the beach clean, maintaining the parking lot and generally making that experience better, that’s going to work favorably for them,” he said, referring to advertisers.

Conservation groups said they worry about the well-being of parkland if it is parceled up and renamed.

“It does not change the natural resource, but it clearly changes the perception of the natural resource,” said Adrienne Esposito, head of Citizens Campaign for the Environment, a conservation and environmental group based in Farmingdale. “It gives a commercial or corporate image to something that is supposed to be public space, and that could open the door for the land to be devalued.”

In 2005, Mr. Levy created a committee of county officials to sell naming rights on county land, memorials and public buildings.

The committee settled on the parks department as a pilot project because, according to county officials, there are fewer legal limitations on selling naming rights on parks than on public buildings, and parks offer unique opportunities for advertisers to reach a targeted audience. For example, Mr. Levy said, the county could name a camp site after Coleman, the camping-equipment company.

Mr. Pace, the lawyer, warned that even if companies express interest, it can be a challenge for a public entity — in this case, the county — to strike naming rights deals.

“You have to choose sponsors with a message that is consistent with the place and its users, you have to make sure if they’re product-related, that it’s suitable for the area,” he said. “You have to make sure that the public entity has the proper termination rights — what if you had Bernie Madoff’s name on a beach?”

The county’s only corporate contract now is with Citibank, which in 2000 opened Citibank Park, the baseball stadium in Central Islip where the Long Island Ducks play. The 10-year contract pays the county $230,000 a year. Mr. Levy said that he hoped Citibank would renew its contract, which expires this year, but that the park name would be offered to other companies, too.

Selling naming rights is not uncommon in the region. Naming rights to the Nikon at Jones Beach Theater provide the state $380,000 a year. Naming rights were also sold for KeySpan Park in Brooklyn and Icahn Stadium on Randalls Island.

Nassau County is poised to sign an agreement with Clear Channel Communications to sell 65 digital signs outside the six major county parks for $86 million in ad revenue over 20 years.

Suffolk is not trying to break any records by selling naming rights on its parks, Mr. Levy said. “We have no idea how much money we could get from this,” he said. “Any money we get is gravy.”
919 2009-03-22 James Kelly, the Gordon Heights fire commissioner, said that the district’s taxes were largely a result of a lack of commercial property there, which “makes us unable to have a high tax base and unfortunately puts a burden on homeowners.”

In addition, Mr. Kelly said, the fire district recently had to buy new equipment, including trucks, to comply with federal regulations.

“We continue to look at ways that we can do things differently to spend less and to bring revenue into the community,” he said.

But many residents are not satisfied.

Rosalie Hanson, whose home in Medford lies within the Gordon Heights Fire District, said that of two homes next to each other on Greentree Drive, the one in the Medford Fire District has a fire tax bill that is $1,300 less than the one in the Gordon Heights district.

“If I wanted to put my house up for sale, its value would be less than someone who lives right across the street and pays lower taxes,” Ms. Hanson said.

Mr. Kelly said that the majority of the district’s 60 volunteer firefighters live in Gordon Heights, which “allows them to respond to an emergency in a matter of minutes.”

Mr. Sabatino said that the number of fires in the Gordon Heights district is low — 20 last year, he said — and could be easily absorbed by an adjacent district. Mr. Kelly said that his firefighters responded to 600 calls last year, of which 100 were fires in Gordon Heights and neighboring districts.

Trying to dissolve a fire district “is an extremely difficult process,” Mr. Sabatino said.

Ms. Hanson knows that firsthand. In 1986, when a group of residents realized that their fire taxes were, she said, five times those of neighbors in the Medford Fire District, they went to the town to see about dissolving the fire district and “were told that there was nothing we could do,” she said.

In 2006, after learning that state law allows residents to dissolve a fire district, a group of Gordon Heights residents tried again, filing a petition with more than 700 notarized signatures, only to be rejected by the town on the grounds that their format was incorrect.

Mr. Sabatino said that the petition had been submitted properly this time, and that the town tax assessor must now rule on whether those who signed the petition represent at least 50 percent of the district’s assessed valuation. That ruling is expected by the end of the month, Mr. Sabatino said.

If the town verifies the validity of the petition, it will hold a public hearing, followed by a vote by the Town Board. In all, the process was expected to take about six months, Mr. Sabatino said.
920 2009-03-22 If it feels like there's a bit more elbow room on the train into work these days, you're not imagining it. Job losses from the recession appear to be rippling through the public transport system. New Jersey Transit says ridership dipped in January...
921 2009-03-22 To the Editor:     Re ''Analyze This'' (The City Visible, March 8), featuring Mark Gerald's photographs of psychoanalysts in their offices:...
922 2009-03-23 The Public Theater has postponed the first preview and opening night of its production of Craig Lucas’s play “The Singing Forest.”...
923 2009-03-23 It’s not going to make Warner Brothers rich and it may end up annoying important retail partners like Amazon, but the studio is going forward with a fun little DVD-on-demand offering....
924 2009-03-23 In honor of some recent gains in the stock market, a few stock-related studies....
925 2009-03-23 With the N.C.A.A. men's tournament down to 16 teams, The Times's Connor Ennis and Sports Editor Tom Jolly break down the next round.
926 2009-03-23 Expedia dropping booking fees is evidence that newspapers and cable networks may have trouble earning the subscription fees they think they deserve....
927 2009-03-23 It was inconsequential to the outcome of the game, but Jamelle Horne's "missed" dunk in Arizona's 84-71 victory over Utah on Friday night in the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament was interesting for a couple of reasons, not all having to do w...
928 2009-03-23 As various experts attempt to explain the bewildering problems in the global financial system, metaphor-dealers are enjoying a market boom....
929 2009-03-23 Apples appear prominently in every element of the campaign, just like they do during the opening credits of “Desperate Housewives.” They turn up so often, Ms. Cross might find herself renamed the Lady Eve.

Executives at the company that markets Mott’s, the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, are calling the campaign the first for the venerable brand to feature a major celebrity. It is also, they say, the biggest campaign for Mott’s in a decade, including the brand’s return to TV after a 10-year hiatus.

Although the executives decline to discuss spending on the campaign, the budget is estimated to be 40 percent higher than what was spent last year. According to TNS Media Intelligence, spending in major media for Mott’s totaled almost $11.1 million in the first three quarters of 2008; data for the full year are still being compiled by TNS, a division of WPP.

In addition to the commercials and print ads, the campaign, by Laird & Partners in New York, includes online ads and the Mott’s Web site (motts.com).

The campaign also offers what is known as a cause-related marketing effort, which is meant to help raise money for Feeding America, the nonprofit organization formerly known as Second Harvest. Computer users can visit motts.com and send themselves or friends a “wake-up call” from Ms. Cross; for each call placed, Mott’s will donate a dollar to Feeding America.

The campaign is among many that were planned before the economy soured and shoppers started economizing, but are moving ahead because the marketers behind them believe this is no time to stop speaking to consumers.

The ads are also part of a trend in that they are aimed at mothers and address the nutritional needs of children. Spending on food products, especially for children, typically holds up better during tough times than spending in most other consumer-product categories.

“We certainly are aware of the impact of the economy on our entire portfolio” of products, says Dave Fleming, marketing director for Mott’s at the Dr Pepper Snapple Group in Plano, Tex., as “moms make decisions about what to feed their families.”

“We have been around since 1842,” Mr. Fleming says of Mott’s, “and we are a brand a lot of moms we target grew up with, but we haven’t been on TV to remind them” of the benefits of apple juice and apple sauce.

Hiring Ms. Cross came after “we looked at a variety of options,” he adds, and realized she “was the perfect fit for us.”

“She had kids,” Mr. Fleming says, referring to Ms. Cross’s twin daughters, Eden and Savannah. (In the campaign, her children are portrayed by a girl and a boy.)

“And she’s known as a great mother,” he adds. For instance, there was news coverage this month of remarks Ms. Cross made in interviews that she does not let the twins, who are 2 years old, eat junk food.

In the commercials and print ads, Ms. Cross and the child actors are inside a barn, surrounded by wooden crates filled with apples that are labeled Mott’s. The brand becomes the second to use such crates as symbols of real food; Heinz ketchup is using tomato crates in a campaign that carries the theme “Grown not made.”

“Mott’s gives us the purely delightful flavor we love,” Ms. Cross says in the commercial devoted to apple juice, “with the healthy fruit we need.”

In the spot about Mott’s apple sauce, Ms. Cross reveals that her “saucy secret” is the product’s “great flavor” and “great nutrition.”

The concept that the campaign would play up the servings of fruit provided by Mott’s products was derived from consumer research, says Hans Dorsinville, who is a partner, executive vice president and senior group creative director at Laird & Partners.

“People did not know about the two servings of fruit in the juice,” Mr. Dorsinville says. “It was almost like a best-kept secret.”

“Mott’s is one of those brands that have always been there,” he adds, “a go-to brand that needed a little sizzle.”

As consumers look for value in this uncertain economy, “moms are looking for nutritional value,” Mr. Dorsinville says. “Mott’s is the kind of brand that wants to be positioned as understanding mom’s needs.”

That led to the premise of the campaign that Mott’s is “a great way for children to get their servings of fruit,” he adds, “and also tastes good.”

The farm setting for the campaign is intended to help the ads stand out, Mr. Dorsinville says, and be “a little more exciting” than the typical pitches “with a fake mom in the kitchen with her kids.”

Ms. Cross “is not just a celebrity,” he adds. “She is always talking in interviews about her twins, about being a mother.”

The target audience for the campaign, mothers in their 30s and 40s, “know who she is,” Mr. Dorsinville says, through that coverage as well as through “Desperate Housewives.”

The fact Ms. Cross “is already associated with” the apple through the show is “kind of a bonus,” he adds.

The television commercials are running on morning shows on broadcast networks like “Good Morning America,” “Today” and “The View” as well as on shows on cable channels like Bravo, E!, Food Network, HGTV, Lifetime, Oxygen, Soapnet, Style, TLC and We.

The print ads are appearing in magazines that include Cookie, Parenting, Parents, People, Real Simple and Working Mother.

In addition to Laird & Partners, other agencies working on the campaign include Initiative, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, for media buying; Code and Theory, for the interactive duties; and Ketchum, part of the Omnicom Group, for public relations.

The cause-related marketing aspect of the campaign calls for Mott’s to donate up to $134,000 to Feeding America, which is described as enough money for the organization to provide a million meals to hungry children.

A six-figure sum may not seem like much compared with the seven-figure cost of the campaign, but it is not unusual for corporate donations in cause-related efforts to be in that range.

For example, a current campaign for the Curel brand of skin lotion sold by the Kao Brands Company describes a donation of $250,000 to the American Red Cross, which may be increased by as much as an additional $10,000 based on the number of computer users who visit a section of the Curel Web site (curel.com/sharethecaring).

The donation from Mott’s “translates into one million meals, which we think is having a significant impact,” Mr. Fleming says.

The donation is “completely separate from” the money being spent on the campaign, he adds, and it represents “a relationship we hope to grow in the future.”

Here’s a sure-fire way to increase donations to Feeding America: Ask Mott’s — and consumers — to kick in a dollar every time Bree and the other characters on “Desperate Housewives” reveal a secret, conceal a secret, bite into an apple or learn that a mysterious new resident is arriving on Wisteria Lane in time for the next ratings sweeps period.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.
930 2009-03-23 Warner Brothers dips its little toe into the DVD-on-demand business, offering up 150 mostly obscure titles for $19.95 each....
931 2009-03-23 Microsoft is often lurking behind anti-trust claims against I.B.M.'s mainframe business. What gives?...
932 2009-03-23 The Obama administration on Monday formally presented its plan to draw private investors into partnership with a new federal entity to buy up $1 trillion in troubled assets....
933 2009-03-23 Is Steven A. Cohen, the hedge fund investor who has been among the highest-profile consumers in the art world, mulling a move directly on the source? Mr. Cohen, the chief of SAC Capital, whose collection includes a Manet self-portrait, one of Jack...
934 2009-03-23 Senate will consider how to claw back the bonuses paid to executives at firms that received federal bailout money....
935 2009-03-23 Update | 7:46 a.m. Stocks rose Monday in Europe and Asia as investors awaited the details of the Obama administration's plan to rescue American banks, The New York Times's David Jolly and Bettina Wassener reported. On Monday, Treasury Secretary Ti...
936 2009-03-23 Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus’s new show, “Zing Zang Zoom,” is arriving at Madison Square Garden....
937 2009-03-23 Andrew M. Cuomo, whose love of analogies is great, often likens his investigations to a fine opera. The opening act, he instructs his lieutenants at the New York State attorney general's office, is taken up by his investigation and rivets the audi...
938 2009-03-23 If your car is too old to have an iPod connection, there are still ways to get your iPod to play over your car's stereo....
939 2009-03-23 Bosses at French bank Societe Generale gave up their stock options, and the government said it might give new money to support youth employment on Sunday in moves aimed at calming public discontent, Reuters reported. More than three million people...
940 2009-03-23 Monday | Today's idea: We are in an "age of commodified intelligence" -- a time not of great enlightenment but of mere intellectual acquisition and credential-building lacking in deep understanding. [More Intelligent Life]...
941 2009-03-23 The reigning ice dance champions Isabelle Delobel and Olivier Schoenfelder of France will miss the world championships, which begin Tuesday in Los Angeles, because Delobel is recovering from shoulder surgery.

¶Ole Einar Bjorndalen of Norway had a flawless shooting session and won a mass start race for a record 89th biathlon World Cup victory, in Trondheim, Norway. He increased his lead in the overall standings. With three races left, he leads Tomas Sikora of Poland by 71 points.
942 2009-03-23 The Milwaukee Brewers expect to start the season without their new closer, Trevor Hoffman. Hoffman strained his right oblique muscle while pitching against Kansas City on March 13 and has not thrown since. ¶Tampa Bay outfielder B. J. Upton will probably miss the start of the regular season after being hit in the hand by a pitch during a minor league spring training game. (AP)
943 2009-03-23 HONG KONG — Stock markets in Asia rallied Monday as hopes for the beleaguered American financial system overcame concerns about the still-dire outlook for the global economy.

The gains — more than 3 percent in Japan, Taiwan and India, and more than 2 percent in South Korea, Singapore and Australia and 4.3 percent in Hong Kong — were the latest in the past two weeks as investors around the world took heart from plans by the Obama administration to stabilize the American banking system and from news from leading financial institutions like Citigroup that the year had begun well.

On Monday, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, will announce the details of the administration’s long-awaited plan to purchase troubled assets and remove them from the balance sheets of banks, spurring banks to lend more money to consumers and companies.

Hopes that this plan would begin to resolve the troubles at big financial institutions and set the stage for a gradual recovery in the real economy helped markets across Asia accelerate Monday.

The benchmark Nikkei 225 index in Japan, where markets had been closed for a national holiday on Friday, rose 3.4 percent to a seven-week high.
944 2009-03-23 A trying, exhausting season for Tennessee came to a stunningly premature conclusion Sunday night as the fifth-seeded Lady Vols, the two-time defending national women’s champion, lost to 12th-seeded Ball State, 71-55, in the first round of the Berkeley Region in Bowling Green, Ky.

It is difficult to overstate how unprecedented and unexpected the Lady Vols’ defeat was. Tennessee has won eight national titles and is the only university to have made the field every year since the N.C.A.A. began sponsoring a women’s tournament in 1982.

Until Sunday, the Lady Vols were 42-0 in first and second-round games. Meanwhile, Ball State (26-8) was making its first appearance in the tournament. The Cardinals were led by the senior guard Porchia Green, who delivered 23 points and 8 rebounds.

Some will say this game ranks among the greatest upsets in the tournament’s history. On reputation, perhaps, but Tennessee had lost its entire starting lineup from the 2007-8 season, including the country’s consensus best player in Candace Parker.

The Lady Vols (22-11) struggled to find consistency in 2008-9 because of a young roster and did not win the Southeastern Conference tournament. Never had the Lady Vols been seeded as low as fifth in the N.C.A.A. field. This was Coach Pat Summitt’s youngest team in her three and a half decades at Tennessee, one that included seven freshmen and that did not inspire the fear in opponents that its predecessors had.

On Sunday, the Lady Vols were not tough enough, at least after halftime, when the 6-foot-6 center Kelly Cain could not take the court. She aggravated an injury to her right knee, the same knee that needed surgery last season and forced Cain to redshirt as a freshman.

Afterward, Summitt congratulated Kelly Packard, Ball State’s first-year coach. Then Summitt told ESPN that the defeat was “one of the toughest losses I ever had to deal with at Tennessee.”
945 2009-03-23 The discussion will include consideration of expanding the regular season to 17 or 18 games, one method to increase revenue that would have to be negotiated with players as part of the new labor deal. (There will not be a vote, though.)

But that is for the long-range thinkers. For everyone else, this meeting will focus on rules adjustments — relatively minor ones — many of them designed to enhance player safety. They include the elimination of the bunch formation on onside kicks and the wedge formation using three or more players on kickoff returns, in an attempt to reduce the risk of injuries. Hits to the helmet of a defenseless receiver made with a forearm or shoulder could also be prohibited, adding to the helmet-to-helmet ban that the N.F.L. cracked down on last year. And officials will be told to make horse-collar tackles and low hits on quarterbacks a point of emphasis.

Also part of the discussion is whether to be able to review a play in which a quarterback drops the ball in the act of throwing. The competition committee wants to allow referees to use replay to determine if it is a fumble or an incomplete pass, a call Referee Ed Hochuli got wrong in Week 2 last season, almost certainly costing the San Diego Chargers a victory.

If the teams approve the change, the play would be reviewable, just as the down-by-contact decision became reviewable two years ago.

“We’ve had some high-profile plays this year,” said Rich McKay, the competition committee co-chairman. “We think we would propose that would be reviewable and think that is a play in which people play right through the fumble recovery, so we would like to treat it like down by contact.”

The Chargers are also at the center of a potential change to the draft order. It would mean that playoff teams would pick according to when they were eliminated from the postseason. In the 2009 draft, the Chargers, with a worse record, will draft ahead of the Indianapolis Colts, whom they defeated in the first round. The change would not take place until the 2010 draft.

Perhaps the biggest rules conversation will be about one that will not be changed. Overtime — the bane of Donovan McNabb’s existence — will remain the same after a survey of players showed strong support for the current sudden-death format, even though the team that won the overtime coin toss won the game 63.3 percent of the time, 43.4 percent of the time on the first possession. Those figures are so lopsided that fans and members of the news media discussed changes during the 2008 season, and even McKay and Ray Anderson, the N.F.L.’s executive vice president for football operations, called them troubling. Players, though, had a different view.

“Myself, I was a little surprised at how adamant the players were about not wanting to change the current overtime system and agreeing with Rich’s assessment that they say, Look, the excitement is there, everyone has got an opportunity to win this thing in regulation,” Anderson said. “They were pretty adamant that extended play time, when you’re playing 20 games, exposes you to injury risk, and they’d just as soon say, Let’s battle it out during regulation, and if you can’t win it in regulation, you take your chances in overtime.”

New England Coach Bill Belichick was the dominant figure at last year’s meetings, answering questions for the first time about the Patriots’ illicit videotaping follies and even explaining himself to owners and coaches behind closed doors. This year, Belichick is not expected at the meetings at all, staying behind to work on draft preparation. With Belichick absent, the most in-demand coach will probably be Denver’s Josh McDaniels, who left Belichick’s staff to take over the Broncos and promptly angered quarterback Jay Cutler by entertaining trade offers for him because McDaniels hoped to acquire Matt Cassel. The N.F.L. meetings rarely produce big trades the way baseball’s winter meetings do, but the Cutler standoff will keep McDaniels’s table full when coaches meet with reporters this week.
946 2009-03-23 As economic historians can tell you, this is an old story, not that different from dozens of similar crises over the centuries. And there’s a time-honored procedure for dealing with the aftermath of widespread financial failure. It goes like this: the government secures confidence in the system by guaranteeing many (though not necessarily all) bank debts. At the same time, it takes temporary control of truly insolvent banks, in order to clean up their books.

That’s what did in the early 1990s. It’s also what we ourselves did after the debacle of the Reagan years. And there’s no reason we can’t do the same thing now.

But the Obama administration, like the Bush administration, apparently wants an easier way out. The common element to the Paulson and Geithner plans is the insistence that the bad assets on banks’ books are really worth much, much more than anyone is currently willing to pay for them. In fact, their true value is so high that if they were properly priced, banks wouldn’t be in trouble.

And so the plan is to use taxpayer funds to drive the prices of bad assets up to “fair” levels. Mr. Paulson proposed having the government buy the assets directly. Mr. Geithner instead proposes a complicated scheme in which the government lends money to private investors, who then use the money to buy the stuff. The idea, says Mr. Obama’s top economic adviser, is to use “the expertise of the market” to set the value of toxic assets.

But the Geithner scheme would offer a one-way bet: if asset values go up, the investors profit, but if they go down, the investors can walk away from their debt. So this isn’t really about letting markets work. It’s just an indirect, disguised way to subsidize purchases of bad assets.

The likely cost to taxpayers aside, there’s something strange going on here. By my count, this is the third time Obama administration officials have floated a scheme that is essentially a rehash of the Paulson plan, each time adding a new set of bells and whistles and claiming that they’re doing something completely different. This is starting to look obsessive.

But the real problem with this plan is that it won’t work. Yes, troubled assets may be somewhat undervalued. But the fact is that financial executives literally bet their banks on the belief that there was no housing bubble, and the related belief that unprecedented levels of household debt were no problem. They lost that bet. And no amount of financial hocus-pocus — for that is what the Geithner plan amounts to — will change that fact.

You might say, why not try the plan and see what happens? One answer is that time is : every month that we fail to come to grips with the economic crisis another 600,000 jobs are lost.

Even more important, however, is the way Mr. Obama is squandering his credibility. If this plan fails — as it almost surely will — it’s unlikely that he’ll be able to persuade Congress to come up with more funds to do what he should have done in the first place.

All is not lost: the public wants Mr. Obama to succeed, which means that he can still rescue his bank rescue plan. But time is running out.
947 2009-03-23 Frank Rich is right that in these hard times, “Americans have less and less patience for intrusive and divisive moral scolds” — and that this echoes the Great Depression’s marginalization of Prohibitionists and creationists.

But alas, history also shows that today’s culture warriors may well find a new wedge issue: the scapegoating of immigrants. As the Depression set in, wholesale sweeps from the Southwest to the Midwest forced hundreds of thousands of people to return to Mexico — and even sent to Mexico some residents born and raised in the United States but caught in the dragnet.

And today, in a period of far higher rates of immigration, it would seem even more likely that demagogues in search of a new wedge issue would escalate their demonization of the newcomers in our midst.

The writer is a professor of history at Manhattan College.
948 2009-03-23 I agree with David Brooks that by worrying about the global architecture of financial regulation, our European friends are missing the immediate issue. When the dam bursts, the important thing is to clean up the mess — we can worry about designing a new, safer dam when everyone is safe and accounted for. Unless we salvage the financial system right now, there will be precious little left to regulate.

The writer leads an executive search firm for financial companies.

David Brooks makes excellent points, but I disagree about the A.I.G. bonuses being minor. The outcry over them draws attention to major problems.

More priority should go to changing the policies and rules — and lack of rules — that caused the present mess. Executive pay is a major factor. Corporate executives get too much of the money that should go in dividends to stockholders. To raise confidence in stocks, the government should make stocks actually worth more by paying a fair share to the shareholders.

Another problem is the notion that $165 million is trivial. When the government is careless about such amounts, zeroes are added rapidly.

David Brooks sneers at the “myopia” of European leaders who wish to create a new regulatory architecture for global finance before throwing hundreds of billions of dollars at the financial services industry. The Obama administration’s approach — stimulate first, regulate (maybe) later — is like pouring fresh water into a leaky bucket. The Europeans want to fix the hole in the bucket first. Really, who is being more shortsighted?
949 2009-03-23 That kind of preparation, with a trapping defense and a high-octane offense, helped Prairie View build a 23-10 record and become “one of the best 16th seeds I’ve seen,” Oklahoma Coach Sherri Coale said.

The road to respectability, however, has had its bumps and potholes. In January 2008, Prairie View was reduced to 12 women’s basketball scholarships from 15 for three years and was placed on probation for four years for what the N.C.A.A. called major violations in 2005-6, Cooper-Dyke’s first season as coach.

She was accused of giving small amounts of cash to players — from $10 to $30 — and of condoning unauthorized workouts. The N.C.A.A. said that Prairie View had failed to educate Cooper-Dyke about the rules governing college sports. The governing body also said the infractions resulted from Prairie View’s failure “to have a culture of compliance.”

Despite the scholarship restrictions, the Panthers have reached the N.C.A.A. tournament in two of the past three seasons. Explaining the adjustment from player to college coach, Cooper-Dyke said she had to realize that some of her players did not possess the same passion and determination that she had.

“I was so intense,” she said, “I had to realize that not every player is me and not every player brings that level to practice and sometimes not even to the games.”

Candice Thomas, a junior guard, said that Cooper-Dyke’s résumé meant Prairie View’s players could trust implicitly whatever directions she gave. Gaati Werema, a junior forward and the M.V.P. of the S.W.A.C. tournament, said, “It doesn’t allow us much room to slack off because she knows as a former player when we are putting forth our utmost effort.”

Unlike the men’s tournament, where a No. 16 seed has never defeated a No. 1 seed, the biggest underdogs have hope in the women’s tournament. In 1998, 16th-seeded Harvard defeated top-seeded Stanford, 71-67, on the Cardinal’s home court.

Prairie View’s strategy for Oklahoma was to try to limit the interior positioning and second-chance opportunities for the Sooners’ all-American center, Courtney Paris, who is seeking to become the only college player, male or female, to finish her career with 2,500 points and 2,000 rebounds.

The plan was to collapse around Paris with a 2-3 zone anchored by Prairie View’s 6-foot-5 center, Aminata Dieye, of the West African nation of Senegal. The plan went awry immediately, as a follow shot by Paris put the Sooners up 2-0. For a few minutes, though, the zone proved troublesome as Prairie View took an early lead.

It did not last.

A 38-28 halftime lead for Oklahoma ballooned to a comfortable victory. Paris finished with 11 points, 16 rebounds and 4 blocked shots as Oklahoma outscored Prairie View by 22-2 on second-chance points. The Sooners hit enough 3-pointers — six — to nullify the Panthers’ zone. And point guard Danielle Robinson was ubiquitous with 15 points, 7 rebounds, 6 assists and 4 steals.

Oklahoma needs five more victories for Paris to make good on her guarantee of a national championship. Otherwise, she has promised to repay the cost of her scholarship. Reimbursement is not necessary, Cooper-Dyke said, understanding as much as anyone that Paris has already repaid her scholarship many times over.

“Courtney, I’m letting you off the hook,” Cooper-Dyke said Saturday. “Don’t pay that money back, girl; they love you anyway.”
950 2009-03-23 Responding to the financial crisis, American companies sharply reduced their spending on direct-mail marketing last year, according to the Winterberry Group, a marketing consultancy. Winterberry said this was the first such decline in more than 60 years of record-keeping. The company arrived at the figures by surveying 305 companies in the direct-mail industry.

The cuts represented at least nine billion pieces of mail, according to Winterberry’s analysis of Postal Service reports. Not surprisingly, credit card and mortgage service solicitations dropped the most sharply, falling 21.8 percent and 38.8 percent in volume respectively, according to Mintel Comperemedia, a direct-mail tracking firm.

Winterberry said the cuts were caused primarily by the financial crisis, but also by rising postal, paper and labor costs, which have pushed marketers toward online solicitations. Winterberry said 45 percent of the marketers in its survey were switching to cheaper paper and raw materials to cut costs. ALEX MINDLIN
951 2009-03-23 Daimler, the German maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, said Sunday that it would sell about 1.95 billion euros worth of new shares of stock to Abu Dhabi, making the emirate its largest shareholder at a time of extreme hardship for the global auto industry.

Aabar Investments, the fund of the Abu Dhabi government, and Daimler said in a statement that the injection of cash was worth $2.7 billion and that it “further strengthens Daimler’s sound capital base and offers additional flexibility to invest in new automotive technologies.”

Automakers worldwide are suffering their worst slump in decades. European sales fell 18.3 percent in February from a year earlier, despite an increase in Germany that resulted from a government tax incentive.

Daimler and the Abu Dhabi fund said they would jointly develop low carbon-emission electric vehicles and research the production of new composite materials for automotive manufacturing.

Under the deal, which has already been approved by the Daimler board, the German company said it would increase its share capital by 10 percent, with 9.1 percent of the new equity going to Aabar. Kuwait had been the largest shareholder with 6.9 percent.
952 2009-03-23 Although there are 542 outdoor lockers at Rikers for the storage of prohibited gadgets, it is often hard to find a free one, particularly on busy visiting days.

At the Manhattan Detention Complex on White Street, lockers are available, but electronic devices may not be stored there. So visitors who show up with cellphones, music players or BlackBerrys must either find a safe place to put them on their own or cancel their visits.

Mr. Williams, who has worked as a dispatcher for 19 years for a van service that takes visitors to and from Rikers, said that on a busy day, about 20 people ask him to hold their phones and pay him $3 each to do so.

One of his customers, Sonia Cubero, 47, from Old Mill Basin in Brooklyn, called his service worthwhile. She said that traveling between the jail and her home without a telephone “was a nerve-racking experience.”

Department of Correction officials acknowledged that the people who take care of the phones and other devices might be easing anxieties that otherwise would be directed at jail personnel.

Stephen J. Morello, a deputy correction commissioner, said visitors who find their own ways to deal with the prohibitions “are making things simpler for them and for us.”

Mr. Morello added that Rikers Island lockers are sometimes not available because many people who rent them fail to return the keys.

That was why Destiny Collier of Brownsville, Brooklyn, walked into Donuts Unlimited on Queens Plaza South, near the stop where she catches the bus to Rikers.

She and a friend turned over two Samsung phones, a charger, a metal barrette and a folding umbrella to the manager, Raj Gautam. He charged them each 50 cents to hold the items behind the counter, near a display case of crullers and jelly doughnuts.

Ms. Collier, 17, said that on a previous trip to Rikers she could not find a locker, so she had hidden her phone in a garbage can and fished it out later.

Mr. Gautam said, “People claim we are better than the lockers.”

Hours later, visitors emerged onto dark sidewalks from the Detention Complex, better known as the Tombs. Eight posters and hand-lettered signs near the door stated that phones were not allowed inside. Correction officers sometimes recite a list of other forbidden objects, including aluminum foil, pencil sharpeners, chewing gum and bullets.

Across Centre Street, Abul Kalam Azad accepted cardboard chits with scrawled numbers from some of the departing visitors and handed back the phones and other items they had dropped off, including cigarettes, matches and keys.

Mr. Kalam Azad said that he used a sliding scale to charge for his service, from $1 to $3, and that sometimes he does not charge at all. But he draws a firm line, he said, at some of the items visitors have tried to leave with him.

“No knives, no weed,” he said. “If I see a drug pipe, I say no thank you.”
953 2009-03-23 “We and our artists share the user community’s frustration when content is unavailable. YouTube generates revenues from content posted by fans, which typically requires licenses from rights holders. Under the current process, we make YouTube aware of WMG content. Their content ID tool then takes down all unlicensed tracks, regardless of how they are used,” said Will Tanous, a spokesman for Warner Music.

In addition to Ms. Weybret’s video, family home videos that included a portion of a song playing in the background have been removed, as have any number of videos that use music in goofy ways, from montages to mash-ups.

When a man posted a video of himself using music to teach sign language, the audio was switched off because he lacked the proper copyright clearance to use Foreigner’s 1980s song “Waiting for a Girl Like You.”

More broadly, however, the takedown notices are a glaring example of the rising tensions between Internet sites that distribute content free and owners of copyrighted material.

In late December, Warner and YouTube failed to agree to terms on a new licensing deal that would have paid Warner a cut of advertising revenue in exchange for permission to stream the music company’s videos. Warner then began having its music videos removed from YouTube. The site has licensing deals with the other major music companies, and had a deal with Warner for two years before the recent impasse.

The situation with Warner has created a double-barreled risk for YouTube. Professionally produced music videos are some of its most-watched material — six of the top 10 most popular videos of all time are music videos, and the most-watched video ever on YouTube is not a bulldog on a skateboard, but an Avril Lavigne video, with more than 117 million views. (The skateboarding bulldog, by contrast, has almost 6.8 million views.)

YouTube more recently began blocking music videos from all companies from its site in after failing to reach terms with PRS for Music, a group that collects royalties on behalf of singers and songwriters.

Keeping a steady supply of music videos on its site is important to YouTube’s effort to increase the flow of advertising dollars. At the same time, the site’s cachet relies on being a place where users like Ms. Weybret can freely display their own material. Google does not disclose advertising revenue for YouTube, and estimates among analysts range widely, from $200 million to $500 million a year.

Ms. Weybret says she has been hesitant lately to use YouTube as an outlet for her musical talents. “I’m kind of nervous now about putting up covers,” said Ms. Weybret, 15, who plays in a band with her friends called the Knockouts.

The question for the two sides is, who will users blame — YouTube or the record label, in this case Warner?

“I feel like the public’s perception of the record labels is so hostile that YouTube will be able to deflect any complaints,” said Phil Leigh, a new media analyst who runs Inside Digital Media, a consulting firm.

Chris Dale, a spokesman for YouTube, said, “While we work with music labels to keep music on the site, sometimes our negotiations don’t pan out, and we understand that this can be a big disappointment to our community.”

Mr. Dale said that YouTube offers users the chance to dispute a copyright claim, or use a feature of the site to swap in a new track to replace the offending song.

The situation has raised anew questions about the meaning of fair use under copyright law in the context of the digital age, when anyone can easily excerpt copyrighted works and distribute the result in a manner that is sometimes hard to identify as being a commercial product.

Last year Dustin McLean, who works as an animator on Current TV’s comedy show “Super News,” posted a video of A-Ha’s 1980s hit “Take On Me.” But it was Mr. McLean singing, not the real lyrics but about what was actually happening in the video. He got two million views in three months, and a new genre was born, called “literal videos.”

“It was just a silly idea,” he said. When the video was removed, he said, “fans started e-mailing me and asking, ‘why did you take down your video?’”

His videos can now been seen on funnyordie.com or his own site, , and so far he has been free from the copyright police.

The law provides a four-point test for the fair use of copyrighted works, taking into account things like the purpose, the size of an excerpt and the effect the use might have on the commercial value of the actual work.

The body of law is ever-evolving, and each era and technology seems to force new interpretations. In the 1960s, for example, the Zapruder film, the home movie that captured the Kennedy assassination, was bought and copyrighted by magazine.

Many of the offending videos of the user-generated variety like Ms. Weybret’s — as opposed to copies of music videos produced by Warner and its artists — would fall under fair use, according to Mr. von Lohmann, because they are noncommercial and include original material produced by the user.

Others, including Warner Music’s lawyers, might argue that the videos, while themselves created for noncommercial purposes, are nevertheless being shown on YouTube, which is a moneymaking enterprise.

Referring to Ms. Weybret, Ben Sheffner, a copyright lawyer in who has worked on antipiracy at the 20th Century Fox movie studio, said, “From her perspective it’s completely noncommercial because she’s not making a dime. But from another perspective it’s entirely commercial because Google is trying to make money off it.”

Users have the right to dispute a takedown. But few have.

“People are somewhat intimidated by the possibility of being sued by one of the music companies, even if they have a free lawyer, like us,” Mr. von Lohmann said.
954 2009-03-23 Ms. Burch said she would be against the tolls even if establishing them would help keep transit fares lower.

Several blocks away, Celia Groenveldt, a Flatbush resident, waiting on the platform at the Newkirk Avenue station of the Nos. 2 and 5 trains. Her senator is Kevin S. Parker, another outspoken toll opponent. She was pleased to find that he was against tolls on what have long been free bridges.

“It shuts everyone out who can’t afford to get into the city or through the city,” said Ms. Groenveldt, a bookkeeper who works in .

In the Soundview section of the Bronx, John Garcia, 33, a plumber with a job in Manhattan, is represented by Senator , another vocal toll opponent. Mr. Garcia said that even though he was a regular subway rider, he worried about the effect of tolls on the small businesses that frequently use the Harlem River bridges.

“Tolling the bridges is going to hurt a lot of people that own plumbing companies, construction companies, cabs, deliverymen,” Mr. Garcia said, adding that he would prefer higher subway fares to new tolls.

Several subway riders said they opposed both tolls and higher fares and expressed a deep distrust of the transportation authority.

“The whole organization is very inefficient,” said Boris Gertsberg, 33, a software developer who lives in Mr. Kruger’s district in Brooklyn and takes the subway daily to his office in Manhattan. He said he did not drive a car but was still against tolls. “I don’t think looking at fares or putting tolls is the right way to solve the budgetary crisis they’re in,” he said.

The interviews were conducted as a proposed rescue plan for the financially troubled authority was stalled in the Senate. The plan, which includes tolls and a payroll tax, is supported by Gov. and Assembly Speaker . The plan also called for fare revenues to increase by 8 percent, and is intended to prevent a of service cuts and a 23 percent jump in fare revenues that the authority says will be necessary if no rescue is passed. The new tolls would match the subway fare, which is $2.

The Senate is controlled by Democrats, who have a 32-to-30 seat edge over Republicans. But about six Democrats have said they oppose the tolls and have prevented the plan from passing. Instead, Senate leaders last week offered their own, toll-free plan, with a 4 percent fare increase, but it was rejected by the governor, Mr. Silver and authority officials, who said it did not provide enough revenue to support the authority over the long term.

While straphangers who opposed tolls were in the minority of those interviewed, far more common in the interviews last week were transit riders who feared the looming fare increases and supported bridge tolls.

“I will support anything that would cause less money to come out of my pocket,” said Melissa Jean, who lives in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, in Mr. Kruger’s district.

Kelvin Ruiz, 19, lives in Jackson Heights, Queens, in the district of another antitoll senator, Hiram Monserrate. Mr. Ruiz, who hopes to become a policeman, attends school at John Jay College in Manhattan and works at a gift shop in Rockefeller Center. He said he earned little and that transit costs were a burden.

“The M.T.A. affects more people,” he said in explaining why fares should be kept down at the expense of toll-paying drivers.

Few of those interviewed could identify their state senator or what his stance was on the tolls. Many directed their anger over rising fares at the authority or Mayor , who has no direct control over fares. But some expressed anger at the politicians who might block the authority rescue.

“I don’t think it’s fair either way, but worst-case scenario is raising” the fares, said Jeanette Rodriguez, 38, who takes the bus and subway from her home in the University Heights section of the Bronx to her job as an office manager at in Manhattan. When told that her senator, , was a toll opponent, she expressed displeasure.

“He’s not really in favor of the commuters,” she said. “If you’re in favor of raising the fare, who knows what’s next?”

In all of these Senate districts, data from the 2000 census shows that transit commuters make up a hefty majority. Data from more recent census surveys reinforces that conclusion.

In Mr. Kruger’s district, the 2000 census estimated that about 56,000 people regularly took public transportation to work, while about 47,000 drove to work, according to data compiled by the , a civic organization that supports the authority rescue. But among those drivers, only about 6,000 drove to jobs in Manhattan, and a majority of them would be expected to pay the new tolls.

The census estimated that there were about 64,000 transit commuters in Mr. Parker’s district in 2000, compared with about 36,000 auto commuters, about 5,000 of whom drove to jobs in Manhattan. By another measure, in East Flatbush, one of the neighborhoods in Mr. Parker’s district, the percentage of workers who commute by transit rose to 68 percent in 2007, from 62 percent in 2000, according to a recent report by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at .

Mr. Parker said that he opposed the authority proposal in part because he believed that money from bridge tolls should be used for bridge maintenance, not financing mass transit. He said he had heard from both sides among his constituents and would not make his decision based on the preponderance of transit users over drivers.

“I don’t think just about my district,” Mr. Parker said. “I think about everybody in Brooklyn, everybody in the City of New York and the people of the state, and I don’t think this is the best way to do this, particularly when there are other alternatives.”
955 2009-03-23 While the number of wealthy Americans swelled in the last couple of years, they faced less scrutiny from tax authorities, according to a study of government data by outside researchers.

The Internal Revenue Service audited only about four of every 100 Americans’ returns with income of at least $1 million in the fiscal year ended October 2008, according to the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a research organization affiliated with Syracuse University.

The I.R.S. acknowledged that it had audited a smaller portion of these returns than in years past, but disputed the group’s interpretation of the data. The government calculated the audit rate at 5.6 percent among millionaires, compared with 4.4 percent by T.R.A.C.

The government estimated that the chance of a millionaire being audited declined last year by 19 percent — significant, but less severe than the 36 percent drop claimed by T.R.A.C.

“We essentially audited as many millionaires as in the previous year, but there were more returns,” said Terry Lemons, an I.R.S. spokesman. The I.R.S. said it audited just over 23,000 returns of the nearly 340,000 filed by millionaires in 2007. That compares with just over 21,800 returns filed by 398,000 millionaires in 2008.
956 2009-03-23 The Marquette dressing room was downright funereal when it opened after a team prayer. Dwight Burke, the senior center, wiped tears from his eyes. Hayward sat staring at the floor with a shirt draped over his head. Virtually everyone else stared blankly and silently.

It was the second consecutive crushing tournament defeat for Marquette, which lost to Stanford in overtime in the second round last year on a shot at the buzzer.

For Marquette’s three senior guards — Wesley Matthews, Jerel McNeal and James — along with Burke, it was their last chance to make a deep run in the N.C.A.A. tournament, like the one Dwyane Wade led in 2003 that inspired them to go to Marquette.

“I told them I loved them like brothers,” Hayward said. “I told them I was sorry.”

James, who had surgery on his left foot after breaking it Feb. 25, was supposed to be out for the season. But the university announced Sunday morning that he would try to play.

James’s largest contribution was his inspiration. He played 17 scoreless minutes and headed to the bench after a turnover with 7:56 to play. He did not return, nervously chewing on a towel from his seat on the bench.

Instead, it was McNeal and Matthews who were left to rally Marquette, which fell behind, 42-26, after English went on a scoring binge. English, who had gone through an 0-for-13 shooting slump on 3-pointers late in the season, hit three 3-pointers in the first half and scored 15 points in a four-and-a-half-minute stretch.

Coach Mike Anderson turned to him again at the game’s most critical moment. After seeming in control for most of the day, the Tigers were trailing after McNeal (30 points) and Matthews (24) spurred Marquette.

“When we lost the lead, it seemed like people were tensing up,” guard Zaire Taylor said.

With the score tied at 79-79 with 38 seconds left, Missouri held the ball for the final shot. As Tiller came off a screen, a lane opened to the basket. Before he could get there, he was fouled and landed hard on the floor, jamming an already sore right wrist.

Anderson looked to his bench and sent English out to replace him.

“He just gave me a look,” Anderson said of English.

After he sank the free throws, Missouri fans from here to Columbia had their hearts sink. It was 14 years ago on the same floor that U.C.L.A.’s Tyus Edney raced the length of the court in 4.8 seconds to bank in a shot at the buzzer to beat Missouri.

Marquette ran a similar play, using a screen by McNeal to free Maurice Acker, whom Hayward could hit with a pass up the sideline. But Missouri clogged the play and Hayward hesitated, then threw the ball in toward McNeal as he leaned forward, edging over the line, one that was narrow enough to be the difference between victory and defeat.
957 2009-03-23 LOS ANGELES — In the last year, Sony Pictures Entertainment has moved aggressively to expand its domestic and international television businesses, acquiring two production companies and offering more new local-language series to foreign markets.

This week, Sony is expected to announce that it is combining its domestic and international television divisions, a move that its executives hope will make it quicker to capture new formats and programming ideas overseas and able to move its United States series to international markets more efficiently.

“This business has become one market around the globe,” said Michael Lynton, chairman and chief executive of Sony Pictures Entertainment, “and if you don’t have a coordinated strategy under one individual, you don’t get the most out of your content or formats around the globe.”

The newly combined units will be overseen by Steve Mosko, who formerly was in charge of Sony’s United States television business and who will now also supervise the international operations as well as Sony Pictures Television’s syndication, cable and network businesses.

Michael Grindon, who oversaw the international division, will now report to Mr. Mosko. The combination is expected to result in some duplication of departments, but a Sony executive said no layoffs were currently planned.

As the biggest television producer that is not directly affiliated with a broadcast network, Sony occupies a unique spot in the field. Many of its competitors have recently realigned their businesses to produce content almost exclusively for their affiliated networks.

Sony, meanwhile, has series on the air or in development for all of the major networks and several cable outlets. It has 11 scripted series running on cable networks and four on other networks, including FX’s “Damages” and the new series “The Unusuals” on ABC. It also produces the game shows “Jeopardy” and “Wheel of Fortune,” and it creates international versions of American comedies, including a local-language version of “Married With Children” in Russia.
958 2009-03-23 At a time when daily newspapers seem to be going away at the rate of one a week and weeklies are madly cutting to stay afloat, The Chronicle, which has revenue of approximately $8.5 million a year, has not laid off anyone, has no plans to do so, and its business is off just 7 percent in the last three years.

Part of the reason may have to do with price (free) but there is something else afoot. The Chronicle is knit into civic and cultural life in Austin to a degree that may make other newspapers nervous. While other regional news outlets do house ads and commercials about their connection to the community, The Chronicle started the South by Southwest conference, its founders have helped finance local filmmakers, and when you step off the airplane and see a huge bookstore branded with The Chronicle’s name, it’s clear that the weekly plays big for its size.

Louis Black, The Chronicle’s editor and founder — along with Nick Barbaro, the paper’s publisher — does not want to tempt the angry media gods. A very conservative person in some regards, he points out that the business has lived on cash flow since the outset and never has taken on any significant debt or partners. They own The Chronicle’s building and the building where the festival is set up.

The festival was founded by Mr. Barbaro and Mr. Black, along with their friend Roland Swenson, back in 1987, which, come to think of it, is just about the time that the newspaper took off as well. After taking a big hit from — “let’s just say that the unlicensed massage category suffered significantly,” Mr. Black said — the newspaper has been stable and healthy.

It’s best not to generalize too much about a newspaper that covers a city whose unofficial battle cry is “Keep Austin Weird,” but there is a palpable connection to The Chronicle here. Many people will also point out that Austin is a notoriously liberal, literate place, but that hasn’t done a lot for The Austin American-Statesman, which, like so many other daily papers, is in decline and up for sale.

“They are a big part of the story here and always have been,” said Frank Hendrix, who owns Emo’s, a club here, and was overseeing three stages during the festival.

It’s an old-school love kind of love. The newspaper’s Web site, in spite of Austin’s reputation as a tech-savvy place, has never been a particularly remarkable one and is still basically a companion to the print version, which is crammed with all manner of editorials, deep political coverage and lots of articles rendered in almost unreadable small type.

“We don’t do gotcha journalism, our coverage is very policy-oriented, and always local, local, local,” he said. “Even during the Bush years, which were a very big deal here, we never put anybody that wasn’t local on the cover. We don’t do out-of-towners.”

Last Thursday night, sitting outside the Hilton Austin and later walking Red River Street, which was a riot of music performances and noise, Mr. Black said that the festival and the newspaper have been pretty much hand-in-glove all along the way. It’s hard to think of another American city where the newspaper has served as an engine for innovation. South by Southwest now has three vibrant legs — music, film and Web — that come together to create a stool that is the envy of every other American city.

“All of it has to do with Austin, and not us,” Mr. Black, who also produces films including Apart from all of the music here, when hit it big with ‘Slackers,’ he not only didn’t move away, but began helping other filmmakers. , who did ‘Beavis and Butt-head,’ same way. as well.”

“We have a critical mass of culture, of government, of people who like to read, that makes this a good place to have a newspaper like ours.” A cop walks by and high-fives Mr. Black, which is not the general relationship between most newspapers and local law enforcement, but The Chronicle’s footprint is so deep here — millions and millions of dollars are flowing into the city this week — that people generally think that what’s good for The Chronicle is good for the community and vice versa.

It was getting on toward 11 p.m., which is high noon during the days of the festival, and Mr. Black dropped me at a club. I watched him walk down the street and he couldn’t get three steps without someone stopping him to say hello or tell him thanks. Imagine that: a newspaper man being one of the most popular guys in town.
959 2009-03-23 Computer Worm Called Conficker     The Conficker worm is scheduled to activate on April 1, and the unanswered question is: Will it prove to be the world's biggest April Fool's joke or is it the information age equivalent of Herman Kahn's visionary...
960 2009-03-23 The Cloud in Microsoft's Future     Look at the picture above. It's an original Steve Ballmer created before my eyes on the wall of a conference room....
961 2009-03-23 PITCHING TRILLION-DOLLAR PLAN  Obama administration officials were working to persuade reticent private investors to participate in a federal plan to buy as much as $1 trillion in troubled mortgages and related assets from financial institutions. ...
962 2009-03-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
963 2009-03-24 Photo: Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times
964 2009-03-24 The (growing) business of medical cannabis....
965 2009-03-24 Jeff Varasano, the Atlanta pizza fanatic who created brick-oven conditions at home by breaking the lock for the self-cleaning cycle, is opening his own restaurant....
966 2009-03-24 For a former women's college basketball player, playing overseas means missing out on watching the N.C.A.A. tournament....
967 2009-03-24 A new book by the Tibetan Buddhist master of mind-over-matter Yongey Mingyur Rinpoche, "Joyful Wisdom: Embracing Change and Finding Freedom," might be good medicine for recession anxieties....
968 2009-03-24 An old favorite phrase, updated....
969 2009-03-24 We all love barley and mushrooms in soup, so why not use this popular combination in a salad? Toasting the barley in a dry pan before adding water helps to deepen the flavor.

1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley, or a mixture of parsley and other herbs (such as chives, dill, tarragon or marjoram)

2 to 4 leaves fresh sage, cut in very thin slivers

1 cup shelled English peas, uncooked or steamed for five minutes (to taste)

1. Heat a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, and add the barley. Stir in the pan until the barley begins to smell toasty, about five minutes. Add the stock (or water) and salt, and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer 40 minutes, until the barley is tender. If all of the liquid has not been absorbed, drain.

2. While the barley is simmering, make the vinaigrette.

3. Place the mushrooms in a salad bowl, and toss with 2 tablespoons of the dressing.

4. When the barley is ready, add to the salad bowl and toss with the mushrooms and remaining dressing. Add the herbs, peas and radicchio. Serve warm or room temperature, garnishing each serving with shaved Parmesan.
970 2009-03-24 While he continues to rehab his injured hip, Alex Rodriguez has seen his value drop noticeably in popular fantasy leagues....
971 2009-03-24 The Daily Beast interviewed Bo Lundgren, the Swedish politician who in the early 1990s instituted a controversial nationalization plan to rescue the country's crippled banking sector....
972 2009-03-24 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
973 2009-03-24 A government-financed study finds eating red meat increases the likelihood of death....
974 2009-03-24 The Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc., which operates Asia's largest stock market, said it was postponing plans for an initial public offering until the markets recover. The exchange operator had expected to list its shares this year, but will now s...
975 2009-03-24 P. Schoenfeld Asset Management is in talks with three hedge funds about an acquisition. And the investment firm's chief, Peter Schoenfeld, told a New York conference that his firm might not stop with those three. "Right now we are speaking to thre...
976 2009-03-24 Hedge funds are down, but not out. That, anyway, is the conclusion of a closely watched industry survey to be published on Tuesday, which paints a sobering portrait of what was once one of the highest-flying businesses on Wall Street. (Read it aft...
977 2009-03-24 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said on Monday that the economic crisis showed that the American financial system had failed a major test and was in need of an overhaul. Speaking at a conference in Washington, Mr. Geithner said that the Oba...
978 2009-03-24 Swiss drug company Nycomed could be in the market sell itself for as much as 10 billion euros ($13.57 billion), according to The Wall Street Journal. The privately held company has engaged Goldman Sachs to help find a buyer, but it might also cons...
979 2009-03-24 Spansion, a flash memory chip maker operating in bankruptcy, said Monday it is in talks with multiple companies about a possible sale of some or all of its assets, The Associated Press reported. The company filed for Chapter 11 protection earlier ...
980 2009-03-24 In a report issued on Tuesday, the McKinsey Global Institute warned that unless robust efficiency measures are undertaken, global markets face the "risk of a second oil-price shock."...
981 2009-03-24 A judge dismissed the golfer John Daly’s libel lawsuit against a Florida newspaper and granted The Florida Times-Union’s request for summary judgment. Duval County Circuit Judge Hugh Carithers ruled that the former columnist Mike Freeman’s statements were either true or constitutionally protected opinion. Daly had sued in 2005, saying a column by Freeman written during the Players Championship that year defamed him. Freeman is a former reporter for The New York Times.

Freeman’s column said: “How does Daly not fail the scoundrel sniff test with fans despite possessing definite Thug Life qualifications. Look at the Daly blog. Domestic violence accusations? Yup. Substance abuse issues? Unfortunately. Three different kids from three different moms, making him the Shawn Kemp of golf? Yes. A former wife indicted for laundering illegal drug profits? Roger that.”

Carithers wrote: “The only possible basis for a defamation action would be if Daly proved that one of the four underlying facts was false, but there is no genuine dispute with respect to any of the underlying facts.”
982 2009-03-24 Thank you for drawing attention to this alarming health disparity.

The findings of this study should be a wake-up call for the importance of reversing the childhood obesity epidemic. Today’s obese children are tomorrow’s unhealthy adults.

Children who are obese are receiving diagnoses of conditions previously considered adult illnesses, like Type 2 diabetes and hypertension, and they are at a higher lifetime risk for a host of other serious problems, including heart disease, stroke, asthma and some forms of cancer.

The harsh reality is that unless we act now to reverse the epidemic of childhood obesity, we may raise the first generation of Americans who will live sicker and die younger than their parents.
983 2009-03-24 David L. Boren, the president of Oklahoma, said Paris was apparently so serious about her vow that she checked beforehand with university officials to make sure that repaying her scholarship would not be a violation of N.C.A.A. rules. Since then, Paris has repeated her promise to follow through, presumably using money she will make playing professionally in the United States and perhaps overseas, and from endorsements.

“This program and university have given me so much support,” said Paris, who is from Piedmont, Calif. “I feel like I want to give them something back that’s really special. If I can’t do that with a national championship, I want to give back my scholarship because I don’t feel like I’ve earned it.”

The university has said it would not hold her to her promise. News reports have placed the cost of an Oklahoma scholarship at $64,000, but according to the university’s Web site, out-of-state tuition would put the value at more than $100,000.

“We’ll be willing to take it, but we won’t press her for it,” Boren said. “It’s a wonderful gesture, but I haven’t put it in this year’s budget.” The response to Paris’s pledge has mostly been supportive among columnists, coaches and players. Paris did the “unthinkable,” Gwen Knapp wrote in The San Francisco Chronicle. “She grabbed attention for a women’s sport without removing her clothes, playing against men or plotting to whack a rival’s knee.”

Jessica Mendoza, the president of the Women’s Sports Foundation and a two-time Olympic medalist in softball, said Paris was putting on the line the thing that many female athletes, who have less access to professional careers than men, held most dear — a college scholarship.

“She’s saying, ‘I’m going to shine when the pressure’s highest,’ ” Mendoza said. “I’d rather take that attitude than any other attitude. Most athletes don’t want the pressure.”

Mary Jo Kane, a sports sociologist at the University of Minnesota, said Paris represented the antithesis of the sense of entitlement felt by many male athletes.

“This is a classy thing to do,” Kane said. “She has such a sense of responsibility and commitment. Instead of ducking or making excuses, she’s saying, ‘I didn’t accomplish what I came here to accomplish, but I’m going to make up for it, if it takes my entire life.’ What a concept, especially played against the backdrop of A.I.G. All these tone-deaf executives should listen to Courtney Paris.”

The public response to Paris’s vow shows that women’s basketball can draw much greater national attention than it did when the N.C.A.A. began sponsoring a postseason tournament in 1982, said Stephen Burt, an associate professor of English at Harvard, who contributes to a blog about women’s basketball.

But, Burt added, while Paris may be able to repay the cost of her scholarship, many — perhaps most — athletes receiving full scholarships could not afford such recompense.

“That doesn’t mean it was wrong of her to make a dramatic, attention-getting announcement,” Burt said. “It does mean that no thoughtful fan, and I hope no thoughtful player, will want or expect other stars to make, let alone honor, similar promises.”

The 6-foot-4-inch Paris has set 18 N.C.A.A. records and has been largely responsible for the doubling of Oklahoma’s home attendance to 10,000 a game. She is to be applauded for exuberance in offering to repay her scholarship, but also should be told, “This is not what it’s all about,” said Donna Lopiano, a former executive director of the Women’s Sports Foundation and a former athletic director for women’s sports at the University of Texas.

An athlete, said Lopiano, now a sports consultant, is “like an artist who gets a scholarship to Juilliard.”

She added: “It’s to recognize skill. All you owe is to give your best effort on the court and in the classroom and you’ve completed your contract. If you want to give money back, do it because the experience was extraordinary and it changed your life, like any donor to an institution. Not because you didn’t win.”

Christine Grant, a former athletic director for women’s sports at the University of Iowa, said that Paris’s remarks symbolized the overemphasis placed on winning in amateur sports.

“Somehow as a society, we have equated losing with failure,” Grant said. “Not feeling worthy if you don’t become the ultimate champion — if that were true, why is everybody else playing the game? To think that everything she has taken from the sport and has given is somehow worthless, that’s of real concern.”

Some have accused Paris of needlessly providing Oklahoma’s opponents with bulletin-board motivational material and of being selfish. Carolyn Peck said on ESPN, where she is a commentator, that Paris’s remarks put undue pressure on her younger teammates, including the sophomore guard Danielle Robinson.

“It’s more about we, not me,” said Peck, who coached Purdue to the women’s national championship in 1999.

Robinson said that Paris’s pledge inspired her, adding, “If you can’t handle the pressure, I don’t think you should be playing in such an intense environment.”

The Sooners players said they had joked about the scholarship issue. Robinson’s mother had good-naturedly sent her a text message, saying, “I hope you’re not thinking about giving back yours.”

The matter took a somewhat edgier tone when Paris’s father, Bubba Paris, who won three Super Bowl rings as a tackle for the San Francisco 49ers, said that if Oklahoma did not win the title, it would be the fault of Coach Sherri Coale. Paris said her father was joking; asked how she took the remark, Coale said, “None of it matters.”

What does matter, Paris said, is that she will stick to her pledge of winning a title or reimbursing Oklahoma.

“If everyone stops believing, why even be here?” she said.
984 2009-03-24 David M. Gaba, M.D.

Palo Alto, Calif.

The writer is director, Patient Simulation Center of Innovation, at the Palo Alto veterans’ health care system.

The reason young doctors seem hesitant and uncertain may have little to do with their medical school faculty and more to do with their upbringing. Their parents have raised young men and women who don’t feel confident about what they do.

The seasoned, older doctors Dr. Richard A. Friedman mentions probably had more of a sink-or-swim childhood. They may have left home in the morning with one simple instruction: “Be home in time for dinner.” By contrast, this is the age of “helicopter parents,” both in high school and in college.

Dr. Richard A. Friedman connects medical residents’ dependency with the reduction of their workweek — to a mere 80 hours, a schedule that most professions would not tolerate. Does being bleary-eyed with fatigue create confidence?

As a clinical psychologist, I have had residents as patients. They felt that their uncertainty was appropriate for their level of training but that their supervision was insufficient. They had to weigh safety of their patient against disapproval by their superiors — surely a conflict of interest.

Dorit B. Whiteman

Queens

The writer is former director of psychology, Flushing Hospital Mental Health Clinic.

Dr. Richard A. Friedman describes inexperienced doctors as being reluctant to make independent clinical decisions and calling him more for reassurance than for clinical advice when facing challenging situations. Clinicians also use another strategy to increase their confidence: rigid adherence to the practice patterns learned in training.

This conservatism is particularly apparent in the riskier areas of clinical practice; perhaps it is linked to the riskiness of the interventions and the immediacy of the effects of missteps. The problem may become particularly apparent when there are attempts to introduce modifications into the care process. Such conservatism is likely to challenge the dissemination of computerized medical records, now being advocated by President Obama.

The risk assessment described by Dr. Richard A. Friedman balances the risk to the patient against the benefit of allowing medical residents to be responsible for their own decisions. I believe there is another risk assessment, one that should be made with every patient every day: What are the risks and benefits of any course of action, including hospitalization and medication?

Until residents are thoroughly trained to think in terms of probabilities and of conditions that change these chances, new doctors will have little choice but either to feign certainty or to be crippled by insecurity. When we educate new doctors to practice in this uncertainty, we can truly become caring, expert partners in patient care.
985 2009-03-24 The civil war within Unite Here, the union representing hotel, restaurant, apparel and laundry workers, has reached the secession stage.

A splinter group claiming to represent 150,000 of Unite Here’s 400,000 members announced Monday that its delegates had voted to break away and merge into the Service Employees International Union.

The move, at a weekend meeting in Philadelphia, bolsters the growth ambitions of the 1.8-million-member services employees, the dominant service-sector union.

Unite Here was formed in 2004 when Unite, representing apparel and laundry workers, merged with the larger Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union, or HERE. The conjoined union’s president, Bruce S. Raynor, who previously led Unite, has maintained over the last year that the merger has failed. Mr. Raynor and other former Unite officials have argued for divorce, on the ground that the unification has not realized its goal of increased organizing.

Officials from the hotel workers’ side have opposed any split, saying Mr. Raynor wants to end the merger largely because he has been outvoted on a variety of issues by the union’s board.
986 2009-03-24 “I am devastated, and I am angry.”

Three other bodies have been identified — Julie Nieto, 28; Cinnamon Elks, 36, and Victoria Chavez, 30 — and the police say the women knew each other from the streets. Chief Ray Schultz of the Albuquerque Police Department said that the 100-acre crime scene was the largest in the city’s history and that his department had committed considerable resources to the case.

“We are looking at every different possibility and scenario,” Chief Schultz said. “Everyone in the organization is taking this case personally.”

Such assurances have rung hollow for many families who fear their loved ones were buried on the mesa. For years, they said, they implored the police to do something; but the lead detective assigned to the missing women, they said, rarely returned calls and kept families in the dark.

Lori Gallegos, whose childhood friend Doreen Marquez vanished in October 2003 and is on the police list of lost women, said Ms. Marquez’s family had relayed many tips to the police but waited months before hearing back. Family members described Ms. Marquez as an outgoing young woman who drifted into prostitution to support her heroin addiction.

“You think the police are supposed to help,” Ms. Gallegos said. “It makes me angry. They disregarded Doreen as if it was not important she was missing.”

Chief Schultz disputed accusations that the cases were ignored because many of the women were prostitutes. “We didn’t write these cases off,” he said.

He said some of the women were not reported missing until months after they had disappeared, making the investigation difficult.

At a meeting in Albuquerque, families of women on the list passed around photographs of loved ones and told of scouring the city’s streets alone.

One man, John Peebles, has driven from Fort Worth each year hoping to find his daughter Leah, who disappeared on May 22, 2006.

Mr. Peebles said his daughter, a hairstylist, started using heroin as a teenager after being raped by a high school acquaintance and had come to Albuquerque for a fresh start. Almost three weeks later, she was gone.

Mr. Peebles peppered the city with fliers, staked out dangerous neighborhoods and was cornered by angry pimps. One day, a drug-dazed prostitute led him behind a truck stop where she had promised Ms. Peebles might be waiting. But the woman’s lead proved fruitless.

“I really thought I was going to find her,” Mr. Peebles said. “It’s just been sleepless nights and sick-filled days. I would give anything to see her again.”

Indeed, theories about the killer have been whispered among families and through the Albuquerque streets.

Ms. Jackson recalled that just months after Ms. Valdez disappeared, her sister Camille received a strange phone call from a friend offering her condolences and saying she had heard that Ms. Valdez had been “stabbed a bunch of times and thrown out somewhere.”

Last year, Ms. Gallegos tracked down a pimp who she said had nude pictures of some of the missing women, including Ms. Marquez. But the man told her he did not know what happened to Ms. Marquez, and he died in January before Ms. Gallegos could press him further.

The family of Darlene Trujillo, another missing woman, is convinced that she was abducted and taken to Mexico after disappearing with a heroin dealer on July 4, 2001. A man who claimed to have information about Ms. Trujillo turned up murdered, said Liz Perez, a family friend.

One of many theories the police say they are considering involves a man named Lorenzo Montoya. On Dec. 16, 2006, in a well-publicized case, the police said Mr. Montoya bound and choked to death a young prostitute, Shericka Hill, after luring her to his trailer a few miles from the West Mesa. Ms. Hill’s pimp, who had grown suspicious while waiting outside, burst into the trailer, shooting and killing Mr. Montoya.

According to an article in The Albuquerque Journal at the time, Mr. Montoya had a record of soliciting prostitutes. He had also been charged with sexually assaulting a prostitute, but the case was dismissed.

The police note that the sharp increase in the number of missing women stopped around the time of Mr. Montoya’s death.

One former prostitute, who was close with some of the victims, said in an interview that she had been choked and raped by Mr. Montoya after he picked her up in the War Zone in 1995.

“He told me, ‘You’re lucky; I was going to kill you,’ ” recalled the woman, who was granted anonymity because she said she believed that she and her family could face repercussions.

Back on the mesa, a team of F.B.I. forensic experts, local police officers and an archaeologist continue to dig through the dirt, as the state medical investigator’s office works to identify the remaining bones.

Some families, meanwhile, are trying to raise money for the funerals they sense are coming. Others continue to seek answers on their own.

“It’s been the most horrible feeling, because we don’t know whether we should grieve, be angry, or cling to that small glimmer of hope,” Ms. Gallegos said. “Nobody has listened to us for so many years.”
987 2009-03-24 Hedge funds are down, but not out.

That, anyway, is the conclusion of a closely watched industry survey to be published on Tuesday, which paints a sobering portrait of what was once one of the highest-flying businesses on Wall Street.

After years of explosive growth, hedge funds, those sometimes volatile pools of private capital, are undergoing a shakeout. But according to an annual survey of hedge fund investors conducted by Deutsche Bank, things may not be as bleak as many hedge fund managers fear.

Despite gaping losses at many funds, most of the investors polled by the German bank said they believed that hedge funds would post returns of 5 to 10 percent for 2009, besting the broader financial markets.

That vote of confidence comes at a pivotal time for hedge funds, which could play a role in the bank rescue plan announced by the Treasury Department on Monday. The government hopes some of these funds will buy troubled assets from the nation’s banks, helping stabilize the financial system and the economy.

Even so, hedge funds — whose outsize rewards helped to define the era of megapaydays on Wall Street — are undoubtedly going through a rough period, and the pressure is unlikely to let up soon. According to the Deutsche Bank survey, the industry’s assets under management are expected to decline by $200 billion over the next year, to $1.33 trillion. In 2007, near its peak, the industry oversaw more than $2 trillion.
988 2009-03-24 The Public Theater has postponed the first preview and opening night of its production of Craig Lucas’s play “The Singing Forest.” In a news release the Public said that the play, about an Austrian-born Holocaust survivor turned psychoanalyst and her coterie of patients, had been delayed because of “the need for additional technical rehearsals.” The first preview has been rescheduled to April 10 from April 7, and opening night is set for April 28 instead of April 27. The cast includes Olympia Dukakis, Jonathan Groff and Randy Harrison, and the play is directed by Mark Wing-Davey.
989 2009-03-24 Her songs’ candid accounts of steep emotional ups and downs also show Ms. Owen to be an heir of Ms. Mitchell in self-exposure. Many of her songs zero in on primal emotions. “Inside You” is the reflection of an unborn baby who compares the womb to “the lining of a leather glove.”

Onstage Ms. Owen, who bears a marked physical resemblance to the actress Emily Watson, is a fearless and funny performer who mocks her own intensity. Three of the nonoriginal staples in her repertory — Deep Purple’s “Smoke on the Water,” Survivor’s “Eye of the Tiger” and Soundgarden’s “Black Hole Sun” — done subtly tongue-in-cheek, are “high-testosterone rockers that I turn into sexy female songs,” she said.

Ms. Owen’s story is one of fierce perseverance in the face of inner demons that have haunted her since she was 15, when her mother, Millicent Copp, an amateur dancer, mathematician and linguist, committed suicide, leaving her family devastated. Her father, Handel Owen (named after the composer), is a retired operatic tenor who sang for more than three decades at Covent Garden. She has an older sister.

Until the suicide, Ms. Owen had not been fully aware of the depth of her mother’s misery.

“None of us really knew there was anything wrong, because when you’re surrounded by dysfunction and illness, it seems the norm,” she said. “Had my mother been treated properly, it would have been found that she had clinical depression and anxiety disorders. I didn’t realize I suffered from the same disorders until I left home and went to drama school. My illness first manifested as a serious eating disorder and then as agoraphobia.”

The major reason she never considered suicide herself, she said, is her experience of how it leaves the survivors racked with guilt. “I couldn’t do that to someone else,” she said.

Ms. Owen recalled the moment in drama school during a music class when she performed an original song and her ambitions veered from acting to singing.

“Afterward, there was a pall of silence,” she recalled. “I thought I had laid a terrible egg. The song was about my mother. I turned and saw that the girl sitting next to me, who until then had hated me and whose fiancé had died of leukemia, was in tears. We were friends from that day.”

It was in the lounge of a Hilton Hotel in London, where she was performing, that she met Mr. Shearer, a hotel guest who was dressed as the character Derek Smalls for a concert spinoff of the movie “This Is Spinal Tap” that he was appearing in at Royal Albert Hall.

“Harry said that until recently he had been with a singer-songwriter who had struggled with depression, to which I said, ‘Really,’ ” she recalled. “ ‘That’s something I’ve never had a problem with myself.’ My nose was as long as Pinocchio’s. We fell in love in a matter of a day.” In late 1992 she flew to Los Angeles and asked him to marry her.

“She demanded I marry her,” Mr. Shearer recalled with some amusement. They married the next March and now divide their time between homes in Santa Monica, Calif., and New Orleans.

“Before I met Harry, I was unable to function properly,” Ms. Owen said. “I hid my depression. To everyone I seemed confident, but I would go home and cry and stay in my room for days. Harry is deeply empathic. A year after I came here, I met a great psychiatrist. That began a long road to healing. Several years ago I finally had my first clear joyful memory of my mother.”

Ms. Owen’s albums, “Emotions on a Postcard,” “Twelve Arrows,” “Lost and Found,” “Here” and “Happy This Way,” chart a psychological journey away from darkness toward the light, although a profound melancholy infuses many of her songs. Her career has solidified, and she is now on the road much of the time.

A major sideline is her role as a pianist and singer in Richard Thompson’s show, “1000 Years of Popular Music,” an ever-changing anthology of favorite songs from the Middle Ages through Britney Spears.

“Judith’s voice is a unique musical instrument with amazingly good pitch that is operatic but with a big jazz influence,” Mr. Thompson said. “There’s also the Celtic aspect.”

Ms. Owen can also be seen exercising her comic side impersonating Sarah Palin, Condoleezza Rice and Shirley Bassey performing Mr. Shearer’s barbed satirical songs in music videos on his online channel (at mydamnchannel.com).

Comedy aside, the cathartic experience of touching audiences with her own songs is the driving force in her life. The title song of the 2007 album “Happy This Way,” addressed to her mother, suggests how far she has come:

I’ve been searching for your face for so long,

I want you to know just how happy I’ve been,

I want you to know that I’m strong.

Just look at me now.
990 2009-03-24 The ad has certainly gotten attention. Every day, I get another e-mail link to it. The ad is “meant to be viral” on the Internet, said a JetBlue spokesman, Bryan Baldwin. “We are not anticorporate jet or anti-C.E.O. We’re recognizing that the economy is hitting people hard, and we want to show everyone that there are still travel options out there that are good for business and don’t have to be at the expense of comfort.”

And the business industry’s pain only deepened on Monday, when ABC News reported that JPMorgan Chase, which received $25 billion in federal bailout money, was buying two luxury Gulfstream G650 jets for about $60 million each, and planned an $18 million “lavish renovation” of its corporate jet hangar.

I could almost hear the wincing on the other end of the line when I asked some consultants in business aviation last week about the people’s fury.

“We were poised for an adjustment” after five years of record sales, said William J. Quinn Jr., the chairman of Aviation Management Systems, a consulting firm. But, he said, the industry was not prepared for this kind of vilification.

The industry had already had a slowdown last fall, as the economy weakened. But its travails went from bad to worse in November when the chief executives of the three top American automakers flew from Detroit to Washington in corporate jets to make their case for federal bailout money.

“Certainly the boys from Detroit really didn’t help us much,” Mr. Quinn said. “They got caught up in a political quandary and that just snowballed.”

The industry is trying to fight back. It is saying that egregious abuses of corporate jets are rare. More often, it says, having a company plane makes financial sense. Think of an eight-member technical management team that has to get to and from, say, Shreveport, La., to Tallahassee, Fla., and can’t spend four days doing so on commercial airliners.

That side of corporate flying — the working stiffs who need to get somewhere efficiently — has also been devastated in this emotional atmosphere, said Chris Crum, a founder of Sextant Advisory, a consultant for corporate flight departments.

About 85 percent of corporate fliers are small operators, not tycoons on Gulfstreams. “Those folks are not only scared and pulling back, but they won’t say anything,” he said. “They don’t want to be on the radar.” This group, he added, “has tremendous credibility and isn’t tainted, right or not, like the big guys.”

Corporate aviation will spend years digging out of this, and each new example of wretched excess makes the hole deeper.

“I flew on a Falcon 2000 for four years for American Standard, and from the second they got on that airplane, the business conversation was nonstop, the laptops were out, and it was all business,” said Susan C. Friedenberg, a former business jet flight attendant who is president of Corporate Flight Attendant Training. “These airplanes are a workplace at 46,000 feet. What do you think, we’re having parties up there?”

Parties up there? Um, yes, people do think that. The industry has a long way to go to convince people otherwise.
991 2009-03-24 PEORIA, Ill. — Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri, accused by the government of being a sleeper agent for Al Qaeda and held as an enemy combatant for almost six years, made his first appearance Monday afternoon in the courtroom where he will be tried on charges of providing aid to terrorists. He entered a plea of not guilty.

The trial, made necessary when the Obama administration switched the case from the military to the civilian legal system in February, should be completed by the end of the year, said Judge Michael M. Mihm of Federal District Court. Judge Mihm questioned Mr. Marri at the 30-minute hearing to ensure that he understood the charges and scheduled further hearings with Mr. Marri’s lawyers and those for the government.

Spectators in the courtroom were primed for what The Peoria Journal Star called the highest-profile trial in the city since the murder case of Richard Speck, who killed eight student nurses in July 1966. The long wooden benches in the high-ceilinged courtroom were nearly filled, and not just with representatives of the news media.

Elaine McCarthy, a resident of nearby Pekin, was there with her 22-year-old daughter, Erin, who was home for spring break from Tulane Law School. Erin McCarthy had studied the Marri case in her constitutional law class, her mother said. “She saw on the local news that the hearing was happening here, and she said, ‘Let’s go!’ ” Elaine McCarthy said.

Mr. Marri, a diminutive man wearing a white polo shirt and slacks, a white kufi cap and leg shackles, seemed pleased, after years in solitary confinement, to be around so many people. He turned in his chair and caught the eye of Cheryl Savage, the wife of a member of his legal team, Andrew J. Savage III, and smiled delightedly at her.
992 2009-03-24 But in terms of individual risk, even that is not a huge benefit. It means that a man who isn’t screened has about a 3 percent average risk of dying from prostate cancer. If that man undergoes annual P.S.A. screenings, his risk drops to about 2.4 percent.

And there is an important tradeoff. P.S.A. testing increases a man’s risk of being treated for a cancer that would never have harmed him in the first place. The European study found that for every man who was helped by P.S.A. screening, at least 48 received unnecessary treatment that increased risk for impotency and incontinence. Dr. Otis Brawley, chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, summed up the European data this way: “The test is about 50 times more likely to ruin your life than it is to save your life.”

SO DO THESE STUDIES SETTLE THE DEBATE ABOUT THE VALUE OF P.S.A. SCREENING?

Not necessarily. Both have problems that make it difficult to interpret the data. The American study found no benefit in P.S.A. screening over a period of 7 to 10 years. But so far, only about 170 men out of 77,000 studied have died of prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is slow-growing, so it’s possible that in the next few years, meaningful differences in mortality rates between the two groups will emerge.

A larger concern is what statisticians call “contamination” in the unscreened control group. Because it would have been unethical to tell men in the control group that they could not be screened, many either sought the test or were offered it by their doctors.

Investigators initially estimated that 20 percent of the control group would fit in this category, but the numbers ended up being far higher —38 to 52 percent. As a result, the study doesn’t really compare the risks and benefits of screening and no screening. It compares aggressive screening and some screening.

The fact that so many men in the nonscreening group “dropped in” to the screening category “is a serious concern,” said Dr. Eric A. Klein, chairman of the Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute at the Cleveland Clinic, who added:

“The argument for screening today is no different than before. These studies do not settle the issue definitively one way or another.”

The American investigators said that while contamination did complicate the interpretation of the data, they were still confident in the finding that there is little or no benefit to P.S.A. screening. “Our statisticians still felt the power of the study to detect a medically meaningful benefit was retained,” said Dr. Barnett S. Kramer, co-author of the study and associate director for disease prevention at the National Institutes of Health.

The European research has its own set of problems. Although the finding that P.S.A. screening reduces cancer deaths by 20 percent is statistically significant, experts say it’s on the borderline, and a few more years of data could weaken the result. Finally, parts of the study were not “blinded,” meaning that biases could have crept into the interpretation of the data.

DOES THIS MEAN MEN SHOULD NOT RECEIVE PROSTATE CANCER SCREENING?

No. Before the studies were released, most major medical groups said P.S.A. testing was a personal decision that a man should discuss with his doctor. The two new studies are unlikely to change that advice, experts say; instead, they give men and their doctors more information with which to make the decision.

For older men, the screening decision should be easier. P.S.A. screening is already not advised for those 75 and older. And the American research confirms that P.S.A. testing is not helpful for men with 10 years or less of life expectancy. In the European study, among men 70 or older, there were more deaths in the P.S.A. screening group, although the trend could be caused by chance.

The advice is murkier for middle-age men. In the European study, 50- to 54-year-olds didn’t benefit from screening. But men ages 55 to 69 were 20 percent less likely to die from prostate cancer than those who weren’t screened. (Still, men in that age group must decide whether the high risks of unnecessary treatment are worth it.)

A co-author of the American study, Dr. Gerald L. Andriole Jr., a surgeon at Washington University, says that while every man shouldn’t get a P.S.A. test, he also doesn’t recommend “wholesale stoppage.”

Middle-age men or older men with a life expectancy of 10 years or more “need to be informed about the potential pros and harms of screening,” he said, adding:

“If they want to embark on it, that’s fine. I’m still open to accepting that we learn a lot about a man’s prostate and about the probability of him getting or having prostate cancer by measuring P.S.A..”

Dr. Brawley of the American Cancer Society agreed that individual men might come to different decisions after talking with their doctors.

“There is a guy out there whose personal experience is such that he’s very frightened of prostate cancer, so maybe he should be screened,” Dr. Brawley said. “Then there are the guys out there who see that 48-to-1 ratio and say, ‘I don’t want to be screened.’ It’s an individual personal decision. You can’t criticize guys who want it versus guys who don’t want it.”

WHAT IF I’M IN A HIGH-RISK GROUP, LIKE AFRICAN-AMERICANS OR MEN WITH A STRONG FAMILY HISTORY OF PROSTATE CANCER?

The studies don’t include enough data to make definitive recommendations for either group. Dr. Andriole said men at higher risk who receive a diagnosis of prostate cancer as a result of screening should be reassured by the data that they don’t have to rush into aggressive treatment. Bear in mind that prostate cancer is usually not fatal.

“It’s a terrific tool for helping a man assess his risk for having prostate cancer,” Dr. Andriole said. “Does it necessarily mean it’s a killer cancer? The answer is no. We should be more judicious. We should modify the way we’re reacting to the abnormal screens in light of what we now know.”

Neither study offers insights into the value of this traditional test, in which a doctor feels the prostate for hardness or bumps that may signal risk for prostate cancer. The American study looked at a combination of P.S.A. and rectal screening and found no benefit. The European study provides no specific evidence about the exam.

DO THE NEW STUDIES MEAN I SHOULD CANCEL SURGERY OR RADIATION?

The study data speak only to the risks and benefits of P.S.A. screening in healthy men without symptoms. If your cancer was detected as a result of symptoms, nothing in the study should change the medical advice you have already received. Early signs of prostate cancer may include difficulty urinating or blood in the semen or urine.

And even if the cancer was detected as a result of P.S.A. screening, the data have limited applicability to one’s personal situation. The two studies look at the average risk and benefits across a large group of men, but they don’t take into account the specific factors that influence a man’s individual risk.

What is your Gleason score — a measure of the cancer’s aggressiveness? What is your family history? How much cancer was in each biopsy? Did you do a repeat biopsy to confirm your case? The answers to those questions will give a man better information about how to proceed. At the same time, even those answers can’t reliably predict a man’s risk for having a serious cancer.

“The regrettable truth of the matter is we don’t have really good tools to determine from the sea of cancers we discover, which ones are the bad ones,” Dr. Andriole said. “A man who has surgery scheduled tomorrow who is now not sure what to do, we don’t have a whole lot to tell him right now.”
993 2009-03-24 Many infants in poor and middle-income countries get their vaccines weeks later than doctors recommend and therefore face increased risks of sickness and death, according to a new study in The Lancet.

Researchers at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine studied health surveys from 45 countries, mostly in Africa and Latin America. Globally, vaccination rates have risen sharply over the last 20 years, and child mortality has dropped below 10 million a year for the first time, thanks largely to measles shots, according to the United Nations Children’s Fund.

In the first nine months of life, the World Health Organization recommends vaccines for tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, polio and measles.

The study’s authors said that Egypt, Kyrgyzstan, Peru and Rwanda did particularly well and that Chad, Nigeria and Yemen did particularly poorly. In the slowest countries, at least a quarter of all children got shots between two months and five months late.

Besides the obvious risk that a child will die during the delay, there are some theoretical risks with vaccines being newly introduced, an editorial accompanying the study said. The Hepatitis B vaccine under consideration can protect against infection from the mother only if given within seven days of birth, but a vaccine given now that also should be introduced in the first week, the BCG tuberculosis vaccine, was often delayed. And a new vaccine against rotavirus has a recommended cutoff date of 12 weeks, meaning it might be denied to many children.
994 2009-03-24 People whose faces turn red when they drink alcohol may be facing more than embarrassment. The flushing may indicate an increased risk for a deadly throat cancer, researchers report.

The flushing response, which may be accompanied by nausea and a rapid heartbeat, is caused mainly by an inherited deficiency in an enzyme called ALDH2, a trait shared by more than a third of people of East Asian ancestry  Japanese, Chinese or Koreans. As little as half a bottle of beer can trigger the reaction.

The deficiency results in problems in metabolizing alcohol, leading to an accumulation of a toxin called acetaldehyde in the body. People with two copies of the gene responsible have such unpleasant reactions that they are unable to consume large amounts of alcohol. This aversion actually protects them against the increased risk for cancer.

But those with only one copy can develop a tolerance to acetaldehyde and become heavy drinkers.

“What we’re trying to do here is raise awareness of this risk factor among doctors and their ALDH2-deficient patients,” said Philip J. Brooks, an investigator with the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and an author of the report published Monday in the journal PLoS Medicine. “It’s a pretty serious risk.”

The malignancy, called squamous cell esophageal cancer, is also caused by smoking and can be treated with surgery, but survival rates are low. Even moderate drinking increases the risk, but it rises sharply with heavier consumption. An ALDH2-deficient person who has two beers a day has 6 to 10 times the risk of developing esophageal cancer as a person not deficient in the enzyme.

Reducing drinking can significantly reduce the incidence of this cancer among Asian adults. The researchers calculate that if ALDH2-deficient Japanese men reduced their weekly consumption to fewer than nine drinks, 53 percent of esophageal squamous cell cancers in that group could be prevented.
995 2009-03-24 South Africa’s decision comes at a particularly charged moment in China’s relations with ethnic Tibetans. China has sent thousands of troops to the Tibetan region to quell any repeat of the anti-Chinese riots that broke out a year ago in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital.

This year also marks the 50th anniversary of a failed uprising against Chinese rule that led to the Dalai Lama’s flight into exile in India. China has accused him of pursuing independence for Tibet, while he maintains that he is seeking only autonomy, not separation.

Mr. Tutu and F. W. de Klerk, South Africa’s last white president, who shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Nelson Mandela in 1993, said they would boycott the peace conference if the Dalai Lama was kept out of the country, as did the executive director of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, Geir Lundestad.

Mr. de Klerk said in a statement released by his foundation that the government’s decision to exclude the Dalai Lama was irreconcilable with the country’s commitment to freedom of expression and made a mockery of the whole purpose of the peace conference.

“It’s remarkably inept, not only on the part of our own authorities, but also on the part of the Chinese, who are usually more adroit,” said Dave W. Steward, executive director of the F. W. de Klerk Foundation. “Here’s China exerting a lot of economic muscle on an African country in a way that does not redound very well on that African country.”

Mr. Mandela, 90, the third Nobel laureate to invite the Dalai Lama here, had not planned to attend the conference because of his advanced age.

Achmat Dangor, chief executive of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, issued a statement Monday saying the conference’s host committee was responsible for helping participants obtain visas “and should liase with the South African government if there are any delays in the issuing of visas.”

But Mr. Masebe was emphatic on Monday that the government had no intention of changing its position.

“Of course we have excellent relations with China, and of course they’ve contributed to increasing trade and investment, but it’s not China that made the decision,” he said. “It’s us.”

Du Ling, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Embassy in Pretoria, would say only that “all countries that have diplomatic relations with China, including South Africa, recognize that there is only one China in the world and it does not recognize the so-called independence of Tibet.”

If South Africa’s intention in barring the Dalai Lama was to keep the attention of the world focused on the World Cup instead of Tibet, it certainly seemed to backfire. Kjetil Siem, chief executive officer of the Premier Soccer League in South Africa, which organized the peace conference, seemed taken aback on Monday by the storm of protest that had engulfed the conference. It was supposed to be a celebration of South Africa as the rainbow nation of all races united by soccer.

Asked what he thought of the government’s decision, he said, “I don’t feel I’m entitled to say anything about it.” Asked if he worried that the uproar would damage the World Cup and South Africa’s image, he replied: “Another dangerous question to answer. I need to be careful. There’s a lot of water going into the ocean before this is over.”
996 2009-03-24 Daily newspapers will become a thing of the past for readers in four Michigan markets, with issues being printed only three days a week in Flint, Saginaw and Bay City, and twice weekly in Ann Arbor. Advance Publications said it would close the 174-year-old Ann Arbor News in late July, and replace it with two new corporate entities: a primarily Web-based news operation, AnnArbor.com; and a printing company that will publish two days a week.

All 272 employees at The News, which has weekday circulation of 45,000, will be laid off and invited to apply for jobs at the two new companies. Their staff size has not been determined, but “there will be by far fewer positions,” said Laurel Champion, publisher of The Ann Arbor News.

AnnArbor.com will have some original reporting, and an emphasis on reader input and community forums. “This will be a new company built from the ground up,” said Steven Newhouse, chairman of Advance.net, the Internet arm of the company.

The changes at The Flint Journal, The Saginaw News and The Bay City Times will be less sweeping, reducing daily publication to Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays only. Executives said those days account for about 80 percent of advertising revenue. The papers, which have combined circulation of 141,000 on weekdays and 176,000 on Sundays, plan to lay off 35 percent of their employees.

Advance, which is owned by the Newhouse family, announced several other cost-cutting moves, including mandatory unpaid two-week furloughs for employees at most of its newspapers, including The Times-Picayune of New Orleans, The Plain Dealer of Cleveland and The Star-Ledger of Newark (employees at The Oregonian of Portland will be subject to four days of unpaid furlough). Some employees’ pay will be cut.

Advance also owns Condé Nast, the magazine publisher, which has also been cutting costs, and Bright House Networks, one of the nation’s largest cable television providers.

A small but growing number of papers have reduced printing days in recent months, while preserving the late-week and weekend days that attract the most readers and advertisers. The industry has been hunting for ways to counter a crippling decline in advertising. Among the hardest-hit states has been Michigan, whose economy depends heavily on the wounded auto industry.
997 2009-03-24 British scientists have developed an online tool for predicting your risk of developing adult-onset diabetes.

The researchers examined medical records of more than 2.5 million people over 15 years, excluding patients who already had diabetes or whose records were incomplete. They found nine significant risk factors: age, ethnicity, body mass index, smoking status, socioeconomic level, family history of diabetes, diagnosis of cardiovascular disease, hypertension and use of steroid drugs.

They calculated the relative importance of each of these factors, and incorporated them into a formula, or algorithm, that quite accurately predicts the 10-year risk for Type 2 diabetes.

Their study was published online March 17 in BMJ, and there is an interactive Web version of the algorithm at www.qdscore.org. Dr. Julia Hippisley-Cox, the lead author, said that two of its features  postal code and ethnicity  were specific to Great Britain, but that the algorithm will “give you a fairly accurate notion anyway,” even without specifying those two factors.

Dr. Hippisley-Cox, who is a professor of epidemiology at Nottingham University, added that for those who find they are at high risk, weight loss and exercise are essential. “Those are the interventions that have been tested,” she said. “If you play around with the obesity measure, you can see how your risk will change if you lose weight.”
998 2009-03-24 To the Editor:      ''What does it take to make a medical expert?'' asks Dr. Richard A. Friedman (''Accepting the Risks in Creating Confident Doctors,'' Mind, March 17). Surprisingly, his answer is not knowledge. While ''expert'' opinions vary wid...
999 2009-03-24 The civil war within Unite Here, the union representing hotel, restaurant, apparel and laundry workers, has reached the secession stage.

A splinter group claiming to represent 150,000 of Unite Here’s 400,000 members announced Monday that its delegates had voted to break away and merge into the Service Employees International Union.

The move, at a weekend meeting in Philadelphia, bolsters the growth ambitions of the 1.8-million-member services employees, the dominant service-sector union.

Unite Here was formed in 2004 when Unite, representing apparel and laundry workers, merged with the larger Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union, or HERE. The conjoined union’s president, Bruce S. Raynor, who previously led Unite, has maintained over the last year that the merger has failed. Mr. Raynor and other former Unite officials have argued for divorce, on the ground that the unification has not realized its goal of increased organizing.

Officials from the hotel workers’ side have opposed any split, saying Mr. Raynor wants to end the merger largely because he has been outvoted on a variety of issues by the union’s board.
1000 2009-03-24 FOR SALE: TAINTED ASSETS If all goes as planned, private investors will team up with a new federal entity to buy up to $1 trillion in tainted assets that are congesting credit markets.      A BETTER PRESENTATION The announcement of the plan to dea...
1001 2009-03-24 The ad has certainly gotten attention. Every day, I get another e-mail link to it. The ad is “meant to be viral” on the Internet, said a JetBlue spokesman, Bryan Baldwin. “We are not anticorporate jet or anti-C.E.O. We’re recognizing that the economy is hitting people hard, and we want to show everyone that there are still travel options out there that are good for business and don’t have to be at the expense of comfort.”

And the business industry’s pain only deepened on Monday, when ABC News reported that JPMorgan Chase, which received $25 billion in federal bailout money, was buying two luxury Gulfstream G650 jets for about $60 million each, and planned an $18 million “lavish renovation” of its corporate jet hangar.

I could almost hear the wincing on the other end of the line when I asked some consultants in business aviation last week about the people’s fury.

“We were poised for an adjustment” after five years of record sales, said William J. Quinn Jr., the chairman of Aviation Management Systems, a consulting firm. But, he said, the industry was not prepared for this kind of vilification.

The industry had already had a slowdown last fall, as the economy weakened. But its travails went from bad to worse in November when the chief executives of the three top American automakers flew from Detroit to Washington in corporate jets to make their case for federal bailout money.

“Certainly the boys from Detroit really didn’t help us much,” Mr. Quinn said. “They got caught up in a political quandary and that just snowballed.”

The industry is trying to fight back. It is saying that egregious abuses of corporate jets are rare. More often, it says, having a company plane makes financial sense. Think of an eight-member technical management team that has to get to and from, say, Shreveport, La., to Tallahassee, Fla., and can’t spend four days doing so on commercial airliners.

That side of corporate flying — the working stiffs who need to get somewhere efficiently — has also been devastated in this emotional atmosphere, said Chris Crum, a founder of Sextant Advisory, a consultant for corporate flight departments.

About 85 percent of corporate fliers are small operators, not tycoons on Gulfstreams. “Those folks are not only scared and pulling back, but they won’t say anything,” he said. “They don’t want to be on the radar.” This group, he added, “has tremendous credibility and isn’t tainted, right or not, like the big guys.”

Corporate aviation will spend years digging out of this, and each new example of wretched excess makes the hole deeper.

“I flew on a Falcon 2000 for four years for American Standard, and from the second they got on that airplane, the business conversation was nonstop, the laptops were out, and it was all business,” said Susan C. Friedenberg, a former business jet flight attendant who is president of Corporate Flight Attendant Training. “These airplanes are a workplace at 46,000 feet. What do you think, we’re having parties up there?”

Parties up there? Um, yes, people do think that. The industry has a long way to go to convince people otherwise.
1002 2009-03-24 David L. Boren, the president of Oklahoma, said Paris was apparently so serious about her vow that she checked beforehand with university officials to make sure that repaying her scholarship would not be a violation of N.C.A.A. rules. Since then, Paris has repeated her promise to follow through, presumably using money she will make playing professionally in the United States and perhaps overseas, and from endorsements.

“This program and university have given me so much support,” said Paris, who is from Piedmont, Calif. “I feel like I want to give them something back that’s really special. If I can’t do that with a national championship, I want to give back my scholarship because I don’t feel like I’ve earned it.”

The university has said it would not hold her to her promise. News reports have placed the cost of an Oklahoma scholarship at $64,000, but according to the university’s Web site, out-of-state tuition would put the value at more than $100,000.

“We’ll be willing to take it, but we won’t press her for it,” Boren said. “It’s a wonderful gesture, but I haven’t put it in this year’s budget.” The response to Paris’s pledge has mostly been supportive among columnists, coaches and players. Paris did the “unthinkable,” Gwen Knapp wrote in The San Francisco Chronicle. “She grabbed attention for a women’s sport without removing her clothes, playing against men or plotting to whack a rival’s knee.”

Jessica Mendoza, the president of the Women’s Sports Foundation and a two-time Olympic medalist in softball, said Paris was putting on the line the thing that many female athletes, who have less access to professional careers than men, held most dear — a college scholarship.

“She’s saying, ‘I’m going to shine when the pressure’s highest,’ ” Mendoza said. “I’d rather take that attitude than any other attitude. Most athletes don’t want the pressure.”

Mary Jo Kane, a sports sociologist at the University of Minnesota, said Paris represented the antithesis of the sense of entitlement felt by many male athletes.

“This is a classy thing to do,” Kane said. “She has such a sense of responsibility and commitment. Instead of ducking or making excuses, she’s saying, ‘I didn’t accomplish what I came here to accomplish, but I’m going to make up for it, if it takes my entire life.’ What a concept, especially played against the backdrop of A.I.G. All these tone-deaf executives should listen to Courtney Paris.”

The public response to Paris’s vow shows that women’s basketball can draw much greater national attention than it did when the N.C.A.A. began sponsoring a postseason tournament in 1982, said Stephen Burt, an associate professor of English at Harvard, who contributes to a blog about women’s basketball.

But, Burt added, while Paris may be able to repay the cost of her scholarship, many — perhaps most — athletes receiving full scholarships could not afford such recompense.

“That doesn’t mean it was wrong of her to make a dramatic, attention-getting announcement,” Burt said. “It does mean that no thoughtful fan, and I hope no thoughtful player, will want or expect other stars to make, let alone honor, similar promises.”

The 6-foot-4-inch Paris has set 18 N.C.A.A. records and has been largely responsible for the doubling of Oklahoma’s home attendance to 10,000 a game. She is to be applauded for exuberance in offering to repay her scholarship, but also should be told, “This is not what it’s all about,” said Donna Lopiano, a former executive director of the Women’s Sports Foundation and a former athletic director for women’s sports at the University of Texas.

An athlete, said Lopiano, now a sports consultant, is “like an artist who gets a scholarship to Juilliard.”

She added: “It’s to recognize skill. All you owe is to give your best effort on the court and in the classroom and you’ve completed your contract. If you want to give money back, do it because the experience was extraordinary and it changed your life, like any donor to an institution. Not because you didn’t win.”

Christine Grant, a former athletic director for women’s sports at the University of Iowa, said that Paris’s remarks symbolized the overemphasis placed on winning in amateur sports.

“Somehow as a society, we have equated losing with failure,” Grant said. “Not feeling worthy if you don’t become the ultimate champion — if that were true, why is everybody else playing the game? To think that everything she has taken from the sport and has given is somehow worthless, that’s of real concern.”

Some have accused Paris of needlessly providing Oklahoma’s opponents with bulletin-board motivational material and of being selfish. Carolyn Peck said on ESPN, where she is a commentator, that Paris’s remarks put undue pressure on her younger teammates, including the sophomore guard Danielle Robinson.

“It’s more about we, not me,” said Peck, who coached Purdue to the women’s national championship in 1999.

Robinson said that Paris’s pledge inspired her, adding, “If you can’t handle the pressure, I don’t think you should be playing in such an intense environment.”

The Sooners players said they had joked about the scholarship issue. Robinson’s mother had good-naturedly sent her a text message, saying, “I hope you’re not thinking about giving back yours.”

The matter took a somewhat edgier tone when Paris’s father, Bubba Paris, who won three Super Bowl rings as a tackle for the San Francisco 49ers, said that if Oklahoma did not win the title, it would be the fault of Coach Sherri Coale. Paris said her father was joking; asked how she took the remark, Coale said, “None of it matters.”

What does matter, Paris said, is that she will stick to her pledge of winning a title or reimbursing Oklahoma.

“If everyone stops believing, why even be here?” she said.
1003 2009-03-24 Hedge funds are down, but not out.

That, anyway, is the conclusion of a closely watched industry survey to be published on Tuesday, which paints a sobering portrait of what was once one of the highest-flying businesses on Wall Street.

After years of explosive growth, hedge funds, those sometimes volatile pools of private capital, are undergoing a shakeout. But according to an annual survey of hedge fund investors conducted by Deutsche Bank, things may not be as bleak as many hedge fund managers fear.

Despite gaping losses at many funds, most of the investors polled by the German bank said they believed that hedge funds would post returns of 5 to 10 percent for 2009, besting the broader financial markets.

That vote of confidence comes at a pivotal time for hedge funds, which could play a role in the bank rescue plan announced by the Treasury Department on Monday. The government hopes some of these funds will buy troubled assets from the nation’s banks, helping stabilize the financial system and the economy.

Even so, hedge funds — whose outsize rewards helped to define the era of megapaydays on Wall Street — are undoubtedly going through a rough period, and the pressure is unlikely to let up soon. According to the Deutsche Bank survey, the industry’s assets under management are expected to decline by $200 billion over the next year, to $1.33 trillion. In 2007, near its peak, the industry oversaw more than $2 trillion.
1004 2009-03-24 “I am devastated, and I am angry.”

Three other bodies have been identified — Julie Nieto, 28; Cinnamon Elks, 36, and Victoria Chavez, 30 — and the police say the women knew each other from the streets. Chief Ray Schultz of the Albuquerque Police Department said that the 100-acre crime scene was the largest in the city’s history and that his department had committed considerable resources to the case.

“We are looking at every different possibility and scenario,” Chief Schultz said. “Everyone in the organization is taking this case personally.”

Such assurances have rung hollow for many families who fear their loved ones were buried on the mesa. For years, they said, they implored the police to do something; but the lead detective assigned to the missing women, they said, rarely returned calls and kept families in the dark.

Lori Gallegos, whose childhood friend Doreen Marquez vanished in October 2003 and is on the police list of lost women, said Ms. Marquez’s family had relayed many tips to the police but waited months before hearing back. Family members described Ms. Marquez as an outgoing young woman who drifted into prostitution to support her heroin addiction.

“You think the police are supposed to help,” Ms. Gallegos said. “It makes me angry. They disregarded Doreen as if it was not important she was missing.”

Chief Schultz disputed accusations that the cases were ignored because many of the women were prostitutes. “We didn’t write these cases off,” he said.

He said some of the women were not reported missing until months after they had disappeared, making the investigation difficult.

At a meeting in Albuquerque, families of women on the list passed around photographs of loved ones and told of scouring the city’s streets alone.

One man, John Peebles, has driven from Fort Worth each year hoping to find his daughter Leah, who disappeared on May 22, 2006.

Mr. Peebles said his daughter, a hairstylist, started using heroin as a teenager after being raped by a high school acquaintance and had come to Albuquerque for a fresh start. Almost three weeks later, she was gone.

Mr. Peebles peppered the city with fliers, staked out dangerous neighborhoods and was cornered by angry pimps. One day, a drug-dazed prostitute led him behind a truck stop where she had promised Ms. Peebles might be waiting. But the woman’s lead proved fruitless.

“I really thought I was going to find her,” Mr. Peebles said. “It’s just been sleepless nights and sick-filled days. I would give anything to see her again.”

Indeed, theories about the killer have been whispered among families and through the Albuquerque streets.

Ms. Jackson recalled that just months after Ms. Valdez disappeared, her sister Camille received a strange phone call from a friend offering her condolences and saying she had heard that Ms. Valdez had been “stabbed a bunch of times and thrown out somewhere.”

Last year, Ms. Gallegos tracked down a pimp who she said had nude pictures of some of the missing women, including Ms. Marquez. But the man told her he did not know what happened to Ms. Marquez, and he died in January before Ms. Gallegos could press him further.

The family of Darlene Trujillo, another missing woman, is convinced that she was abducted and taken to Mexico after disappearing with a heroin dealer on July 4, 2001. A man who claimed to have information about Ms. Trujillo turned up murdered, said Liz Perez, a family friend.

One of many theories the police say they are considering involves a man named Lorenzo Montoya. On Dec. 16, 2006, in a well-publicized case, the police said Mr. Montoya bound and choked to death a young prostitute, Shericka Hill, after luring her to his trailer a few miles from the West Mesa. Ms. Hill’s pimp, who had grown suspicious while waiting outside, burst into the trailer, shooting and killing Mr. Montoya.

According to an article in The Albuquerque Journal at the time, Mr. Montoya had a record of soliciting prostitutes. He had also been charged with sexually assaulting a prostitute, but the case was dismissed.

The police note that the sharp increase in the number of missing women stopped around the time of Mr. Montoya’s death.

One former prostitute, who was close with some of the victims, said in an interview that she had been choked and raped by Mr. Montoya after he picked her up in the War Zone in 1995.

“He told me, ‘You’re lucky; I was going to kill you,’ ” recalled the woman, who was granted anonymity because she said she believed that she and her family could face repercussions.

Back on the mesa, a team of F.B.I. forensic experts, local police officers and an archaeologist continue to dig through the dirt, as the state medical investigator’s office works to identify the remaining bones.

Some families, meanwhile, are trying to raise money for the funerals they sense are coming. Others continue to seek answers on their own.

“It’s been the most horrible feeling, because we don’t know whether we should grieve, be angry, or cling to that small glimmer of hope,” Ms. Gallegos said. “Nobody has listened to us for so many years.”
1005 2009-03-24 The Public Theater has postponed the first preview and opening night of its production of Craig Lucas's play ''The Singing Forest.'' In a news release the Public said that the play, about an Austrian-born Holocaust survivor turned psychoanalyst an...
1006 2009-03-24 But in terms of individual risk, even that is not a huge benefit. It means that a man who isn’t screened has about a 3 percent average risk of dying from prostate cancer. If that man undergoes annual P.S.A. screenings, his risk drops to about 2.4 percent.

And there is an important tradeoff. P.S.A. testing increases a man’s risk of being treated for a cancer that would never have harmed him in the first place. The European study found that for every man who was helped by P.S.A. screening, at least 48 received unnecessary treatment that increased risk for impotency and incontinence. Dr. Otis Brawley, chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, summed up the European data this way: “The test is about 50 times more likely to ruin your life than it is to save your life.”

SO DO THESE STUDIES SETTLE THE DEBATE ABOUT THE VALUE OF P.S.A. SCREENING?

Not necessarily. Both have problems that make it difficult to interpret the data. The American study found no benefit in P.S.A. screening over a period of 7 to 10 years. But so far, only about 170 men out of 77,000 studied have died of prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is slow-growing, so it’s possible that in the next few years, meaningful differences in mortality rates between the two groups will emerge.

A larger concern is what statisticians call “contamination” in the unscreened control group. Because it would have been unethical to tell men in the control group that they could not be screened, many either sought the test or were offered it by their doctors.

Investigators initially estimated that 20 percent of the control group would fit in this category, but the numbers ended up being far higher —38 to 52 percent. As a result, the study doesn’t really compare the risks and benefits of screening and no screening. It compares aggressive screening and some screening.

The fact that so many men in the nonscreening group “dropped in” to the screening category “is a serious concern,” said Dr. Eric A. Klein, chairman of the Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute at the Cleveland Clinic, who added:

“The argument for screening today is no different than before. These studies do not settle the issue definitively one way or another.”

The American investigators said that while contamination did complicate the interpretation of the data, they were still confident in the finding that there is little or no benefit to P.S.A. screening. “Our statisticians still felt the power of the study to detect a medically meaningful benefit was retained,” said Dr. Barnett S. Kramer, co-author of the study and associate director for disease prevention at the National Institutes of Health.

The European research has its own set of problems. Although the finding that P.S.A. screening reduces cancer deaths by 20 percent is statistically significant, experts say it’s on the borderline, and a few more years of data could weaken the result. Finally, parts of the study were not “blinded,” meaning that biases could have crept into the interpretation of the data.

DOES THIS MEAN MEN SHOULD NOT RECEIVE PROSTATE CANCER SCREENING?

No. Before the studies were released, most major medical groups said P.S.A. testing was a personal decision that a man should discuss with his doctor. The two new studies are unlikely to change that advice, experts say; instead, they give men and their doctors more information with which to make the decision.

For older men, the screening decision should be easier. P.S.A. screening is already not advised for those 75 and older. And the American research confirms that P.S.A. testing is not helpful for men with 10 years or less of life expectancy. In the European study, among men 70 or older, there were more deaths in the P.S.A. screening group, although the trend could be caused by chance.

The advice is murkier for middle-age men. In the European study, 50- to 54-year-olds didn’t benefit from screening. But men ages 55 to 69 were 20 percent less likely to die from prostate cancer than those who weren’t screened. (Still, men in that age group must decide whether the high risks of unnecessary treatment are worth it.)

A co-author of the American study, Dr. Gerald L. Andriole Jr., a surgeon at Washington University, says that while every man shouldn’t get a P.S.A. test, he also doesn’t recommend “wholesale stoppage.”

Middle-age men or older men with a life expectancy of 10 years or more “need to be informed about the potential pros and harms of screening,” he said, adding:

“If they want to embark on it, that’s fine. I’m still open to accepting that we learn a lot about a man’s prostate and about the probability of him getting or having prostate cancer by measuring P.S.A..”

Dr. Brawley of the American Cancer Society agreed that individual men might come to different decisions after talking with their doctors.

“There is a guy out there whose personal experience is such that he’s very frightened of prostate cancer, so maybe he should be screened,” Dr. Brawley said. “Then there are the guys out there who see that 48-to-1 ratio and say, ‘I don’t want to be screened.’ It’s an individual personal decision. You can’t criticize guys who want it versus guys who don’t want it.”

WHAT IF I’M IN A HIGH-RISK GROUP, LIKE AFRICAN-AMERICANS OR MEN WITH A STRONG FAMILY HISTORY OF PROSTATE CANCER?

The studies don’t include enough data to make definitive recommendations for either group. Dr. Andriole said men at higher risk who receive a diagnosis of prostate cancer as a result of screening should be reassured by the data that they don’t have to rush into aggressive treatment. Bear in mind that prostate cancer is usually not fatal.

“It’s a terrific tool for helping a man assess his risk for having prostate cancer,” Dr. Andriole said. “Does it necessarily mean it’s a killer cancer? The answer is no. We should be more judicious. We should modify the way we’re reacting to the abnormal screens in light of what we now know.”

Neither study offers insights into the value of this traditional test, in which a doctor feels the prostate for hardness or bumps that may signal risk for prostate cancer. The American study looked at a combination of P.S.A. and rectal screening and found no benefit. The European study provides no specific evidence about the exam.

DO THE NEW STUDIES MEAN I SHOULD CANCEL SURGERY OR RADIATION?

The study data speak only to the risks and benefits of P.S.A. screening in healthy men without symptoms. If your cancer was detected as a result of symptoms, nothing in the study should change the medical advice you have already received. Early signs of prostate cancer may include difficulty urinating or blood in the semen or urine.

And even if the cancer was detected as a result of P.S.A. screening, the data have limited applicability to one’s personal situation. The two studies look at the average risk and benefits across a large group of men, but they don’t take into account the specific factors that influence a man’s individual risk.

What is your Gleason score — a measure of the cancer’s aggressiveness? What is your family history? How much cancer was in each biopsy? Did you do a repeat biopsy to confirm your case? The answers to those questions will give a man better information about how to proceed. At the same time, even those answers can’t reliably predict a man’s risk for having a serious cancer.

“The regrettable truth of the matter is we don’t have really good tools to determine from the sea of cancers we discover, which ones are the bad ones,” Dr. Andriole said. “A man who has surgery scheduled tomorrow who is now not sure what to do, we don’t have a whole lot to tell him right now.”
1007 2009-03-24 Her songs’ candid accounts of steep emotional ups and downs also show Ms. Owen to be an heir of Ms. Mitchell in self-exposure. Many of her songs zero in on primal emotions. “Inside You” is the reflection of an unborn baby who compares the womb to “the lining of a leather glove.”

Onstage Ms. Owen, who bears a marked physical resemblance to the actress Emily Watson, is a fearless and funny performer who mocks her own intensity. Three of the nonoriginal staples in her repertory — Deep Purple’s “Smoke on the Water,” Survivor’s “Eye of the Tiger” and Soundgarden’s “Black Hole Sun” — done subtly tongue-in-cheek, are “high-testosterone rockers that I turn into sexy female songs,” she said.

Ms. Owen’s story is one of fierce perseverance in the face of inner demons that have haunted her since she was 15, when her mother, Millicent Copp, an amateur dancer, mathematician and linguist, committed suicide, leaving her family devastated. Her father, Handel Owen (named after the composer), is a retired operatic tenor who sang for more than three decades at Covent Garden. She has an older sister.

Until the suicide, Ms. Owen had not been fully aware of the depth of her mother’s misery.

“None of us really knew there was anything wrong, because when you’re surrounded by dysfunction and illness, it seems the norm,” she said. “Had my mother been treated properly, it would have been found that she had clinical depression and anxiety disorders. I didn’t realize I suffered from the same disorders until I left home and went to drama school. My illness first manifested as a serious eating disorder and then as agoraphobia.”

The major reason she never considered suicide herself, she said, is her experience of how it leaves the survivors racked with guilt. “I couldn’t do that to someone else,” she said.

Ms. Owen recalled the moment in drama school during a music class when she performed an original song and her ambitions veered from acting to singing.

“Afterward, there was a pall of silence,” she recalled. “I thought I had laid a terrible egg. The song was about my mother. I turned and saw that the girl sitting next to me, who until then had hated me and whose fiancé had died of leukemia, was in tears. We were friends from that day.”

It was in the lounge of a Hilton Hotel in London, where she was performing, that she met Mr. Shearer, a hotel guest who was dressed as the character Derek Smalls for a concert spinoff of the movie “This Is Spinal Tap” that he was appearing in at Royal Albert Hall.

“Harry said that until recently he had been with a singer-songwriter who had struggled with depression, to which I said, ‘Really,’ ” she recalled. “ ‘That’s something I’ve never had a problem with myself.’ My nose was as long as Pinocchio’s. We fell in love in a matter of a day.” In late 1992 she flew to Los Angeles and asked him to marry her.

“She demanded I marry her,” Mr. Shearer recalled with some amusement. They married the next March and now divide their time between homes in Santa Monica, Calif., and New Orleans.

“Before I met Harry, I was unable to function properly,” Ms. Owen said. “I hid my depression. To everyone I seemed confident, but I would go home and cry and stay in my room for days. Harry is deeply empathic. A year after I came here, I met a great psychiatrist. That began a long road to healing. Several years ago I finally had my first clear joyful memory of my mother.”

Ms. Owen’s albums, “Emotions on a Postcard,” “Twelve Arrows,” “Lost and Found,” “Here” and “Happy This Way,” chart a psychological journey away from darkness toward the light, although a profound melancholy infuses many of her songs. Her career has solidified, and she is now on the road much of the time.

A major sideline is her role as a pianist and singer in Richard Thompson’s show, “1000 Years of Popular Music,” an ever-changing anthology of favorite songs from the Middle Ages through Britney Spears.

“Judith’s voice is a unique musical instrument with amazingly good pitch that is operatic but with a big jazz influence,” Mr. Thompson said. “There’s also the Celtic aspect.”

Ms. Owen can also be seen exercising her comic side impersonating Sarah Palin, Condoleezza Rice and Shirley Bassey performing Mr. Shearer’s barbed satirical songs in music videos on his online channel (at mydamnchannel.com).

Comedy aside, the cathartic experience of touching audiences with her own songs is the driving force in her life. The title song of the 2007 album “Happy This Way,” addressed to her mother, suggests how far she has come:

I’ve been searching for your face for so long,

I want you to know just how happy I’ve been,

I want you to know that I’m strong.

Just look at me now.
1008 2009-03-24 To the Editor:     Re ''Blacks Suffer Heart Failure More Than Whites, Study Finds'' (news article, March 19):...
1009 2009-03-24 It was inconsequential to the outcome of the game, but Jamelle Horne's ''missed'' dunk in Arizona's 84-71 victory over Utah on Friday night in the first round of the N.C.A.A. tournament was interesting for a couple of reasons, not all having to do...
1010 2009-03-24 South Africa’s decision comes at a particularly charged moment in China’s relations with ethnic Tibetans. China has sent thousands of troops to the Tibetan region to quell any repeat of the anti-Chinese riots that broke out a year ago in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital.

This year also marks the 50th anniversary of a failed uprising against Chinese rule that led to the Dalai Lama’s flight into exile in India. China has accused him of pursuing independence for Tibet, while he maintains that he is seeking only autonomy, not separation.

Mr. Tutu and F. W. de Klerk, South Africa’s last white president, who shared the Nobel Peace Prize with Nelson Mandela in 1993, said they would boycott the peace conference if the Dalai Lama was kept out of the country, as did the executive director of the Norwegian Nobel Committee, Geir Lundestad.

Mr. de Klerk said in a statement released by his foundation that the government’s decision to exclude the Dalai Lama was irreconcilable with the country’s commitment to freedom of expression and made a mockery of the whole purpose of the peace conference.

“It’s remarkably inept, not only on the part of our own authorities, but also on the part of the Chinese, who are usually more adroit,” said Dave W. Steward, executive director of the F. W. de Klerk Foundation. “Here’s China exerting a lot of economic muscle on an African country in a way that does not redound very well on that African country.”

Mr. Mandela, 90, the third Nobel laureate to invite the Dalai Lama here, had not planned to attend the conference because of his advanced age.

Achmat Dangor, chief executive of the Nelson Mandela Foundation, issued a statement Monday saying the conference’s host committee was responsible for helping participants obtain visas “and should liase with the South African government if there are any delays in the issuing of visas.”

But Mr. Masebe was emphatic on Monday that the government had no intention of changing its position.

“Of course we have excellent relations with China, and of course they’ve contributed to increasing trade and investment, but it’s not China that made the decision,” he said. “It’s us.”

Du Ling, a spokeswoman for the Chinese Embassy in Pretoria, would say only that “all countries that have diplomatic relations with China, including South Africa, recognize that there is only one China in the world and it does not recognize the so-called independence of Tibet.”

If South Africa’s intention in barring the Dalai Lama was to keep the attention of the world focused on the World Cup instead of Tibet, it certainly seemed to backfire. Kjetil Siem, chief executive officer of the Premier Soccer League in South Africa, which organized the peace conference, seemed taken aback on Monday by the storm of protest that had engulfed the conference. It was supposed to be a celebration of South Africa as the rainbow nation of all races united by soccer.

Asked what he thought of the government’s decision, he said, “I don’t feel I’m entitled to say anything about it.” Asked if he worried that the uproar would damage the World Cup and South Africa’s image, he replied: “Another dangerous question to answer. I need to be careful. There’s a lot of water going into the ocean before this is over.”
1011 2009-03-24 PEORIA, Ill. — Ali Saleh Kahlah al-Marri, accused by the government of being a sleeper agent for Al Qaeda and held as an enemy combatant for almost six years, made his first appearance Monday afternoon in the courtroom where he will be tried on charges of providing aid to terrorists. He entered a plea of not guilty.

The trial, made necessary when the Obama administration switched the case from the military to the civilian legal system in February, should be completed by the end of the year, said Judge Michael M. Mihm of Federal District Court. Judge Mihm questioned Mr. Marri at the 30-minute hearing to ensure that he understood the charges and scheduled further hearings with Mr. Marri’s lawyers and those for the government.

Spectators in the courtroom were primed for what The Peoria Journal Star called the highest-profile trial in the city since the murder case of Richard Speck, who killed eight student nurses in July 1966. The long wooden benches in the high-ceilinged courtroom were nearly filled, and not just with representatives of the news media.

Elaine McCarthy, a resident of nearby Pekin, was there with her 22-year-old daughter, Erin, who was home for spring break from Tulane Law School. Erin McCarthy had studied the Marri case in her constitutional law class, her mother said. “She saw on the local news that the hearing was happening here, and she said, ‘Let’s go!’ ” Elaine McCarthy said.

Mr. Marri, a diminutive man wearing a white polo shirt and slacks, a white kufi cap and leg shackles, seemed pleased, after years in solitary confinement, to be around so many people. He turned in his chair and caught the eye of Cheryl Savage, the wife of a member of his legal team, Andrew J. Savage III, and smiled delightedly at her.
1012 2009-03-24 Daily newspapers will become a thing of the past for readers in four Michigan markets, with issues being printed only three days a week in Flint, Saginaw and Bay City, and twice weekly in Ann Arbor. Advance Publications said it would close the 174-year-old Ann Arbor News in late July, and replace it with two new corporate entities: a primarily Web-based news operation, AnnArbor.com; and a printing company that will publish two days a week.

All 272 employees at The News, which has weekday circulation of 45,000, will be laid off and invited to apply for jobs at the two new companies. Their staff size has not been determined, but “there will be by far fewer positions,” said Laurel Champion, publisher of The Ann Arbor News.

AnnArbor.com will have some original reporting, and an emphasis on reader input and community forums. “This will be a new company built from the ground up,” said Steven Newhouse, chairman of Advance.net, the Internet arm of the company.

The changes at The Flint Journal, The Saginaw News and The Bay City Times will be less sweeping, reducing daily publication to Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays only. Executives said those days account for about 80 percent of advertising revenue. The papers, which have combined circulation of 141,000 on weekdays and 176,000 on Sundays, plan to lay off 35 percent of their employees.

Advance, which is owned by the Newhouse family, announced several other cost-cutting moves, including mandatory unpaid two-week furloughs for employees at most of its newspapers, including The Times-Picayune of New Orleans, The Plain Dealer of Cleveland and The Star-Ledger of Newark (employees at The Oregonian of Portland will be subject to four days of unpaid furlough). Some employees’ pay will be cut.

Advance also owns Condé Nast, the magazine publisher, which has also been cutting costs, and Bright House Networks, one of the nation’s largest cable television providers.

A small but growing number of papers have reduced printing days in recent months, while preserving the late-week and weekend days that attract the most readers and advertisers. The industry has been hunting for ways to counter a crippling decline in advertising. Among the hardest-hit states has been Michigan, whose economy depends heavily on the wounded auto industry.
1013 2009-03-25 From Ashlee Vance at Bits: Intel's chief executive, Paul Otellini, has confirmed what everyone in Silicon Valley suspected: Sun Microsystems -- either whole or in parts - has been offered for sale to just about any company with a pulse. "I can tel...
1014 2009-03-25 Paul Otellini told Intel employees that Sun has been on a road show, offering itself to every potential suitor it could find....
1015 2009-03-25 Wednesday's games in Russia, Sweden and the Slovak and Czech Republics....
1016 2009-03-25 The Treasury Department said Wednesday that it would send proposals to Congress this week that would allow it to seize troubled nonbank financial companies, one day after Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner called for expanded powers in order t...
1017 2009-03-25 Credit-crunchy facial hair....
1018 2009-03-25 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner pressed his case on Wednesday for expanding the government's ability to take over and restructure ailing institutions that threaten the broader financial system, Anahad O'Connor of The New York Times reports....
1019 2009-03-25 New heights in wine service....
1020 2009-03-25 HIV and Tuberculosis Infections Worse than Estimated, Report Says

The number of people around the world who are infected with both HIV and tuberculosis is double previous estimates, a World Health Organization report says, and efforts to slow the spread of TB have been inadequate. The report said there were some 9.2 million new cases of TB in 2007, most of them concentrated in India, China, Indonesia, Nigeria and South Africa, The Washington Post reports.

Opposition to Ban on Antibiotic Use in Livestock

A proposal to restrict the routine use of antibiotics in livestock is already facing fierce industry opposition, Reuters reports, with officials from the American Farm Bureau Federation saying a ban on nontherapeutic use would compromise food safety and increase costs. Some 70 percent of all antibiotics sold in the United States are used in healthy livestock, and there is a concern the widespread use could lead to new strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.

The High Cost of Caring for the Elderly with Alzheimer's

The health care costs of Alzheimer's disease patients are more than triple those of other elderly people, even without counting the uncompensated care typically provided by family members, a new report says. The Alzheimer's Association report estimated annual costs per patient are at least $33,007, compared with $10,603 for other elderly patients.

Some $60 million in grants for research into autism is up for grabs, but the money has to be allocated by the fall of 2010, The Wall Street Journal health blog reports. The money, which comes from the stimulus bill, is the largest funding opportunity ever for research into the developmental disorder, according to the National Institutes of Mental Health.

Gwyneth Paltrow, Oprah Winfrey and Beyonce Knowles have touted the benefits of so-called detox or cleansing diets, USA Today reports, but health experts are skeptical about whether the diets are good for health, saying they may even be harmful. Obesity experts say the diets don't lead to long-term weight loss and may exacerbate other medical problems; The diets, many of which are liquid diets, often do not include enough protein, so they can lead to loss of muscle mass, experts say.

A plastic surgeon at Boston's Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center fell asleep during surgery last June, and no senior hospital administrators interfered even though a nurse reported the doctor's erratic behavior, a Massachusetts health department investigation of the case found. The Boston Globe says the hospital has fired the surgeon, Dr. Loren J. Borud, and the state has temporarily suspended his license.
1021 2009-03-25 Bernie Madoff had a bail hearing that same day, so it's not surprising that coverage was sparse for the oral arguments in the United States Second Circuit Court of Appeals case, pitting automakers against the state of Vermont, et al....
1022 2009-03-25 Up and down Wall Street, bankers and traders sharpened their pencils on Tuesday as they began the complex financial calculus of the latest bank rescue plan. Their goal: to find ways to profit from it. In skyscrapers across Manhattan, banking execu...
1023 2009-03-25 The financial crisis may have turned much of Wall Street's wealth into dross, but a select group of hedge fund managers has managed to maintain a golden touch that might make King Midas blush. As major markets and economies plunged downward last y...
1024 2009-03-25 Time is making Warren E. Buffett's investment in Goldman Sachs look better. When Mr. Buffett's insurance and investment company Berkshire Hathaway bought $5 billion of Goldman preferred shares yielding 10 percent six months ago, it also got warran...
1025 2009-03-25 Dial-a-Mattress Operating Corporation, the company that initiated telephone sales of bedding with its 1-800-Mattres jingles, has filed for bankruptcy protection and plans to sell the business to its rival, Sleepy's. The company, owned by Napoleon ...
1026 2009-03-25 Australia's competition watchdog cleared Rio Tinto's $19.5 billion tie-up with China's state-owned Chinalco, rejecting at least one key argument against a deal, which still needs the treasurer's approval. Treasurer Wayne Swan has the final decisio...
1027 2009-03-25 Tropicana Entertainment, the owner of the 51-year-old Tropicana Resort & Casino on the Las Vegas Strip, said Tuesday it could emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection this spring. The company began sending out ballots to creditors on Tuesday o...
1028 2009-03-25 Metro, a German retailer, is expected to announce on Wednesday that it is buying a controlling stake in a company that provides technology for online music downloads, The New York Times's David Jolly reported. Metro plans to acquire 24-7 Entertain...
1029 2009-03-25 China rejected Coca-Cola's bid to buy top local juice maker Huiyuan because it feared the U.S. multinational could abuse its position across the whole soft drinks market, an official said in remarks published on Wednesday, according to Reuters. Th...
1030 2009-03-25 NYSE Euronext, which operates stock exchanges in Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon and Paris, said it would cut fees on its European markets by about 20 percent as it fights increasing competition in the region. Clients will be charged for each executed...
1031 2009-03-25 A sixth dog in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog race has died. Race officials said a dog on Alan Peck’s team died during a flight to Nome from Shaktoolik.

Peck had discontinued his bid to finish the race, and officials were picking up the dog team Monday in Shaktoolik.

A race spokesman, Chas St. George, said the airplane encountered significant turbulence during the flight.

The pilot was forced to land in Golovin, where it was discovered that one of the dogs, a 2-year-old female named Cirque, had died. St. George said the dogs were in good condition when loaded onto the plane.
1032 2009-03-25 PARIS — Metro, a German retailer, is expected to announce on Wednesday that it is buying a controlling stake in a company that provides technology for online music downloads.

Metro plans to acquire 24-7 Entertainment, which handles the logistics of music, video and ring tone downloads, including digital rights management, for companies like telecommunication operators and retailers. Metro hopes that the company, which has access to a database of five million songs, will help it expand the offerings of its consumer electronics business.

The companies declined to disclose the financial terms of the transaction.

Founded in 2000, 24-7 said it managed 93 million downloads in Europe last year, second only to iTunes from Apple. The company, which is based in London, operates 41 download stores in 13 countries and has license agreements in place with more than 12,000 record labels.

Metro plans to combine 24-7 with its Media-Saturn Holding unit, which had 19 billion euros ($25.6 billion) in revenue last year from its Media Markt and Saturn consumer electronics retailers, which have a total of 768 stores across Europe.

Customers for the service include the Danish telecommunications operator TDC. In tandem with Omnifone, 24-7 supports the PlayNow service offered by Sony Ericsson.

Frank Taubert, a founder, said by telephone that 24-7 would be run independently after Metro acquired “a majority stake.” Metro and 24-7 had been working together for four years, he said, and 24-7 became profitable for the first time in the third quarter of 2008.
1033 2009-03-25 NYSE Euronext, which operates stock exchanges in Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon and Paris, said it would cut fees on its European markets by about 20 percent as it fights increasing competition in the region. Clients will be charged for each executed order on NYSE Euronext’s European stock markets rather than for each trade, the company said in a statement. For NYSE Arca Europe, its alternative trading system, the exchange will charge 0.15 basis points for all trades and provide volume incentives. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. NYSE Euronext and other European exchanges are trying to fend off multilateral trading facilities that are seeking to gain market share by offering cheaper trades and faster technology. NYSE Euronext has lost about 20 percent of its market share in Europe for stocks listed on the benchmark CAC 40 index in Paris.
1034 2009-03-25 Nor was there any consensus about an even more sobering question that confronts not only the financial industry but ordinary Americans: Will this be the plan that finally works?

“It’s a wait-and-see attitude,” said Paul Graham, chief actuary of the American Council of Life Insurers.

The proposal, which was announced officially on Monday, has provoked many responses and questions. Can banks that received government bailouts use taxpayer money to bid on toxic assets, in the hope of making a profit? Would that be bad, given that the point of the exercise is to stir up a bit of greed and animal spirits, the lack of which has been holding the economy back?

Can banks sell some assets and then use the proceeds, leveraged by generous government financing, to buy more of the same? Might investment houses be tempted to overpay, if doing so buoys the value of their own investments? In the end, it will be the taxpayer who will be largely footing the bill.

For the Obama administration, the challenge is to strike a balance between the potentially competing interests of investors and taxpayers. Some wonder if the proposal tips too far in favor of investors.

Internet blogs were full of economists scratching their heads over how to game the plan and come out ahead of the government. Others, like Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist, in an interview with Reuters, called the program “very badly flawed” and said it offered “perverse incentives” that amounted “to robbery of the American people.”

Despite such reservations, Goldman Sachs sent out a note to whip up investor interest in the government’s rescue plans, while BlackRock, the big money management firm, was considering the practicalities of starting, of all things, a mutual fund so everyday investors could buy into banks’ toxic assets.

But Bert Ely, a prominent banking consultant, said investors would be cautious because many crucial details were still missing — the size and terms of loans they would receive from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, for example, and the amount of equity they would be allowed to put in, and whether banks would be allowed to walk away if they did not like the price at auction.

“Today we know a lot more than we did yesterday, right?” Mr. Ely said. “I am being facetious!”

Many questioned the auction mechanism to sell toxic assets off from banks’ balance sheets. Price, most experts agree, is the biggest sticking point. The banks want to sell high. Potential investors want to buy low.

Banking executives said that their institutions would not want to unload assets at fire-sale prices, a step that would compel banks to raise large amounts of additional capital. The gap is likely to be the widest for certain loans because of the way banks account for them.

Because of the way they account for the assets on their books, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley — Wall Street giants that converted themselves into banks last year in an effort to ride out the financial storm — may be more willing to sell assets than some commercial banks.

Under accounting rules, banks must carry securities on their books at market prices. Most financial firms have already marked down these assets to prices that might be low enough to lure buyers.

But banks need not carry ordinary loans at market value. Instead, they are allowed to hold them at their higher values until they are repaid. So, for many commercial banks, selling loans now, at distressed prices, would almost certainly lead to large losses. Such losses might raise questions about how some banks will fare in a so-called stress test that federal regulators are in the process of applying to about 20 lenders.

“I don’t see how they are going to get the banks to sell,” said an executive at a large bank, who asked not to be named, given the delicate nature of the Treasury plan. “There are going to be substantial write-downs taken to get them off the books.”

Federal regulators said privately that, in some cases, they might pressure banks to sell.

Mr. Graham, of the American Council of Life Insurers, said pricing was also a crucial issue for insurance companies. Insurance companies have a long time horizon, he said, so they can hold impaired bonds through market downturns.

For all the uncertainties, some big investors like BlackRock and Wilbur L. Ross Jr., a prominent figure in distressed investing, said they were willing to take the plunge. Pension funds also represent a large source of purchasing power, and Ms. Reeser, of the California State Teachers’ Retirement System, viewed the program positively.

The fund, known as Calstrs, had already reduced the part of its portfolio dedicated to stocks by 5 percent, to free up money for this type of purchase, she said.

Institutional investors like insurance companies represent huge blocks of capital, and the success of the public-private investment program will depend in part on how eager they are to get involved as purchasers of the toxic assets.

“Insurers account for 10 percent of all invested assets in the United States today,” said Robert P. Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute. They would be interested in the program because of its partial government guarantee and their ability to find out what the structured assets consisted of, he said.

“There is some significant upside potential here,” he said. “But you have to balance that against the fact that insurers are very conservative investors.”

The problem, he said, is that companies have to maintain cash flows that match their payout obligations, and it was by no means clear that, in a pinch, they could get their cash out of the toxic assets.
1035 2009-03-25 The ruling military junta has detained Guinea’s former prime minister and two former cabinet ministers, security officials and family members said Tuesday. The former prime minister, Ahmed Tidiane Souaré, and two former mines ministers were arrested Monday night, the army said. The arrests appeared to be part of a crackdown on corruption, in this case regarding the mining ministry.
1036 2009-03-25 The police in Dublin said Tuesday they were investigating who was responsible for hanging unsigned oil paintings of Prime Minister Brian Cowen in two of the city’s art galleries that depicted him naked. In one he was shown holding a pair of blue underpants strategically at his midriff, and in the other he was seated on a toilet. They were on display only briefly before they were taken down, according to spokesmen for the galleries.
1037 2009-03-25 President Dmitri A. Medvedev and Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin will declare their income and property holdings as part of an anticorruption drive, government spokesmen said Tuesday. Mr. Medvedev will be the first Russian president to make his financial declaration public. Other senior officials, including Mr. Putin, will also be required to declare their finances, which will be posted on the Kremlin’s Web site, a spokeswoman said.
1038 2009-03-25 Government scrutiny, over Wall Street pay and the role all kinds of institutions play in the financial markets, is also mounting. Hedge funds are facing proposals for new on their gains, and on Tuesday, Secretary said he would seek greater power to regulate hedge funds.

Some people on the list disputed Alpha’s calculations, which are estimates that include the increase in value of personal the managers made in their funds. But none offered different values for their bonuses or the soaring wealth in their funds.

To make the cut this year, a hedge fund hotshot needed to earn $75 million, down sharply from the $360 million cutoff for 2007’s top 25. Still, amid the financial shakeout, the combined pay of the top 25 hedge fund managers beat every year before 2006.

“The golden age for hedge funds is gone, but it’s still three times more lucrative than working at a and most other places on Wall Street,” said Robert Sloan, managing partner of S3 Partners, a hedge fund risk management firm. “But this shouldn’t pop up on the greed meter. They made money. That’s what they’re supposed to.”

In an interview, Mr. Paulson — whose lofty 2008 earnings were down from the $3.7 billion that Alpha estimated he earned in 2007 — said his pay was high in large part because he is the biggest investor in his fund. In fact, he said he receives no bonus. The pensions, endowments and other institutions that invest in his fund do not mind the hefty cut of profits he and his team take, he said.

“In a year when all their other investments lost money, we’re like an oasis,” Mr. Paulson said.

“We have investors who were invested with Madoff, and they can’t thank me enough,” he added, referring to the disgraced financier .

Even as the spotlight intensifies, these hedge fund managers and others who made it through last year with cash on hand are the sort of investors the federal government hopes will step in and buy troubled assets from . The richest managers are also in the best position to take advantage of the distressed environment to build their wealth.

“The guys who own the future are the guys like and the others on the Alpha list,” said Keith R. McCullough, the chief executive of Research Edge, a firm in that provides trading analysis for hedge funds. “Ironically enough, we’re going to go beg for capital from the very people we’ve been trying to vilify.” Mr. Paulson, though, said he did not plan to participate in the new public-private investment program.

One hedge fund manager on the list, Paul Touradji, said he understood the public outcry against people who are paid regardless of whether they earned money for their clients. “Wall Street should get paid only when they reward their clients,” he said. “For every dollar we made, our clients earned multiples.”

Mr. Touradji, $140 million richer than in 2007, according to Alpha, said he gave his investors advice by sharing strategies — something rare in the black-box hedge fund world. Last year, for instance, he spotted the commodities bubble early and warned his investors, which include pension funds and endowments, to reshuffle their other holdings, saving them from losses.

Some hedge funds made so much that they had two people on the list. While Mr. Simons of Renaissance Technologies landed the No. 1 spot, one of his partners, Henry B. Laufer, is also on the list with earnings of $125 million.

John D. Arnold, an energy trader in his early 30s who was third on the list, with $1.5 billion, did not respond to a request for comment. A spokesman for George Soros, Michael Vachon, said his boss gave away more than half his earnings in 2008. A spokesman for Raymond T. Dalio, who is said to have earned $780 million, said his boss had made so much money because he anticipated the crisis.

Two of the three managers who tied for ninth, at $250 million, are based in : David Harding of Winton Capital and Alan Howard of Brevan Howard Asset Management. A second employee of Brevan Howard, Christopher Rokos, also made the list.

Mr. Harding, who runs Winton, said his success last year was part luck, part knowledge from 25 years of hard work in which he often struck a solitary path in a type of trading that had many naysayers. “It is nice to have a golden life and a purpose to engage in, a reason to go to work,” said Mr. Harding, who doubted that many people would be willing or able to do his job. “Obviously I wouldn’t have set out to be a futures trader if I hadn’t wanted to make a lot of money.”

John R. Taylor, the third hedge fund manager who tied as ninth on the list, said even winning hedge funds should acknowledge that they had benefited from the government’s bailout of the banking system. “Thank God for the government, because if they hadn’t intervened, we wouldn’t have had anybody to trade with,” said Mr. Taylor, who has run his currency fund, FX Concepts, since the 1980s.

But he said he was not grateful to be on Alpha’s list, which he said overestimated his pay by a multiple of five. The last time he received lots of publicity, Mr. Taylor said, was in 1993, and that preceded his worst year ever.

“This is bad luck with the trading gods,” Mr. Taylor said. “We’re doomed next year if you write about us.”
1039 2009-03-25 Analysts said that under the Czech Constitution, the vote would not lead immediately to early elections and Mr. Topolanek and his top ministers could stay on for months until President Vaclav Klaus appoints a new prime minister who can gain the support of a majority in Parliament.

But the analysts noted that until a new government was convened, the vote meant the European Union presidency would be held by a country in which the Parliament did not have faith in the government.

“I believe it can complicate our negotiating power,” Mr. Topolanek said. “Partners in Europe have grown used to us negotiating hard.”

He said he favored new elections this summer if no new government were formed.

Jiri Paroubek, the Social Democratic leader who called the vote of no confidence, said he wanted the cabinet to stay on until June to avoid disrupting the team running the European Union presidency. He said a government of nonpartisan experts could then take over until early elections in the fall or next spring. Regular elections are due in mid-2010.

Even if the cabinet remains, analysts said the government’s collapse would undermine principal foreign policy aims of Mr. Topolanek’s coalition, including plans for construction of a United States missile defense installation in the country, which is already under review by Washington. This month, the Czech government temporarily withdrew treaties on the installation from the parliamentary ratification agenda in the face of an opposition threat to vote them down.

Karel Schwarzenberg, the foreign minister, sought to play down the significance of the vote, saying the opposition’s attempts to score political points would backfire.

“Paroubek is convinced that attacking the whole time is the best tactic and that will help him win elections,” he said in an interview before the vote. “But the Czech people don’t like it and would prefer that we have a cease-fire when we have the presidency of the E.U.”

He emphasized that even with the no-confidence vote, under the Czech Constitution, the prime minister and his top ministers could stay on until after the Czechs’ presidency of the European Union ends in June. “Our work as president of the E.U. will go on anyway,” Mr. Schwarzenberg said. “Our European partners will see at the next E.U. conference that we are all there.”

Analysts noted that although the Czech vote had been spurred by political infighting, it would nevertheless have the effect of undermining the Czech economy by unsettling already jittery foreign investors.

Political analysts said one of the greatest beneficiaries of the crisis could prove to be Mr. Klaus, an outspoken economic liberal, who is skeptical of the European Union. He founded the Civic Democratic Party of Mr. Topolanek, but in recent months he has criticized the prime minister for being too fervent an advocate of greater European integration, and he recently resigned as honorary chairman of the party.

Under the Constitution, as president he has to designate a new prime minister, making him the new kingmaker in Czech politics.

“Klaus is the big star when the government fails,” said Adam Cerny, a commentator for the newspaper Hospodarske Noviny, referring to the president. “With Topolanek as a lame-duck prime minister, he and his controversial views will once again be back in the spotlight.”
1040 2009-03-25 About 10 years ago, Anthony S. Seminerio, an assemblyman from Queens, began asking the president of a Queens nonprofit to hire his consulting firm, prosecutors said.

The executive, whose organization depended on the state for much of its financing, did not respond. The next year, according to a revised indictment announced on Tuesday, Mr. Seminerio met with the executive in his legislative office in Albany, and said he had been patient for too long and that if the executive did not hire him, he would “kill” any bill that the executive tried to have passed.

After that meeting, the indictment said, the executive hired Mr. Seminerio, who proposed a monthly fee of $700 and was retained for about two years.

The indictment, filed by federal prosecutors in Manhattan, adds new allegations against Mr. Seminerio, who was originally indicted last year in a corruption case. The initial indictment said that since 2000, Mr. Seminerio had received about $1 million in consulting fees from hospitals and other entities that had business before the state, and in exchange he rewarded them with “favorable treatment” in Albany.

When prosecutors first charged the 74-year-old Democrat, who was first elected in 1978, one official said he had “put his office up for sale for those willing to pay the right price.”
1041 2009-03-25 That has hurt the black car business, which was already reeling from the impact of the Wall Street crisis on its main customers, financial services firms. The black car business is down at least 30 percent, Mr. Daus said.

But the shift has helped yellow cabs and appears to have made up for lost business as tourism and air travel have slumped and the disposable income of ordinary New Yorkers has dwindled.

For several years, data from old-fashioned taxi meters has shown that there are about 400,000 to 450,000 cab rides a day in New York (the data does not distinguish between weekdays and weekends). Now, information from the computerized systems, which the commission calls an electronic trip sheet, shows that the industry has maintained similar levels in recent months.

In December, cabs carried an average of 432,000 fares a day. That rose to 455,000 in January and 478,000 in February. (Because the commission has only a few months of data, it was not possible to tell the significance of the change from month to month or whether it was part of a seasonal pattern.)

Last month riders paid with a credit card for one out of every five trips. A year ago, only six percent of trips were paid for with plastic.

“Industries all across the city and across the land are losing revenue, and we’re showing signs of hope,” Mr. Daus said. “Taxi drivers have had a relatively consistent ride so far.”

Cabbies, however, were adamant in disputing the commission’s claim that business has remained steady.

Bhairavi Desai, the head of the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a drivers’ group, said the recession had pushed more people to drive cabs. As a result, she said, at any given time there are more taxis on the road than a year ago and, while the total number of fares may be fairly constant, each driver ends up with a smaller piece of the pie.

And she criticized the credit card system — which many drivers opposed — because drivers must give up five percent of each transaction in a processing fee.

Most drivers interviewed on Tuesday said they had seen a drop in business.

“It can’t be possible,” Mohamed Hillman, 45, who has been driving a yellow cab for four years, said of the commission’s numbers. He said that a year ago he usually carried 35 fares a day while spending 10 hours behind the wheel. Now, he said, he carries about 27 fares during the same time. And he said trips were often shorter than before.

Syed Shah, 60, a driver for 15 years, said he used to take home $150 a day after expenses. Now, he said, he takes home $90. He said he sees many more people sharing cab rides. Where he used to take one person to work in the morning, now four get in his cab to ride together. A year ago, those might have been four separate cab rides.

The data also gives other insights into the life and work of cab drivers.

On average, drivers work about nine and a half hours a day, the commission said. That covers the time from a driver’s first pickup to the last drop-off.

That is in contrast to what many cabbies have long told officials: that they often work 11 or 12 hours a day.

The data also shows that the greatest number of cabs are on the road at about 7 p.m. At that time on an average day in February, about 10,000 cabs were cruising the streets. At noon, an average of 8,700 cabs were on the road. The fewest cabs were available at 5 a.m., when about 2,600 cabs were out.

Mr. Daus said there were more than 47,000 people licensed to drive taxicabs, a record number. Commission staffers said that in recent years the number of licensed cabbies had generally been between 37,000 and 40,000. But Mr. Daus said that drivers’ wages appear to have remained steady at $14 to $16 an hour after expenses.

The data shows that at least in the last three months, there has been some earnings consistency. The average cab took in $32.11 (not counting cash tips) from 6 to 7 p.m. in February. In December the average for that time period was $31, and in January it was $30.96.
1042 2009-03-25 President Obama said he was nominating Johnnie Carson, one of the government’s most senior Africa hands and career Foreign Service officers, to succeed Jendayi Frazer as assistant secretary of state for African affairs. Mr. Carson had stints in two nations that have endured the greatest political turmoil over the past two years, serving as ambassador to Kenya from 1999 to 2003 and Zimbabwe from 1995 to 1997. He was also ambassador to Uganda from 1991 to 1994. Most recently, Mr. Carson was the national intelligence officer for Africa on the National Intelligence Council. Before he joined the council, he spent 37 years in the Foreign Service, with posts in Botswana, Mozambique and Nigeria, among others.
1043 2009-03-25 Dial-a-Mattress Operating Corporation, the company that initiated telephone sales of bedding with its 1-800-Mattres jingles, has filed for bankruptcy protection and plans to sell the business to its rival, Sleepy’s.

The company, owned by Napoleon Barragan, has had a steep drop in sales and more stringent terms from vendors, according to court documents.

Creditors filed an involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition against Dial-a-Mattress last week, seeking $1.7 million. The company is seeking to convert that to a Chapter 11 reorganization.

Sleepy’s said in a statement on Tuesday that it would provide debtor-in-possession financing to help Dial-a-Mattress operate. The financing is subject to bankruptcy court approval.

“We’ve determined that Sleepy’s offers us the best opportunity to recapitalize and move our business plan forward,” Mr. Barragan said. “This combination allows us to realign our capital structure and to pursue our historic strength in phone and Internet sales.”
1044 2009-03-25 Scientists who have been following families with a history of depression have found structural differences in family members’ brains — specifically, a significant thinning of the right cortex, the brain’s outermost surface. The thinning may be a trait or a marker of vulnerability to depression, the researchers suggested.

The scientists’ brain imaging study found the thinning in descendants of depressed parents and grandparents, whether or not the individuals themselves had ever suffered a depressive episode or an anxiety disorder, researchers said.

“That’s what is so extraordinary. You’re seeing it two generations later, and you’re seeing it in both children and adults,” said Dr. Bradley S. Peterson, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and the paper’s first author. “And it’s present even if those offspring themselves have not yet become ill.”

While people may assume that a familial trait is genetic, that is not necessarily the case, Dr. Peterson added. “We don’t know if this has a genetic origin or if it’s a consequence of growing up with parents or grandparents who are ill. Studies have shown that when parents are depressed, it changes the environment in which children are growing up.”

The paper, to be published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, is an outgrowth of research started 27 years ago by Dr. Myrna Weissman to investigate the familial roots of depression. Dr. Weissman is the paper’s senior author.
1045 2009-03-25 The Bank of England has reduced its benchmark interest rate to almost zero and started to buy gilts as part of a £75 billion ($110 billion) quantitative easing program, which the bank governor, Mervyn King, called “appropriate” to help revive the economy. The central bank forecast last month that inflation would slow to 0.3 percent in 2011.

Mr. King was forced to write his fourth letter since June to the chancellor of the Exchequer explaining why the central inflation rate rose more than 1 percentage point above a 2 percent target and how he plans to lower it again.

“The effects on U.K. retail prices of increases in these world prices were magnified by the sharp depreciation in the sterling exchange rate,” Mr. King wrote.

The automaker Ford Motor, for example, said on Tuesday that it planned to increase prices in Britain for the second time this year because of the pound’s decline.

But Mr. King predicted inflation, which peaked at 5.2 percent in September, would slow again as the costs of electricity and gas dropped, which could reduce inflation “by around a percentage point,” and weak consumer demand creates “a substantial margin of spare capacity.”

“The outlook for global activity will constrain U.K. demand prospects and, as a result, the margin of spare capacity is likely to build in the coming quarters, pulling down C.P.I. inflation,” he wrote.

Many energy providers in Britain already started to lower prices, and supermarket chains like Tesco and J Sainsbury are embroiled in a fierce price competition for customers with discount retailers, like Aldi of Germany.

Britain’s retail prices index, which includes housing costs and is widely used in wage negotiations, fell to zero in February for the first time since 1960, the Office for National Statistics said Tuesday. The drop from 0.1 percent in January is mainly a reflection of the weaker housing market.

While the drop in the retail price index was widely expected, some economists said the unexpected increase in consumer prices in February challenged an earlier assumption that deflationary risks were increasing.

“It does seem like there is less deflation pressure than we thought,” said Mr. Walker of Royal Bank of Scotland.
1046 2009-03-25 Two men were reported dead and four were still missing after a fishing boat sank 65 miles southeast of Cape May, N.J., before dawn on Tuesday.

The United States Coast Guard said it was continuing to search a 15-square-mile swath of the chilly Atlantic for the four crewmen.

Petty Officer Steve Carleton of the Coast Guard said that of the three people who were plucked from the water after the Lady Mary, a 71-foot vessel originating in Cape May, sank, one man was found without vital signs and later declared dead, another died hours later at a local hospital and the third, identified José Luis Ariese, was able to walk off the rescue helicopter..

According to Petty Officer Carleton, Mr. Ariese said that all seven aboard the Lady Mary had time to put on red neoprene survival suits, which provided a moderate layer of insulation from the 40-degree water temperatures.

The Coast Guard received an emergency beacon alert — sent automatically from a type of buoy required on fishing vessels — at 7:30 a.m. The initial rescue, Petty Officer Carleton said, took place at 8:30 a.m. The helicopter found an empty life boat and the three crew members floating nearby.

Currently, there are two helicopters, a C-130 rescue plane, and two Coast Guard cutters searching for the four missing crew members, he said, though he added that the conditions were not ideal: waves surging 4 to 7 feet, winds gusting to 35 miles an hour, and the air temperature at noon was 33 degrees.

“Certainly, we want to make sure that we’re covering the area as soon as possible because there could be contributing factors — such as injuries — that could complicate the conditions,” Petty Officer Carleton said.
1047 2009-03-25 A recipe for Chipotle Chicken Sausage....
1048 2009-03-25 The European Commission said that ''very significant subjects'' still need to be resolved before it can complete a tariff reduction agreement with South Korea. Already facing a catastrophic reduction in sales because of the global economic downtur...
1049 2009-03-25 OBAMA SEEKS TAKEOVER POWER The Obama administration is asking Congress for authority to take over distressed institutions like insurance companies without having to compromise on issues like bonuses.      IT PAYS TO BE A HEDGE MANAGER In a year wh...
1050 2009-03-26 A court has issued a restraining order against a man who tried to break into the set of “Dancing with the Stars” in an attempt to meet Shawn Johnson....
1051 2009-03-26 CityCenter, the troubled residential and casino development in Las Vegas, has hired a law firm, Dewey & LeBoeuf, to prepare for a potential bankruptcy filing, people briefed on the matter told DealBook on Thursday. Its developers, MGM Mirage and D...
1052 2009-03-26 The Senate Finance Committee will hear testimony from Kathleen Sebelius, governor of Kansas and nominee for the Cabinet post of Health and Human Services secretary, next Thursday....
1053 2009-03-26 Amazon will close shipping centers in Indiana, Nevada and Pennsylvania, citing an effort to streamline operations....
1054 2009-03-26 Private banks in Switzerland have started to ban their top executives from traveling outside the country, even to France and Germany, because of fears they will be detained as part of a global crackdown on tax evasion and bank secrecy. An unidenti...
1055 2009-03-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1056 2009-03-26 Last September, William P. Barr, the general counsel of Verizon Communications at the time, announced that he planned to retire at the end of the year. Mr. Barr had been with the company since it was formed in June 2000, and before that he worked ...
1057 2009-03-26 Bulgur and chickpeas have complementary amino acids, so this lemony salad offers you a complete protein package. You can prepare coarse bulgur by simmering it or by soaking it. Simmering will yield a softer, fluffier grain — and bigger portions.

1 bunch scallions or 2 spring onions, white and light green parts only, thinly sliced or chopped, soaked for five minutes in cold water and drained

1. For coarse bulgur: Bring the water to a boil in a medium saucepan. Add the bulgur and salt to taste, reduce the heat, cover and simmer 20 minutes or until the water is absorbed. Remove from the heat, and allow to sit undisturbed for 10 minutes.

For medium bulgur: Place the bulgur in a bowl with 1/2 teaspoon salt and pour on 2 cups hot or boiling water. Allow to sit for 20 to 25 minutes, until most of the water is absorbed. Drain and squeeze out the water.
1058 2009-03-26 Arkansas, hoping to lure filmmakers to the state, is considering tax incentives and other perks....
1059 2009-03-26 Last night's excitement in Buffalo might be short-lived....
1060 2009-03-26 And that's why we're putting a tax cut into the pockets of 95 percent of working families who will see it -- see that tax cut in their paycheck by April 1st.

It's a recovery that will be measured by whether families can achieve that most American of dreams, and own a home without fear of losing it. That's why we've launched a plan to stabilize the housing market and help responsible homeowners stay in their homes. This plan is one of the reasons that mortgage interest rates are now at near-historic lows. And we've already seen a jump in refinancings of mortgages, and homeowners taking advantage of lower rates. And every American, by the way, should know that up to 40 percent of all mortgages right now are eligible for refinancing.

It's a recovery that will be measured by whether families and entrepreneurs can get the loans they need. That's why we're freeing up credit that's frozen with a program that supports the market for more car loans, and student loans, and small business loans; and with a plan that will partner government resources with private investment to break the logjam that is currently preventing our banks from lending money to even the most creditworthy customers.

And in the end, it's a recovery that will be measured by whether it lasts, whether it endures; by whether we build our economy on a solid foundation instead of a overheated housing market or maxed-out credit cards or the sleight of hand on Wall Street; whether we build an economy in which prosperity is broadly shared. That's what the budget I expect to sign is intended to do. It's a budget that cuts the things we don't need to make room for the investments we do; a budget that cuts the massive deficits we've inherited in half by the end of my first term and offers a blueprint for America's success in the 21st century.

That success will require preparing every child, everywhere in this country, to out-compete any worker anywhere in the world because we know that those students who are getting the best education are going to be able to compete. And that's why we're making a historic investment in early childhood education. That's why we're going to make a historic investment in improving K-12 education, making sure that our children get a complete and competitive education from the cradle up through a career. It's an investment that will expand and improve not just early learning programs, but reward good teachers while replacing bad ones, and put college or technical training within reach for anyone who wants it.

Our success will also require freeing ourselves from the dangerous dependence on foreign oil by building a clean-energy economy, because we know that with this will not only come greater security and a safer environment, but new high-paying jobs of the future to replace those that we've lost.

And our success will also require controlling spiraling health care costs that are bankrupting families, and crushing businesses, and driving up skyrocketing deficits. At the current course and speed, these health care costs are unsustainable. And that's why my budget takes a first big step towards comprehensive health care reform that will reduce costs, improve care and ensure that everyone who works has coverage they can afford.

This is what Americans' success demands and this is what our budget will do. And I'm under no illusions that a better day will come about quickly or easily. It's going to be hard. But as I said the other night at my press conference, I'm a big believer in the idea of persistence -- the idea that when the American people put their mind to something and keep at it, without giving up, without turning back, no obstacle can stand in our way, and no dream is beyond our reach. That's why we're here today -- because it will take all of us talking with one another, all of us sharing ideas, all of us working together to see our country through this difficult time and bring about that better day.

So I want to thank all of you for this opportunity to talk with you. And now I'd like to bring Jared back up to the stage, and he's going to open it up for questions. So, Jared, let's see how this thing works.

DR. BERNSTEIN: Thank you, Mr. President. Our first question comes from Boston, Massachusetts, on the topic of education: "The Founding Fathers believe that there is no difference between a free society and an educated society. Our educational system, however, is woefully inadequate. How do you plan to restore education as a right and core cultural value in America?"

THE PRESIDENT: Well, it's a great question, and -- let me see if this mic works so that I'm not stuck at this podium. I'm here only because of the education I received. I wasn't born into wealth, I wasn't born into fame, but I had parents who cared about education and grandparents who cared about education, and I was lucky enough, through scholarships and sacrifice on the part of my family, to get the best education that America has to offer.

Too many of our children aren't getting that kind of education. It's not because their parents don't believe in the value of education; it's not because these young people are less talented. It's because of two reasons: One, in many cases, our schools are under-resourced. There aren't enough teachers; the teachers aren't getting enough of the training they need for the classroom; there's a shortage of supplies. Some of the schools that I visited during the course of traveling around the country just shock the conscience. There are schools that I've seen that were built in the 1850s that are still being used but haven't been upgraded the way they need to.

Now, there's a second problem, though, and it's one that money alone cannot solve, and that is that we have a school system that was designed for the agricultural era -- there's a reason why we've got three months off during the summer. That's supposed to be when everybody is working on -- out on the farm and bringing in harvest. And it's not just the amount of time our kids are spending, it's how our classrooms are designed, how curriculums are structured, how things like teacher promotion and training happen.

So a lot of times in Washington we get an argument about money versus reform. And the key thing to understand about our education system is we need more resources and we need reform. If we just put more money into a system that's designed for the 19th century and we're in the 21st, we're not going to get the educational outcomes we need. On the other hand, if we talk a lot about reform but we're not willing to put more resources in, that's not going to work.

So let me give you just a couple examples of what we need to do. Early childhood education we know works. Let's invest in that. That's what my budget calls for -- substantial investment; every dollar we invest in early childhood education, we get potentially $10 back in improved reading scores, reduced dropout rates, reduced delinquency rates and so forth.

Number two, let's focus on the most important ingredient in the school, and that's the teacher. Let's pay our teachers more money. Let's give them more support. Let's give them more training. Let's make sure that schools of education that are training our teachers are up to date with the best methods to teach our kids. And let's work with teachers so that we are providing them measures of whether they're effective or not, and let's hold them accountable for being effective.

Now that doesn't mean just a single high-stakes standardized test. It also means that we're working with teachers to determine, what's the best way to discipline -- maintain discipline in a classroom? What's the best way to get kids excited about science? Giving them the time and the resources to improve, but also having high standards of expectation in terms of their performance.

If we do early childhood education, if we focus on teacher training, if we invest in math and science education, which is vital -- and we're falling behind other countries on that front -- then I actually feel pretty confident that we can out-compete any country in the world. But it's going to take more money and it's going to take more reform and it's going to take, by the way, openness to innovation on things like charter schools or performance pay. There are a whole range of things that may work, in some cases may not work, but we've got to try some new things because right now too many of our kids are stuck, and we can't afford to lose them.

DR. BERNSTEIN: The next question is on homeownership, from Heather from Ohio: "President Obama, what benefits from the stimulus plan are there to those of us who are paying our mortgages but living paycheck to paycheck?"

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I mentioned this in the opening remarks. This is something that I really want everybody to understand. Our housing plan -- and we're devoting $50 billion to it -- has a number of different components. One component is setting up a mechanism where people who just can't afford their mortgage right now are able to renegotiate with banks, and the banks lower their interest, and the homeowner assures that they're going to make a commitment to pay a certain amount every month, and the government helps to step in to bridge the gap. But the point is, it's going to be cheaper, not only for that family but also potentially for the entire community, if they stay in their home.

And so that's -- that part of the housing plan is targeted for folks who are really in distress. They're getting close to the point where they might be losing their home.

But there are a whole bunch of folks out there who are not about to walk away from their home, but are getting killed right now because their home values have dropped drastically; they're still making payments, but they're in trouble. And for that huge set of responsible homeowners out there, I want people to understand what we've done is created mechanisms in the credit markets that have lowered mortgage rates down to historic levels, and what we've done is we've opened it up so that FHA loans that used to be only for people with a certain mortgage level, that we are using FHA and other mechanisms to open up refinancings to a whole bunch of homeowners who previously weren't qualified.

So now what you've got is a situation where 40 percent of the people sitting here, 40 percent of the people who are participating in this virtual town hall, could potentially refinance their mortgage. And they've got to take advantage of that. We are providing additional support from the government in order to facilitate those refinancings. We're starting to see refinancings go up significantly.

So you have the potential to cut your monthly payments, but you've got to take advantage of it. And if you need more information, you can go on our web site, whitehouse.gov, or you can contact your local bank and find out whether you qualify to participate in this refinancing.

DR. BERNSTEIN: Next we have a video question from Harriet in Georgia about bringing jobs back to America: "Hello, President Obama. Here is my question for your online town meeting. When can we expect that jobs that have been outsourced to other countries to come back and be made available to the unemployed workers here in the United States? Thank you so much for all your hard work. God bless you. Bye-bye."

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I appreciate that. Let me talk more, first of all, broadly about what's happening in the job market. We have had just a massive loss of jobs over the last several months, the kind of job loss we haven't seen at least since the early '80s and maybe since the 1930s, in terms of how quickly we've seen the economy shed jobs.

A lot of that is prompted by the financial crisis and the locking up of the credit markets. And that's why when we are -- when we talk about dealing with this credit crisis and the banks, I just want everybody to understand it's not because we're overly concerned about Wall Street or a bunch of CEOs; it's because if we don't fix credit, if we don't get liquidity back to small businesses and large businesses alike who can have that -- use that line of credit to buy inventory and to make products and sell services, then those businesses shrivel up and they start laying people off.

Ultimately, our measure of whether we're doing a good job or not is, are we going to be able to create and save jobs? And part of that involves fixing the financial system.

There is a long-term issue, though, that we have to deal with -- and this was true even before the current crisis -- and that is that so much of our economic activity was in the financial services sector. It was related to an overheated housing market. It was dependent on huge amounts of consumer saving. And we were seeing those steady declines in manufacturing. We were seeing steady declines in a lot of other productive sectors of the economy. And one of the things that my budget is designed to do is, by fixing our education system, by reducing costs of health care, by going after the clean-energy jobs of the future, trying to put our economy on a more solid footing.

Now, a lot of the outsourcing that was referred to in the question really has to do with the fact that our economy -- if it's dependent on low-wage, low-skill labor, it's very hard to hang on to those jobs because there's always a country out there that pays lower wages than the U.S. And so we've got to go after the high-skill, high-wage jobs of the future. That's why it's so important to train our folks more effectively and that's why it's so important for us to find new industries -- building solar panels or wind turbines or the new biofuel -- that involve these higher-value, higher-skill, higher-paying jobs.

So I guess the answer to the question is, not all of these jobs are going to come back. And it probably wouldn't be good for our economy for a bunch of these jobs to come back because, frankly, there's no way that people could be getting paid a living wage on some of these jobs -- at least in order to be competitive in an international setting.

So what we've got to do is create new jobs that can't be outsourced. And that's why energy is so promising. We've been talking about what's called a smart grid, and some of you may have heard of this. The basic idea is, is that we're still using an electricity grid that dates back 100, 150 years ago. Well, think about all the gizmos you guys are carrying -- (laughter) --all the phones and the BlackBerrys and the this and the that. You're plugging in all kinds of stuff in your house. We've got an entirely new set of technologies, huge demands in terms of energy, but we've got a grid that's completely outdated.

Now, one of the things that we wanted to do in the stimulus package was to go ahead and start laying a new grid. And to do that, it's like building the Transcontinental Railroad. You've got a -- it's a huge project involving all 50 states.

The benefits of the grid are that we could reduce our energy costs by billions of dollars. We could set up systems so that everybody in each house have their own smart meters that will tell you when to turn off the lights, when the peak hours are, can help you sell back energy that you've generated in your home through a solar panel or through other mechanisms. If we get plug-in hybrid cars, you can plug it in at night and sell back electricity to the utility, and then charge up your car again in the morning before you leave.

All this can be done, but it also creates jobs right now. Our biggest problem, we don't have enough electricians to lay all these lines out there. And these are jobs -- these are union jobs that potentially pay $80,000-$90,000 a year, with benefits. But it's a matter of making the investment in infrastructure and also then training the workers to be able to get those jobs. And that's where we're going to be focused on. That's where the job growth is going to occur.

One last point I want to make -- and I know I'm not supposed to talk this long, but we're going to have to be patient and persistent about job creation because I don't think that we've lost all the jobs we're going to lose in this recession. We're still going to be in a difficult time for much of this year. Employment is typically what's called a lagging indicator. Now, this is -- Dr. Bernstein, he's a Ph.D. economist, so he'll correct me if I'm wrong here, but --

DR. BERNSTEIN: I'm sure I can make this really confusing. (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT: But historically, if you look at every recession, what happens is that when the economy starts getting in trouble, it takes a while before businesses decide, you know what, this economy is in trouble, it's not bouncing back -- we better start laying off workers. So what we're seeing now is a lot of businesses have decided that our sales are way down, we've got to start shedding workers. And that's going to continue for a while.

Now, the reverse is true, as well. When the economy starts recovering, when these businesses start being a little more confident that, you know what, we think we've bottomed out; the recovery package President Obama passed gives us some optimism about making investments in certain areas -- it takes a while before they start hiring even if they've started to make these investments.

So the reason I point that out is, I don't want people to think that in one or two months suddenly we're going to see net job increases. It's going to take some time for the steps that we've taken to filter in. The fact that the housing market is starting to stabilize a little bit -- there's still a lot of inventory out there before people then actually start building new homes. At some point people are going to start buying new cars again, but it's going to take a little bit of time for the automakers to get back on their feet.

So employment is something that we're going to have a difficult time for the next several months, maybe through the end of this year, but I'm confident that we're taking the steps that are required to create these new jobs of the future.

DR. BERNSTEIN: After the last recession ended in 2001, the unemployment rate went up for another 19 months before it started coming back down.

This next question -- an area close to your heart -- health care reform. From Richard in California: "Why can we not have a universal health care system, like many European countries, where people are treated based on needs rather than financial resources?"

THE PRESIDENT: Well, first of all, I was in this room last month in what we called a health care forum. And we brought all the members of Congress, Republicans and Democrats who were interested in this issue; we brought together various constituency groups, insurance companies, drug companies, you name it. And my message to them was: Now is the time to reform the health care system -- not four years from now, not eight years from now, not 20 years from now. Now.

And the reason -- (laughter) -- the reason that I think it is so important is that the high costs of health care are a huge drag on our economy. It's a drag on our families. I can't tell you how many personal stories that I hear about people who are working, maybe have two parents working and yet still don't have health care. And the decisions that they have to make -- excruciating decisions about whether or not somebody goes to a doctor -- it makes them less productive, it makes them less mobile in terms of being able to take new jobs or start a new business because they're worried about hanging on to their health care. So it's a drag on families.

But it's a drag on businesses, as well. There's not a small business or large business out here who hasn't seen their health care costs skyrocket, and it cuts into their profits.

And it's a drag on the federal budget and the state budgets. That's the thing that is going to potentially break the bank here in the United States. Medicare and Medicaid, if we don't get control of that, that is the biggest driver of our long-term deficits.

So when people -- when you hear this budget debate that's taking place right now, and folks say, oh, you know, President Obama's budget, he's increasing money for veterans and he's increasing money for education, and he's doing all these things that -- that's going to bust the budget, what they don't understand is, is that if you add up the recovery package that we've already passed and you add up the various proposals I have to grow the economy through clean energy and all that stuff that we're doing, that amounts to a fraction of the long-term deficit and debt that we're facing. The lion's share of it has to do with Medicare and Medicaid and the huge, rising cost of health care. So our attitude is, better to pay now and make an investment in improving the health care system rather than waiting and finding ourselves in a situation where we can't fix it.

Now, the question is, if you're going to fix it, why not do a universal health care system like the European countries? I actually want a universal health care system; that is our goal. I think we should be able to provide health insurance to every American that they can afford and that provides them high quality.

So I think we can accomplish it. Now, whether we do it exactly the way European countries do or Canada does is a different question, because there are a variety of ways to get to universal health care coverage.

A lot of people think that in order to get universal health care, it means that you have to have what's called a single-payer system of some sort. And so Canada is the classic example: Basically, everybody pays a lot of taxes into the health care system, but if you're a Canadian, you're automatically covered. And so you go in -- England has a similar -- a variation on this same type of system. You go in and you just say, "I'm sick," and somebody treats you, and that's it.

The problem is, is that we have what's called a legacy, a set of institutions that aren't that easily transformed. Let me just see a show of hands: How many people here have health insurance through your employer? Okay, so the majority of Americans, sort of -- partly for historical accident. I won't go into -- FDR had imposed wage controls during war time in World War II. People were -- companies were trying to figure out how to attract workers. And they said, well, maybe we'll provide health care as a benefit.

And so what evolved in America was an employer-based system. It may not be the best system if we were designing it from scratch. But that's what everybody is accustomed to. That's what everybody is used to. It works for a lot of Americans. And so I don't think the best way to fix our health care system is to suddenly completely scrap what everybody is accustomed to and the vast majority of people already have. Rather, what I think we should do is to build on the system that we have and fill some of these gaps.

And I'm looking to Congress to work with me to find that optimal system. I made some proposals during the campaign about how we can lower costs through information technologies; how we can lower costs through reforms in how we reimburse doctors so that they're not getting paid just for the number of operations they're doing, but for whether they're quality outcomes; investing in prevention so that kids with asthma aren't going to the emergency room, but they're getting regular checkups.

So there are a whole host of things that we can do to cut costs, use that money that we're saving then to provide more coverage to more people. And my expectation is, is that I will have a health care bill to sign this year. That's what we're going to be fighting for. That's what we're going to be striving for.

Can I just interrupt, Jared, before you ask the next question, just to say that we -- we took votes about which questions were going to be asked and I think 3 million people voted or --

THE PRESIDENT: Three point five million people voted. I have to say that there was one question that was voted on that ranked fairly high and that was whether legalizing marijuana would improve the economy -- (laughter) -- and job creation. And I don't know what this says about the online audience -- (laughter) -- but I just want -- I don't want people to think that -- this was a fairly popular question; we want to make sure that it was answered. The answer is, no, I don't think that is a good strategy -- (laughter) -- to grow our economy. (Applause.)

So -- all right.

DR. BERNSTEIN: Thank you for clearing that up. (Laughter.) This next question comes from Columbia, South Carolina: "The unemployment rate for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans is higher than the national unemployment rate. Our veterans are a national treasure. How can you, the VA, and I ensure our veterans are successfully transitioning into civilian life?"

THE PRESIDENT: That's a great question. You know, I had just an extraordinary honor -- yesterday was Medal of Honor Day. And I went to Arlington National Cemetery, and we had a ceremony in front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier with a collection of Medal of Honor winners from all our various wars.

And a special place of honor was a guy named John Finn, who had been present the day Pearl Harbor was bombed. He was on one of the ships, was shot by -- was strafed by the fire from the planes coming in, and yet still had the presence of mind to shoot down a plane, and won the Medal of Honor -- or was awarded the Medal of Honor for that.

And it just reminds you that we wouldn't be here if it hadn't been for the sacrifices of earlier veterans. We would not -- (applause) -- we would not enjoy the same safety and security and liberty that we do.

So when our veterans come home from Iraq and Afghanistan -- and they have performed brilliantly, they have done everything that's been asked of them, regardless of what your views are on these wars -- they have earned these benefits that all too often we fail to give them.

And that's why in my budget we are increasing veterans funding by more than any time in the last 30 years. We're going to make sure that we deal with the -- (applause) -- we're going to make sure that deal with the backlog that too many veterans experience in terms of getting benefits. We're going to make sure that homeless veterans are receiving housing and services.

The homeless rate for veterans is multiple times higher than it is for non-veterans. That's inexcusable. It means that we're going to provide services for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, that we're going to provide services for Traumatic Brain Injury that are the signature injuries of these recent wars. So we are going to significantly increase veterans spending.

Now, just as is true generally, government alone can't do it. So all of us individually are going to have roles. If you're a business owner, hiring a veteran, not discriminating against somebody who's a veteran is going to be absolutely critical. In your communities, in your churches, in your neighborhoods, making sure that there's outreach and celebration of veterans when they come home, that's going to be critical.

I think we've done a much better job during these wars than we did during Vietnam, where in many cases our treatment of veterans was inexcusable. But we can always do more. Government is going to do its role, and then we've got to make sure that our communities do their role, as well.

DR. BERNSTEIN: Mr. President, the next video will be our last Internet question before we turn to the audience for Q&A for follow-up. Let me also note that this question from Alex in Ohio happens to be about the same topic that the Middle Class Task Force is focusing on this month. Let's turn to this:

"Hi, Mr. President. My name is Alex. My name is Kristin (ph). And I'm Mallory (ph). We are all sophomores at Kent State University in Ohio. We really like the emphasis you've put on education so far in your administration, but we're concerned about higher education. Our question is: What proposals do you have to make college more affordable and to make student loans easier to get? And when will your national service program be available so we can take advantage of the scholarship? Thank you, Mr. President!"

THE PRESIDENT: That was pretty well done. (Laughter and applause.) Well, I am very excited about the possibility that we may be able to get national service done in the next few weeks. National service was a priority for me during the campaign, partly because of my own biography. I found my calling when I became a community organizer working in low-income neighborhoods when I was 22, 23 years old. And it gave me a sense of direction, a sense of service, it helped me grow, it helped me give back. And I think there are young people all across America who are eager for that opportunity.

And so what we've said during the campaign was, let's set up a situation where every young person who is so inspired can take advantage of service, and in exchange they will help be able to finance their educations.

And I'm confident that we're about to get legislation passed. And once that legislation is passed, I think that before the end of the year potentially we can get something implemented on that front.

In addition, what we are also doing is to try to make the student loan and student grant programs that are already in place work better. So just to give you one example, right now a lot of the student loan programs run through banks, but a lot of them go directly to students from the government -- so-called direct loans. The banks make several billion dollars' worth of profits off managing these student loans, which would be okay except for the fact that these loans are guaranteed by the federal government.

So, the reason banks are able to make money lending you is because -- that there's some risk that you might not pay it back, plus you're giving up the use of your money for -- they're giving up the use of their money for a while. If, on the other hand, this is the government's money and they're just a pass-through, it doesn't seem very sensible that banks should be making money that way.

So what we've said is let's make all these direct loans, as opposed to having bank intermediaries or -- and not just banks -- financial services organizations. They can make profits on other things, but let's not have them make profits on this. Let's take those billions of dollars, and that then allows us to either lower student loan rates or expand grants.

And one of the things that we want to do is on the Pell grant program, for example. We want to increase the amount of the Pell grant so that it catches up with inflation and we want to -- we want more young people to be eligible for the Pell grant program. And that's particularly important because anybody who's financed their educations understands that grants are a lot better than loans. And when I was going to college, about -- and this was typical for I think college students -- the average student who needed financial assistance, about 70 percent of it came in grants and about 30 percent of it came in loans. Today, it's reversed: 30 percent come in grants; 70 percent come in loans. And so students are loaded up with $20,000, $30,000, $40,000 worth of debt -- and this is just for their undergraduate education; that doesn't even start counting their higher ed.

And if you come out of college with $50,000 worth of debt, it's hard for you to then start making a decision about wanting to be a teacher, or wanting to go into social work, or wanting to be a scientist and research to find the next innovation. You may decide, well, the only thing I can do is to work on Wall Street or work in a big corporation that's not doing cutting-edge research.

And we want people -- all that's fine, I mean, those are good career choices -- but we want our young people to have more flexibility, not to mention we want them to be able to -- if they choose to get married, to be able to buy a home and start a family without already having essentially a mortgage that they're carrying with them out of college, before they even buy a house.

So we're going to spend -- this is another area where we devote a considerable amount of money in our budget. And I just want to remind you of this, because we're having this budget debate in Washington right now. And again, everybody says -- a lot of the critics out there are saying, how is it that you're going to be spending all this money? We've got to worry about the deficit, et cetera.

I just want to remind you that the money that we are spending on education, on health care, and on energy -- if you added up all that increased money that we're spending, it still is not what's driving our long-term deficits. What's driving it is Medicare, Medicaid, a structural gap that we have because of the Bush tax cuts over the last several years that left us spending a lot more than we were saving.

And it's going to take us a while to dig our way out of that problem. But the way to dig our way out of that problem is not to shortchange investments in our people. A lot of -- I'll bet there are a bunch of families here who are making some tough choices right now, and who are scrimping a little bit and saving.

Now, somebody could make the same argument to you that folks are making to us with respect to the budget, which is, you can't afford to be sending your kids to college right now. That's fiscally irresponsible. You're taking out debt for your kids to get an education. It's better for you to just put them to work right now at a fast-food place, and they'll be bringing in a little bit of income. And maybe later they can go to college.

Well, most of us don't make that decision, because we understand that making the investment now will lead to greater opportunity, greater economic advancement later. Well, the same thing is true in our economy. We can't shortchange the investments that will allow us to grow in the future.

We're going to have to impose discipline and eliminate programs that don't work, and we're doing that. We're cutting this budget by $2 trillion. And we're cutting the deficit in half by the end of my first term.

But what we can't shortchange are those things that are going to allow us to grow long term. I don't want us to constrict and reduce our ambitions, and set our sights lower for our kids and the next generation, because we weren't willing to make those investments now. That's not how America works. (Applause.)

All right. So now -- the folks here have been very patient, so all of you who are watching this live-streaming online, we're actually going to have some live stuff instead of some virtual stuff. We're going to ask -- get some questions or comments from the audience. And I'm going to go boy, girl, boy, girl -- (laughter) -- to avoid anybody being mad at me. We'll start right there, yes. And we've got some microphones so everybody can hear you.

Q Mr. President, my name is Ellie (ph). I'm from Maryland, but I'm originally from Michigan. I have family members who work for GM and Ford. I know the top executives have made -- of the auto companies -- have made a lot of bad moves over the years, but I can't imagine the suffering that we would see in the Midwest if these companies went under. So my question to you is, what specific steps do you see your administration taking about the health of the auto industry?

THE PRESIDENT: Okay. It is a very topical question because I'm going to be making some announcements over the next several days about the auto industry. I don't want to make all the news here today, so I'm not going to be as specific as you'd like, but I guarantee in the next few days you will have a very extensive answer on what we need to do.

Let me give you my general philosophical approach, and that is that we need to preserve a U.S. auto industry. I think that's important. I think it's important not just symbolically; it's important because the auto industry is a huge employer -- not just the people who work for GM or Ford or Chrysler, but all the suppliers, all the ripple effects that are created as a consequence of our auto industry.

But my job is also to protect taxpayers. And you're right -- there's been a lot of mismanagement of the auto industry over the last several years.

Now, right now we are in such a bad crisis that even Toyota is losing a whole lot of money. So typically you're looking at $14 million -- or 14 million new cars are sold every year. Is that right, Jared, in an average year for our population? It's gone down to 9 [million]. Everybody has pulled back -- partly because the credit-crunch people couldn't get auto loans; people were worried about, am I going to keep my job, so they decided let's put off buying the new car. The point is, is that you've seen this huge drop-off. So every automaker is getting killed right now.

I think it is appropriate for us to say, are there ways that we can provide help for the U.S. auto industry to get through this very difficult time -- but the price is that you've got to finally restructure to deal with these long-standing problems. And that means that everybody is going to have to give a little bit -- shareholders, workers, creditors, suppliers, dealers -- everybody is going to have to recognize that the current model, economic model, of the U.S. auto industry is unsustainable. Even if sales go back to 14 million, which eventually they will, it's still a model that doesn't work. Just trying to build more and more SUVs and counting on gas prices being low and that's your only profit margin, that's just not a model that's going to work.

So what we're expecting is that the automakers are going to be working with us to restructure. We will provide them some help. I know that it is not popular to provide help to autoworkers -- or to auto companies. But my job is to measure the costs of allowing these auto companies just to collapse versus us figuring out, can they come up with a viable plan? If they're not willing to make the changes and the restructurings that are necessary, then I'm not willing to have taxpayer money chase after bad money.

And so a lot of it's going to depend on their willingness to make some pretty drastic changes. And some of those are still going to be painful because I think you're not going to see a situation where the U.S. automakers are gaining the kind of share that they had back in the 1950s. I mean, we just didn't have any competition when -- back then, Japan was in rubble, Europe was in rubble -- we were the only players around. And that's not going to be true. This is going to be a competitive global market. We have to make those adjustments.

All right. Okay. It's a gentleman's turn. All right, this gentleman right here. We got a microphone behind you.

Q Good afternoon, Mr. President. My name is Carlos Del Toro. I served in the Navy for 26 years, retired four years ago, and started a small business. So I first want to thank you for all the efforts that you and your administration has done on behalf of veterans and also on behalf of small businesses.

THE PRESIDENT: Well, we appreciate your service. Thank you.

Q Thank you, sir. My question is, one of the things that I have experienced over the last four years as a small business trying to do business in the federal procurement business, essentially, as a small engineering company, is the challenge of the bundling of contracts, which has made it increasingly difficult for service-disabled businesses -- all small businesses across the nation -- to compete basically within the federal procurement system. I know that you believe in fair and open competition on a broad basis. I would suggest to you, and my question to you is, will your administration look at this issue and try to unbundle these contracts that make it more competitive for small businesses to work in the federal marketplace?

THE PRESIDENT: It's a great question. It's an issue that I'm familiar with. Just by way of background for people who aren't as familiar with federal purchasing, the federal government is such a big customer that sometimes for administrative convenience, what they do is they just say, here, Halliburton, here's a contract for $20 billion to do all these various things, and then you sort of figure out how you're going to divvy it up. Well, it may be that -- I'm sorry, what was your name?

THE PRESIDENT: It may be that Carlos has a better product to sell -- (laughter) -- you know, for a segment of that contract, but he can't bid on the entire thing, all right? And so what ends up happening is the taxpayer loses the benefit of a better product at a better price because everything is bundled into this huge contract with a giant general contractor who then divvies up the business.

So one of the things that we're trying to figure out is, are there are ways that we can unbundle and unpackage some of these goods and services that the government purchases. It'll save taxpayers' money. It'll promote more competition. Carlos is still going to have to bid. He's still going to have to prove that his price is better and his product is better, but at least he's got a chance.

Now, we're not going to be able to do that on everything, because there are some things that, frankly, you need some economies of scale, right? But what we want to do is make sure that we're looking for every opportunity to unbundle to give everybody a chance to compete so that we don't just have one or two or three major contractors who are getting every contract, because at a certain point what ends up happening is those contractors get so much clout in Washington, they're getting such huge contracts, then they start spending a million dollars on lobbyists to make sure that the contracts keep going the same way. You start seeing the system distorted in ways that aren't healthy. And the more players there are, the more Carloses there are who are out there scratching and striving to get some business, ultimately the better deal we'll get as taxpayers.

So, great. Okay. Here you go.

Q My name is Linda Bock and I'm a registered nurse just in Prince George's County, Maryland -- been there 34 years at a free senior health center. And I'm here with my fellow nurses from SEIU. First of all, thank you for listening to us, because as nurses we do listen to our patients all the time. We're their advocate. And so we appreciate this opportunity for you to hear from us.

One of the things we want to make sure is that nurses are represented in the health care forum committees -- reform committees because we want to be there on behalf of our fellow nurses and on behalf of the patients that we sometimes have to speak up for. So I really hope that we can be there so we can push the things like prevention and education that are so very important so that we don't use our emergency rooms for their doctor visits and that we have more community-based health centers for those that are in need. And I just -- I really appreciate this opportunity to be heard.

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I appreciate that. I guarantee you nurses were part of the health care summit, and they will be at the table in all these discussions. I'm biased toward nurses, I just like nurses -- (laughter). When Michelle and I went in and Malia was being born, the OB/GYNE was a close friend of ours and so was much more attentive than the usual OB/GYNE might be. But the fact is, we only saw her for like 15 minutes. The rest of the time, it was nurses who were doing everything. When Sasha, our little precious pea -- (laughter) -- she got meningitis when she was three months old -- very dangerous. The doctors did a terrific job, but, frankly, it was the nurses that were there with us when she had to get a spinal tap, and all sorts of things that were just bringing me to tears.

And we've got a problem in this country, which is we have a shortage of nurses -- makes no sense, given this unemployment rate. But the reason is, is because the pay of nurses, the hours of nurses, the quality of life of nurses, the fact that nurse professors are even worse paid than the nurses themselves, so that you get these huge bottlenecks in terms of training as many nurses as we want.

All these issues are part of the inefficiency of the health care system that has to be fixed. And the more we're emphasizing primary care, preventive care, wellness -- all of which will save us money in the long term -- the more that we can deploy nurses as the troops on the front lines in ultimately driving down some of these health care costs.

So I think it's very important that nurses are a part of this process.

Here, we've got a mic. I'm hanging on to my mic. (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT: I might not get it back. (Laughter.)

Q Sir, you're the President, you always get it back. (Laughter.) Sir, I'm Tom Sawner. I'm a service-disabled veteran, small-business owner in Arlington, Virginia. My company, Educational Options, works with public schools. We serve more than 200,000 at-risk kids within public schools, providing online content, partnering with teachers, and I was honored to serve on your education platform committee.

Q Today my question is, as a small-business owner, my company is still profitable. We're still growing, we're still hiring. The money that I make as a profit, I'm plowing right back in, and even the money that I pay to the bank for my business loans. Yet under current tax laws, all of that counts as income to me before I ever see a penny of it.

Sir, could you please help small businesses by allowing, some way, somehow, money we pay to the bank in principle to not count against our income, and put us in the "richest" before we ever seem a dime, and allow us to invest in this huge engine to drive economic recovery?

And a final question: As a veteran, would you please see if we can enforce the existing laws for veteran and other small-business set-asides? Thank you, sir.

THE PRESIDENT: Okay, good. Well, thank you for the question. Obviously, I'm not completely familiar with your circumstances or your tax status. But we want to do everything we can to relieve the tax burden on startups and small businesses, and as they grow, then their tax burden is going to grow accordingly.

So one of the things that we have already proposed and is reflected in our budget is that we are eliminating capital gains taxes for small businesses. That's something that we've already proposed and put in place.

Now, what'll happen is, you won't see that reflected in an immediate benefit because it will kick in five years from now. The law starts now, but you have to have those capital gains accumulate over the course of five years before it counts, because we don't want people gaming the system. But that's an example of the kinds of tools that we are already putting in place in the tax code to provide you relief, so that as you're reinvesting, that you are not penalized for that reinvestment.

And we will do everything we can to enforce the existing rules with regard to small businesses for veterans.

Okay, this young lady back here.

Q Hi, Mr. President. Thank you so very much for having me, a public school teacher from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, here to be with you.

THE PRESIDENT: What's your name?

THE PRESIDENT: Good to see you, Bonnee.

Q Thank you. I'm from Overbrook High School. I have to say that, because I know all the children are watching. (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT: All right. Hello, Overbrook. (Laughter and applause.) There you go.

Q Thank you. Two questions in reference of education, since this is a major part of your budget plan and platform. Definitions of charter schools and definitions of effective teachers -- how do you plan to define those two categories? And are you willing to have teachers on the platform, in the committees, as a part of developing those plans?

THE PRESIDENT: Absolutely. Well, as I said, the teachers are the most important person in the education system. So if we don't have teacher buy-in, if they're not enthusiastic about the reforms that we're initiating, then, ultimately, they're not going to work. So we've got to have teacher participation in developing these approaches.

The definition of charter schools is pretty straightforward. And that is that in most states you now have a mechanism where you set up a public school -- so this is not private schools, these are public schools receiving public dollars -- but they have a charter that allows them to experiment and try new things. And typically, they're partnering up with some sort of non-for-profit institution.

So, in Chicago, you've got charter schools that are affiliated with a museum, or they're affiliated with an arts program, and they may have a particular focus. It may be a science charter school, or it may be a language academy. They are still going to have to meet all the various requirements of a state-mandated curriculum; they're still subject to the same rules and regulations and accountability. But they've got some flexibility in terms of how they design it. Oftentimes they are getting parents to participate in new ways in the school. So they become laboratories of new and creative learning.

Now, there are some charter schools that are doing a great job, and you are seeing huge increases in student performance. And by the way -- one last point I want to make about these charters -- they're non-selective, so it's not a situation where they're just cherry-picking the kids who are already getting the highest grades; they've got to admit anybody. And typically there are long waiting lines, so they use some sort of lottery to admit them.

Some of them are doing great work, huge progress and great innovation; and there's some charters that haven't worked out so well. And just like bad -- or regular schools, they need to be shut down if they're not doing a good job. But what charters do is they give an opportunity for experimentation and then duplication of success. And we want to encourage that. So that's the definition of charters.

In terms of teachers, how we measure performance -- as I said before, I have been a critic of measuring performance just by the administering of a single high-stakes standardized test during the year, and then the teacher is judged. And that was, I think, the biggest problem with No Child Left Behind. It basically said that you just go in -- (applause) -- here's the standardized test, we'll see how the kids are doing; and because it doesn't even measure progress, you could have a very good teacher or a very good school in a poor area where test scores have typically been low, and they are still punished even though they're doing heroic work in a difficult situation.

The other problem is that you started seeing curriculums and teachers teaching to the test -- not because they want to, but because there's such a huge stake in doing well on these tests that suddenly the science curriculum, instead of it being designed around sparking people's creativity and their interest in science, it ends up just being, here's the test, here's what you have to learn -- which the average kid is already squirming enough in their seat; now they're thinking, well, this is completely dull, this is completely uninteresting. And they get turned off from science or math or all these wonderful subjects that potentially they could be passionate about.

So what we want to do is not completely eliminate standardized tests -- there's a role for standardized tests. All of us have taken them and they serve a function. We just don't want it to be the only thing. So we want to work with teachers to figure out how do we get peer review, how do we have evaluation -- I was just talking to Bill Gates yesterday and he was talking about the use of technology where you can use videos to look at really successful teachers and how they interact with their students, how they're monitoring students, et cetera, and then you bring in the teachers at the end of the day and, just like a coach might be talking to his players about how you see how on that play you should have been here and you could have done that -- same thing with teachers.

But they don't get that feedback. Usually, especially beginning teachers are completely isolated. They're in this classroom -- they're sort of just thrown in to sink or swim. Instead, let's use a variety of mechanisms to assess and constantly improve teacher performance.

Now, one thing I have to say -- I know you'll admit this, although maybe you can't on TV, but in private I'll bet you'd admit that during the -- how long have you been teaching?

THE PRESIDENT: Fifteen years. Okay, so you've been teaching for 15 years. I'll bet you'll admit that during those 15 years there have been a couple of teachers that you've met -- you don't have to say their names -- (laugher) -- who you would not put your child in their classroom. (Laughter.) See? Right? You're not saying anything. (Laughter.) You're taking the Fifth. (Laughter.)

My point is that if we've done everything we can to improve teacher pay and teacher performance and training and development, some people just aren't meant to be teachers, just like some people aren't meant to be carpenters, some people aren't meant to be nurses. At some point they've got to find a new career.

And it can't be impossible to move out bad teachers, because that brings -- that makes everybody depressed in a school, if there are some folks -- and it makes it harder for the teachers who are inheriting these kids the next year for doing their job.

So there's got to be some accountability measures built in to this process. But I'm optimistic that we can make real progress on this front. But it's going to take some time. All right?

THE PRESIDENT: How many times --

DR. BERNSTEIN: One more question, please.

THE PRESIDENT: Oh, one more question. Now, yelling -- just saying it right here is not going to get you the question. (Laughter.) You know what I'm going to do, is -- I hope I don't seem biased here; I'm going to go with a young person here. Last question -- at least younger than me. (Laughter.)

Q Thank you, Mr. President. My name is Sergio Salmeron. I want to find out about health care. In a society, a lot of times we have to step back and ask ourselves if what we're doing in principle, not in practice, is right. And so when we think about health care, I want to know from you if the things like preexisting conditions and preventive medicine, if they are a symptom of what's going on in our health care system, then what is the problem and how do you address it?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I'll talk to you about preexisting conditions, because this is something that I talked about during the campaign; it's something that touched on me personally.

My mother contracted ovarian cancer when she was 53, and she died six months later. It's one of those cancers that typically is diagnosed very -- at late stages; it's hard to catch early.

She was at the time working as an independent contractor. She was working for an international assistance organization. And so she had insurance, but when she was diagnosed and the medical bills started mounting up, some of -- this insurance company started saying that this is a preexisting condition, so maybe we don't have to reimburse you. And we had to spend a bunch of time fighting with these insurance companies about this issue.

Now, eventually we were lucky we got these costs approved, because the point was she didn't know, nobody had diagnosed it, and if you start having a -- the standard of preexisting condition is you might have had that illness some time at some point before you -- or you were genetically predisposed to it, potentially none of us would ever get any insurance.

So -- but I still remember watching her -- you know, she's sick, she's going through chemotherapy, and she's on the phone arguing with insurance companies. And she's lucky she had insurance. There are tons of people out there who, once they've had one heart attack, once they've been diagnosed with diabetes, once they've got some form of chronic illness, from that point forward it is almost impossible for them to get health insurance. And if their employer, especially if it's a small employer, wants to give them health insurance, the costs are so prohibitive that they can't do it even if the employer wants to help.

I mean, if Carlos has got a small business, if -- I don't know how many employees he has, but if he has 10 employees, 22 employees, and if one of them got a serious illness like leukemia, it would send his insurance rates skyrocketing to a point where he just couldn't operate.

So this is why any reform of the health care system I think has to address this issue, and to say we are going to allow anybody to get health insurance. And if you've got a preexisting condition you're not going to be excluded but you're going to be able to obtain health insurance. And if you can't obtain it through a private plan then there is going to a public plan that is available in some way to give you insurance, or insurers are obligated to provide you with insurance in some way.

Now that's a principle. What are the details of how we're going to do that? There are a lot of different approaches.

We have seen some progress with the insurance companies where they have said, we are willing to take everybody in, but only if everybody is required to be in. That's the position that they're taking right now. So the idea is you combine a rule that eliminates preexisting condition exclusions with mandatory health insurance, just like auto insurance is mandatory. That's a proposal they've put forward.

Now, that's progress in the sense that they've acknowledged that this preexisting condition situation is a real problem. Whether that ends up being the best mechanism -- during the campaign, I was skeptical of mandates only because my attitude was the reason people don't have health insurance is not because they don't want it, it's because they can't afford it. And if we drive down cost, then people will have it.

But that's part of the debate that's going to be taking place over the next several months as we try to develop a health care plan for the future.

Okay? Listen, I know that there were other people who had questions, both here in the live audience, as well as in our virtual audience. But we're out of time. I just want to say thank you for participating. Thanks for paying attention. And we need you guys to keep paying attention in the months and years to come. (Applause.)

Thank you, everybody. (Applause.)
1061 2009-03-26 Manager Joe Girardi said he would try batting Derek Jeter first and Johnny Damon second for a few days. He also announced that C.C. Sabathia would start on opening day in Baltimore, as well as the home opener at the new Yankee Stadium on April 16 ...
1062 2009-03-26 Child-pornography laws, drafted long before the practice of sexting came about, may be used against teens who send risqué pictures of themselves....
1063 2009-03-26 Several investment funds managed by Credit Suisse are claiming fraud in what they call "a brazen conspiracy" in connection with more than $700 million in loans extended to investment vehicles controlled by a wealthy Dutch financier, Louis Reijtenb...
1064 2009-03-26 A new ad campaign will bring in some money for Twitter, but despite the hype, it is not the business model that Twitter watchers breathlessly await....
1065 2009-03-26 Animation | "My, what big charts your have, Grandma!" The source info says this is by Tomas Nilsson, a graphic design student from Sweden: ....
1066 2009-03-26 The Group of 20 nations meeting next week is a "make or break event" for the global markets, investor George Soros said on Wednesday. "Unless it comes up with practical measures to support the countries at the periphery of the global financial sys...
1067 2009-03-26 In an early sign that Washington may have to pay more to finance huge stimulus plans to fix the economy, investors hesitated at buying a government debt issue on Wednesday, forcing the Treasury to pay a higher interest rate than expected. While th...
1068 2009-03-26 The North’s defiance is the first major test for President Obama in dealing with Pyongyang.

“We intend to raise this violation of the Security Council resolution, if it goes forward, in the U.N.,” said Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton on Wednesday. “This provocative action in violation of the U.N. mandate will not go unnoticed, and there will be consequences.”

North Korea countered Thursday that further sanctions would cause it to quit the so-called six-party talks, which have been deadlocked since late last year after North Korea expelled international monitors from Yongbyon, its main plutonium-producing nuclear facility. The United States, South Korea, Japan, China and Russia have been trying for years to persuade North Korea to dismantle its nuclear weapons programs in return for economic aid.

Comments from the North’s Foreign Ministry spokesman carried by the official KCNA news agency on Thursday also appeared to indicate that the North was threatening to restart Yongbyon if further sanctions were imposed.

“The six-party talks will come to an end,” the comments said, and “all the processes for the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula” would be “brought back to what used to be before their start and necessary strong measures will be taken.”

The nuclear complex in Yongbyon, 62 miles north of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, is the North’s only known source of weapons-grade plutonium. If North Korea restarts it, it means the end of the most visible achievement the Bush administration had made in dealing with North Korea.

Under an agreement with the United States, North Korea blew up the cooling tower of Yonbyon’s nuclear reactor last June and has disabled other parts of the facility, which American officials say has produced enough plutonium for several nuclear bombs.

But some key components, including the reactor core, remain intact, and North Korea can also extract more plutonium from thousands of spent nuclear fuel rods it has unloaded from the reactor.

If North Korea successfully launches its rocket, it would demonstrate that the North has the technological skills to send up a missile that could travel as far as the western United States. Washington and its allies also consider North Korea’s missile program an additional threat because the North has sold missile technology to the Middle East and is developing nuclear weapons that could potentially be loaded on its missiles.

After North Korea detonated its first nuclear device in 2006, the Security Council adopted a resolution banning North Korea from further nuclear and missile tests. Won Tae-je, a spokesman for the South Korean Defense Ministry, declined to confirm Thursday’s news report, but said a missile test would be “a serious challenge and provocation against the security on the Korean Peninsula and regional stability in Northeast Asia.”

A successful launching in the first week of April would also give a timely boost to the domestic reputation of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il. The country’s Parliament is scheduled to convene April 9 to re-elect him.

Mr. Kim, 67, was reported to have suffered a stroke last August. His declining heath has raised questions about his grip on power and the future of his regime, within which no clear successor has emerged.

Some American officials, including Adm. Timothy Keating, the head of the United States Pacific Command, have said that the United States has the capability to shoot down any North Korean missile heading for American territory.

But such an intercept is highly unlikely, according to experts in Seoul, in part because Washington is trying to win the release of two American television journalists recently detained by North Korea. The North has charged them with illegally crossing the Chinese-North Korean border.
1069 2009-03-26 The Obama administration will detail on Thursday a wide-ranging plan to overhaul financial regulation by subjecting hedge funds and traders of exotic financial instruments, now among the biggest and most freewheeling players on Wall Street, to pot...
1070 2009-03-26 Bank of America is folding its Premier Banking unit into Merrill Lynch, laying off several hundred workers, The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday. The shift will better position BofA as a wealth manager for clients with assets of $100,000 to $...
1071 2009-03-26 Executives at Goldman Sachs made it clear that they wanted to give back the government aid the firm had received. But if the firm seeks to raise capital in the public markets afterward, it still needs to reckon with Warren Buffett, Breakingviews s...
1072 2009-03-26 By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED THE wave of layoffs has crashed upon the legal industry. With the drastic slowdown in the financial sector, increasing numbers of law firms have announced layoffs, lopping hundreds of associates and other nonpartner posi...
1073 2009-03-26 Deal-making isn't dead. But it could use a shot in the arm....
1074 2009-03-26 With the balance of supply and demand tilted in hedge fund investors' favor for the first time in years, even some star managers are now on the back foot. It's time for investors to push for their rights....
1075 2009-03-26 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has placed a long-range missile on a launch pad before a test that the United States, Japan and South Korea said would violate a United Nations Security Council resolution, a news report said Thursday.

Spy satellites detected what looked to be a Taepodong-2 missile in place Tuesday at the Musudan-ri launch site near North Korea’s northeastern coast, said Chosun Ilbo, South Korea’s leading daily, quoting an unidentified diplomatic source.

Once the rocket is installed on the pad, missile experts said, the North Koreans can technically launch it within three or four days — the time needed for the fueling of a three-stage rocket.

North Korea has said it would launch a rocket over Japan and the Pacific between April 4 and 8 to deliver an experimental communications satellite into orbit. But Washington, Tokyo and Seoul have said the launch is a cover for testing its Taepodong-2 ballistic missile. Both missions — the satellite and the ballistic missile — use the same rocket technology.

If North Korea successfully launches its rocket, it would demonstrate that the North has the technological skills to send up a missile that could travel as far as the western United States. Washington and its allies also consider North Korea’s missile program an additional threat because the North has sold missile technology to the Middle East and is developing nuclear weapons that could potentially be loaded on its missiles.
1076 2009-03-26 The National Football League, known around the world merely as American football, is considering the addition of one or two games to its current 16-game regular-season schedule....
1077 2009-03-26 But the most striking new proposals, and the ones that may provoke the most heated opposition from the industry, would regulate so-called private pools of capital — hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds — and the gigantic market in financial , including instruments like , the insurancelike instruments that allow investors to hedge against bond defaults.

Hedge funds and private equity funds manage money for wealthy individuals and institutions like pension funds. They operate almost entirely outside the regulation of either the Securities and Exchange Commission or the .

Under the administration proposal, hedge fund, private equity and venture capital fund advisers would for the first time have to register with the S.E.C. They would be required to provide the government — on a confidential basis — information on how much they borrow to leverage their as well as information about their investors and trading partners.

The S.E.C. would then share those reports with a new “systemic risk regulator.” At least for the moment, Mr. Geithner is ducking the crucial question of who the powerful risk regulator should be, a contentious issue among Democratic lawmakers.

Hedge funds have generally not been implicated in the financial collapse, which stemmed primarily from reckless lending and exotic financial instruments tied to subprime mortgages.

But the hedge fund industry for years has fought even minimal federal regulation, like S.E.C. registration. Now, a growing number of lawmakers and policy makers are worried that hedge funds have become too big a part of the financial market to operate without government monitoring.

Administration officials also want to prevent a repeat of the gigantic perpetrated by .

, a hedge fund manager who made billions by betting against the housing market, said in an interview on Tuesday that the main goal of any regulation of hedge funds should be to protect investors from frauds like that of Mr. Madoff.

“We’re for anything that protects investors,” Mr. Paulson said. While he acknowledged that some hedge funds might have relied too heavily on leverage to improve their returns, he added that “there hasn’t been one problem at all to global systemic risk in the U.S. and abroad from a hedge fund.”

Leon G. Cooperman, a longtime hedge fund manger who runs Omega Advisors, said that new regulations were not needed and that he found the call for new rules to be mere finger-pointing.

“I’m already heavily regulated,” Mr. Cooperman said, saying that his fund was subject to oversight from the S.E.C., the , the Fed and other organizations.

“The truth of the matter is, most major hedge funds are registered with the S.E.C., they are regulated with the C.F.T.C., and they are subject to Federal Reserve margin requirements,” he said, referring to the Fed’s rules that require all investors to set aside funds when buying securities on . “The regulatory system is already in place. Let them enforce what they have.”

There is likely to be an even bigger fight over the proposal to regulate financial derivative products. Some derivatives, like stock options and interest rate futures, are already regulated because they are traded on exchanges like the .

But the administration would regulate trading in more exotic derivatives that trade privately, like the credit-default swaps that were used both to hedge against and to speculate on high-risk mortgage-backed securities. These more exotic products have been traded almost entirely in the informal, over-the-counter market that lies outside regulatory scrutiny.

The administration would require that all standardized derivatives be traded through a regulated clearinghouse. Traders would be required to provide documentation on their collateral and borrowings. They would also be subject to new eligibility requirements, and their trading and settlement practices would be subject to new standards.

Mr. Geithner is not expected to provide any details on Thursday for how all this will work. But the proposals are all but certain to provoke criticism from all sides — traders who say the rules are too intrusive and policy experts who say the approach is too vague.
1078 2009-03-26 The deal Goldman struck with the Oracle of Omaha is nowhere near as onerous. Unlike others, Goldman’s miniratchet isn’t linked to the price Berkshire negotiated for its preferred stock and warrants. Instead, it requires two triggers. First, Goldman would have to sell new shares at a discount of 5 percent or more to the stock price at the time. That’s certainly possible — it offered an 8 percent discount last September when it sold its stock during one of the most volatile weeks of the year. The average secondary share sale dangled at a little less than a 5 percent discount in 2008 and just breached that so far this year, according to the research firm Dealogic.

Second, the discount only applies if Goldman sells stock to a small group of select investors. A broader sale — like a rights offering to its shareholders — wouldn’t set off the ratchet.

That gives Goldman a good deal of leeway. It’s not as clean as Morgan Stanley’s ratchet-free $9 billion investment from Mitsubishi UFJ of Japan. But in this market, the fewer shackles the better.

Upticks in new and existing home sales in February suggest the housing market may be hitting bottom. Prices are close to their long-term averages in terms of multiple of buyers’ earnings, and may decline only modestly. That’s good news for banks’ asset portfolios — and the global economy.

After three years of relentless declines, demand for housing appears to be rising toward supply. As the sharp rise in mortgage refinancing demonstrates, that’s partly an effect of historically low mortgage rates for prime credits eligible for a Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac guarantee.

Nevertheless, the first stirrings of increased home sales should be the beginning of a stronger overall trend. Only a surge in new building by housing companies wishing to convert vacant land into income could delay the revival. That’s why a jump in February housing starts, up 22 percent from January, was somewhat disquieting.

True, prices may continue to decline for some months, if only because there’s still so much inventory. Given the gigantic budget deficit, interest rates might rise from their current very low levels, which would reduce housing affordability and depress prices further. But if the latest government stimulus brings a stable economy and just a modest revival of inflation, that would increase incomes and housing affordability.

Rising home sales combined with slowing price declines will put a floor under the value of the financial system’s housing-related assets. That would be excellent news if it put the banking system in better health to proffer credit.

At that point, it will be possible to unwind the current government subsidies to housing and the housing finance market without short-term adverse economic effects. Moves like closing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and limiting the tax deduction for mortgage interest would become feasible.

These would help reduce the long-term budget deficit while restoring housing financing to a sound, free-market foundation and deter any future housing bubbles. ANTONY CURRIE and MARTIN HUTCHINSON
1079 2009-03-26 “We don’t tell our financial story well,” Ms. Miller said.

The survey echoes other recent reports on the woes of the nonprofit sector, and Ms. Miller said she hoped to use the data to argue for new operating principles and practices for nonprofit groups that would enable them to secure a better financial footing.

Connie Karasow is executive director of Libertae Inc., based in Bensalem, Pa., which offers housing and other services for women with mental health and substance abuse issues and their children. Ms. Karasow said Libertae was financially sound “for the moment,” thanks to money still due from state sources and two unusual, large gifts from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and GlaxoSmithKline.

“It’s not a new story that nonprofits like us are struggling,” Ms. Karasow said. “It’s that we’re just hitting a critical mass of financial problems now.”

Libertae, which has a $2 million budget, has no reserves, she said, and demand for its services is climbing fast.

“Our women used to make $8.75 an hour, but now that jobs are tighter, they’re finding their wages have dropped about $1, to $7.75, give or take,” Ms. Karasow said. “There is no affordable housing to speak of, never mind affordable child care. Where else can they turn?”

Patrick Heron, chief executive of Catholic Social Services of Wayne Country, Mich., which serves Detroit, said demand for his organization’s services was up 15 percent to 20 percent, including pleas for help from people who were former donors.

“In many cases, their homes are being foreclosed, and that’s not something we can help them with,” Mr. Heron said. “People aren’t always happy to hear that.”

In the year ending June 30, Catholic Social Services will receive about $750,000 from the local United Way. The previous year, it received $1.2 million. The organization has laid off employees, reduced services and is trying to sell one of its branch offices to offset losses in revenue from other sources. It is also discussing sharing back office operations with other nonprofit groups.

While many nonprofit groups have reported having a hard time getting lines of credit from banks, only one quarter of the survey respondents reported that the recession had made it more difficult to get such financing.

“We were surprised by that, too,” Ms. Miller said. “The responses to that question don’t line up with what we’re seeing in the field, even though the remainder of the findings do.”
1080 2009-03-26 Two missiles believed to have been fired from an American drone killed seven foreign militants in Makeen, a town in south Waziristan, Pakistani intelligence officials said Wednesday. The attack, around 6:30 p.m., was directed at two vehicles of the type used by Taliban in the area. Makeen is the stronghold of the Mehsud tribe, led by Baitullah Mehsud, the head of the Pakistani Taliban. Early Thursday, a similar missile strike killed at least four militants in the nearby Essokhel area, Agence France-Presse reported, quoting local officials.
1081 2009-03-26 New bedding and other merchandise from Missoni will be 20 percent off at Auto on March 26 and 27 (Karl and Karlito queen-size duvet covers, left, originally $665, will be $532); 803-805 Washington Street (Horatio Street), (212) 229-2292, thisisauto.com.

Tufenkian carpets discounted 30 to 60 percent on the company’s outlet Web site will be an additional 20 percent off through March 31 (the 8-by-10-foot Donegal Branches, originally $6,300, will be $2,436); (800) 928-6671 or tufenkianoutlet.com.

Flos lighting fixtures are 40 percent off at Lee’s Studio through April 9 (the classic Arco floor lamp, originally $3,370, will be $2,022); 220 West 57th Street (Broadway), (212) 581-4400 or leesstudio.com.

Selected floor samples of Dune’s furniture will be up to 70 percent off, and new orders will be 20 percent off, from March 27 to April 11 (Air Frame desks, originally, $3,975, will be $1,192); Dune, 88 Franklin Street (Broadway), (212) 925-6171, dune-ny.com; and ABC Carpet & Home, 888 Broadway (19th Street), (212) 473-3000.

Good deals may be reported to rohrlich@nytimes.com.
1082 2009-03-26 WASHINGTON — The Pentagon’s new Africa Command is still recovering from early missteps in explaining its missions and purpose, miscues that government investigators say have left lingering fears at the State Department, in Congress and on the continent that the Defense Department is militarizing the nation’s foreign policy in Africa.

Investigators also reported problems with the command’s goal of filling its ranks with many more diplomats and civilians from the Treasury, Commerce and other federal departments than traditional military commands. The Pentagon originally planned to draw 125 people — or one quarter of the command’s staff — from other agencies; the number is now hovering at 52.

A report issued Wednesday by the Government Accountability Office acknowledged that the command had taken steps recently to win the trust of American diplomats and development experts, as well as African leaders. But it said the command must do a better job explaining what it does to build credibility among its United States government partners and with the African nations it is seeking to help.

“The military’s large size brings the promise of increased resources,” the report said, but that size also stirs concerns among African nations “about potential encroachment into civilian responsibilities like development and diplomacy.”

In an interview here on Monday, before the G.A.O. issued its report, Gen. William E. Ward, the head of the command, said many of the misperceptions about the command had been dispelled. “We are, in fact, able to devote our attention to the programs that we want to put in place and that are being asked for by our African friends, programs that clearly support our foreign policy and that lead to increased prospects for stability on the continent,” General Ward said.
1083 2009-03-26 Q. My car is too old to have come with a built-in iPod connection like the ones newer models have, but is it possible to wire an iPod cable into the existing dashboard stereo system?

A. Adding an iPod jack to your car’s system may take some time, money and effort, but the wired connection usually sounds consistently better than what you get with an inexpensive add-on like an FM transmitter. (An FM transmitter broadcasts the audio signal from an MP3 player on an unused frequency on the FM band; sound quality varies and urban areas often lack enough empty space on the FM radio dial to squeeze in the iPod’s music without static.)

A number of iPod kits are available for automobile stereo systems. One place to see what’s out there is Apple’s own page at apple.com/ipod/carintegration. The page has links to manufacturers with iPod connections in their current models, as well as a lengthy list of aftermarket solutions.

Your choices vary based on your car’s existing equipment, but can cost as little as $30 for the KCE-422i connection cable that links the iPod to certain Alpine stereo head units. The DICE Electronics Universal iPod Integration Kit, which costs about $130, is hardware that works with a wider range of vehicles and stereo units. If you are not comfortable rooting around inside the car’s dashboard to install the iPod cable, you may want to pass the job over to a car audio specialist.

If a hands-on approach doesn’t bother you, there are also a few do-it-yourself methods. Most of these require the existing system to have an available auxiliary jack — which many factory stereos lack. The electronics dealer Crutchfield has a guide to iPod installation at snipurl.com/e1hae, as does MacLife magazine at snipurl.com/e1hr3.
1084 2009-03-26 Proponents of the Blu-ray format like to point out that it can store more data than its DVD counterpart. Blu-ray detractors cite the fact that the information it stores often takes longer to load.

LG’s BD370 Blu-ray player offers high-definition video and audio and is quick to get going (it is three times faster than some other machines). The LG BD370 Blu-ray player can be ordered now on Amazon.com, priced at $300, and will be shipped by the end of the month.

The BD370 offers instant movie-watching from Netflix, and if you’re not satisfied with those offerings, the unit can play back YouTube videos through its Ethernet port. With all these online abilities available, it may be easy to forget what the BD370 was intended to do, play Blu-ray discs — something it does quite nicely. Then again, the online features mean that, should the format fall by the wayside in favor of high-definition downloads, you won’t feel silly for having bought this player in the first place. AZADEH ENSHA
1085 2009-03-26 SwitchEasy, a manufacturer of iPod accessories, has just released the ThumbTack, a mini-microphone for the iPod Nano 4G or Touch 2G that is shaped, as its name suggests, like a tack.

The device, which costs $13, plugs into the iPod’s headphone jack and immediately brings up a voice recording application that is built into every iPod. The system can record audio at MP3 quality directly to the free space on the iPod. Fortunately, the tack resemblance applies only to the upper half of the device — the part that is inserted into the iPod is not as sharp as the ThumbTack’s namesake, so your legs are safe when the microphone is stored in your pocket while it’s not in use.

The ThumbTack comes in black, red and white and also works with third-party audio recording applications available on the iTunes App Store. The microphone is available at www.switcheasy.com.

Intended for taking dictation, recording lectures or interviews, or taking voice notes on the go, the ThumbTack is obviously not quite good enough for recording the latest Phish concert. And, despite its clever name, it is of little use in holding papers up on office corkboards. JOHN BIGGS
1086 2009-03-26 Amid increasing Congressional scrutiny of ties between doctors and drug makers, the American Psychiatric Association announced on Wednesday that it would end industry-financed medical seminars at its annual meeting. The association, the field’s premier organization, said it would also phase out meals at the meeting paid for with industry money.

Each year psychiatrists, like other doctors, must attend a set number of these seminars — called continuing medical education courses, or C.M.E.’s — to fulfill state licensing requirements. But the seminars, whether given at an annual meeting or elsewhere, are often financed by drug or device makers and can be biased in favor of the sponsor’s products, experts say.

“We decided that our professional education should be entirely separate from industries that are involved in psychiatry,” said the association’s president, Dr. Nada L. Stotland, in a telephone interview.

Over the years, she said, the association has charged companies up to $50,000 for sponsoring a symposium, and some annual meetings have included 30 of them, for a total of $1.5 million. Total income from the meetings accounts for about 10 percent of the association’s $50 million annual budget, Dr. Stotland said.

The association has been reviewing the income it received from industry sources since early 2008, Dr. Stotland said, looking for potential conflicts. Since then, Congressional investigators, led by Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, have found that several prominent psychiatrists who received hundreds of thousands to more than $1 million from drug makers did not report that income to their employers, as required by federal and most academic rules. The revelations have been widely reported in the media and have prompted some universities to conduct investigations of their own.

Industry-supported seminars are commonplace at annual meetings throughout medicine, as are payments to doctors and other financial arrangements. The psychiatric association said it had no plans to eliminate drug advertisements in its journals, commercial exhibits at meetings, or industry-sponsored fellowships for doctors.
1087 2009-03-26 The term bank shot just didn’t grab him. “But if a player shows a soft touch off the backboard, it’s a kiss,” he said.

Now consider his lingerie line. “To me, jockstrap is offensive,” he said. “It’s harsh. So lingerie is how I say someone was faked out of his jockstrap.”

Consider his onions, too. He recognizes that some view the reference as testicular, and he doesn’t deny it. But he said his were metaphorical onions. “It means something about a kid’s makeup,” he said. “I admire these kids down the stretch, the whole world on their shoulders and how they can reach back.”

When he doubled the onions for Moore, he said, “it was a reaction to him, to his size, his body weight, how tough he is, and that he proved to the world they’re more than little Siena.”

Twenty-seven years after coaching at Seton Hall, he succeeds by citing himself (Ibid., Raftery, Wm.) while occasionally spinning off new products. He hasn’t sold a line of sweet onions, endorsed Hershey’s Kisses or created a Web site.

“It’s laziness,” he said, explaining his failure to market himself.

Raftery, who will be in Boston with Lundquist on Thursday for the Xavier-Pittsburgh and Duke-Villanova games, has developed into a top-tier analyst.

“Everyone knows he’s very funny and entertaining, but they don’t credit him for being a great tactician,” Bob Mansbach, Raftery’s producer at CBS Sports, said.

And his admiration for young players — they all seem to be his children — is evident. For example, after Siena’s Kenny Hasbrouck missed one free throw, then made the second, to tie the score against Ohio State, he said: “Way to stick it. You’ve got to root for the kid.”

Probably his best-known call came 21 years ago when Pitt’s Jerome Lane obliterated the backboard on a spectacular jam.

“Send it in, Jerome!” he said, shouting.

Late this season, Lane approached Raftery before a Pitt-Connecticut game. “With a big smile,” Lundquist said, “he said, ‘Thanks for making me famous.’ ” Raftery said, “It was the cutest thing, and the psychic reward for getting to know a kid a little bit.”

Raftery, 65, and his wife, Joan, have three daughters, Kelli, Christi and Suzi; one son, Billy; and two grandchildren, Will and Alex. The children’s nicknames, bestowed by their father, are, in order: Boomer, Skinny, Boozy and Looie (for Carnesecca).

When Raftery coached at Seton Hall, from 1970 to 1982, Kelli Raftery said that misbehaving players would be punished by having to tend to the Raftery children.

“Instead of suicide drills,” she said, “we had some unusual baby sitters.”

Raftery said: “I’m sure it was a violation. I’d make them run and baby-sit.”

Kelli, a publicist for Sports Illustrated, said her father has not confined his phrasemaking to television. In backyard basketball games, Raftery told all four of his children to “get your puppies set” before shooting.

And if he did not like the boyfriends that his daughters brought to the house, Kelli said, “He’d say, ‘Come on, he has no onions.’ ”

Raftery could not recall going negative on the onions.

And just as his analysis frequently gives him the last word before a commercial break, he has sneaked in last-second wedding-day counsel to Suzi’s and Christi’s husbands.

His wedding-day advice to Christi’s husband, Nick Wood — “She’s yours, shoes and all” — emanated from the “shoe fetish she’s had since she was a little girl — like Imelda.”

Raftery’s own predilection, and an enduring part of his on-air persona, is to deride his success as a coach even if his 154-141 record at Seton Hall is far from shameful.

But, he said: “When I was supposed to be good, I wasn’t good enough. I’m not John Wooden.”

His more successful successor at Seton Hall, P. J. Carlesimo, figures in family lore, which is replete with tales about the white-haired Raftery.

“P. J. was scouting Seton Hall one day when he was coaching Wagner,” Kelli Raftery said. “My dad was so excited that he won that he left my mother there and had to call someone at the school to ask P. J. to bring my mom to the restaurant.”
1088 2009-03-26 Anderson also said it took the right players to run the system and even he did not have enough of them during his first two seasons at Missouri. After arriving from Alabama-Birmingham in 2006, Anderson went 34-28 in his first two seasons, and neither team made a postseason appearance. Last season, he suspended five players after they were involved in an altercation at a local nightclub.

“We just didn’t have the players that fit what we’re doing,” Anderson said. “Now we have guys that are more in tune, more athletic and more instinctive. We’ve got better personnel now.”

This season, Anderson has the Tigers back in the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time since 2003, with a Big 12 tournament title and a team record for wins, and the best one-season turnaround in program history.

Missouri has nine players averaging more than 11 minutes this season. The freshman guard Marcus Denmon is among them, and his average of 6.1 points is far less than the 28.5 he scored as a high school senior.

“We’re a starless team,” Denmon said. “Everybody plays together. We’re the ultimate team.”

Missouri tries to disrupt its opponents’ offense while creating easy offense for itself. The Tigers have made 222 more field goals than their opponents, thanks to being ranked second nationally in turnover margin (plus-6.4). They are also ranked first in assists per game (18.4) and second in steals (10.3).

Missouri does not employ fullcourt pressure all the time, but it uses varying defensive schemes to remain unpredictable. The Tigers’ tactics include straight man-to-man pressure, trapping on an opponent’s first pass and a run-and-jump attack.

“The traps occur at any point in time,” Anderson said. “I don’t even know when the traps are going to occur.”

In halfcourt sets, Missouri is capable of trapping on the first pass, playing fierce man-to-man defense and playing a matchup zone, Turgeon said. His team beat Missouri, 96-86, in the regular-season finale March 7, by attacking the Tigers’ pressure.

“The key thing is being able to adjust to all the different presses and traps that they throw at you,” Turgeon said. “Keep your guys in tune and staying in the right spots is what you have to do against Missouri. They’re relentless.”

Defense is the focus for 75 percent of a Missouri practice, Anderson said. And opponents find it is nearly impossible to prepare for it fully.

“It’s chaos,” Texas Tech guard John Roberson said. “Everywhere you go, you’re getting trapped. You never know when they’re going to come with the pressure. You tell yourself not to panic, but the fact that you never know when they’re going to come messes with your mind.

“Plus, it’s just tough to play against because they’re so athletic and long. They just wear you out.”

Players and referees have become accustomed to gasping for breath in games with Missouri.

Anderson’s son, the senior guard Mike Anderson Jr., proudly recalls how Oklahoma’s players turned red in a loss to the Tigers this month. He still cackles about Oklahoma forward Blake Griffin taking what seemed like an eternity to tie his shoelaces.

“They were dog tired,” he said. “You could definitely tell.”

Anderson grew up watching those Arkansas teams coached by Richardson and his father; he said this team had an advantage over those legendary Razorbacks squads.

“We actually play faster,” Anderson Jr. said. “That’s just our comfort zone. We try to force our will on people.”

Beating Missouri seems to require slowing down the Tigers and holding the score relatively low. Nebraska had some success, defeating them on Jan. 10 by working the shot clock and playing deliberately. The Cornhuskers came out on top of in that game, 56-51. Missouri won their Feb. 14 meeting, 70-47.

“They got too many possessions on us,” the Nebraska assistant Philip Mathews said of that second game. “The more possessions they get, the worse it is for you.”

A few teams can play Missouri’s style and beat the Tigers, Mathews said. One of them, he said, is Big 12 foe Kansas.

“It is a style that does not let you rest,” Kansas Coach Bill Self said in a teleconference. “For 40 minutes, you’re always thinking.”

And seemingly chasing the tail of the Tigers.
1089 2009-03-26 It is precisely because Maddon wants Price ready for next postseason that the Rays on Wednesday sent him to Class AAA Durham for the start of the regular season. It is hardly a secret that the Rays like to grow their prospects slowly and to nurture developing arms, especially one that is attached to the left shoulder of a 6-foot-6, 225-pound body like Price’s.

“Everybody saw him on the big stage last year pitching in brief spurts as a relief pitcher,” Maddon said. “He’s going to be a starter with us, and there’s a difference with that. If you look at his track record in the minor leagues, he has done well, but a lot of high pitch counts after four or five innings, etc. We don’t want that to be a part of his game.”

What has become part of Price’s game in the off-season is a changeup that expands his arsenal to three pitches. In addition to his overpowering, though erratic, fastball and tricky slider, he used the changeup to great effect last week against the Pirates and on Sunday, when he struck out four Yankees in four flawless innings. More worrisome for the Yankees and other American League East opponents might be Price’s assessment of his new weapon.

“I feel better with my changeup, really, than with any other pitch I have right now,” he said.

How much anyone will get to see it will come down to Maddon’s carefully measured philosophy. Price tossed 123 2/3 innings last season, including 14 with the big-league club, and Maddon said he did not want to increase that total by more than 20 percent. That should put Price somewhere in the 150-inning range this season.

For anyone but Maddon, Price’s numbers in spring training may look like succulent bait to stray from that plan and rush him onto the 25-man roster. In three appearances, including one start, Price has a 2-0 record and a 1.08 earned run average. Over the course of those eight and a third innings, he allowed six hits and a run, and struck out out 10.

But just as the Rays did last season with another precocious talent, third baseman Evan Longoria, they will let Price’s legend grow in the minors for the early part of the season. One of the theories bandied about at the time was that the Rays were trying to start Longoria’s arbitration clock as late as possible. That hardly seems an issue with Price, whose deal has him in Tampa Bay through 2012. And as Maddon was quick to point out, Longoria struggled initially in the majors anyway.

Once he turned it around enough to become the A.L. rookie of the year, however, Longoria unknowingly raised the bar for Price. But Price is convinced that the Rays’ improbable run last season actually eased the burden on him.

“Everybody’s expecting huge things from everybody on the team,” Price said. “Everybody’s doing their little piece of the puzzle. So we’ll be just fine.”

Especially considering that Maddon has two capable pitchers to choose from in the meantime: Jason Hammel and Jeff Niemann. Both pitchers are out of options, meaning that whichever one does not make the team can be claimed elsewhere. And whoever does, it seems that he would just be keeping the fifth spot in the rotation warm for Price.

If all goes according to Maddon’s plan, Price will be slurping his cereal in a major league clubhouse soon enough.
1090 2009-03-26 PARIS — Several lenders led by the International Monetary Fund said Wednesday they had agreed to provide $27 billion in emergency loans to Romania to help it deal with the financial crisis.

The loans include a two-year standby loan of 12.95 billion euros, $17.6 billion, from the monetary fund and 7 billion euros, $9.5 billion, from the European Union, the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

The monetary fund says that Romania will be able to draw 5 billion euros within a few months. Romania joins Iceland, Ukraine, Serbia, Belarus, Hungary and Latvia among European countries that have sought help since the global economy slowed last year. The economic crisis led investors to sell the currencies of smaller countries in a flight to dollars, euros and the Japanese yen. International institutions have sought to plug the hole in the countries’ finances with about $60 billion of emergency lending.

“The objective of the policy package is to cushion the effects of the sharp drop in private capital inflows,” Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the fund, said in a statement announcing the package.

The Romanian economy has been weakened by a sharp decline in foreign investment, even as the government’s finances and the banking sector have been overwhelmed. The economy is expected to contract by as much as 4 percent in 2009, as domestic demand shrinks and exports slump.

Romania, with 22 million people, had a gross domestic product last year of about $214 billion, the monetary fund said. Its external debt at the end of January was 50.6 billion euros, the central bank said. Romania, one of Europe’s poorest countries, must reduce government spending as a condition of the emergency loans.
1091 2009-03-26 REINS ON WALL STREET  The Obama administration is planning to unveil potentially strict new government regulations for hedge funds and exotic financial instruments.       TREASURIES A TOUGH SELL  Investors had a tepid reaction to the latest issue ...
1092 2009-03-26 With the drastic slowdown in the financial sector, the wave of layoffs has crashed upon the legal industry....
1093 2009-03-26 The volume of mergers and acquisitions in the first quarter is lower than it has been in more than a decade....
1094 2009-03-26 Not long ago, investors lined up to write checks to hedge funds but now many are realizing that hedge funds aren’t an asset class, but a legal construct  and the legal agreements can be absurdly one-sided....
1095 2009-03-27 It has been written; now the authors behind “Slumdog Millionaire” are moving onto new writing assignments....
1096 2009-03-27 Darryl McCauley, the half-brother and former business manager of Dane Cook, has been held on $1 million bail after pleading not guilty to charges he embezzled millions of dollars from the comedian and actor....
1097 2009-03-27 Update | 7:40 p.m. The market-making unit of Bernard L. Madoff's securities company will be sold to Castor Pollux Securities, a financial firm based in Boston, unless a better offer is submitted in an auction supervised by a federal bankruptcy jud...
1098 2009-03-27 Apple reportedly increases price of some songs by 30 percent....
1099 2009-03-27 Jordan Mackey, an Atlanta high school senior, weighs her wish list against the financial challenges her family faces....
1100 2009-03-27 Is it just a coincidence that the villain in "Monsters vs. Aliens" looks a little bit like Jeffrey Katzenberg?...
1101 2009-03-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1102 2009-03-27 Heather Armstrong, author of the wildly popular blog, Dooce, takes a funny, irreverent look at becoming a mother in her new book....
1103 2009-03-27 Parisian chic has finally landed in London with the opening yesterday of the glistening Lanvin flagship on Mount Street. Rather than throwing a large party, Lanvin celebrated with three intimate, hourlong salon-style presentations hosted by the la...
1104 2009-03-27 MGM Mirage, the casino operator, staved off a bankruptcy filing for its CityCenter development in Las Vegas by making a $200 million interest payment on Friday. Included in that payment is $100 million that MGM Mirage is covering for Dubai World, ...
1105 2009-03-27 Charter Communications, the big cable TV company, finally filed for bankruptcy on Friday, the latest step in its plan to clean up its balance sheet. Charter said last month that it would file for bankruptcy protection to shave off about $8 billion...
1106 2009-03-27 A new study shows that 86,000 people go to the emergency room each year because they tripped over the family pet....
1107 2009-03-27 A roundup, including views on unfying the global economy and the North Korea threat....
1108 2009-03-27 From Claire Cain Miller at Bits: Twitter's venture capitalists say they are not worried about when the microblogging start-up will start making money. And why should they be? The techies in the blogosphere are taking care of that for them. Twitter...
1109 2009-03-27 For years, hedge fund managers in the United States have worried that their loosely regulated and secretive industry would one day face tougher regulations. Now that day seems to be here. "It was inevitable that this would happen," Brad Alford, fo...
1110 2009-03-27 Private equity firms participating in British buyouts have been feasting on firms in receivership, The Wall Street Journal reported. More than a third of management buyouts in Britain since the start of the year occurred at companies in receiversh...
1111 2009-03-27 Employee pay is often tied to a company's fortune - until things turn sour, The New York Times's Jonathan D. Glater writes. Composite Technology, which makes electric cables and other products, decided in January to lower the price at which its wo...
1112 2009-03-27 Billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn told Reuters that he has not spoken recently with Lions Gate Entertainment, which on Thursday warned that a change in control of the company could cause a debt default for the studio that has become a focus of Mr...
1113 2009-03-27 New York City property agent Patricia Cliff says 40 percent of her buyers in the last six months have been from Europe....
1114 2009-03-27 Ethiopia's dwindling supply of "the pause that refreshes."...
1115 2009-03-27 The loss ended Memphis’s program-record 27-game winning streak, which had been the longest in Division I.

“Wow, if you wanted an up-tempo game, that was an up-tempo game there,” Missouri Coach Mike Anderson said.

J. T. Tiller had 23 points for Missouri (31-6), while the Memphis freshman point guard Tyreke Evans had a game-high 33 points in what might have been his last collegiate game.

“I thought they came out and played with heart and desire,” Anderson said of his team. “They deserved to win that game.”

Missouri will play Connecticut here Saturday for a trip to the Final Four in Detroit. The top-seeded Huskies (30-4) beat fifth-seeded Purdue, 72-60, in the West Regional’s first semifinal here.

Missouri has never played in a Final Four and last played for a trip to the event in 2002, when it lost to Oklahoma in the West Regional final.

Missouri went on a 13-2 run early in the second half and pushed its lead to 24 points on a 3-pointer by Matt Lawrence with 15:58 left in the game. Memphis then reeled off 11 straight points to pull to 64-51.

Missouri was later up by 15 when Memphis went on an 8-0 run to pull to 83-76 on a jumper by Robert Dozier. Memphis eventually pulled to 6 behind before running out of gas.

“They beat us at our own game,” Calipari said.

In the game’s opening minutes, Missouri led until a jumper by Dozier put Memphis ahead by 12-11 with 14:35 left. After trading leads with Missouri, Memphis opened its largest advantage of the game at 4 points on a 3-pointer by Roburt Sallie.

But Missouri took the lead for good at 29-28 on a 3-pointer by Matt Lawrence. His shot was part of a 16-4 run during which Missouri stormed to a 37-29 advantage.

Memphis closed to 4 points behind before Missouri reeled off a 12-3 spurt to close the first half on Denmon’s last-second shot.

With 3:15 left in the half, Calipari was called for a technical foul by the referee Ted Valentine after barely stepping out of the coaching box.

Calipari bellowed about the call. “We can’t get one foul,” he yelled.

Lawrence made one of the two technical free throws. On the ensuing possession, Tiller scored on a layup. Tiller added another free throw before Denmon made a deep 2-pointer that just beat the shot clock.

That shot was the one that had to be reviewed on a television monitor by officials to determine if it was a 3-pointer.

After the delay, Shawn Taggart dunked and the ball was inbounded to Denmon, who took one dribble and launched his 60-foot shot over Memphis guard Antonio Anderson. The crowd roared and Calipari shrugged in disbelief. His team entered halftime behind by 49-36.

“I thought we came out and kind of took the fight to Memphis early on,” Anderson said. “Before you knew it, our guys had a little confidence going about themselves.”

On this night, it was Mike Anderson’s Tigers, not Calipari’s Tigers, who stole the show. Anderson’s surprising team was picked seventh in the Big 12’s preseason poll by coaches. Last season, Missouri was riddled by suspensions and did not make the postseason. A year later, he has emerged as one of the nation’s hottest coaches for job openings.

As the final buzzer sounded here Thursday night, Anderson slowly pumped his fist and calmly exchanged high-fives with his players, who celebrated casually.

Like his players, Anderson still had plenty of energy.
1116 2009-03-27 TAMPA, Fla. — Unlike so many other pitchers who passed through Yankee Stadium in its final season, C. C. Sabathia never scooped dirt from the mound as a memento. Sabathia did not pitch when the Cleveland Indians, his original team, visited last May.

But Sabathia, whom Yankees Manager Joe Girardi named Thursday to start opening day in Baltimore and the home opener against the Indians at the new stadium, promised to correct that oversight this time. “I will be getting some dirt after the game,” he said.

Girardi said he considered Andy Pettitte for the stadium debut because of his years with the team, but chose to keep Sabathia on his normal fifth day. Girardi told Sabathia of the choice several days ago.

“It was pretty low-key, his response,” Girardi said. “But I caught him in the gym, and he was working out and kind of breathing hard. That might have had something to do with it. He seemed excited.”

Sabathia’s smile Thursday indicated as much. His mother, wife and young son will all be there, he said.

Facing the Indians, for whom he made five opening day starts, will be “a little weird,” Sabathia said. But knowing he will throw the first pitch in the new stadium thrilled him. Sabathia spoke in his pinstriped home uniform after a photo shoot.
1117 2009-03-27 CityCenter, the troubled residential and casino development in Las Vegas, has hired a law firm, Dewey & LeBoeuf, to prepare for a potential bankruptcy filing, people briefed on the matter said on Thursday.

Its developers, MGM Mirage and Dubai World, will likely fail to make a $220 million debt payment due Friday, these people said. The sprawling and unfinished $8.6 billion project may file for bankruptcy within days, though an agreement could be reached before then.

Talks among the developers, MGM Mirage and Dubai World, and their lenders are already under way.

Last week, Dubai World filed suit against the beleaguered casino operator MGM Mirage, claiming that its finances had imperiled CityCenter’s fate. The project, which is the biggest privately financed construction one in United States history, was meant to be a crowning achievement for MGM Mirage. A 67-acre site with hotel-condominiums, a casino and a 500,000-square-foot shopping center was planned.

MGM Mirage, which is controlled by the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian, reported a $1.15 billion fourth-quarter loss this month. The company, burdened with more than $13 billion in debt, has hired the investment bank Evercore Partners and the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges as advisers.

It has already agreed to sell its Treasure Island casino for $775 million.

Many of the big Las Vegas casino operators, including MGM Mirage, the Las Vegas Sands and Harrah’s Entertainment, have been hit hard by the drop in business caused by the recession. Now they are hard pressed to meet their debt obligations after years of rapid expansion when times were flush.
1118 2009-03-27 SCRANTON, Pa. — A federal judge said at a hearing on Thursday that “serious constitutional issues” were raised in a lawsuit filed by three teenage girls and their mothers against a county district attorney who threatened to arrest the students on pornography charges after seminude photographs of them appeared on other students’ cellphones.

“It seems like the children seemed to be the victims and the perpetrators here,” the judge, James M. Munley, told a lawyer for the district attorney, George P. Skumanick of Wyoming County. “How does that make sense?”

The lawyer, A. James Hailstone, said state law “doesn’t distinguish between who took the picture and who was in it.”

Judge Munley, of the Federal District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, said he would not rule until early next week on a request by a lawyer for the girls and their mothers for a temporary restraining order forbidding Mr. Skumanick from filing the charges, which they contend are retaliation for the parents asserting their First and Fourteenth Amendment rights to oppose his deal.

Twenty students from the Tunkhannock Area School District in northeastern Pennsylvania have been either caught with a cellphone containing photos of nude or seminude students or were identified in one or more such photos.
1119 2009-03-27 But the moves leave shareholder advocates fuming. Owners of company stock reap no monetary benefit from repricing of options, advocates say — only employees do. The process, in their view, is fundamentally unfair. Modifying the options means employees gain from stock price increases, while investors feel the brunt of stock price declines.

“A stock option is supposed to align the interests of employees and shareholders by putting them in the same boat,” said Patrick McGurn, special counsel to the RiskMetrics Group, which acquired Institutional Shareholder Services in 2007. “Repricing of options breaks that linkage.”

Many companies point out that it is not just the top executives who benefit. Google is giving all its employees a chance to swap their underwater stock options for new ones with a lower exercise price, pointing to the stock’s nearly 60 percent decline from its 2007 high.

Some companies are going further and specifically excluding top officials, perhaps sensitive to complaints that executive pay has gotten out of hand. Shareholders of Starbucks voted this month to permit a program that would allow the company’s employees to exchange some options for fewer new options with lower exercise prices. And Intel on Monday asked shareholders to approve an option exchange program at its annual meeting in May. Both programs eliminated top officials and board members.

While dozens of companies are now trying to reprice their stock options, the numbers are not as high as they were after the technology bubble burst earlier this decade, said Alexander Cwirko-Godycki, research manager at Equilar.

But, he added, “I am constantly surprised at the pace with which this trend is gathering steam.”

According to Equilar, which collected data for The New York Times on companies’ repricing activities, at least 25 companies modified option prices in the first three months of the year, either directly or indirectly by allowing employees to exchange options for new ones with lower exercise prices. At least 23 have proposed modifications this year.

The total number of programs in various stages already exceeds the action in 2008, when 51 companies undertook repricings or exchanges.

In recent years, stock exchanges have adopted rules that generally require shareholder approval for companies to reprice or exchange options. But there is more variety in the repricing programs adopted by different companies than in the past.

Like Intel, they are barring top executives and board members from having their option prices adjusted. Others are modifying the price adjustment based on the seniority of the employee holding the option.

By comparison, a program by ValueClick, an online marketing company, to buy underwater options was open to all employees, as was the repricing plan carried out by Composite Technology.

“Market conditions are such that the share prices suffered despite the performance of management,” rather than because of it, said James Carswell, vice president for investor relations at Composite Technology. “It would be great if we could go back and reprice the stock purchase price” to benefit investors, he continued. “We don’t have the ability to do that.” Companies may have previously asked shareholders for blanket approval to change an options program.

Google, for example, already had a plan in place that generally permitted an exchange of employees’ options, so the company did not give investors a say over its latest exchange. Mr. Carswell of Composite Technology said the company already had similar approval.

A few companies have run into serious shareholder resistance. Managers of Arrowhead Research, a nanotechnology company based in Pasadena, Calif., did this month after seeking to lower option exercise prices.

“Shareholder feedback to the proposals, however, made it clear that there is significant concern over the repricing structure proposed,” Christopher Anzalone, the company’s chief executive, wrote in a letter to shareholders. “It is critical to us that our shareholders have confidence that our interests are aligned, so we are withdrawing the proposals.”

Granting options is not likely to become less popular, though. Companies’ low stock prices are encouraging other companies to grant new options, said Jonathan Ocker, chairman of the compensation and benefits group at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe in San Francisco.

“I’m seeing more and more companies considering granting options now, because there’s no place to go but up,” Mr. Ocker said. He paused, then added, “It’s either going to go up or we’re in real trouble.”
1120 2009-03-27 Other states, including Florida, Illinois and Louisiana, have moved in a similar direction, focusing on improving conditions at state facilities to keep young offenders from returning.

Some states have worked at the county level to avoid confinement altogether, keeping youths in their communities while they receive rehabilitative services, which advocates say is a cheaper alternative to residential care.

The two largest state systems, Texas and California, cut long-term youth confinement by requiring counties to house low-level offenders in detention halls. Texas cut its 5,000-youth population by half within two years, while California reduced its population to 2,500, from more than 10,000 in 1997. But critics say that city and county detention programs are uneven and point out that states often do a poor job of monitoring them.

Missouri and other states are using new approaches in the juvenile justice system to try to stem the flow of adults behind bars. Missouri managed to cut its adult population from 2005 through the first half of 2007 by applying techniques from the Missouri Model.

The reforms have begun to have a national impact, with a 12 percent decrease in juvenile offenders from 1997 to 2006, from 105,000 youths to 93,000.

Most of the decline during that period was in state confinements, although some of the decrease is attributed to a 28 percent decline in youth arrests, which reform advocates say proves that there is no detriment associated with fewer incarcerated juveniles.

The Anne E. Casey Foundation of Baltimore has been a leading advocate for ending the confinement of low-risk offenders and placing them in community programs. Since trying the foundation’s approach in 2003, five counties in New Jersey have reduced juvenile detention by 42 percent, to 288 youths from 499.

Three years ago in California, Scott MacDonald, who is in charge of probation in Santa Cruz County, began asking courts to use Casey Foundation methods. Instead of confining every gang member accused of a crime, or every juvenile who failed a drug test, judges now look at a youth’s record and risk to determine whether he should remain free. A youth who fails a drug test, for example, might be ordered to attend substance abuse classes.

“Even if a kid doesn’t follow all of the rules — particularly rules that have nothing to do with crime — we won’t necessarily detain him,” Mr. MacDonald said.

In the 1990s, the Santa Cruz juvenile hall averaged 50 to 60 youths. Now it averages about 20 detainees, most of them under community supervision. More than 90 percent of those in the community programs have not committed new crimes within three years, Mr. McDonald said.

“The question we’re always starting with is, How do we keep them home?” he said.

Isela Gutierrez, a juvenile justice expert with the Texas Criminal Justice Coalition, a nonprofit group, said one drawback to the Missouri state system was that too many low-level offenders there were being confined, while serious juvenile felons were being sent to adult prisons, where conditions are harsher.

Tim Decker, director of the Missouri Division of Youth Services, said judges preferred to send youths to state facilities — Missouri Hills or the Hogan Street Regional Youth Center, with dorms that have wooden beds, male health and wellness classes, group counseling and game rooms — rather than dismal county lockups or to backlogged community programs.

“Judges have more faith in us,” Mr. Decker said. “So far we’re O.K., but you can’t do what we do with 25 kids in a group.”

Missouri Hills is clean and homey, with plush couches, stuffed animals on the bunks, and a dog rescued from the pound. The violence that plagues many juvenile prisons is also absent.

In a typical juvenile corrections environment, Mr. Decker said, if a youth becomes aggressive “you would have guards drag him into isolation” for three days.

“But,” he added, “the problem is that a young person doesn’t learn how to avoid that aggressive behavior and it will get worse.”

In Missouri Hills, isolation rooms were used only about a dozen times last year, Mr. Decker said, and never for more than a few hours. Pepper spray is banned, and youths are taught to de-escalate fights or apply grappling holds, a form of restraint.

Victoria, 16, who stole her grandmother’s car, her second offense, explained how her housing unit does a “circle-up,” or ad hoc counseling session, several times a day, whenever there is a conflict, like cursing.

“There’s drama all the time,” she said. “It’s like having a bunch of sisters.”

The Missouri system provided triage for an imploding system in Washington, where the juvenile corrections agency was plagued by vermin-infested buildings, overcrowding and chronic violence.

“The kids were stuffing their shirts with paper before they went to sleep to keep the roaches and rats from biting them,” said Vincent Schiraldi, head of the city’s Division of Rehabilitative Services.

With advice from experts in Missouri, Mr. Schiraldi divided platoons of youths into small groups. By October, the number of juveniles reconvicted within a year of release dropped to 25 percent, from 31 percent four years earlier. However, as conditions improved, confinements have risen, even as juvenile crime has declined.

Mr. Decker said that upgrading facilities and training new staff cost more initially, but that the reforms would reduce recidivism, which would result in long-term savings.

VonErrick has been home for a few weeks, and his 18-year-old sister said he seemed calmer and less interested in running with the wrong crowd. Their mother, Rosie Williams, said all three of her sons seemed more focused, and she attributed the changes to the counselors at the state group home.

Ms. Williams, whose husband is in prison, occasionally attended family counseling sessions where she said she learned important lessons as a parent. “Instead of just hollering at them and trying to keep them out of trouble,” she said, “I try to do things with them one on one, to get to know what’s on their mind and what’s going on in their lives.”
1121 2009-03-27 A Los Angeles County court has issued a restraining order against a man who tried to break into the set of the ABC reality series “Dancing With the Stars” in an attempt to meet one of its contestants, The Associated Press reported. The man, Robert O’Ryan, was arrested Tuesday after an incident Monday in which he jumped a fence at CBS Studios, where the series is produced. Mr. O’Ryan was said to be seeking the contestant Shawn Johnson, 17, the Olympic gymnast, at right with her partner, Mark Ballas. A search of Mr. O’Ryan’s car yielded two loaded guns as well as duct tape and love letters written to Ms. Johnson, the police said. He is being held on $35,000 bail on suspicion of carrying a loaded firearm in public; an April 14 hearing has been set to consider an extension of the restraining order.
1122 2009-03-27 A tornado swept through central Mississippi as residents slept early Thursday morning, injuring at least 20 people and damaging more than 60 buildings, including a church and a water treatment plant, state emergency management officials said.

Even as residents of rural Simpson County dug out, the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency warned that an onslaught of tempestuous spring weather was likely to continue through Saturday morning in the form of even stronger tornadoes, flooding and hail, said Greg Flynn, an agency spokesman.

Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi on Thursday declared a state of emergency in Simpson and other counties affected by the storms as the entire state — along with a broad swath of the South from east Texas to North Carolina — braced for the next wave of punishing weather.

Hardest hit on Thursday was the town of Magee, Miss, where the tornado tore through the city’s outskirts. Eric Carpenter, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Jackson, Miss., said that the winds reached up to 150 miles an hour, and that debris was found as far away as Garlandville, about 50 miles northeast of Magee. Video

“This tornado devastated this small community,” said Mr. Flynn of the Emergenmcy Management Agency. “There are houses that are just splinters. They’re just gone.”

At least 20 people were taken to local hospitals, including 2 who were more seriously injured and airlifted to Jackson, he said.
1123 2009-03-27 Spy satellites have detected what looks to be a Taepodong-2 long-range missile at the Musudan-ri launching site near North Korea's northeastern coast, South Korea's leading daily newspaper, Chosun Ilbo, reported on Thursday. The paper attributed t...
1124 2009-03-28 The Tigers plan to play their frenetic full-court style against the Huskies....
1125 2009-03-28 News, notes, results and more from the world of junior hockey....
1126 2009-03-28 ORLANDO, Fla. - The first player I saw at Steinbrenner Field early Saturday morning was carrying a pillow. It was Brett Tomko, well prepared for the hourlong bus ride across Interstate 4 to play the Atlanta Braves. Veteran move right there. Tomko ...
1127 2009-03-28 Friday's results in Russia, the Czech and Slovak Republics and Sweden....
1128 2009-03-28 William Dorrit, played magnificently by Tom Courtenay, is the title heroine’s father, a man of pride and breeding who has spent more than 20 years in the infamous Marshalsea debtors’ prison for unpaid bills he cannot remember, let alone ever repay, while wealthier, better-connected cheats and fat cats elude creditors in government sinecures, private clubs and villas overseas — too fat to fail.

Rent collectors stalk working-class families crammed into a crumbling neighborhood named Bleeding Heart Yard. As soon as they can pay up, the landlord ruthlessly raises the rates.

And there are inequities of feeling as well as of station, like the myopia and self-absorption of a self-deluding father like Mr. Dorrit, who exploits the kindness and filial piety of his youngest daughter, Amy (Claire Foy), who was born in the Marshalsea. Tiny, tender-hearted and taking care of her relatives with what Dickens described as a “pitiful and plaintive look,” Amy is known as Little Dorrit, beloved by the good and the brave and mistreated by almost everyone else.

Dickens heroines are rarely spirited or saucy; his world was not populated by the likes of Jane Eyre or Elizabeth Bennet. Mostly, they are closer to the mold of the meek, self-sacrificing girl in “The Old Curiosity Shop,” who drove Oscar Wilde to joke, “One must have a heart of stone to read the death of little Nell without laughing.”

Little Dorrit is boringly good, and that highlights the deliciously bad characters around her. The story’s main villain, the French thief and murderer Rigaud (Andy Serkis), is the exception, Gothic and one-dimensional. “Little Dorrit” is as rich at the margins as at the center with strange, and strangely believable, characters from almost all levels of society, rendered in quick, firm strokes.

Pancks (Eddie Marsan), an unsavory debt collector, is especially well drawn. He seems at first like a heartless and decidedly repulsive specimen, but beneath his coarse speech and strange facial tics, Pancks reveals a good heart and a sharp nose for unraveling secrets; he forms an unlikely alliance with the genteel Clennam to revive the Dorrit family fortunes.

Mrs. Merdle (Amanda Redman) is a great beauty and social tyrant who bullies her banker husband while trying to prevent her idiot son, Edmund (Sebastian Armesto), from marrying Amy’s older sister, Fanny (Emma Pierson).

Fanny, a dancer, is as callous and greedily ambitious as Thackeray’s Becky Sharp, but she feels genuine love for her little sister, though she takes advantage of her kindness and belittles her naïveté.

Even the Marshalsea has its pecking order and social intrigues, and the relationships between jailers and prisoners are as delicate and complex as those in the wealthiest bankers’ drawing rooms. Mr. Chivery (Ron Cook), the turnkey, has kept a watchful eye on the prison for decades, treating Dorrit, despite all his airs and delusions, with courtesy and also calculation.

Mr. Chivery is determined to keep his son John (Russell Tovey) in the family business, and that means helping the young man woo Little Dorrit. John and his father have the power to punish and even coerce their prisoners, but both display unexpected moments of nobility that few other characters can match.

Mr. Davies is well known for giving minor characters their humorous due; he is even better known for spicing up the most strait-laced classics with hints of sex and carnal yearning.

“Little Dorrit” is no exception, adding a hint of lesbian attraction to the opaque friendship between Miss Wade (Maxine Peake) and Tattycorum (Freema Agyeman), a girl adopted and perhaps exploited by the otherwise kindly Meagles family. In the novel Tattycorum is a dark-haired orphan, a status that in Victorian times was likely to condemn her to be treated more as a servant than as a companion. In the television version she is black.

Both Ms. Foy, as Amy, and Mr. Macfadyen, as Clennam, are persuasive and touching. But William Dorrit is at the core of this tale, and Mr. Courtenay does the role full justice, layering the pathos of the elderly debtor with rich swaths of self-pity and vanity.

Mr. Merdle’s fund is too good to be true, but “Little Dorrit” lives up to Dickens’s every word.

On most PBS stations on Sunday nights through April 26 (check local listings).

Adapted for television by Andrew Davies; Dearbhla Walsh, Adam Smith and Diarmuid Lawrence, directors; Lisa Osborne, producer; Anne Pivcevic for BBC and Rebecca Eaton for WGBH, executive producers.
1129 2009-03-28 “This is designed to ensure that those who suffer from addiction go to treatment and that those who profit from addiction go to prison,” said Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat who has led the Senate’s effort to revise the drug laws.

Prosecutors, who were still trying to make sense of the plan on Friday, said they had a number of concerns, like a provision that would allow offenders with several prior drug convictions to be sent to treatment.

“If you let someone who has five prior convictions into treatment over the prosecutor’s objections, that’s really symbolic of a revolving door,” said Bridget G. Brennan, the special narcotics prosecutor for New York City. “We’re worried that this will permit endless cycles of meaningless and expensive treatment.”

The discretion afforded to judges in the plan is wide. Not only would judges have the option to send all but the most serious drug felons to treatment, but they would also have the power to seal convictions and dismiss charges of offenders who have successfully completed treatment.

Judges would also have wide latitude to resentence offenders who do not successfully complete treatment. The plan provides them with the discretion to determine “an appropriate penalty” if treatment is not completed, Mr. Paterson said.

Negotiators for the Legislature and the governor’s budget office were still trying Friday to determine how much money would be dedicated to the program, which is expected to cost in excess of $80 million to implement. Mr. Schneiderman said that he expected most of the funds to come from federal stimulus money and that no state money would be involved this year.

Advocates for changes to the state’s drug laws cautioned that if the state did not invest enough money to pay for the expansion of drug treatment and re-entry programs for drug-dependent offenders, the revisions would be for naught.

“There has to be a simultaneous investment in alternatives to incarceration and re-entry programs,” said Glenn E. Martin, vice president of the Fortune Society, which runs programs that assist people once they are released from prison. “Or else we’re setting ourselves up for failure.”

In a sign of just how intricate and complicated the issue is, negotiations on the precise wording of the legislation continued on Friday.

The negotiations also provided a glimpse at the political one-upmanship and message control that pervades lawmaking in Albany.

Overhauling the drug laws has been a mission for many Democrats from New York City, where a disproportionately high rate of people are incarcerated for drug crimes. Assemblyman Jeffrion L. Aubry of Queens has for years led the charge in the Assembly to repeal the laws, and he routinely sponsored legislation on the issue.

But when the Assembly version of the bill was introduced in February, Speaker Sheldon Silver listed himself as a main sponsor of the bill alongside Mr. Aubry and then held a news conference at a rehabilitation center in Albany to call for the legislation’s approval. The support from Mr. Silver surprised some of his colleagues.

When it was reported on Thursday that the key points of a deal had been reached, Mr. Silver was evidently caught off guard. He then denied to reporters that a deal was in place, even as legislative staff members and the governor’s office were preparing for a Friday morning news conference.
1130 2009-03-28 MILLBURN, N.J.  The high school here, which was named the state’s best by a respected magazine last year, plans to begin using dogs to search for drugs on campus this spring.

“We seek to discourage illegal substances from being brought into school and to show unequivocal support for those students who do ‘just say no,’ ” the principal of Millburn High, William S. Miron, and the district superintendent, Richard Brodow, wrote in an e-mail message to parents and students Friday afternoon. “I willingly risk student trust if it saves a single life."

In stepping up searches for drugs, Millburn will join scores of schools across New Jersey and the country. About 1,000 districts have introduced random tests for marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines and an assortment of other narcotics since the United States Supreme Court ruled in 2002 that schools could test students participating in extracurricular activities. A growing number also test for alcohol. Locally, West Essex Regional High School in North Caldwell, N.J., about 10 miles from Millburn, had two visits by canine patrols this year, neither netting any drugs.

The New York Civil Liberties Union has called police dog searches “incompatible with nurturing environments that are supposed to be conducive to adolescent education,” and argued that school districts must create a careful balance between school safety and student rights.

And next month, the United States Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the case of an Arizona honors student who was strip-searched after administrators suspected her of bringing prescription-strength ibuprofen to school.

At Millburn High, where this week students reported an increased police presence, administrators have previously shied away from using dogs to address any problems with alcohol or drug use, and on Friday they would not say what changed their minds.

“We have a very relaxed atmosphere here,” the principal, Mr. Miron, said in an interview. “But we feel like this is the final step that we can do to say that we’re doing our part.”

Calls to two Millburn police captains were not returned on Friday.

A sampling of the police blotter from this month showed two 15-year-olds charged with drinking at a party on March 14, and on March 7, three Millburn students, ages 13 to 15, were charged with possessing alcohol.

On Jan. 9 a local minister, the Rev. Darryl L. George, 58, of Short Hills, was arrested at the school along with two of his sons, accused of attacking a Millburn High student in a school parking lot. Some witnesses said the victim, an 18-year-old senior who received minor injuries, was hit with a baseball bat. That encounter resulted in assault charges against the minister and his older son, and the suspension of his 15-year-old son, a student at the school.

Such events are uncommon at the high school, which was ranked first in the state by New Jersey Monthly magazine last year and in 2007 was 97th in U.S. News and World Report’s survey of the nation’s 100 best high schools.

“The whole community in general is motivated academically,” Mr. Miron said. “But when you have 1,400 students in a school, to think that teenagers aren’t going to make mistakes, or that we’re somehow immune from problems every suburban and urban school is faced with, is just unrealistic.”

Mr. Miron said either the Essex County Sheriff’s Office or a private security group would provide the dogs, who would start searching the school “certainly within the next couple months.”

The plan received mixed reviews Friday afternoon at the train station, where Rosemarie Dawes, whose children recently graduated from Millburn High, was picking up two commuters. “I don’t think it’s the right idea,” she said. “I just think it’s too much for high school kids to deal with that.” Still, she said “there should be something more being done,” noting that when her students were in school, the campus had problems with marijuana.

Anne Pollock, the mother of a recent graduate of the school as well as of a Millburn Middle School student, welcomed the dogs, without concerns about invading student privacy.

“When I was in school, they got to go through your purse,” she noted. “You don’t want any of it in the town, you want to try to keep it out.”

Two 16-year-old girls who declined to give their names said they felt the new procedure was “a little unnecessary” because most of the incidents involving drug or alcohol happened outside of school.

“There were cops strolling around all week,” one said. “It was kind of distracting, sitting in class with cops walking by.”
1131 2009-03-28 Kim, 18, had come into worlds expecting her biggest competition to be Asada, but she had no competition at all. Her performance put her in perfect position to win her first world title on Saturday, less than a year from the 2010 Vancouver Olympics.

Skating in a black outfit that sparkled in the lights, she landed each of her jumps, but her moves in between were what mesmerized the crowd. She effortlessly floated from one element to another, often with a smile, always with grace.

“It’s one of those moments in skating people will always remember,” Orser said.

The United States team had a night to forget, with its hopes of earning three spots at the Olympics likely slipping away.

The Americans must finish at least a combined 13th for the team to be awarded three Olympic entries. After the short program, the Americans are in 21st, combined. The last time the team brought only two women skaters to the Olympics was in 1994.

Alissa Czisny, the national champion, fell twice and is 14th going into the long program. She had 53.28 points.

“Today was disappointing because that’s not the way I’ve been practicing,” she said, devoid of emotion. “I have higher expectations of myself, and it just didn’t happen.”

Rachael Flatt, who finished seventh, stepped out of a triple flip and flubbed her first combination jump. But it did not ruin her night. Flatt, 16, said she was excited, not nervous, for her first senior-level world championships. She scored 59.30 points.

“I was hopping around out back, saying, ‘Oh my gosh, this is so cool,’ ” said Flatt, who has been studying for her A.P. chemistry test and writing an English paper on “The Great Gatsby” during her down time.

The United States men could rest easy. They secured their three spots for Vancouver on Thursday. Evan Lysacek’s gold medal certainly helped the cause. At 23, he will go into the Olympic year as the gold-medal favorite.

Lysacek skated brilliantly to George Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” landing eight triple jumps as the crowd roared. He became the first American man in 13 years to hold the world title.

“To perform it just how I imagined it hundreds of times and visualized it,” he said, “I couldn’t have asked for anything more.”
1132 2009-03-28 Meruelo Maddux Properties, one of the largest developers and landlords in downtown Los Angeles, said it was filing for bankruptcy protection. The company said that it had worked to avoid bankruptcy but was forced to pursue the Chapter 11 filing to complete the reorganization of its debt. Richard Meruelo, the company’s chief, blamed cash shortfalls caused by the collapse of the credit and property markets. The company previously said it had stopped making payments on loans totaling $266 million.
1133 2009-03-28 MGM Mirage, the casino operator, staved off a bankruptcy filing for its CityCenter development in Las Vegas by making a $200 million construction payment on Friday.

Included in that payment is $100 million that MGM Mirage is covering for Dubai World, its partner in the sprawling resort and casino development. Dubai World has sued MGM Mirage, contending that it has mismanaged CityCenter’s development and that its finances imperil the project’s fortunes.

Under a previous agreement with their lenders, MGM Mirage and Dubai World agreed to make joint construction payments to avoid propelling CityCenter into bankruptcy.

The payment buys only a little more time because another one is due to CityCenter’s lenders in April. MGM Mirage must still make $800 million in payments before it can use $1.1 billion in loans earmarked for the development.

“MGM Mirage believes that CityCenter is of vital importance to Las Vegas and the state of Nevada,” James Murren, MGM Mirage’s chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. “We continue to review with our partners all possible options to keep CityCenter fully funded and on a path to completion.”
1134 2009-03-28 Pixie dust must have been mixed into the complicated recipe for this musical about an Irish immigrant and his comely daughter, who spread love, prosperity and racial understanding throughout a fertile valley in the American South. How else to explain the success of its whimsical blend of social satire and romantic fantasy? The cast of characters itself is a head-scratcher, including as it does a love-besotted leprechaun, a racist white senator who turns black and starts singing gospel, and a country girl who doesn’t speak her dialogue but dances it.

All this mad invention, bathed in a radiant score by Burton Lane (music) and E. Y. Harburg (lyrics), combined to weave a spell of happy enchantment when the musical opened, to play for an impressive 725 performances. The show’s improbable allure is recaptured with disarming sprightliness in this polished staging, directed and choreographed by Warren Carlyle and featuring the ever-delightful Jim Norton (a Tony winner for “The Seafarer”), perfectly cast as the enterprising Finian; Kate Baldwin as his beloved daughter, Sharon; and Cheyenne Jackson (“Xanadu”) as Woody, the local boy she falls in love with under the spell of “Old Devil Moon.”

That subtle, jazz-inflected love song is among the best-known numbers from the show. It is sung here with supple sensitivity by Mr. Jackson and Ms. Baldwin, announcing, avowing and affirming their love in the course of a few verses of music. This was not so unusual in classic musicals from the period, strange though it seems today, when arranging a first date can involve months of electronic communication.

In any case, so much is going on in tobacco-rich Rainbow Valley that there is hardly time for elaborate courtship. The musical’s book, by Harburg and Fred Saidy, goes jigging off in so many different directions that the plot seems to be invented on the spot by the characters themselves. While Finian is manipulating Sharon into the permanent embrace of Woody, he is also fending off the pesky inquiries of the leprechaun Og (Jeremy Bobb), who has followed him to America to retrieve the crock of gold that Finian “borrowed” from his home in Ireland.

Og, played with spirited wit by Mr. Bobb, has his own troubles. Inch by inch he’s being transformed from a leprechaun into a human, and the tingly sensation he feels every time one of the local lasses comes near has him both excited and dismayed. (The Thom Browne-ish ensemble and green Converse high-tops, courtesy of the costume consultant Toni-Leslie James, are a cute touch.)

Mr. Bobb and Ms. Baldwin share their delight in the first ticklings of love in the prancing duet “Something Sort of Grandish,” just one of several songs in which you hear Harburg’s penchant for merry wordplay at its giddy best. It dazzles even more brightly in Og’s second cockeyed love song, this time to the mute beauty, Susan (Alina Faye), in the twisty “When I’m Not Near the Girl I Love.”

The comic subplot involving the scheme by the rapacious, racist Senator Rawkins (Philip Bosco) to acquire land in the valley (and Finian’s buried gold) consumes a fair amount of stage time too. Although the racial politics of the show, which humorously bring home the point that no man should be judged by his skin color, were admirably progressive for the time, they seem pretty innocuous today. (Ruben Santiago-Hudson profitably takes over for Mr. Bosco when Rawkins gets his racial makeover.)

But most everything else proves surprisingly ageless, even timely, particularly those jokes about the American passion for acquisition. The celebratory number that closes the first act, “That Great ‘Come-and-Get-It’ Day,” is a gospel hymn to the glory of purchasing on credit.

As the years pass, the Encores! productions move closer to becoming fully staged performances, often with a resulting improvement in the richness of characterizations. Almost none of the main actors consulted their scripts for more than a few minutes. (David Ives’s concert adaptation conflates different versions of the libretto to fine effect, but I prefer the less trite final line of the original.)

Ms. Baldwin feels like a discovery as Sharon, although she has a modest list of Broadway credits. She performs her expansive vocal duties beautifully (including the famous wistful ballad “How Are Things in Glocca Morra?”), her rich, pure soprano riding the crests of the melodies with ease.

Mr. Jackson turns in a performance of easygoing, unaffected charm, even if some of his songs do not sit comfortably in his vocal range.

Terri White as a sharecropper brings great sly humor and a lustrously dark tone to “Necessity,” a comic lament for life’s drudgery.

And Ms. Faye’s lush, buoyant interpretation of Mr. Carlyle’s balletic choreography is among the best dance performances in any Encores! production I’ve seen.

While Mr. Norton takes no great part in transmitting the glory of the score, vibrantly played by the Encores! orchestra under the musical director, Rob Berman, he holds the whole odd enterprise together with the graceful magic of his performance. Although he is playing a simple comic stereotype — the Irish loafer with a gift for trickery and a weakness for whiskey — Mr. Norton is such a fine actor that Finian never comes across as a twinkly, synthetic cartoon.

In the musical’s final moments Finian leaves his daughter and his now dilapidated dream behind to seek another rainbow’s end. It’s a moment of natural sentimentality, but as performed by Mr. Norton, whose bright blue eyes are suddenly clouded with real grief and fear, it has a human purity that ends the show on a becoming note of melancholy.

Music by Burton Lane; book by E. Y. Harburg and Fred Saidy; lyrics by Mr. Harburg; directed and choreographed by Warren Carlyle; music director, Rob Berman; sets by John Lee Beatty; costumes by Toni-Leslie James; lighting by Ken Billington; sound by Scott Lehrer; concert adaptation by David Ives; associate director, Marc Bruni; music coordinator, Seymour Red Press; original orchestrations by Robert Russell Bennett and Don Walker. Presented by City Center Encores!, Jack Viertel, artistic director. At City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan; (212) 581-1212. Through Sunday. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.
1135 2009-03-28 Charter Communications, the big cable TV company, finally filed for bankruptcy on Friday. But it does not intend to stay there for long.

Charter is one of a growing number of companies pursuing what restructuring experts call a “prearranged bankruptcy,” in which a debtor reaches an agreement with some of its creditors over a reorganization plan before it files for bankruptcy. With $21.7 billion in debt, Charter represents the biggest example yet.

The cable company, which is based in St. Louis, said it sought bankruptcy protection primarily because of the debt it had accrued over years of expansions and acquisitions, not any deeper operational issues. By reaching an agreement with a majority of its bondholders, including the private investment firms Apollo Global Management, Franklin Capital and Oaktree Capital Management, the company plans to shave off about $8 billion in debt.

With the continuing credit crunch, companies are finding it harder to obtain the financing needed to sustain a long and expensive bankruptcy case. By striking an accord with some creditors beforehand, these debtors have a higher probability of surviving and reorganizing. Charter hopes to exit bankruptcy protection by the end of the summer.

Other companies that have sought a prearranged bankruptcy this year include Masonite, a maker of fiberboard and doors, which is owned by the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. Some restructuring experts have pointed to a prearranged bankruptcy as a potential course of action for General Motors and Chrysler.
1136 2009-03-28 The authors behind the Academy Award-winning film “Slumdog Millionaire” are moving on to new writing assignments. In a news release, Minotaur Books, an imprint of the St. Martin’s Publishing Group, said it acquired the United States rights for a new work by Vikas Swarup, whose novel “Q&A” provided the basis for the movie. Mr. Swarup’s new novel, “Six Suspects,” is about the investigation into the murder of a playboy son of an Indian official and is scheduled for publication this summer. Also, The Hollywood Reporter said that Simon Beaufoy, whose script for “Slumdog Millionaire” won the Oscar for best adapted screenplay, had been hired by DreamWorks Animation to write a script for a new film called “Truckers.” No other details about the project were given.
1137 2009-03-28 Syren Modern Dance, formed in 2003 by Kate Mehan and Lynn Peterson, two Purchase College graduates, approaches dance from a traditional, accessible place. The movement is big and expressive, and the music, whenever possible, is performed live. If only that combination added up to something with a little more texture at the company’s latest program.

The show, seen at Ailey Citigroup Theater on Thursday evening, features two works choreographed by Ms. Mehan: “Pelléas et Mélisande” and “The Last of the Leaves.” The Artemis Chamber Ensemble, conducted by Matthew Oberstein, accompanies both.

In dance, live music has become a rarity, but the presence of the ensemble, seated onstage behind the dancers, is visually distracting.

Along with the chaotic staging, the sound, amplified with microphones, distorts the music; at times it was like a crackling record.

In “Pelléas et Mélisande,” set to music by Sibelius, six dancers loosely enact the story of the doomed lovers, with Ms. Peterson as Mélisande, and Jeffery Lyon, towering over her, as Pelléas. The height difference poses an obvious problem in terms of both partnering and chemistry.

The cast, looking rather rectangular in brown cropped pants and loose white tops credited to Ms. Mehan, respond to the music in fairly clichéd ways. Ms. Peterson was unvarying, whether conveying love or anguish. Swaying from side to side, she reached her arms forward as if catching bundles of air and then let them slip through her fingers.

A similar strain runs through “Last of the Leaves,” set to John Adams’s “Shaker Loops,” in which eight dancers examine the cycle of life. An abstract backdrop by Xéna Lee, depicting streaks of autumnal colors, hangs behind the musicians. The dancers, wearing Elizabeth Payne’s billowy rust pants and brown halters, appear more prudish than sexy, and the tones of this earthy palette camouflage the details of the dance.
1138 2009-03-28 According to Investor’s Business Daily, the Dreyfus Fund returned 604 percent from 1953 to 1964, compared with 346 percent for the Dow index during the same period. When he ran the fund, he beat the next best fund by 102 percentage points.

In 1964, Life Magazine called him the “Maverick Wizard Behind the Wall Street Lion,” in reference to the emblem of his fund and its aggressive marketing. Mr. Dreyfus, it said, was “the most singular and effective personality to appear in Wall Street since the days of Joseph Kennedy and Bernard Baruch.”

Even as the fund’s success grew, Mr. Dreyfus had became locked in a deep depression in the late 1950s for which traditional treatments failed. After dreaming that his ills were caused by having too much “electricity” in his body, he asked his doctor to prescribe him an anti-epileptic drug, Dilantin. In his autobiography, “A Remarkable Medicine Has Been Overlooked,” one of several books that he wrote about the drug, he said that he was cured almost overnight.

He became convinced of the drug’s benefits for a wide variety of ills and pains, including obsessive-compulsive disorder, motion sickness and attention-deficit disorder, and spent more than four decades trying to publicize its benefits.

Mr. Dreyfus sold his mutual fund company in 1970. He established the Dreyfus Health Foundation to pursue other medical applications for Dilantin and spent more than $100 million of his own money.

From 1990 to 1997, he also sought the help of Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma to promote the use of the drug to control violent tendencies in inmates. Governor Keating wrote every governor in the country, as well as President Bill Clinton, to recommend experimenting with Dilantin on inmates. Over the course of a decade, Governor Keating and his family also received $250,000 in gifts from Mr. Dreyfus, which they returned after the gifts came to public attention.

Mr. Dreyfus remained convinced of the drug’s benefits. “It is the most remarkable drug that there is,” he told The New York Times in 2000.

Jack Dreyfus was born in Montgomery, Ala., on Aug. 28, 1913, to Ida Lewis and Jonas Dreyfus. He graduated from Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., and worked as a candy salesman with his father and briefly as an industrial designer.

At the behest of his father, he eventually joined a Wall Street brokerage firm for $25 a week. He later learned that his father had paid for 20 weeks of his salary in advance.

Mr. Dreyfus was married in 1939 to Joan Personnette, and had a son, John. The couple separated four years later and divorced 18 years after that. His ex-wife, with whom he remained on friendly terms, died in 1998. His son survives him.

Mr. Dreyfus, who has been described as a jack of all trades, was a golf player who won 18 amateur championships, a thoroughbred owner who was chairman of the New York Racing Association and an expert at bridge.

Early in his career, failing to hold a job, he entertained the idea of asking John D. Rockefeller, who “was overloaded with money, but was too old to enjoy it” to give him a million dollars. “I could play golf, chase girls, travel around the world, and he could enjoy this, secondhand,” he wrote in his autobiography. “I never got around to asking him. If I had, my whole life might have been changed. I’m sure he would have given me the million.”
1139 2009-03-28 “Hopefully, we’ll continue to live the dream,” he said.

Anderson has never been a fast-track kind of guy. Deeply religious, solid as the earth, Anderson was born in Birmingham, played at Jefferson State Community College before enrolling at Tulsa and playing under Richardson. He became a volunteer assistant coach on Richardson’s staff in 1982, followed Richardson to Arkansas in 1985 and would have stayed in that position for who knows how long, until fate intervened.

He was catapulted into the national spotlight in March 2002 when Arkansas fired Richardson and Anderson became the interim head coach. He led Arkansas to a good run in the Southeastern Conference tournament but he didn’t get the head job. Instead, he returned home and became the head coach at the University of Alabama, Birmingham. In 2004 he led U.A.B. to the Round of 16. That year, Anderson’s mother died.

“Sometimes the earth shatters and things happen for a reason,” he said. “When Coach Richardson got fired, that was the beginning of me getting a head coaching job. I was able to go back home, my mom got a chance to see me be a head coach and go to the Sweet 16. So at the highest moment of my life, look what took place.”

Anderson replaced Quin Synder at Missouri in 2006, charged with picking up the pieces of a program that had started unraveling in the 2004-5 season, with an ugly scandal revolving around the recruiting of point guard Ricky Clemons. In the fall of 2004, the N.C.A.A. put Missouri on probation for various violations.

In his first two seasons at Missouri, Anderson was 34-28 as he installed an entertaining style of play, one that looked a lot like Richardson’s.

“This team responds to all the positive things that have taken place,” Anderson said. “Any time they had an opportunity to learn, they responded in a positive way. That’s been the story of this basketball season. They’re looking at this through my eyes. They are seeing all this through my eyes.”

Anderson reached the Final Four three times and reached the N.C.A.A. mountaintop in 1994 when Arkansas finished 31-3 and won the national championship. But it was at U.A.B. where he realized or had the point reinforced that while teamwork is essential, great talent wins championships.

There are a couple of ways to get that talent: recruit players that are more or less N.B.A.-ready, or develop that talent.

Anderson has chosen the developmental route. Even at Arkansas, many of the players who became N.B.A. players were developed.

That was the formula at Tulsa, where Anderson began his career with Richardson. He pointed out that stars like Joe Johnson, now playing for the Atlanta Hawks, and Jannero Pargo of the Hornets were made into elite-level players. “They were not all high profile, highly recruited players,” Anderson said.

“You’ve got to have some N.B.A. players in order to have an opportunity to win a national championship. I want to get the great player, but it’s a process.”

Therein lies the problem and, perhaps, the cautionary tale of March Madness: How does an aspiring or rebuilding program get to that elusive next level and remain there?

UConn has an outstanding team, with at least two N.B.A.-bound players in center Hasheem Thabeet and guard A. J. Price. Thumb through the UConn media guide and you will find a long line of players who went on to the N.B.A. But UConn is also the focus of an inquiry into its recruiting practices. How do you match that, at least the good part?

“You got to start somewhere and eventually you are going to bring those guys in,” Anderson said. “Putting a team together to me is like putting a puzzle together. You get the right pieces. We want kids with character.

“Character can outweigh talent. I have a bunch of kids who are going to do the right thing: they’re going to work to get better.”

On Saturday there is yet another mountain. Missouri faces Connecticut and Anderson faces Jim Calhoun.

After 20 years of climbing, from Birmingham to Tulsa to Fayetteville and now Columbia, Anderson said mountains don’t seem so steep anymore.
1140 2009-03-28 BAGHDAD — Kidnappers of five British men held hostage for nearly two years say they have struck a deal that would trade the five foreigners for several detainees now in American military detention, according to a report on an Arabic news Web site.

Iraq’s national security adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, confirmed that “things are happening” in the case but would not elaborate. The United States and Britain have generally refused to make deals with kidnappers because they say it encourages more kidnappings.

The American Embassy would not comment for the record, but an official said that the United States would not make concessions to hostage takers. The official also noted that as of Jan. 1, when the American-Iraqi security agreement went into effect, Iraq took legal jurisdiction of all detainees in American custody. If a hostage trade is agreed to, then the Americans and British can present it as an Iraqi decision.

On the Arabic Web news site, www.elaph.com, a man who called himself Abu Ali R. said that there was an agreement among the Americans, the British and the leaders of the Shiite militant group that he was speaking for, Asaib Ahl al-Haq, to release one of the hostages in exchange for 10 detainees. Three are among the highest-profile Shiites in custody, including two who were implicated in an ambush that killed five American soldiers in January 2007.

“After they agreed to our lists of demands we sent the video on a CD that shows the prominent hostage Peter Moore speaking to the British government about the good treatment that he and his colleagues received,” said the spokesman. The video’s release became public this week.
1141 2009-03-28 The good news is that there are people and resources available to help your sister. The American Cancer Society offers a patient navigator program that can help with everything from transportation to and from treatment to finding financial assistance programs (1-800-ACS-2345). Some major retail pharmacies, like Wal-Mart, offer low-cost prescription drugs (around $4 for a 30-day supply) for many medicines to treat a variety of ailments.

The Consumer Credit Counseling Service is a nonprofit organization that is supported by the retail industry and will help establish a plan to lower monthly payments on credit card debt, and can also help with mortgage issues (www.NFCC.org). I would also encourage your sister to talk to her lender to see if she qualifies for assistance under the Obama administration’s new mortgage relief program.

One final note: Maintaining health coverage, particularly given your sister’s health, is critical. Cobra (Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act) allows workers who have been laid off the opportunity to continue health coverage at group rates for a period of time (typically 18 to 36 months), though premiums are paid by the former employee. Recent legislation signed by President Obama makes Cobra payments more affordable by providing a subsidy of 65 percent for up to nine months, but this subsidy is due to expire at the end of this year.

Q. I was talking to a friend who has lost his job overseas and is moving back to the United States with few hopes of a job. He said, “I just want health insurance for car wrecks and cancer.” Can you comment on very high deductible insurance offered by reputable companies? How do you find it? How low are the premiums?

A. Most major health insurance carriers offer some type of deductible coverage. But these plans are not well-suited for individuals who are suffering from chronic illnesses or have pre-existing conditions. Even if your friend is in relatively good health, he will need to weigh what would happen if his health condition changed for the worse, or if he went through a period of bad luck.

Premiums can vary widely depending on the amount of the deductible and specific features of the coverage. Many low-premium policies may, at first glance, look like good deals, but they may end up considerably more expensive after you read the fine print and realize all the out-of-pocket costs involved. Instead, consider policies with a higher deductible, say $5,000, but cover all costs once that deductible is satisfied.

Q. I lost my job a year ago. Unemployment has been covering my mortgage payments but I would really like to refinance. I have a high credit score and no debt, but I also have no income at this time. Is there any chance anyone would refinance my house? Last time I checked with my current mortgage holder, it said it could not, even though I am currently paying them every month. My remaining mortgage is only $133,000. I am 60 years old. Thanks for your help.

A. Keeping current on mortgage payments and having a high credit score are obviously good traits when seeking to refinance. But the most important criteria from a lender’s perspective is your ability to pay back the loan. Having a sustainable source of income is crucial, whether that is from employment, a pension or investments. So if you have, say, a significant retirement account from your previous employer, that may help you qualify. Unfortunately, unemployment benefits are not considered a sustainable source of income.

Q. A friend is taking an early retirement offer. He needs to decide whether to take the "husband and wife" pension payments or the “worker only.” I thought that the husband and wife deal would result in significantly lower payments (10-12 percent?). He is 55 and his wife is 50. Any thoughts or general rules that I could pass along? There are other pension decisions for him to make. I say take the options with the highest present value. Comments?

A. What you are referring to is whether to take a single-life annuity, versus a joint and survivor annuity as the pension option. You are correct in that the monthly payment will be less for the survivor option since you are covering two lives. Some plans offer a joint and 50 percent survivor option (whereby the monthly payment is reduced by half after the first to die), or joint and 66.67 percent survivor option, in addition to a joint and 100 percent survivor option.

All these options use actuarial tables and theoretically have the same net present value, assuming a given investment return and the ages of the worker/spouse. In practice, issues like the medical conditions of the spouses, longevity of their respective families and other financial resources at their disposal should be taken into consideration to determine the most suitable option.

One strategy the participant may also consider is electing the single-life annuity (this provides the highest payout but payments stop at death), and purchasing a life insurance policy with the difference over the survivor option that would provide a lump sum at death for the surviving spouse.

Q. I was recently laid off after 20 years on the job. I am being offered Cobra coverage for about $800 per month and can probably find adequate health insurance for about $300 a month without the use of Cobra. I understand that the government offers to pay a percentage of the Cobra coverage. Can you tell me how the government reimburses me for the Cobra insurance? And is it still a better financial decision to pay for Cobra with the credit from the government?

A. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 offers some premium relief to those eligible for Cobra, providing a 65 percent subsidy for health coverage beginning on or after Feb. 17, 2009, and lasting for a period of up to nine months. In your case, if you elected Cobra coverage you would be responsible for 35 percent of $800 ($280 a month), with the remaining 65 percent reimbursed to the company providing the coverage via a tax credit. This subsidy will only be available through the end of 2009. So you should consider the Cobra option for now, allowing you time to explore other viable options for when the subsidy ends.

Q. I was laid off last November. I worked as a transaction attorney. I’ve been diligently searching for employment, but the legal job market is still difficult right now. I have savings that will last until the end of the year. (1) When is the best time to contact my mortgage lender about my situation? I am worried that if I wait too long and still don’t find employment toward the end of the year, I’ll be forced to default (an event I obviously would like to avoid). I’ve been very fiscally responsible and it’s really just this job loss that has somewhat derailed me. (2) Does a mortgage loan modification affect my FICO score? (3) Do mortgage lenders agree to modify if I have no income coming in (except for unemployment benefits)? Thanks.

A. President Obama’s initiative to get the housing market back on track provides assistance for both refinancing and modifying current mortgages. But new loans will only be extended to those who can afford to pay them. Since you are unemployed, you will probably not qualify. I would suggest that you contact a housing counselor approved by the Department of Housing and Urban Development who may explore your specific situation in greater detail. This assistance is free and available at 1-888-995-HOPE (4673). The counselor can also speak with you about how different options will impact your credit score.

If you find a new job, even one that pays less than your former job, you may be able to qualify for a loan modification. Provided you are the owner-occupant of your property with a mortgage balance equal to or less than $729,750 (higher limits apply for two- to four- unit properties), and have a loan that originated before Jan. 1, 2009 with a mortgage payment that is greater than 31 percent of your gross monthly income, you may qualify even if you are current on your mortgage — so long as you are at risk of “imminent default,” or your mortgage is no longer affordable. It is best to contact your mortgage servicer before you go into default.

Q. I changed jobs twice since 2007, and have been laid off for the past four months. I want to start a business soon, and I don’t expect to have any extra income to invest in the foreseeable future. I have not put any money into my mutual funds (18 months)and Roth IRA (four months). Should I allow my retirement money to continue to sit idle and potentially lose my savings over time or should I withdraw, pay the penalty, and put my retirement money into a bank account so I can collect interest? Thanks for your advice.

A. Unfortunately I don’t have enough information to give you more concrete advice (your age, current allocation, risk tolerance, etc.) but I do feel confident in suggesting that you should NOT take money out of your retirement account because those funds may be sorely needed when your work days are through. I also don’t know what you mean when you say your money is sitting “idle.” If you have been invested in equities, it sure may seem that your investments haven’t been working hard for you of late, but the damage has probably already been done. To pull your funds out of the market after a 50 percent drop and then put them in a savings or money market account earning little or no interest would preclude you from participating in the market’s eventual recovery, and that is not advisable. If you feel that your portfolios are too aggressive given your unemployment status, you may consider shifting some of your more aggressive stock holdings to include more conservative options, but that may be done in the accounts as they are currently registered.

Q. I’m concerned about losing my job in the near future and am struggling with the decision to reduce my 401k contributions in order to build up my savings account. I realize that now is the worst time to reduce 401k investments with the market as low as it has been in years, but how can I balance that with the need to have short-term reserves?

A. I think building up your cash reserves given your concerns about job stability is a prudent move. Providing for your retirement is important, and I agree that dollar cost averaging in this market will pay opportunistic dividends down the road. But you have a more immediate need to build a cushion of safe and liquid funds which might need to be tapped should you find yourself unemployed. Ideally, you should contribute up to the company match, if there is one, and funnel excess savings into a money market account to an amount that could meet at least six to 12 months worth of living expenses. Once your employment situation becomes more stable, you can then bump up your 401k contributions, but you should always have a minimum of three to six months as an emergency fund.

Q. cI’ve been puzzled for some time now on the issue of savings versus debt payment. I currently have a $25,000 student loan debt, started back in 1991, which I have not been able to shake. I make my monthly installments and should pay off the loan within the next ten years if I continue to make the minimum payments. However, I have $25,000 in savings which I do not touch (consider this my retirement fund which is in a regular savings account). Additionally, I have $6,000 to cover my bills until I find a job (I’m a consultant and have been without a steady income since January). My dilemma is whether I should use my savings to pay off the student loan or should I keep paying it off monthly? Which of the two is the wisest? Thanks in advance.

A. At present I don’t believe it would be wise to pay off your student loan. The $6,000 you have set aside to cover your bills may be insufficient if your employment prospects take longer than you anticipate. Now is the time to stay safe with your resources and keep yourself highly liquid. That being said, you also have some longer term challenges. Keeping the money you have in a savings account for retirement is unlikely to provide you with the resources you’ll ultimately need. Retirement could easily last 25 to 30 years, or longer, and you’ll need to have your money working for you to generate income that can supplement Social Security. Once you become more settled on the employment front, you will want to make a concerted effort to boost savings and investment on a regular basis. I would make that a priority before paying off the student loan.

Q. I am 54 years old, and although I am currently employed, I don’t believe it will be long before I am unemployed. Will I have the use of what is left in my 401(k) accounts or would I still be faced with paying a penalty?

A. If you leave your company during the year you turn 55 (or later), you can withdraw money from your 401(k) without penalty. Of course, you still need to pay all the income taxes on any withdrawals. But if you are still working at the company — and you’re younger than 59 — all withdrawals would be subject to a 10 percent penalty. The same penalty would apply for anyone under the age 59 who wants to take money out of an I.R.A. or any other qualified plan. The money is also fully taxable in the year of withdrawal. After all, the I.R.S. considers these funds to be used for retirement purposes.

But a little known section of the I.R.S. code — we’ll call it 72(t) for short — does allow participants to make withdrawals from retirement accounts without the 10 percent penalty. The key is that payments must be computed to provide “substantially equal periodic payments.”

The I.R.S. has three approved calculation methods for 72(t) elections: the life expectancy method, the amortization method, and the annuitization method. All these calculations will come up with differing amounts since various actuarial tables are used. The life expectancy method will provide the smallest required withdrawal, while the annuitization method will provide the largest.

Should you go this route, you must continue taking payments under the method you chose for a minimum of five years or until reaching age 59½, whichever is later. So if you chose this option at age 54, you must continue it until 59½. If you chose it at age 56 you must continue it until age 61.

The consequences of incorrectly taking withdrawals under 72(t) are severe, so make sure you engage a professional knowledgeable about this strategy before electing it. If you take out too much money, or don’t do if for the minimum number of years, or switch to a different method, the I.R.S. will penalize all previous withdrawn amounts on top of other penalties imposed.

You are better off in the long run if you can avoid invading your retirement plan prematurely. If you must tap into it prior to age 59½, the 72(t) strategy should be cautiously explored.

Q. I’m single and 43. I lost my full-time job at the end of December 2007. I was lucky in that I was able to get some temp jobs throughout 2008, although I earned $20,000 less than the year before. I have now been unemployed with no prospects in sight and living off unemployment since January, which doesn’t cover too much. I have no savings and astronomical credit card and student loan debt, totaling more than $150,000. My mom has paid my rent for the last two months, but is unable to help anymore. I have been paying only select bills and have had to let one credit card go to collection and another is dangerously close. I also have two private student loans that are in collection and unable to pay those. The largest of the student loans (around $125,000) ended forbearance in April, so I put in an application for unemployment deferment. The payments for that, starting May 1, were to be nearly $800. I will never be able to pay the student loans — I realistically will be dead before they are paid off and I’ll never be able to afford the $800 they request. I really just want to be able to try to have some comfort and normalcy in my life. Any advice you could give would be greatly appreciated.

A. Financial difficulties can quickly become overwhelming and test us physically and emotionally. The desperation you’re expressing is palpable. So the first thing you need to do is step back and regroup to try and gain control over your situation. You will need to lay out a game plan that addresses the multitude of issues you are confronting. Taken in their entirety, they may paralyze you into inaction. But if you address them in pieces, they won’t seem as overwhelming. Here’s what I would suggest:

We all have times in our lives when we’re facing obstacles that seem insurmountable, and yet we somehow are able to overcome them. Keep a positive frame of mind that things will work out and set out to improve your situation a little bit each day. Good luck to you.

Q. I am about to change jobs and have four months before I will be covered with health insurance by my new employer. The cost of health insurance for me at my current workplace is $830 a month, and I am currently prepaying the upcoming four months before I leave my job to have the pretax benefit. It has caused a huge financial strain and I wanted to know if I am eligible for the Cobra subsidy even though I am not being laid off.

A. Either voluntary or involuntary termination of coverage, other than for gross misconduct, is considered a qualifying event that would allow you to be covered under Cobra.

Unfortunately, the subsidy provided under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 is only available to those who have been terminated involuntarily. So you would not be eligible for the 65 percent reduction in premium.
1142 2009-03-28 “Some employers are using the economy as a pretense for laying off just one person,” Ms. Grossman said. “And very often that person is pregnant or the oldest employee on staff. The economy may be the legitimate cause — or there may be discrimination.”

Last year the number of pregnancy-based discrimination charges filed with the E.E.O.C. was up nearly 50 percent from a decade earlier, to a total of 6,285. That number seems likely to rise even higher this year.

At the WorkLife Law hot line run by the University of California Hastings College of the Law, where the phones seldom used to ring, a dozen calls a week are now coming in, according to Cynthia Calvert, deputy director of the Center for WorkLife Law. The free hot line (1-800-981-9495) gives legal information to parents and caregivers of children or elderly parents, who feel they are being discriminated against because of their family obligations.

“Many of the callers,” Ms. Calvert said, “are pregnant women apprehensive that they may be targeted for layoffs, or pregnant women or women on maternity leave who were already let go.”

Labor law’s flimsy shield often comes as a shock to women. Last December, Sarah Feider, 39, suspected layoffs were imminent at her workplace — a large publishing house in . Citing her severance agreement, she insisted that the employer not be identified.

“My friends were saying: ‘You’re fine. No way would they lay you off,’ ” Ms. Feider recalls. Not only was she seven months pregnant, but her husband had recently lost his job. “Everyone assumed it was illegal or against some moral code to fire a pregnant woman,” she said.

But five days after she and her husband moved into a new apartment, Ms. Feider got the news. She was being let go as part of companywide cutbacks.

“It was awful — I was planning to work until I went into labor, and to return after taking my allotted maternity leave,” said Ms. Feider, the mother of a 5-week-old boy, Roman. “Instead of being given an office baby shower, I was given a pink slip.”

She talked informally to a few lawyers about her situation. “I did wonder if my being pregnant factored into their decision,” she said. “They knew I was going to be out for at least three months, and they needed bodies in the office to get the work done.” But because she was part of a larger downsizing by the employer, the lawyers said discrimination might be hard to prove.

Ellina Kevorkian was laid off from the Neiman Marcus store in when she was eight months pregnant. Her position, office coordinator in the precious jewelry department, was eliminated companywide.

“In order to collect unemployment, you are supposed to be looking for a job,” she said. “But who can look for a job when they are in their last weeks of pregnancy?” After Ms. Kevorkian’s doctor vouched for her inability to work, she was able to start drawing state disability benefits. “At a time when you’re so vulnerable, you have so little protection,” Ms. Kevorkian said.

Ginger Reeder, a spokeswoman for the Neiman Marcus Group, confirmed Ms. Kevorkian’s account of the layoff, adding that “everyone whose job was eliminated this year was offered a similar severance package.”

If a pregnant laid-off employee worked for a small company — fewer than 20 employees — affordable can be difficult to find. That is because small employers are not required under federal Cobra law to offer medical benefits to former employees.

And most individual policies people can find on their own, if they can find them at all, do not cover childbirth — except with the purchase of a special rider that in some states may require a wait of up to two years, notes Marcia D. Greenberger, co-president of the National Women’s Law Center, an advocacy organization based in .

Fortunately for Poonam Sharma, 36, an architect in Los Angeles, she and her family were eligible for Cobra coverage after she was laid off. She got the news in early February — when her daughter, Noor, was 2 months old — that she was one of seven people being let go from her 70-person firm. Ms. Sharma had planned to return after a maternity leave of three and a half months.

Because of the recent 65 percent reduction in Cobra premiums under the new federal economic stimulus package, coverage for Ms. Sharma, her husband and daughter will be manageable, at $231 a month. But that is small solace for being laid off.

“I was shocked and disappointed,” Ms. Sharma recalled. “I don’t think they were singling me out, but it is convenient to lay off a woman on maternity leave. She’s not working on any projects, so nothing gets disrupted.”
1143 2009-03-28 After a protest-marred torch relay preceding the Beijing Games last summer, the International Olympic Committee has decided to bar future organizing committees from taking the torch relay international.

The I.O.C. hopes to avoid the ugly scenes that erupted in San Francisco, Paris and London last year when anti-China protesters attempted to douse the Olympic flame, forcing the relay to be stopped and sometimes rerouted as the enterprise descended into chaos. The protests centered on China’s violent crackdown on dissenters in Tibet.

Beijing organizers had hoped to make the torch relay a celebratory part of its Olympic coming-out party. Making things worse, however, China staged part of the relay through Tibet, requiring a massive security presence amid the turmoil.

The ban begins officially for the 2014 winter Games in Sochi, Russia, but organizers of the 2010 Vancouver Games planned an all-Canada route and the 2012 London Games decided to keep the relay within Great Britain.

“Beijing had planned an international torch relay and we accepted it,” said Gilbert Felli, the I.O.C. executive director. “We saw in the debrief that the risk was there and the I.O.C. decided not to do it. I think when the torch relay is inside the host country there is more control.”
1144 2009-03-28 TOKYO — Japan authorized its military on Friday to destroy any debris from a North Korean rocket that might fall on its territory. North Korea has said it intends to put a satellite into orbit as early as next week, and warned that fragments could fall into waters off northern Japan.

Japan, South Korea and the United States suspect the launching is a cover for a test of an intercontinental ballistic missile, the Taepodong-2. In response, Japan will deploy missile interceptors and dispatch two warships to the waters between it and the Korean Peninsula, said the Japanese defense minister, Yasukazu Hamada.

A battery of Patriot land-to-air missiles will also be deployed in Tokyo, he said. “Whether it’s a satellite or a missile, we are extremely uncomfortable with the object flying over Japanese territory,” Mr. Hamada said.

The government spokesman, Takeo Kawamura, called for calm on Friday, saying it was unlikely that debris would fall on Japan.

Tension mounted this week after reports that a rocket was being prepared at a launching pad near North Korea’s northeastern coast. The North has announced that a test would be conducted between April 4 and 8.

A United Nations Security Council resolution bans North Korea from testing missiles and nuclear devices. Japan, among other nations, imposed tight trade sanctions on North Korea in 2006 after it test-fired a missile and conducted a nuclear test. The United States, Japan and their allies have also demanded that the North cancel the test, and have threatened stricter international sanctions. Even a satellite launching would violate a United Nations Security Council resolution prohibiting ballistic activity, they say.

Also on Friday, Russia joined the chorus of nations condemning the coming launching.

“We understand that the current situation in the region of Northeast Asia is tense, and this is why it would be better if our partners in North Korea abstained from this, from this launch,” the Russian deputy foreign minister, Aleksei Borodavkin, told journalists, according to Reuters.
1145 2009-03-29 North Carolina Coach Roy Williams continued a tradition of spitting in the Mississippi River before a big game....
1146 2009-03-29 The Obama administration went into sales mode on Sunday, with President Obama and a number of senior economic and military leaders blanketing the morning talk show circuit to advance the administration's efforts on the economy and the war in Afgha...
1147 2009-03-29 "Monsters vs. Aliens" has a huge opening, largely because of premium-priced tickets for theaters showing it in 3-D....
1148 2009-03-29 Studying blood clots was a secondary goal, said Jupiter’s lead investigator, Dr. Paul M. Ridker, the director of the Center for Cardiovascular Disease at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. With the relatively healthy people in the study, the number of clots was small — 94 total — but the placebo group developed 60 of them, compared with 34 for those taking the statin.

Dr. Ridker said common treatments for people who have had blood clots, usually several months of anticoagulants like warfarin or heparin, can cause hemorrhaging and require frequent monitoring. But blood clot reduction in the study “came without risk of hemorrhage at all,” he said.

Jupiter is the first clinical trial to consider the effect of statins on blood clots in randomly selected people, although smaller studies have suggested similar results, including a 2008 review at Albert Einstein Medical Center in New York of the records of cancer patients who took statins.

Dr. Ridker says he has begun prescribing statins, in addition to anticoagulants, to patients who have had a previous venous blood clot. Some experts, however, said more proof was needed.

“I can’t imagine that you would be treating people prophylactically yet,” said Dr. Timothy J. Gardner, the president of the American Heart Association. “The dilemma is we don’t want to put patients on medications that they don’t need, especially if we’re putting them on medications for life or for long term.”

The statin used in the Jupiter study is the most potent on the market, rosuvastatin, sold as Crestor and made by AstraZeneca, which sponsored the study. Some consumer health advocates say Crestor raises the risks of side effects like muscle deterioration and kidney problems. These were not problems in the Jupiter trial, although there was a small increase in diabetes. While it is unclear whether every statin would have the same effect as Crestor, most experts believe statins produce similar results, depending on the dose.

At the cardiology convention and on the Web site of the journal The Lancet, Dr. Ridker will present another set of results from the Jupiter study looking at the role of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, or CRP, which indicates inflammation in the body. While people chosen for the study did not have high L.D.L., or bad, cholesterol, they did have high levels of CRP.

After an average of less than two years, Dr. Ridker found that the people taking the statin who had the lowest risk of heart attack, stroke and other problems were those who wound up not only with very low cholesterol but also very low CRP levels. Dr. Ridker said the findings indicated that people with high CRP levels should be taking statins, a recommendation that the national medical panels are considering. And he said that inflammation, and not just high cholesterol, appeared to cause heart problems, rather than merely being an indicator of problems.

“This does in my mind add strength to the hypothesis that inflammation is causal,” said Dr. Ridker, who helped invent a CRP test.

“Whether this study confirms that inflammation increases risk of heart attack remains to be determined,” said Dr. Daniel J. Rader, a heart researcher at the School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. “Many people would say it simply proves that CRP is a marker of risk.”

Dr. Rader and others said they were not convinced that patients taking statins should be tested to see whether their CRP levels, and not just their cholesterol, had dropped. If the CRP levels stayed high but other indicators improved, they said, that might not mean the statin was failing or should be increased.

If “L.D.L. is down but CRP continues to remain elevated, would increasing the statin further provide additional benefit?” said Sidney Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina and a past president of the American Heart Association. “This doesn’t answer that question. My approach would be to work on getting the patient to stop smoking, and other lifestyle factors.”
1149 2009-03-29 If the Knicks (29-44) cannot move Curry this summer, they at least need him to be an active player in their frontcourt rotation. A nagging knee injury has kept him idle nearly all season.

“He looked like he hadn’t played for a year,” Coach Mike D’Antoni said. “That’s to be expected. I don’t think we can judge anything. We’re just going to try to get him out there little by little.”

It has been more than a year since Curry played a complete game. He had knee surgery last March and has been trying to come back ever since.

Curry entered the game with 7:59 left in the first half and got only one touch on the offensive end. He ended up falling on his rear end after the Bobcats’ Juwan Howard executed the pull-the-chair move in the post.

A minute later, Nate Robinson tried to throw Curry an entry pass, but the ball sailed over his head and out of bounds. Curry went back to the bench after fouling Gerald Wallace while trying to take a charge in the lane.

“His first game back, they could have given him the charge,” Robinson said, smiling. “It’s good to see him out there.”

Curry’s previous comeback was similarly brief. He played 2:38 in a loss at Dallas on Jan. 8. The Knicks had an 11-point lead that shrank to 2 with Curry on the court. Then his knees acted up again, and he went back into hibernation.

In the meantime, Curry’s personal life has been a mess. He was sued by his former driver, who accused Curry of sexual harassment. Then his former girlfriend and infant daughter were murdered in Chicago.

Playing again at least provided a distraction, however small.

“That kind of stuff don’t just go away,” Curry said.

D’Antoni had considered playing Curry on Friday against New Orleans, but he decided it would be better not to expose him to the pressures of Madison Square Garden. “I don’t think it’s fair to him to trot him out there,” D’Antoni said. “He just feels more comfortable if we’re on the road, that’s all.”
1150 2009-03-29 KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (AP) — Malaysia’s prime minister announced Saturday that he will resign Thursday and hand over power to his deputy, completing a transition one year in the making after the ruling coalition’s surprising victory in general elections.

Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi relinquished the presidency of the United Malays National Organization party, which leads the governing National Front coalition, last week to Deputy Prime Minister Najib Razak.

In keeping with tradition, the party chief also becomes prime minister.

“I wish to retire with a feeling of peace. I want to carry no negative emotions with me,” Mr. Abdullah said, choking with emotion in a speech wrapping up the party’s annual congress.

Mr. Abdullah, 69, said he will meet Malaysia’s king, the constitutional monarch, on Thursday to convey “my intention to relinquish my responsibility as the prime minister.” He said a ceremony to hand the reins over to Mr. Najib will be held later but gave no date. Some local media outlets speculated that it would happen Friday.

Mr. Najib, 55, comes to office under a cloud of his own. The opposition accuses him of corruption and links to the murder of a young woman who was his friend’s mistress. He vehemently denies the allegations.
1151 2009-03-29 ORLANDO, Fla. — Three long-relief candidates took turns facing the Atlanta Braves here Saturday, guiding the Yankees to a 6-4 victory at Champion Stadium. But the pitcher who may win the final spot in the bullpen could be Jonathan Albaladejo, who was not on the trip.

Asked if he could fill the long-relief role with a combination of pitchers, Manager Joe Girardi said, “It’s a possibility, yes.” He added that Phil Coke and Albaladejo could pitch multiple innings.

With four games left in Florida, the Yankees seem to have one available spot in a bullpen that will probably include the left-handers Coke and Dámaso Marte and the right-handers Edwar Ramírez, José Veras, Brian Bruney and Mariano Rivera.

Albaladejo, a right-hander, has a 0.93 earned run average and made the team out of spring training last year. He hurt his elbow in May and missed most of the season, but he has looked strong again, allowing one run, one walk and eight hits in nine and two-thirds innings.

“There are some boys that have pitched very well in camp,” Girardi said. “We have to make decisions, and we’re not going to rush into it.”
1152 2009-03-29 The Obama administration announced Saturday that it had organized a series of meetings among representatives of 16 countries and the European Union to discuss energy and climate issues.

The meetings, to be held in Washington in April and in La Maddalena, Italy, in July, will seek to resolve longstanding issues that have blocked the development of an international climate treaty.

The participants, who include Chinese and Indian representatives, will also try to create “concrete initiatives and joint ventures that increase the supply of clean energy while cutting greenhouse gas emissions,” according to a White House news release. The talks, called the Major Economies Meetings on Energy Security and Climate Change, echo in name and goals an initiative begun in the last two years of the Bush administration.

Those meetings gathered developing and developed countries that were the largest emitters of the heat-trapping gases linked to global warming. The meetings were cast by the Bush administration as intended to set long-term goals for reducing emissions and to seek actions that could be taken in sectors of economies like power generation and manufacturing.

The talks organized by the Bush administration were criticized by some small developing countries, European officials and environmental groups as an effort to circumvent global climate negotiations led by the United Nations, although President George W. Bush said at the time that the meetings were intended to support the global talks.
1153 2009-03-29 Once again you focus on the “rights” of illegal immigrants to the detriment of the right of American citizens to know that their borders are protected from illegal entry, that their jobs are protected from illegal workers and that their taxes are being used for the needs of legal residents.

This is not to say that illegal immigrants do not have human rights. They just don’t have the “right” to live in the United States unless they have applied to enter, have been accepted and have followed the rules.

President Obama is the president of the United States. It is his job to protect the rights of American citizens and to ensure that anyone who enters the United States does so legally and with permission.
1154 2009-03-29 From executive to secretary, many employees received thousands of stock options. Microsoft’s stock price rose from about $2.50 a share in 1992 to almost $60 in 1999, and roughly 10,000 of those employees became millionaires.

When employees left the company in those days, it was overwhelmingly by their own choice. They were off to a new adventure, starting a business or a charity, or just planning to have fun, said Rob Horwitz, the chief executive of Directions on Microsoft, an information technology analyst firm that has been tracking the company for 17 years.

Notable alumni from that time rebuilt the Professional Bowlers Association; created the charity Room to Read, which builds schools in poor countries; and founded the Cranium game company (which was sold to Hasbro).

Other Microsoft alumni started venture capital firms or followed more personal dreams, creating enterprises like the Cameron Catering Company of Seattle, which focuses on green events, or the Casa Cupula, a bed-and-breakfast for gay travelers in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. One alumnus built his own airplane and another rode along with Russian cosmonauts on a space mission. The sky was literally the limit.

The economy has changed all that. With Microsoft’s stock price now below $20 a share, any stock options granted in the last 10 years have little to no value, and the outright stock grants have lost value.

So rather than leaving on their own terms for a new adventure, some recently separated employees are now looking for any professional job they can get. (Microsoft declined to comment for this article.)

Wendy Pravda, a Web marketing manager who was laid off by Microsoft in January, said she was open to working full time for another technology company, part time as a contractor or using her skills in a different industry. “I used to look for all the great perks,” she said. “Now if I can find stability, I’ll be happy.”

In her role as a Web marketing manager, Ms. Pravda directed vendors who bid on Internet search terms and placed advertisements for her products. She says she may need to do such tasks herself in a future job, because “the management layer is gone” at some companies making cuts.

Longer-term employees are more likely to have built up savings and may be less concerned about the immediate future. Corey Salka, who worked for the company for 17 years before he was laid off, said the Microsoft stock and the savings he built in the 1990s would allow him to “hit the reset button” on his career and move into his new passion: renewable energy.

One employee who saw the good and not-so-good times is Maura van der Linden. She came up through the ranks from group assistant to software tester to technical writer over 13 years. She was laid off in January. She remembers when stock options were called golden handcuffs, because they induced people to stay at the company to become wealthy.

Like many other laid-off workers, some former Microsoft employees are connecting through social networking sites like Facebook. One group recently had 196 members and included posts that ranted, lamented and offered advice. Recruiters have also found their way to these social networking groups to advertise jobs.

Microsoft has said it will eliminate 5,000 jobs, including the 1,400 already announced, by mid-2010. Joshua Corneil, who came to Microsoft after college three years ago and was laid off in January, sees a silver lining in being one of the first to be let go.

“I’d rather be in the first 1,400 and get the first shot at the job market here,” he said. “Right now, small companies see me as Microsoft talent, Microsoft trained, and that’s a big deal to them,” he said. “My performance reviews show them it was the economy and not my performance that lost me my job.”

THE layoffs have fostered changes in the company, said Ms. van der Linden, who keeps in touch with colleagues at Microsoft. “People seem more interested in showing off their ideas and what they can do, so they aren’t the next ones to get laid off,” she said.

At the same time, “the people who have kept their jobs seem to have more gratitude toward the company,” Mr. Horwitz said. “It’s still the mother ship, the household name — but now people see that as a sign of strength, not stodginess.”

In the 1990s, the company had a hard time retaining some of its most talented people, Mr. Horwitz said. “People were jumping ship for dot-com this and dot-com that,” he said. Now the pendulum has swung the other way.
1155 2009-03-29 I WAS the first of my family to go to college and had relatively low expectations. I entered the general engineering program at North Carolina State University and went from that into textile engineering. Until my junior year, I was more social than academic.

I married, had a son and reassessed my priorities. After several years with a 4.0 average, I was offered a full-time fellowship to earn a master’s in textile technology. I took economics courses and was offered a position in the Ph.D. program. It was two years of rigorous academics, then qualifying exams. Only half of us passed.

When I graduated, I had an interview with a textile company that thought a Ph.D. was a waste of time. Caterpillar, though it wasn’t a textile company, actually wanted the degree. I joined for $18,000 a year in 1972.

Within three years, I was promoted to chief economist, with responsibility for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. By then, I had an 8-year-old and a 2-year-old. I joined a community of 200 to 300 Caterpillar ex-pats in Geneva. I was a Cub Scout leader, coached baseball and became commissioner of the local Little League. I was welcoming but insisted that parents stay involved; they could not just drop off their kids and leave.

After four years, my wife and I separated and she moved to London. I kept custody of the kids, and after a year I moved back to Illinois. Within a few years, I was a division manager of product source planning and happily remarried, and I got the opportunity to move to a suburb of Jakarta, Indonesia, as a managing director of a manufacturing plant. By that time, my oldest son was in college; my younger son was just starting high school. I also had a daughter who was 7. To convince my family, I developed a slide show of the lifestyle we would have there, including pictures of homes with pools in the backyard.

After three years, just as my son was getting ready for his senior year of high school, I got a call from Caterpillar to become president of the gas turbine division in San Diego. We debated letting my son live with another family while he finished school. He had been president of the student body. We thought it would be a harder move for him but he never asked to stay.

Three years later, I got a call from the vice chairman in the executive office about coming back to Peoria to be chief financial officer. My first reaction was, no way. About a week later, I was in Peoria for a meeting, seated next to the chairman. He asked, “About ready to come home?”

I asked, “Is this something we can discuss?”

He said: “It’s not what you enjoy doing. It’s what the company needs you to do.” I went home and told my wife that returning to Peoria was a condition of employment.

I was running my own show and didn’t want to leave. I took a huge loss on my house in San Diego. I asked the chairman, “If it doesn’t work out, can I have another business unit to run?” He asked, “Don’t you have the confidence to get this one right?” After 18 months, I was promoted to the executive office as group president with responsibilities for the Asia-Pacific theater and all financial and administrative divisions.

In 1998, I was considered for C.E.O. but was passed over. A lot of headhunters told me that if I wanted to be a C.E.O., I had better leave. I thought I had one more shot. I thought that if the next time didn’t work out, I’d teach for a few years and go off into the sunset.

Five years ago, three of us in the executive office were being considered for C.E.O. When I got the job, I walked around in the middle of the night, letting the new responsibilities sink in.

The last few months of layoffs have been very difficult. I’ve lost more sleep over that than anything. It’s really tough when individuals are involved, but I have to think about the long-term health of the enterprise. I can’t control the global economy. It’s much more fun running a growing company.
1156 2009-03-29 One example of such a force, Professor Stambaugh said, is global warming. Its impact on the economy over the next 12 months is likely to be quite small, he said. But expand the horizon to the next several decades, and the possible effects of global warming range from negligible to catastrophic.

It is one thing to acknowledge the existence of uncertainty, but quite another to measure its influence on long-term market volatility. To do that, Professors Pastor and Stambaugh rely on a statistical approach pioneered by the Rev. Thomas Bayes, an 18th-century English mathematician. Bayesian analysis is often used to assess the uncertainty of future outcomes, based on a formula for updating the probabilities of given events in light of new evidence. This approach is quite different from traditional statistical measurements of probabilities based on historical data.

Applying Bayesian techniques, the professors found that reversion to the mean isn’t powerful enough to overcome the growing uncertainty caused by other factors as the holding period grows. Specifically, they estimated that the volatility of stock market returns at the 30-year horizon is nearly one and a half times the volatility at the one-year horizon.

Why don’t traditional measures of volatility, such as standard deviation, pick up this phenomenon? Those measures focus only on how much the stock market’s shorter-term returns fluctuate around the long-term average, Professor Stambaugh says.

As a result, they ignore uncertainty about what the average return might itself turn out to be. For example, he said, it is possible that the standard deviation of the market’s returns over the next 30 years could end up the same whether its average annual return over that period is 20 percent or zero.

What about Professor Siegel’s finding that the stock market has produced an annual average inflation-adjusted return of close to 7 percent since 1802? In an interview, Professor Pastor emphasized that the last two centuries could easily have been less hospitable to the United States, most likely lowering the stock market’s returns. An investor couldn’t have known in advance that the United States would win two world wars, for example, or emerge victorious from the cold war. In any case, he said, there is no guarantee that the next two centuries will be as kind to the domestic equity market as the last two.

IN an e-mail message, Professor Siegel acknowledged the theoretical uncertainty of forecasting stock market returns, but said it was hard to quantify it. He said the methods that Professors Pastor and Stambaugh used to measure the uncertainty were “very much outside of the standard statistical techniques.”

But Professor Pastor says that these methods are better suited than the standard techniques for quantifying the uncertainty faced by real-world investors. Even if Bayesian approaches have yet to become mainstream in financial research, he adds, they have become much more widely used in recent years.

What is the investment implication of the new study? Other things being equal, Professor Stambaugh says, you would probably lower your portfolio allocation to stocks. But by how much? It’s impossible to generalize, since the answer depends on your time horizon and what else is in your portfolio.
1157 2009-03-29 Anderson, hired from the University of Alabama-Birmingham in March 2006, has two years left on a five-year contract that guarantees him an annual salary of $850,000.

“It’s a competitive environment we’re in,” Deaton said. “We recognize that and will be approaching it in the most effective way possible for us as a university.”

But even with Missouri planning to offer a contract extension to Anderson after the season, he apparently has reservations about his future.

When asked Friday if he could guarantee that he would be back at Missouri next season, Anderson was silent and turned away, as if to dismiss the question. His wife, Marcheita, laughed, then Anderson said: “Hey, I’m excited. I’m excited about Mizzou basketball. We’re doing some great, great things. A lot of great things are happening.”

Asked at a news conference earlier Friday about how he felt about his name being mentioned for other coaching jobs during the N.C.A.A. tournament, Anderson emphasized that his team had an opportunity to make the Final Four.

“I’m excited about what we’re doing at Missouri,” Anderson said. “If you look at these kids I have up here, I’m excited about the future.”

As is Missouri, which is why Gary Forsee, the university president, said a contract extension with Anderson is paramount.

“He knows that Missouri is a place we want him to be for the long term, and we’ve made that very clear to him,” Forsee said in a telephone interview. “It’s great for him and his family that this kind of success puts him in a position to have that kind of security at a place that we want him to call home. That’s something we’ll all be very focused on at the right time.”

Efforts to reach Athletic Director Mike Alden through a media relations official were unsuccessful. But Marion H. Cairns, an outgoing member of the university’s Board of Curators, said she expected Anderson to be offered a multiyear contract extension after the season that would pay him a guaranteed base salary of more than $1 million annually.

“I don’t think they’ll let him get away,” Cairns said in a telephone interview.

Anderson’s elusiveness about his future is interesting because the Tigers have what most coaches covet: a dazzling 15,061-seat arena, a loyal fan base and a demonstrated financial commitment. Anderson’s predecessor, Quin Snyder, had a $1.2 million annual package.

“It really has to be considered one of the great situations,” said Joe Castiglione, who was Missouri’s athletic director from 1993 to 1998 before taking the same position at Oklahoma. “In regards to evaluating what’s been done and what can be accomplished in the future, it’s truly very, very positive. You would think it would be a real attractive opportunity for a coach to stay and build a program.”

Next season, Missouri will return nine scholarship players, including two starters. The Tigers will consist solely of Anderson’s players for the first time.

Yet even the senior guard Mike Anderson Jr., the coach’s son, said he did not know whether his father would return. For now, he said, they were focused on this season.

“He’s just in the moment,” Anderson Jr. said. “He’s just trying to take care of business. He’s never really expressed like he wants to go to a Kentucky or whatever else is open.”

He actually has more than a casual interest in his father’s coaching future. Next season, he hopes to begin his career with his father as a graduate assistant.

“He’s just going to do whatever he feels is the most comfortable for him,” Anderson Jr. said. “Maybe he wants to try a new challenge or maybe he feels like his challenge is still here at Missouri. That’s something that only he knows alone.”
1158 2009-03-29 The low bids are the result of supply and demand: there are plenty of construction workers out there and not much demand for their work lately. Many construction operations suffered when residential and commercial building evaporated as the recession hit, and then again when public works tapered off as many states cut back. So they are eager to get back to work, even if it means they must charge less to do it.

Of course, the whole idea of the stimulus law was to pump a lot of money into the economy quickly. State officials said they would have no problem spending all the money they are receiving from the federal government; if projects continued to cost less than expected, they added, they would simply tackle more of them.

“I think it’s a good deal for taxpayers, and taxpayers need a good deal right now,” Patrick Cooney, a spokesman for the Oregon Department of Transportation, said last week after coming back to work from a furlough day to save the state money.

Some argue that low bids should raise red flags. Barry B. LePatner, a construction lawyer, said that unless states performed independent estimates to find out the true costs of their projects, they risked awarding contracts to companies whose low bids did not reflect the true cost of the work. In such cases, he said, it is common for a company to try to undercut its competition with a low bid and then, once it has won the job, try to eke out a profit by putting in numerous change orders that drive up the price and delay the project.

“You have already started down the road to nowhere,” said Mr. LePatner, whose book “Broken Buildings, Busted Budgets” argues that reforms are needed to curb the cost overruns that plague the industry.

States are gearing up to begin work now that spring and the construction season are at hand. By last week, 34 states had been given the go-ahead for nearly 1,000 projects worth $3.4 billion, transportation officials said.

Officials in many states see the low bids as a sign that they are in a buyer’s market. A few years ago transportation officials in Utah, concerned that there was little competition for their construction work, put together a team to try to entice more companies to bid for the jobs. Now, as the first stimulus projects get under way, they are getting a half-dozen bids for each job — and many are coming in at 25 percent below their estimates.

“Boy, it’s a great time to be putting projects out,” Mr. Easton said.
1159 2009-03-29 Re “Don’t Blame the Business Trip” (Everybody’s Business, March 22), about the many productive effects of business travel:

I have been a meetings and events planner for over 10 years, and in the hospitality industry even longer. I have operated events from Vermont to California and back again. During the economic downturn, it has been extremely distressing to hear my profession being vilified when, as the column said, it offers so much to the American economy. Billions of dollars and millions of jobs are generated by valid business travel, meetings and events. Julie Anne Rondo
1160 2009-03-29 Looks still matter. That is the message that some cosmetic surgeons, recognizing that their procedures may be a tough sell during a recession, are trying to convey.

Appeals to sheer vanity may not be the wisest move right now, so some cosmetic surgeons are asserting that a little lifting, shaping, plumping, smoothing or suctioning may give you an important edge in the job market. Botox is no luxury, the thinking goes, if it helps you land the job of your dreams.

Despite the weak economy, cosmetic plastic surgery procedures were up by about 3 percent in 2008 over 2007, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. But people were less inclined to go under the knife than to opt for cheaper and less-invasive procedures like Botox, laser treatments and microdermabrasion.

If the economy gets any worse, though, more people may be inclined to view their wrinkles as a sign of wisdom and to settle for improving their inner beauty.
1161 2009-03-29 A quota for renewable energy sources will also raise rates because utilities will pass on increased costs to consumers.

And wind and solar power are generally more expensive than the fossil fuels they are meant to supplant. If carbon dioxide penalties made coal power more expensive, as some environmentalists argue is inevitable, the relative cost of renewable energy might decrease. But consumers will still pay more.

One big question is how much it currently costs companies to produce coal-fired energy, and the answers are often colored by ideology or self-interest. Companies that sell coal or rely on coal-fired electricity often pick a low number; environmentalists cite the indirect costs to society, like strip mining or spills of coal ash. And since the electricity industry became more competitive, the utilities, even municipal ones, have become more secretive about their costs.

Some experts not aligned with either camp estimate that wind power is currently more than 50 percent more expensive than power generated by a traditional coal plant. Built into the calculation is the need for utilities that rely heavily on wind power to build backup plants fired by natural gas to meet electricity demand when winds are calm.

Another obstacle to nailing the numbers is that prices for coal and natural gas go through market swings. If the price of natural gas gets high enough, wind could look cheap by comparison, but right now natural gas is down sharply — a sign that the recession will not be kind to renewable energy. Organizations that profess to be neutral about what new technology gets built suggest that renewable energy probably has a steep hill to climb.

For example, the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit consortium financed by investor- and publicly-owned utilities, predicted in November that even for plants coming on line in 2015, wind energy would cost nearly one-third more than coal and about 14 percent more than natural gas. The cost of solar thermal electricity, made by using the sun’s heat to boil water and spin a turbine, would be nearly three times that of coal and more than twice that of natural gas. (It would be almost double the cost of wind energy, too.)

The institute’s study looked only at utility-scale power plants, not the solar photovoltaic cells used in far smaller rooftop installations. Power from photovoltaic cells is generally more expensive than solar thermal power.

At Black & Veatch, a company based in Overland Park, Kan., that has been involved in the construction of coal, gas and wind plants, analysts recently compared the costs per kilowatt-hour of different energy sources for the big energy competitors. A kilowatt-hour is the unit of energy that the utilities use to bill homeowners, with the current retail cost averaging around 11 cents.

A modern coal plant of conventional design, without technology to capture carbon dioxide before it reaches the air, produces at about 7.8 cents a kilowatt-hour; a high-efficiency natural gas plant, 10.6 cents; and a new nuclear reactor, 10.8 cents. A wind plant in a favorable location would cost 9.9 cents per kilowatt hour. But if a utility relied on a great many wind machines, it would need to back them up with conventional generators in places where demand tends to peak on hot summer days with no breeze. That pushes the price up to just over 12 cents, making it more than 50 percent more expensive than a kilowatt-hour for coal.

No one likes higher bills. But the pain might not be shared equally: despite modest rate breaks for low-income customers, poor people spend a higher portion of their income on electricity than the rich.

“There are great benefits to the use of alternative energy,” said Jonathan Mir, co-head of the North American power utilities group at the investment bank Lazard.

But if Congress neglects the social issue, Mr. Mir said, a change in policy could fall hardest on those without a safety net.

“If it is deployed in an uneconomic way,” he said, “it is quite regressive in nature.”
1162 2009-03-29 Similar patterns are unfolding across the country: In Clark County, Nev., which includes Las Vegas, the district attorney’s family support division has received an unusually high number of calls from parents who previously paid diligently but are now having trouble.

The child-support office in Milwaukee saw a 20 percent spike in the number of custodial parents seeking enforcement of support orders last year, with most of the increase coming in the fall as the unemployment rate there began to creep upward.

To explain why they can no longer pay as much per month, the parents, typically fathers, cite layoffs, cutbacks in work hours and the loss of homes to foreclosure. Presented with documentation of falling incomes and rising expenses, judges often have little choice but to grant the downward adjustments, even in the face of protests from mothers struggling to support children.

Magistrate Matthew Troy, a stocky, gregarious man with a white horseshoe mustache who is one of 15 judges hearing such cases in Manhattan Family Court, said the decisions can be brutal. “It’s not a trickle down — it’s a direct route,” he said of the effects, especially in poor families. “Everybody who relies on the father gets hit.”

The reductions force some families to apply for welfare for the first time, while others become increasingly dependent on food stamps or risk eviction when they come up short on rent.

“In many cases, it’s devastating,” said C. A. Watts, the director of the district attorney’s family support division for Clark County. “Some of the parents absolutely depend on that money coming in. It’s a domino effect. The custodians need the money to feed and clothe the children. If the money stops, it puts a burden on the custodial parent, and they have to come up with funds another way. They’re not going to let their children starve.”

The amount of child support varies based on individual family circumstances, but New York State begins with these guidelines: A noncustodial parent generally pays 17 percent of gross income for one child, 25 percent for two children and up to 35 percent for five or more children, as well as a share of child care, medical and education expenses.

“We see everything,” said Peter Passidomo, chief of the state’s 125 support magistrates. “High income, low income, across the board. It’s just like in an intact family where the income earner has lost the job.”

Though Family Court in New York is open to the news media, names of the parties are typically not revealed.

Judge Troy, who has been a Family Court judge since 1999, said that in recent weeks he had seen a former Lehman Brothers executive whose $7 million in stock had disappeared, leaving him unable to pay his child support. And then there was the divorced couple whose combined income had surpassed $400,000 — until they both lost their jobs and were scrambling to figure out how to pay two private-school tuitions on roughly $800 a week in unemployment benefits.

Most, though, are more like the man who went from a decent-paying factory job to working in food service during Mets games in Queens. Judge Troy lowered his monthly payment for his three teenagers to $50 per month, from $686. Otherwise, he feared, the father would be unable to meet his obligation and face a more drastic punishment: jail.

“It wasn’t his fault he lost his job,” Judge Troy said. “I don’t want to throw a guy like that in the clink.”

The Saks salesman, on the other hand, whose 19-year-old daughter was asking for support for the first time, was ordered to pay $544 a month. (New York allows child support to be paid for dependents beyond age 18.)

In the case of the father who could not buy a birthday present for his son, Mr. Troy agreed that $315 a month — or 23 percent of his $16,640 salary — was too much. But the child’s mother, over speakerphone from her home in Georgia, angrily protested that she was already paying $1,800 a month for the child’s expenses.

“He is capable of getting another job,” she said. “I see no reason for him to get any kind of modification of his child support.”

The judge ultimately took the woman off speaker, and instead spoke quietly into the telephone to calm her down. He lowered the father’s payments to $50 a month (about 4 percent of his gross income).

“Somebody’s got to make the call,” Judge Troy said after the hearing had adjourned. “That’s the call I’m making.”

Mr. Passidomo said magistrates throughout the state have grown increasingly concerned about the volume and breadth of the modification requests. Upstairs from Mr. Troy, in Room 8C3, Magistrate Sudeep Kaur said she sees herself as “very strict about reducing child support,” but lately has had little choice in a spate of cases in which fathers have come to her after losing their jobs.

“It really has to be something beyond their control,” she said.

Lisa J. Marks, the director of Child Support Enforcement in Milwaukee, said her office has seen an influx of noncustodial fathers who have lost jobs in sales, construction and the service industry.

“We have seen individuals who have had fairly good income, and it’s not there any more,” she said.

“It’s really a teetering issue for child support offices,” Ms. Marks said. “You have one party who is really desperate because they’re not getting the full amount of support. And their expenses have increased, and their hours are probably decreasing.”

On the flip side are the fathers, and “they don’t have a job at all anymore,” she said. “You try to maintain fairness.”

The court will typically order fathers to pay a portion of their unemployment benefits in child support. But if their unemployment runs out, and they have no income, the court will temporarily resort to what is called “open support,” Ms. Marks said. What that means, she explained, is “you don’t have to pay any child support.”
1163 2009-03-29 “They knew the apartment, and they did an awesome job helping us find a renter for a good price,” said Ms. McCormick, a film and television producer.

But trying to sell an apartment you don’t live in can be tricky. “There’s only so much you can do to spruce up an apartment when there are renters living there,” Mr. Wescott said.

In this case, the tenant “had a lot of stuff and did not declutter at all,” Mr. Stanard added. “That made showing it a little challenging, since the apartment didn’t look as spacious as it could have.” Still, the brokers say the tenant did his best to keep the apartment tidy and was agreeable about vacating the premises for open houses.

In late May, the apartment went on the market for $699,000. “We priced it a little high just to see what would happen,” Mr. Stanard said. Despite a month of well-attended showings averaging about 10 visitors each, there were no offers, and the brokers decided to drop to the price to $675,000.

In July, the tenant’s lease was up and he moved out. This gave the brokers an opportunity to reassess their strategy, taking into consideration comments made by apartment hunters. A few weeks later, the owners paid about $400 to have the entire place painted eggshell white.

Mr. Stanard and Mr. Wescott focused their energies on staging the apartment. They outfitted it with a few items from the owners and a few things of their own, including a rug, pictures for the walls, bathroom towels and a stack of cookbooks for the kitchen.

According to Mr. Wescott and Mr. Stanard, the art of staging requires a deft hand. Apartments can’t be too empty or too full, they said.

“Potential buyers may say they have imagination, but believe it or not, most people have a hard time imagining what an apartment would look like with their own stuff,” Mr. Wescott said.

The aim, they said, is always to reveal a room’s potential without going overboard. The brokers spent about $1,000 on a living room set from Ikea, but opted to leave the master bedroom bedless.

After all their efforts, “the apartment definitely looked bigger and fresher,” Ms. McCormick said.

At the start of September, with the housing market steadily softening, “we had a lot of interest; people were circling, but no one was pulling the trigger,” Mr. Wescott said. The brokers advised their clients to drop the price yet again, to $635,000.

At this lower price they received an offer right away. But when the would-be buyers made an unusual request, a preliminary meeting with the co-op board before signing a contract, Ms. McCormick and Mr. Hirsch grew skeptical.

“We really rushed around getting all the paperwork together,” Ms. McCormick said. About two weeks later, news of the collapse of Lehman Brothers was followed by a phone call from the interested party — who had become uninterested. The deal was off.

“We really tried our best to accommodate them, so that was pretty devastating,” Ms. McCormick said.

At this point Mr. Stanard and Mr. Wescott said they were concerned about the dire economic outlook. They wanted another offer immediately and reduced the price to $599,000.

Around this time, Josh Dziadkowicz and his girlfriend, Katie Klosterman, who rent an apartment in TriBeCa, stopped by to have a look at the apartment.

“It was well-kept place, but ultimately we felt it was too small for us,” Mr. Dziadkowicz said. “We really wanted a place with larger kitchen.” In January, they closed on a two-bedroom apartment a few streets away.

In late October, with turmoil in the banking industry now a weekly event, the brokers prodded their clients to reduce the price further, to $549,000.

“We were worried that the longer we waited, the worse things would get,” Mr. Stanard said. “We needed to go to a price that seemed like the best deal all year.” Indeed, the broker’s new listing stated: “Crazy new price!” and within two days there were two offers.

Jesse and Aya Forster bid full asking price, the higher of the two offers, and they signed a contract two days later.

The Forsters, who like the sellers are in their early 30s, had been renting in Park Slope. They were on a post-brunch stroll when they spied the new listing hanging in the window of Corcoran’s Park Slope office. They dashed over for a look immediately.

“It had a nice homey feel,” Ms. Forster said. “We didn’t want new construction. We liked the old details, wood floors, fireplace and it had a lot of windows.”

Ms. McCormick and Mr. Hirsh were relieved to finally have solid buyers.

The deal closed in mid-December, and after painting and refinishing the wood floors, the couple moved into their new apartment about a month later.

“Every time we would go for a walk, we would go along Third Street because it’s so nice and we’d imagine what it would be like to live in one of these brownstones,” Ms. Forster said. “And now we are. It’s amazing.”

As for Ms. McCormick and Mr. Hirsch, they aren’t unhappy with their situation in Dumbo, but with home prices in decline, they are keeping an eye out for a place to buy.

“We’ve been going to open houses in Brooklyn,” Ms. McCormick said. “We’re being really picky and very cautious.”
1164 2009-03-29 Genna Buch Gurkoff, the daughter of Stevi T. Gurkoff and Jon B. Gurkoff of North Caldwell, N.J., was married Saturday evening to David Scott Farber, the son of Barry A. Farber of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and the late April Farber. Rabbi Norman Patz officiated at the Pierre hotel in New York.

The couple met at Lehigh University, from which they graduated, he magna cum laude.

The bride, 27, teaches second grade at the Dalton School in New York. She received a master’s in early-childhood general and special education at Columbia and is a pursuing a master’s in literacy education from New York University.

Her father is the chief executive of Ada Products Company, a manufacturer and distributor of dental supplies, in Milwaukee.

The bridegroom, 26, is an associate in leveraged finance at Credit Suisse in New York; he focuses on gambling and lodging businesses.

His mother was a special-education and educational evaluator for the public school system in Greenwich, Conn., and until 2005 was a member of the Mamaroneck Union Free School District Board of Education. His father is a professor of psychology and education at Columbia Teachers College and the program coordinator and director of training in the clinical psychology program.
1165 2009-03-29 To the Editor: Being in the international travel business, I found “The Baffling World of Visa Restrictions” (Practical Traveler, March 8) interesting. Though hosted by a representative in the Libyan Tourism Ministry, I was still not assured that my United States clients would be able to enter Libya legally.

At the last minute I received notice that visas would need to be translated into Arabic, as would the information on each United States citizen’s passport. At the opposite end of the spectrum is Cuba. Not only do they not stamp United States citizens’ visas upon entering Havana, but they do not stamp their passports if requested not to.
1166 2009-03-29 The world premiere of Woody Allen’s “Whatever Works,” starring Larry David and Evan Rachel Wood, will open the Tribeca Film Festival on April 22. The festival, which concludes on May 3, will include 86 feature films and 46 short films, one of them the winner of Delta Air Line’s “Fly-In Movies” competition (through April 12, passengers may vote on their favorite short film out of five shown either onboard or online at www.delta.com/flyinmovies). Within the festival will be the Tribeca/ESPN Sports Film Festival, including Spike Lee’s “Kobe Doin’ Work,” following Kobe Bryant with the Los Angeles Lakers during the 2008 NBA playoffs. Tickets to regular screenings: $15 for evenings and weekends; $8 for weekdays and late-nights (www.tribecafilm.com/festival).

“Vermeer, Rembrandt and the Golden Age of Dutch Art: Masterpieces from the Rijksmuseum” (May 10 to Sept. 13) is billed as the largest collection of 17th-century Dutch art ever to be shown in Canada. The 128 works will include paintings, like “The Love Letter,” by Vermeer, drawings and decorative arts. Other artists will include Gerard ter Borch, Frans Hals, Karel Dujardin, Jan Steen and Pieter de Hooch. Admission: 20.50 Canadian dollars, about $16 at 1.30 Canadian dollars to the U.S. dollar (www.vanartgallery.bc.ca).

Gay, bisexual and transgender male and female amateur athletes will be in Copenhagen July 25 to Aug. 2 for the 2009 World Outgames. Events will include basketball, diving and track and field, as well as others like aerobics and country western dancing. There will also be cultural events, like the Out Choir Festival and the Queer Tango Festival, and film screenings. “Love of Freedom, Freedom to Love,” a human rights conference will take place July 27 to 29. Through April 30, registration for each sports or cultural event is 1,500 kroner, about $259 at 5.8 kroner to the dollar, and for the conference, it is 2,000 kroner (www.copenhagen2009.org).
1167 2009-03-29 A dozen surfing areas exist along the length of Long Island, from Montauk’s Ditch Plains, which draws surfboard traffic jams, to Long Beach in Nassau County, a city 100 miles to the west and a short drive from Manhattan that offers a 3 ½-mile stretch of curling waves.

The decision to officially open Montauk Point to surfing was made without fanfare in January by Ron Foley, director of the Long Island region of state parks, who said he and his staff had been “mulling it over for some time.”

“It’s the best compromise at the moment,” he said. “Whether it placates everybody, I don’t know.”

It is part of a continuing struggle between surfers, who have argued for more beach access for years, and surfcasters, who fish from shore and generally want such areas restricted for themselves, contending that surfers interfere with their fishing.

At the North Bar, surfers have routinely sneaked into the area to pursue their passion despite a prominent sign that stated they could not surf in the area, said Eugene Alper, an East Hampton seafood trader and chairman of the surfing advisory committee of the Eastern Long Island chapter of the Surfrider Foundation.

Two years ago, eight surfers — they called themselves the Montauk Eight — were hauled out of the water here and ticketed by the New York State Park Police. The tickets were dismissed last year by an East Hampton town judge, who said the prohibition against swimming off Montauk Point did not extend to surfing.

At first, park officials vowed to continue enforcing the ban. Then came the decision by Mr. Foley.

“Hundreds of them would show up and try to take it over,” William A. Young, a Massapequa resident and president of the Montauk Surfcasters Association, said of those times when the surf was up at Montauk Point. “Not everybody, but there’s always a few bad apples.”

Much of the potential conflict between surfers and fishermen has been eased because of the dates set for legal surfing: The season for striped bass — the Point’s most alluring prize — runs from April 15 to Dec. 15. A 76-pound striper, the state record, was caught off Montauk in 1981. But surfcasters seek other fish year round, including bluefish and Atlantic cod.

The surfcasters’ group, which has opposed surfer intrusion in the past, has no objection to the new ruling so long as the surfers abide by it, Mr. Young said.

“Generally in the winter, it’s not a problem,” he said, adding, “But they don’t seem to know when March 31 is.”

Conflicts between the two groups will dissipate over time, Mr. Alper said.

“Surfers and fishermen are becoming one and the same with the new generation of beach lovers we’re seeing now,” he said. “Most vehicles you see in summertime have both fishing poles and surfboards on them.”

For people like P. Claire Pertalion, who discovered surfing six years ago and is now co-chairwoman of the Surfrider Foundation chapter, the new beach access has simply expanded her opportunity to “get stoked” on the water.

“It’s the best physical activity I’ve ever had in my life,” she said. “It’s like flying across water. You just want to do it again and again and again.”

Ms. Pertalion, a 40-year-old former production manager from North Carolina, used to make commercials for companies like McDonald’s and Budweiser and said she took a “serious hit” financially when she moved to Montauk three years ago. But now she is near the beach and the waves all the time.

How can wave lovers brave the freezing temperatures of winter to pursue their sport? The answer, surfers say, is today’s neoprene wet suits, which help keep in body heat by trapping a layer of water against the skin.

It also helps to be rugged or slightly obsessed. Or both.

Ms. Pertalion said she tries to catch a wave whenever the sun is out, no matter what the temperature. “I was paddling out one day last year in the winter with my boyfriend, and I said if you’d told me 10 years ago I’d be doing something like this, I’d have said you were crazy,” she said. “But you do what you love.”

A similar description of surfing euphoria came from Mr. Krum, whose face was accented by a salt-and-pepper goatee, wraparound sunglasses and three earrings, all framed inside a black hooded sweatshirt.

“It’s just one of those things that grabs hold of you,” he said. “Once you get stoked, you’re always looking for waves. It can be snowing or freezing out, but it doesn’t matter.”

Mr. Krum said that he had tried living inland, including a stint in Colorado, but discovered that he could not stay away from Long Island and the ocean. Now, he rises every day at dawn, checks weather conditions and heads to the beach. If he cannot surf, he walks the shoreline. Being at Montauk Point is indeed a beautiful thing.

“This,” he said with the nod of a man who has found his nirvana, “is my spot.”
1168 2009-03-29 LIGHT laughter flowed from the tasting room here at Loughlin Vineyards on the first weekend of spring. A scrap of lumber propped open the door, and sunlight warmed it. Inside, Barney Loughlin, the owner, sat with his back to a wood-burning stove that kept the room toasty.

Two visitors hovered at the entrance. Mr. Loughlin, 83, quickly stood up and greeted them.

“Care for a wine-tasting?” he asked. The couple nodded and strolled in. Mr. Loughlin poured cabernet sauvignon into tiny plastic cups and finished his thought, which drew chuckles: “If you don’t like it, throw it outside. It’ll kill the weeds.”

Mr. Loughlin was one of many winemakers in the region welcoming the spring hatch of wine-lovers after a winter spent pruning vines, fertilizing soil and attending to quieter tasting rooms as wines from last season underwent their initial aging in storage tanks.

The recession has presented a challenge, winemakers said, but vineyards and wineries have countered with events to attract customers.

The Long Island Wine Council and its partners are preparing for a barrel-tasting promotion scheduled for Saturdays in April and May. It will allow visitors to preview certain red wines and rosés before they are released for sale, said Steven L. Bate, the wine council’s executive director.

In New Jersey, wineries are focusing on events for Mother’s Day and a blues and wine festival on May 23 and 24 in Somerset County. Many Connecticut wineries also plan barrel-tasting events.

In the Hudson Valley, wineries are preparing for April 18 and 19, when Pasta Primo-Vino!  hosted by the Shawangunk Wine Trail  will celebrate spring and bud-break by pairing newly released wines with food.

Kerry McKillop, an events and marketing coordinator for Pindar Vineyards and Duck Walk Vineyards, both on Long Island, said early spring is a good time to visit vineyards and wineries and learn about the winemaking process because fewer customers are around.

“You get that one-on-one attention,” she said.

Loughlin Vineyards does not have a winery but is building one on the property. The vineyard has for years hired wineries on the North Fork to make its wines. Mr. Loughlin said he hopes to produce 1,000 cases of wine from the three tons of cabernet sauvignon, merlot and chardonnay grapes harvested each year.

One customer said he looked forward to Mr. Loughlin’s wines.

“I’ve been coming out here the better part of 10 years,” said Ron K. Bennett, 63, a factory engineer who lives in Bay Shore. He sipped a cabernet sauvignon while Mr. Loughlin prepared a case of reds, whites and blush.

Mr. Bennett said it took him six months to find the vineyard after hearing about it. “I figured it was tucked back here somewhere,” he said.

The vineyard is on a tongue of land between two branches of Browns Creek that drain Lotus Lake and Mill Pond in Suffolk County. The surrounding land, once the estate of John Ellis Roosevelt, is now part of the Sans Souci Lake Nature Preserve and is owned by the county. The Bayport Heritage Association has restored the first floor of the building to its 1910 appearance and offers tours in the summer, said James E. Connell, the group’s vice president.

A Bay Shore couple said they were looking for the Peace Labyrinth at Rotary Park when they saw the winery sign along South Main Street in Sayville. They took the dirt road north and came to the tasting room, which was built 15 years ago from rough-cut lumber and tree trunks.

“I felt like we had showed up at someone’s house that we hadn’t seen in years,” said Kat M. Cleary, 46, of Bay Shore. Her husband, Dan, also 46, said the atmosphere reminded him of southern Vermont, where his sister lives.

Mr. Loughlin, one of four children, was born in 1926 in the cottage about 50 yards south of the vineyard. His mother, who came from Ireland, was a governess to the children of John E. Roosevelt, a cousin of President Theodore Roosevelt. Mr. Loughlin’s father, also from Ireland, became a caretaker of the land after the couple married, Mr. Loughlin said.

Mr. Loughlin said he bought 15 acres of the estate, called Meadow Croft, in 1948. Cattle, donkeys and horses roamed the farm until 1984, when it became a vineyard.

Mr. Loughlin said his wife, Christine G. Loughlin, who helped him start the vineyard, died in 1995. Their three daughters, Mary Ellen Richter, Beth Cutrone and Patricia Jones, help run it today.

“It started as a hobby,” Mr. Loughlin said. “Then it became a business. Then it became work. Nice healthy work.”

Outside it was 40 degrees and breezy, but in the tasting room, bars of sunlight in the windows and the heat from the stove kept the temperature at 70 degrees, according to a thermometer that advertised the Long Island Cauliflower Association. Mr. Loughlin poured more wine, and someone asked him about the toaster oven in the corner.

The toaster was set at 250 degrees to test an invention for the firefighting industry, said Mr. Loughlin, a former Sayville fire chief. He makes and sells various devices to help firefighters navigate through smoke and along ladders.

“I was a fire chief 300 years ago,” he said. “I do a lot of crazy things.”

But he said one thing that isn’t crazy is dealing with people.

“People are nice,” Mr. Loughlin said. “If you treat people right, they’ll be nice.”

Then a stern-looking man with a broad chest approached the tasting room.

“This guy looks mad,” Mr. Loughlin said, and a dozen customers leaned forward in anticipation. “Who wants to be the owner?”

The man, who turned out to be friendly, was Eric E. Anderson, 51, of Melville. Mr. Anderson, an architect, had just came from a beer-tasting event nearby.

“It’s springtime,” he said, smiling over his merlot. “It’s the time to get out.”
1169 2009-03-29 After eight years of George W. Bush and his failed “Freedom Agenda,” it is not surprising to see that he is still as stubborn and arrogant as he was as president (James Traub, March 15). S.M.U. does itself a disservice by allowing a president who pre­sided over so much misery and failure, due to his recklessness and incompetence, to establish an institute in his name on his terms at the university. While there is much to learn about how not to act as president from the Bush 43 years, maybe a high-school campus in, say, Crawford would be a better location for his institute.

Mr. Traub’s article reflects the tiresome Bush-bashing mind-set of many who cannot let go of their favorite punching bag. Those who have anything good to say about the former president’s plans for a freedom center are portrayed as biased former Bush cronies; those with whom the author obviously agrees are, of course, serious academics (i.e., anti-Bush liberals at Southern Methodist University) and “leading authorities” like Marina Ottaway of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, who calls the Bush Freedom Agenda “an unqualified disaster” which “has not helped bring about change in the region.” Yet such so-called “expertise” ignores the creation of a functioning democracy in Iraq — a revolutionary change that represents a blow to the forces of terrorism and will benefit the United States and its allies in the region.

A fair analysis of the Bush presidential center will have to await a less-biased account than Mr. Traub’s. By the way, does he think President Clinton’s library and museum presents anything but a favorable version of that administration?
1170 2009-03-29 An article on March 15 about the southern coast of Cambodia, which is emerging as an alternative to the heavily trafficked beaches of Thailand, misspelled part of the name of a Vietnamese island seen from the Veranda, a resort on the coast in Kep. As an accompanying map correctly noted, it is Phu Quoc, not Pho Quoc.
1171 2009-03-29 To the Sports Editor,     Re ''After Stopping the U.S., Japan Is Back in the Final,'' March 23: Now that the cream of the American major leagues lost to a Japanese team in the World Baseball Classic, would it be too much to ask that ticket, parkin...
1172 2009-03-30 New York City Center has announced next season’s Encores! schedule....
1173 2009-03-30 Microsoft decided to shut down its Encarta encyclopedia, conceding defeat in its battle with the free, collaborative Wikipedia project....
1174 2009-03-30 Because any extended analysis of “Cupid,” a new series beginning on Tuesday on ABC, could threaten to keep you from watching reruns of “The Real Housewives of New York City” or doing anything else vital to the national conversation, I’m going to keep this brief. In 1998, during the high-flying years of the Clinton administration, when the Dow fixed a happy smiley face on so many, ABC had a show called “Cupid” that starred Jeremy Piven as a guy who believed he was the Roman god of love fallen to earth. Though the series lasted only 15 episodes, there are those who followed it with a certain devotion, and presumably they have been bereaved by its absence ever since.

“Cupid” 2009 is a simulation: same idea, same creator (Rob Thomas), different cast. In a statement ABC said it felt the “zeitgeist” was now better suited to the series’s themes. I can only take that to mean that global economic crisis is supposed to leave us more susceptible to network inanities.

The failure of “Valentine,” which ran on CW last fall, also about gods of classical mythology matchmaking in the modern world, would seem to have already invalidated this thesis. Mercifully, “Valentine” vanished after a few episodes, though it is worth noting that even comparatively superior attempts at dissecting urban love (“Lipstick Jungle,” “The Ex-List”) have been unable to find an audience recently.

The revised “Cupid” is set in present-day Manhattan, and in this context Cupid is calling himself Trevor Pierce and insisting that he has been sent to live among the mortals by Zeus, who has directed him to bring 100 couples together before he can return to Mount Olympus. (I’m still unclear on why Cupid, ostensibly Roman, is taking orders from the Greeks, but until I figure it out, I’m sticking with the idea that there were dire complications in the passport office.)

At any rate, Cupid appears to be stymied in his efforts to forge romantic affiliations. “One hundred couples?” he says. “I used to pull that off before lunch.”

Cupid/Trevor is played here by Bobby Cannavale (“Will & Grace”). The joke is supposed to be his utter lack of effeteness: he looks like someone who might be trying to find you a can of motor oil. Refusing to buy whatever it is he is selling, at least for the first few nanoseconds, is Dr. Claire McCrae (Sarah Paulson), a psychiatrist and self-help author who tries to unravel his apparent madness by assigning him to a singles’ group she oversees. In her circle of misfits eccentricity means forgetting — whoops! — to cite a chastity pledge in one’s personal ad.
1175 2009-03-30 The statement claims that President Obama can bypass a law that limits his power to appoint members to a government commission that manages historical and economic issues along the Erie Canal....
1176 2009-03-30 An unexpected 20-percent discount on Apple products from a retailer, while supplies last....
1177 2009-03-30 Google, so good at may things, fails to get its G1 phone's GPS working...
1178 2009-03-30 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1179 2009-03-30 A 60-year-old British man was charged with recklessly endangering lives by opening an emergency exit on a taxiway at Kennedy Airport....
1180 2009-03-30 On Monday, Agoos, the Red Bulls’ sporting director, confirmed that the club had negotiated a contract for Johnson with Schiefloe.

“This really is an issue between the player and his agent,” Agoos said in a telephone interview. “It was Carlos Johnson who told us that Jan was no longer his agent and we should deal with Reuben. It was also our understanding that Jan was really a third-party intermediary between another agent, Carlos and us.”

A spokesman for FIFA said in an e-mail message Monday that it has received a complaint from Schiefloe against Johnson, but would not comment while the complaint is pending.

A Red Bulls spokesman said that Johnson was in Mexico City with Costa Rica’s national team for Saturday night’s World Cup qualifier, but he did not play in the match and was not on the Costa Rican roster sheet.

Johnson, 24, signed a one-year contract, with a three-year option, with the Red Bulls for a base salary of $90,000 and a $53,000 roster bonus this year, increasing to $119,790 in 2012. The deal included incentives that could exceed $40,000 a year. Several years ago, Schiefloe engineered Johnson’s transfer to a second-division club in Norway, Byrne FK, from which Johnson recently obtained his release because of the team’s financial problems.

Dan Courtemanche, the senior vice president for communications at M.L.S., wrote in an e-mail message Sunday that this “is the first I’ve heard of this” and added that he would investigate and respond further. As a single-entity operation, M.L.S. signs and owns all player contracts.

Johnson worked out with the Red Bulls in early March after the club returned from a preseason training trip to Argentina.

“Today afforded the coaching staff an opportunity to see Carlos Johnson and for him to get more familiar with the team and the players,” Osorio was quoted in a New York Post online article March 5. “We had followed him during the UNCAF tournament. He is an athletic player that can get up and down the right flank. He can provide good service and has good qualities on offense and defense.”

Johnson made 17 appearances for Byrne FK last season, scoring one goal. Before his transfer there, he played four seasons with the Costa Rican first division club C.S. Herediano, scoring four goals in 91 games.

“The issue I have is the callous disregard for FIFA rules and regulations, as well as for the relationship I had developed with Jeff Agoos,” Schiefloe said in an e-mail message on Monday. “Jeff Agoos could have stood up to Carlos and told him, ‘The right thing to do is to conclude this agreement with Jan Schiefloe as the agent, since he has done a lot of work on our behalf and on your behalf. If that is fine with you, then we can conclude this deal now. If not, we wish you good luck, but we are not in a position to sign you.’ But both the M.L.S. and the Red Bulls chose to ignore my work and proceeded to sign Carlos Johnson.”
1181 2009-03-30 The reigning Miss Universe writes on her blog that she had a lovely time visiting Guantánamo Bay last week....
1182 2009-03-30 President Obama announced what amounts to a do-or-die ultimatum for the struggling automobile industry on Monday, laying out strict standards that the carmakers must meet to get more government aid and declaring that the industry must survive beca...
1183 2009-03-30 In an interview with DealBook, Spencer Bachus, the ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee, expressed support for reforming Wall Street but criticized the secrecy of federal bailouts and efforts to set the terms of executive pay....
1184 2009-03-30 The fight for the server business of Web 2.0 companies remains brutal, but Rackable said it is in for the long haul....
1185 2009-03-30 The weekend's results in motorsports, including Jenson Button and Rubens Barrichello's one-two finish for Brawn GP at the Australian Grand Prix....
1186 2009-03-30 The article about Freeman Dyson in the Times Magazine nicely captures Mr. Dyson's independent spirit as well as a couple other appealing traits: humanism and optimism....
1187 2009-03-30 A new experimental drug for schizophrenia performed poorly in phase II trials, doing no better than placebo, The Indianapolis Star reports. Initial trials had suggested the new Eli Lilly drug, which is designed to work differently from current therapies, was promising and spared patients from weight gain and other side effects.

The recent suicides of three Chicago children – two 11-year-olds and a 10-year-old – have focused attention on child depression, once a taboo subject, The Chicago Tribune reports. Though suicide is rare in children under 15, numbers have inched upward in recent years, experts said. The three incidents were unrelated.

A new exercise device called a Tailwind appears to help stroke victims regain movement in affected limbs, The Baltimore Sun reports. The device, which looks like a set of metal arms, helps retrain the part of the brain in control of motor skills; at least two studies have found patients who use the device show progress after six weeks.

Community health centers will be getting hundreds of millions of dollars in grants from the federal stimulus package to help clinics care for uninsured patients, The Philadelphia Inquirer reports. Dozens of centers in the Philadelphia area alone will share some $9.5 million, enabling them to care for 60,000 new patients.

Data from a new federal study have raised questions about the effectiveness of extended drug treatment of children for hyperactivity and attention-deficit disorder, The Washington Post reported last week. The study also indicated long-term use of the drugs may stunt children's growth, and one of the study's authors has suggested the data show the drugs are useful in the short term but ineffective after about two years.
1188 2009-03-30 Stocks fell sharply in Europe and Asia on Monday, amid fears that the Group of 20 meeting this week would fail to come up with a plan to restart global growth and signs of chaos in the auto industry, The New York Times's David Jolly and Bettina Wa...
1189 2009-03-30 Restructuring advisers and law firms that specialize in bankruptcy are enjoying a wave of new business, as more and bigger companies seek protection from creditors. The Deal looks at which firms are riding high in its latest league tables. Go to A...
1190 2009-03-30 Meruelo Maddux Properties, one of the largest developers and landlords in downtown Los Angeles, said it was filing for bankruptcy protection. The company said that it had worked to avoid bankruptcy but was forced to pursue the Chapter 11 filing to...
1191 2009-03-30 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
1192 2009-03-30 The last two spots in the N.C.A.A. Division I men's Frozen Four are up for grabs. They will be filled today....
1193 2009-03-30 The Rangers' penalty-killing expert Blair Betts rounds out the Metro area's three nominees for the annual award for perseverance, sportsmanship and dedication to hockey....
1194 2009-03-30 WASHINGTON — The White House on Sunday pushed out the chairman of General Motors and instructed Chrysler to form a partnership with the Italian automaker Fiat within 30 days as conditions for receiving another much-needed round of government aid.

The decision to ask G.M.’s chairman and chief executive, Rick Wagoner, to resign caught Detroit and Washington by surprise, and it underscored the Obama administration’s determination to keep a tight rein on the companies it is bailing out — a level of government involvement in business perhaps not seen since the Great Depression.

President Obama is scheduled to announce details of the auto package at the White House on Monday, but two senior officials, offering a preview on condition of anonymity, made clear that some form of bankruptcy — a quick, court-supervised restructuring, as they described it — could still be an option for one or both companies.

Mr. Obama’s auto industry task force, in a report released Sunday night assessing the viability of both companies and detailing the administration’s new plans for them, concluded that Chrysler could not survive as a stand-alone company.

The report said the company would get no more help from the government unless it can finalize a proposed alliance with the Italian automaker Fiat by April 30. It must also reduce its debt and health-care obligations.

If a deal is reached between Chrysler and Fiat, the administration says it would consider another loan of $6 billion to Chrysler.

G.M., on the other hand, has made considerable progress in developing new energy-efficient cars and could survive if it can cut costs sharply, the task force reported. The administration is giving G.M. 60 days to present a cost-cutting plan and will provide taxpayer assistance to keep it afloat during that time.

Along with Mr. Wagoner’s ouster, the task force said most of the company’s board would be replaced over the next few months. In a statement Monday, Mr. Wagoner said he had been urged to “step aside” by administration officials, “and so I have.”

His resignation is the latest example of the government taking a hands-on role in making major decisions at companies it is bailing out. The government has already pushed banks to make management changes and sharply reduce or eliminate their dividends, and it also is directing many of the decisions at the troubled insurance giant American International Group, which is nearly 80 percent owned by the government after its rescue.

In deciding to urge Mr. Wagoner to step down, the Obama administration seemed mindful of the public’s growing outrage over bailouts of private companies, as well as the bonuses paid to employees of A.I.G.

Mr. Obama is well aware that he cannot afford to give the appearance of using tax dollars to reward executives who have done a poor job, and he began signaling as early as last week that he would take a tough stance with the automakers.

In a question and answer session at the White House on Thursday, the president said there had been “a lot of mismanagement of the auto industry over the past several years,” and declared that more government help would be contingent on the companies’ “willingness to make some pretty drastic changes.”

The plan Mr. Obama is to announce on Monday will also include government backing of warranties for G.M. and Chrysler cars and trucks, to give consumers enough confidence to buy them, even if one or both are forced into bankruptcy.

In Detroit, the G.M. board said Monday in a statement that it “has recognized for some time that the company’s restructuring will likely cause a significant change in the stockholders of the company and create the need for new directors with additional skills and experience.”

“The board intends to work to nominate a slate of directors for the next annual meeting that will include a majority of new directors,” the board said.

Mr. Wagoner has presided over a steep drop in G.M.’s domestic market share, which has led to tens of billions of dollars in losses. His critics have said that management’s failure to move aggressively to address the company’s problems contributed to its dire financial situation.

“The bigger surprise is not that he resigned. That was going to happen sooner or later,” said Michael Useem, professor of management at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. “But the moment seems inexplicable.”
1195 2009-03-30 “An amazing day,” Button said. He added, “It has been a traumatic few months for all of us.”

The Brawn team is named for its director, Ross Brawn, the technical director who led Michael Schumacher to seven world titles at Benetton and Ferrari.

The Brawn cars arrived in Melbourne without sponsors, painted almost entirely white. Honda provided a small budget, which cost it less than firing the staff of hundreds at the team.

But in a dramatic move, Richard Branson, the British entrepreneur who founded the Virgin Group, flew in to Melbourne on Saturday morning to announce that Virgin would be the team’s first sponsor. Temporary “Virgin” logos were stuck on the cars.

Branson said he wanted to show the world that Virgin was bucking the gloomy trend by moving into sponsorship because that was the only way the economy would return to health.

Button said that the normally communicative Brawn did not say a word in the final 15 minutes of the race. Barrichello, who had raced under Brawn at Ferrari, said he had never seen him so emotional.

“It’s all a dream, really, to say we finished first and second for a new team,” Barrichello said. “It was funny to see Ross that way, not even at Ferrari did I see him like that. It looked like it was his first win, so it was really amazing.”

But the race had its controversy, concerning interpretations of new technical regulations. Several teams accused the Brawn, Williams and Toyota teams of using an illegal aerodynamic air diffuser on the rear of their cars.

Race stewards in Melbourne declared the diffuser legal, but the teams that made the complaint appealed the decision. The appeal is scheduled for April 14; the race result could change if the diffusers are ruled illegal.

Last year’s most powerful teams, Ferrari and McLaren Mercedes, clearly lagged. Lewis Hamilton, the reigning world champion in a McLaren, qualified 15th. But he was forced to start from the back of the grid when his gearbox needed to be changed before the race.

Still, he finished fourth before being promoted to third after Jarno Trulli, in a Toyota, was penalized for passing under the safety car.

Felipe Massa and Kimi Raikkonen, both of Ferrari, failed to finish the race, and Heikki Kovalainen of McLaren dropped out after an accident on the first lap.

Until three laps before the end, Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull Racing was running second. Vettel, who qualified third, moved to second when Barrichello made a bad start and dropped to seventh.

But Vettel was also the reason the race ended under the safety car. With 10 laps left, he began slowly catching up to Button. He was then caught in a turn by Robert Kubica of BMW Sauber. With three laps left, Kubica tried to pass Vettel; the cars collided and crashed out.

Vettel was fined $50,000 for trying to continue racing his damaged car. He will be docked 10 grid positions at the next race for causing the accident.
1196 2009-03-30 The task force is an independent panel of experts convened by the federal government to establish guidelines for treatment in primary care. Its new guidance goes beyond the pediatrics academy, which advises pediatricians to ask teenage patients questions about depression. Other doctor groups advise screening only high-risk youngsters.

Because depression is so common, “you will miss a lot if you only screen high-risk groups,” said Dr. Ned Calonge, task force chairman and chief medical officer for the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment.

The group recommends research-tested screening even for children without symptoms. It cited two questionnaires that focus on depression tip-offs, like mood, anxiety, appetite and substance abuse.

Dr. Calonge emphasized that the panel did not want its advice to lead to drug treatment alone, particularly antidepressants that have been linked to increased risks for suicidal thoughts. Routine depression testing should only occur if psychotherapy is also readily available, the panel said. Dr. Calonge said screening once yearly would most likely be enough.

The recommendations come at a pivotal time for treatment of depression and other mental health problems in children. Recently passed federal mental health equity legislation mandates equal coverage for mental and physical ailments in insurance plans offering both. The law is expected to prompt more adults and children to seek mental health care.

Yet at the same time, psychiatrists specializing in treating children and teens are scarce. A separate report, also released Monday in the Pediatrics journal, says primary care doctors including pediatricians and family physicians will need to get more involved in mental health care.

That report is from the pediatrics academy and the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. The groups say pediatricians should routinely consult with child psychiatrists, including working in the same office when possible. And it says insurers should compensate pediatricians for any mental health services they provide.

Dr. Alan Axelson, a Pittsburgh psychiatrist who co-wrote the second report, praised the task force recommendations and said pediatricians could play an important role.

Because children’s families often get to know their pediatricians, having those doctors offer mental health screening can help make it seem less stigmatizing, Dr. Axelson said.

Most pediatricians are not trained to do psychotherapy, but they can prescribe depression medication and monitor patients they have referred to others for therapy, he said.

Dr. Ted Epperly, president of the American Academy of Family Physicians, said his group supported both Pediatrics reports.
1197 2009-03-30 After the ruling, Ms. Hines, who expressed regret for her comments, sued Mr. McBride, his church and the Episcopal Diocese of Mississippi, alleging malpractice and fraud. She did not sue Mr. Mabus, who broke no laws by recording the meeting.

The suit drew attention in 2002 as a potential test case for privacy rights involving churches. Ms. Hines went on something of a media blitz, describing in nationally televised interviews what she called a betrayal by her priest in collusion with her ex-husband. A judge dismissed her suit in 2006; the Mississippi Supreme Court is expected to consider an appeal this year.

A White House official, who requested anonymity to discuss internal deliberations on a personnel matter, said that officials who reviewed Mr. Mabus’s background knew about the messy divorce and did not view it as material to his potential duties as Navy secretary.

In response to questions, the White House released a statement Sunday that said, “The president nominated Governor Mabus to be secretary of the Navy because he has the proven leadership and experience our nation needs to serve in this important position.”

The United States senators from Mississippi, Thad Cochran and Roger Wicker, both Republicans, said last week when Mr. Mabus was nominated that they would support him. Mr. Wicker, who sits on the Armed Services Committee, which will review the nomination first, said in a statement Friday, “I look forward to assisting his confirmation process and to working with him to strengthen and improve our Navy.” Mr. Wicker did not respond to a request for comment Sunday.

Mr. Mabus declined to comment Sunday. But his lawyer, Richard C. Roberts III, said Mr. Mabus recorded the session with his wife based on advice from his lawyer at the time and after having learned that she was having an affair.

“It would just be a travesty,” Mr. Roberts said, “if this became a controversy when Ray Mabus was nothing more than a private individual confronting his wife about an adulterous affair in a manner prescribed by his lawyer.

“For what it’s worth,” Mr. Roberts added, “Ray Mabus is probably one of the most intelligent, honorable people I know. I can’t imagine a better choice for secretary of the Navy.”

Reached at home late Sunday, Ms. Hines said that she was still pursuing her case against the church and offered no criticism of Mr. Mabus’s nomination.

“I’m very happy for his children because they’re proud of their father,” she said.

Mr. Mabus was governor of Mississippi from 1988 to 1992 and served as the United States ambassador to Saudi Arabia for two years under President Bill Clinton. In the early 1970s, Mr. Mabus served in the Navy, aboard the cruiser Little Rock. As a civilian, he won distinguished public service awards from the Defense Department and the Army.
1198 2009-03-30 The commercialization will “drive thangkas far from their origins, from their use as religious objects,” said Zhang Yasha, a teacher of fine arts at the Minzu University of China who specializes in Tibet. “We see more young people learning the art because it’s lucrative.”

The paintings hanging in the back room of Lobsang’s chamber show the range of traditional thangka subjects: Gods like Padmasambhava and White Tara and Green Tara, and the circle of life with people reclining in heaven and roasting in hell.

The thangkas are explosions of color. The paint powder comes from grinding materials like coral, agate, sapphire, pearl and gold.

Of the monks in the two monasteries in Sengeshong, about 60 can paint with some skill, said Lobsang, a compact, cheerful, Red Bull-drinking man who entered the monastery at age 7 and began studying thangka painting seven years later.

“There are only a few good ones, and a lot of ordinary ones,” he said of the painters.

This valley outside the town of Rebkong, known in Chinese as Tongren, offers the kind of isolation that artists often crave. The upper monastery is set against snow-covered hills. The sweet smell of juniper incense drifts through the air. On a recent afternoon, a steady drumbeat emanated from the dark recesses of the main temple, while dozens of monks sat on the temple steps wiping brass yak butter lamps.

Lobsang’s chamber is plush compared to rooms at other Tibetan monasteries. The carpeted living area has a central stove and a framed portrait of the Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of the Tibetans. There is a photograph of Lobsang standing in his red robes in front of the Shanghai skyline; he lived for five years in Shanghai and Beijing painting thangkas for a businessman.

A safe in the rear room contains some of Lobsang’s more expensive thangkas. The front wall of the foyer has wide glass windows, and it is in this sun-drenched space that Lobsang paints during the winter.

Skilled thangka and mural painters are valued across Tibet, with artists sometimes traveling thousands of miles to do commissions for prominent monasteries. Many monasteries and temples were destroyed or sacked during the Cultural Revolution, and those that have begun rebuilding are in need of painters.

“That’s meant the painters of Rebkong are wealthy compared to other groups in Tibetan society,” said Mark Stevenson, a senior lecturer in Asian studies at Victoria University in Melbourne, Australia, who has studied the painting community here.

Painting thangkas is simply one component of an array of artistic skills among monks, Dr. Stevenson said.

“Every monk has a need for artistic talent,” he said. “They make and assemble tormas, which are offering cakes. Many may have to work on mandalas as well. This is part of being a monk. Every monk needs some manual skill dexterity in designing ritual objects.”

The first monastery in the Rebkong area was founded at the start of the 14th century, when the Mongols ruled China and turned to Tibetan religious leaders to guide their practice of Buddhism. But the distinctive Rebkong school of painting, with its brighter colors and finer lines, did not emerge until the 17th century, when the Gelugpa sect became dominant. The Dalai Lama, believed to be the reincarnation of the thousand-faced Chenresig, belongs to this sect.

Rebkong achieved fame in modern times because it was home to several notable artists, in particular a monk named Shawu Tsering.

“Watching him paint was remarkable, as if the lines were already there, and he was just moving his hand to bring them forward,” Dr. Stevenson said. “It was just so effortless, and the skill and memory were there to allow him to do that.”

The art tradition here suffered a break from 1958 to 1978, when Chinese authorities shut down the monasteries, first during the suppression of a rebellion, then during the Cultural Revolution. Monks were persecuted. Shawu Tsering, for example, was forced to wear a dunce’s cap.

In the 1980s, the government opened up an art research institute in the town of Rebkong, eventually converting it into a gallery. The gallery supported local artists. After the revival of thangka painting, monks took up the art in large numbers again.

In warm weather, Lobsang sits in his front yard with a brush in hand, working 10 to 12 hours a day.

It is an art that he now teaches to others, some of them laypeople from nearby villages.

“We want them to transmit Buddhism,” he said. “We want them to teach people that the gods are kind.”
1199 2009-03-30 Babies born just three to six weeks before their due dates are more likely than full-term babies to have disabilities or developmental delays in kindergarten, a study has found. The children also are slightly more likely to be suspended or held back in kindergarten and to require special education.

Over all, the risk is small, and doctors emphasized that parents should not be alarmed. While almost 3 percent of full-term babies in the study had a developmental delay or disability in kindergarten, just more than 4 percent of the late-preterm babies did. Still, that amounts to a 36 percent increase in risk.

Researchers said they were surprised by the results, in large part because babies born after 34 or 35 weeks of gestation, though not full-term, have long been considered in the clear.

“The biggest take-home point is that the late-preterm baby is not exactly the same as the term baby,” said Dr. Steven Benjamin Morse, an author of the study and an associate professor of pediatrics at University of Florida.

“They go home from the hospital in two to three days, and they look great, and they act like full-term babies,” he said. “But now we’ve found that they do have some increased risk of problems when they enter school. We were surprised.”
1200 2009-03-30 A deep and competitive six-nation race reinforces the necessity to win at home, which for the United States means Wednesday night in Nashville against Trinidad and Tobago.

“Obviously, they’re all important, but now this is a big game for us because we don’t want to get behind the ball,” said defender Carlos Bocanegra, the United States captain. “We need to get a win there against Trinidad. They’re a team we feel we can beat, but it’s not going to be easy.”

Trinidad and Tobago has 2 points from a pair of ties, but could pass the United States, which leads the group with 4 points, with a victory in Nashville.

Bob Bradley, the United States coach, has three days to parse the El Salvador game and decide if his lineup needs changes. One obvious move would be returning Tim Howard to goal ahead of Brad Guzan, who was a bit shaky in his first important appearance with the national team. Howard was suspended for the El Salvador match because of accumulated yellow cards.

Bradley may also want to find places in the lineup for forward Jozy Altidore and midfielder José Francisco Torres. Altidore came on in the 61st minute and scored the team’s first goal, andTorres , seemed to enliven the offense when he joined the game in the 71st minute. Michael Bradley, the coach’s son, and Sacha Kljestan seemed to struggle in central midfield.

Bob Bradley was not giving any hints Saturday night. “We look hard at every game,” he said. “We find ways to improve. As a team, that’s been something we have done well. But right after a match, it’s not easy to pinpoint things. We have a few days to analyze what happened.”

The Americans gave up a goal in the 15th minute, which “was not part of the plan,” Bradley wryly said.

“In these games, the last thing you want is to go down a goal early,” forward Landon Donovan said. “The fans are already passionate, emotional and fired up, and if they get a goal, it just multiplies it. That’s what we were at fault for. We ended up chasing the game, which made it difficult, but at the end, we did a good job to get something out of it.”

Winning on the road in Mexico and Central America has always been difficult for the United States; it is now 6-18-10 in World Cup qualifier road matches against the countries from Mexico south to Panama.

El Salvador made it 2-0 in the 72nd minute, but the United States scored five minutes later. Hejduk made another long run up the right flank and took a pass in space, with plenty of time to lift a cross to the far post, where Altidore was waiting to head it home.

“We started playing more direct,” Hejduk said. “We had some bigger players and won some head balls and got some corner kicks, and I think they dropped off a little bit. They let their guard down a little bit, and we capitalized.”

The second goal came in the 87th minute, after a corner kick from Donovan. The ball glanced off someone in a crowd inside the box and popped toward Hejduk, who had drifted to the far post. With the Salvadorans tiring, the Americans almost got a third goal during the seven minutes of injury time.

“Anytime you come back and tie a game in the last 15 minutes, there’s a good feeling,” Donovan said.

“However, in some ways we feel like we lost a couple points today. At the end of the day, if we win our home games and tie on the road, then that’s plenty to get us through.”

That old math again.
1201 2009-03-30 Studying blood clots was a secondary goal, said Jupiter’s lead investigator, Dr. Paul M. Ridker, the director of the Center for Cardiovascular Disease at Brigham and Women’s Hospital. With the relatively healthy people in the study, the number of clots was small — 94 total — but the placebo group developed 60 of them, compared with 34 for those taking the statin.

Dr. Ridker said common treatments for people who have had blood clots, usually several months of anticoagulants like warfarin or heparin, can cause hemorrhaging and require frequent monitoring. But blood clot reduction in the study “came without risk of hemorrhage at all,” he said.

Jupiter is the first clinical trial to consider the effect of statins on blood clots in randomly selected people, although smaller studies have suggested similar results, including a 2008 review at Albert Einstein Medical Center in New York of the records of cancer patients who took statins.

Dr. Ridker says he has begun prescribing statins, in addition to anticoagulants, to patients who have had a previous venous blood clot. Some experts, however, said more proof was needed.

“I can’t imagine that you would be treating people prophylactically yet,” said Dr. Timothy J. Gardner, the president of the American Heart Association. “The dilemma is we don’t want to put patients on medications that they don’t need, especially if we’re putting them on medications for life or for long term.”

The statin used in the Jupiter study is the most potent on the market, rosuvastatin, sold as Crestor and made by AstraZeneca, which sponsored the study. Some consumer health advocates say Crestor raises the risks of side effects like muscle deterioration and kidney problems. These were not problems in the Jupiter trial, although there was a small increase in diabetes. While it is unclear whether every statin would have the same effect as Crestor, most experts believe statins produce similar results, depending on the dose.

At the cardiology convention and on the Web site of the journal The Lancet, Dr. Ridker will present another set of results from the Jupiter study looking at the role of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, or CRP, which indicates inflammation in the body. While people chosen for the study did not have high L.D.L., or bad, cholesterol, they did have high levels of CRP.

After an average of less than two years, Dr. Ridker found that the people taking the statin who had the lowest risk of heart attack, stroke and other problems were those who wound up not only with very low cholesterol but also very low CRP levels. Dr. Ridker said the findings indicated that people with high CRP levels should be taking statins, a recommendation that the national medical panels are considering. And he said that inflammation, and not just high cholesterol, appeared to cause heart problems, rather than merely being an indicator of problems.

“This does in my mind add strength to the hypothesis that inflammation is causal,” said Dr. Ridker, who helped invent a CRP test.

“Whether this study confirms that inflammation increases risk of heart attack remains to be determined,” said Dr. Daniel J. Rader, a heart researcher at the School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. “Many people would say it simply proves that CRP is a marker of risk.”

Dr. Rader and others said they were not convinced that patients taking statins should be tested to see whether their CRP levels, and not just their cholesterol, had dropped. If the CRP levels stayed high but other indicators improved, they said, that might not mean the statin was failing or should be increased.

If “L.D.L. is down but CRP continues to remain elevated, would increasing the statin further provide additional benefit?” said Sidney Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina and a past president of the American Heart Association. “This doesn’t answer that question. My approach would be to work on getting the patient to stop smoking, and other lifestyle factors.”
1202 2009-03-30 While it was clear that there had not been enough American troops in Afghanistan, he said, he does not assume that simply sending more would improve the situation; he prefers a strategy that also makes use of diplomacy and foreign aid.

“Part of what you’re seeing both in Afghanistan and Pakistan, I think,” Mr. Obama said, “is fully resourcing a comprehensive strategy that doesn’t just rely on bullets or bombs, but also relies on agricultural specialists, on doctors, on engineers, to help create an environment in which people recognize that they have much more at stake, in partnering with us and the international community, than giving in to some of these extremist ideologies.”

The president’s message was reinforced on Sunday by other top administration figures, including Gen. David H. Petraeus and Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, two holdovers from the Bush Administration who endorsed President Obama’s handling of the war.

“He clearly understands that this is a very tough fight and that we’re in it until we’re successful, that Al Qaeda is no longer a threat to the United States, and that — and that we are in no danger of either Afghanistan or the western part of Pakistan being a base for Al Qaeda,” Mr. Gates said on the “Fox News Sunday” program. “By the same token, I think he’s been clear — and frankly, it was my view in our discussions — that we don’t want to just settle on this strategy and then pursue it blindly and open-endedly.”

While the near-term objectives had been narrowed, Mr. Gates said, “I think our long-term objective still would be to see a flourishing democracy in Afghanistan.”

Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner appeared on both ABC and NBC on Sunday, discussing the economy in cautious but consistently optimistic terms after several uneven weeks that have seen his actions or lack of them sending the dollar tumbling and lead to some Republican calls for his job.

“I think Americans should be optimistic about the future of this country,” he said on the ABC program “This Week.” “We are a strong, remarkably resilient country. We are still the most productive economy in the world by many measures. We have a university system that is the envy of the world. People with an idea still want to come to the — America to grow business, build on that idea. That’s a great source of strength for our recovery. But we need this government, though, to do a better job of doing what governments have to do.”

Still, he said, “it took us a long time to get into this mess,” and he warned, “It’s going to take us a while to get out of this. Progress is not going to be even. It’s not going to be steady.”

Pressed, Mr. Geithner defended his handling of the controversy over bonuses paid to executives at the struggling insurance giant A.I.G., the administration’s plan to use tax money to help private partners purchase “toxic” assets from banks, and the need for widespread government intervention in the financial system and the economy.

“The market will not solve this, and the great risk for us is we do too little, not that we do too much,” he said.
1203 2009-03-30 THE AUTO BAILOUT As part of a broad agreement with the Obama administration to funnel more aid to Detroit, the head of General Motors, Rick Wagoner, resigned on Sunday, people close to the decision said.      Over the years, Rick Wagoner faced man...
1204 2009-03-31 Brown, Columbia and Duke report that their admissions rates have dropped from last year....
1205 2009-03-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1206 2009-03-31 From Brad Stone at Bits: Responding to what it says is the swarm of conjecture about its financial situation - and perhaps positioning itself for an initial public offering - Facebook released some information about its financial status on Tuesday...
1207 2009-03-31 A government site offers resources for tracking which states have received bailout funds....
1208 2009-03-31 The city of Chicago will give a group of investors led by Citigroup's Citi Infrastructure Investors up to six more months to raise the necessary cash to complete its $2.5 billion deal for Midway Airport. Jodi Kawada, deputy press secretary for May...
1209 2009-03-31 Graydon Carter's new restaurant will open--for previews only--on April 16....
1210 2009-03-31 Facebook released some information about its financial status and said it had dismissed its chief financial officer....
1211 2009-03-31 MPAA releases its "state of the industry" report about how well Hollywood is doing - just fine, thanks - though it has abandoned its long-standing practice of also measuring film production and marketing costs....
1212 2009-03-31 Is it true that the entrepreneurial spirit kicks in at especially high levels during recessions?...
1213 2009-03-31 Three heads of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, the firm's quantitative investment group, left the firm on Tuesday, announcing their retirement. The three men, including Ray Iwanowski and Mark Carhart, ran Goldman's Global Alpha hedge fund, accordi...
1214 2009-03-31 Raised partly in a farmhouse in Ohio, Ralston moved around as a boy before enrolling at Carnegie Mellon University, where he studied mechanical engineering, French and piano. Among the East Coast intelligentsia, he said, he carried his Rocky Mountain home address as a badge of honor and a shield. He caught the ski bug, spent summers rafting the Arkansas River and set out to make his name as the first mountaineer to reach the summit of all 59 of Colorado’s 14,000-foot peaks alone in the wintertime.

But the episode in Blue John Canyon brought him a different sort of fame.

To some, Ralston’s story was an inspiration. His 368-page account, “Between a Rock and a Hard Place,” rose to No. 3 on the New York Times best-seller list. Corporations paid him $15,000 to $37,000 for motivational speeches. Wilderness conservation groups deployed him to raise donations. Schools invited him to speak to children, who often asked to examine his prosthetic hand. Travelers recognized him at airports. Strangers sent him letters. A film version of his ordeal is in the works.

To others, though, his story was the cautionary tale of a heedless fool. By Ralston’s own written account, he had nearly drowned, disturbed a bear and stumbled into an avalanche on earlier adventures. Failure to leave word of his whereabouts in Utah, ignoring one of the most basic rules of hiking, drew sharp rebukes.

A month after his rescue, Ralston appeared before a gymnasium of students at his childhood middle school, where he was greeted with enthusiastic applause. But the eighth graders asked probing questions, according to a transcript of the session. Ralston, still wearing a sling at the time, was prompted to discuss his reasons for venturing out alone, his thoughts on death and his prospects for a movie deal, to which he responded, “I don’t think I can really talk about that.”

So went the early appearances for a public speaker whose presentation, as described in promotional materials from his handlers at the Harry Walker Agency, “redefines the understanding of sacrifice, goal-attaining and what is truly important in our lives.”

By owning up to his mistakes, Ralston has managed to deflate some criticism. But even as he goes about sharing his life lessons, he has returned to unaccompanied wilderness adventure. He has entered several long-distance endurance races. In 2005, with the aid of his prosthetic, he completed his effort to solo-climb the 14,000-foot peaks of Colorado.

Last year, Ralston signed on to advise the arctic explorer Eric Larsen in his preparation to ascend Mount Everest. He has not decided whether to join the expedition. On the side, he has been organizing an African safari and an 18-day rafting voyage through the Grand Canyon.

“Before the accident, he had quit his job as an engineer and moved to Aspen to be in the outdoors and do what he loves,” Elder, his sister, said. “It’s just that what happened to him has vindicated this choice about doing what you love and not being defined by other people’s expectations.”

When he arrived for an interview on a cold morning in this college town, where he has been house-hunting with his fiancée, Ralston bore little resemblance to the photograph on his book jacket. In place of the all-American farm boy displaying his prosthetic under a golden sky in quiet defiance, he appeared as some hoary woodsman emerging from the snow.

Talk soon turned to the series of events that Ralston calls his accident. He was reminded that the only part of his ordeal that could properly be termed accidental, the falling of the boulder, came just after his infamous blunder and just before he performed one of the most astonishing acts of deliberate will ever undertaken.

“There’ve been times when I’ve called it an incident or an episode,” he said. “There’ve also been times when I’ve agreed with people that said, ‘Aron, I’m glad this happened to you,’ because of the gift the story was to them. There are portions of it that are willful acts. It’s tough to blend all that into one word.”

As he spoke, he ate and drank with his left hand. His prosthetic right, he said, he has come to regard as a piece of athletic gear to be worn only for climbing or rowing. He makes an exception for speeches to children. But the absence was telling: for Ralston, examining the lesson of his severed limb seems to have become a life’s work.

“It’s not about what you do; it’s about who you are,” he said. “And I went right back into the mode of being about what you do. That went into all these adventures, finishing the 14-ers, doing the ultra-races.”

In 2006, Ralston said, three of his friends committed suicide within a few weeks. Wrestling with mortal thoughts of his own, he tried again to shift his focus.

“I still do like adventures,” he said, pausing awhile. “But it’s different. It’s not coming from an esteem-building, need-fulfillment place, like my life won’t amount to something if I’m not the first person to make some major accomplishment.”

But shedding the role of unreconstructed vagabond has proved to be no small task. His audiences have certain expectations. This is a man whose e-mail address includes the words “captain” and “fun.” Last year, by his own estimate, he was home five days a month between speaking engagements, climbs, races and the like.

Though strength and courage remain a focus of his speeches, Ralston said: “Now I’ve identified what that source is, and it’s love. We’re tapping into that source of strength and courage when we feel love, and we do it for our families and our friends and hopefully for the world at large. Those opportunities are out there all the time, and hopefully we’re doing it for that instead of just our own egos.

“To choose to tell people that, there was first the choice and then there was figuring out, ‘What does this mean?’” he said. Walking out of Blue John Canyon six years ago, “I was still going to die. I just wasn’t going to die by that rock.”
1215 2009-03-31 Idearc, a publisher of yellow-page directories, filed for bankruptcy reorganization on Tuesday and said it had reached a tentative agreement with its main lenders to reduce its debt substantially. The company, a spinoff from Verizon Communications...
1216 2009-03-31 The new chief executive of General Motors, Frederick A. Henderson, said Tuesday that bankruptcy was "more probable" than ever for the automaker but that he still hoped to successfully restructure the company out of court, The New York Times's Nick...
1217 2009-03-31 ShoWest, once the place studios brought big stars to impress the theater owners, has become more of an ordinary trade show, highlighting new products....
1218 2009-03-31 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1219 2009-03-31 The Web site lays out the argument for the administration's plan to strengthen the economy and uses interactive features to fill in some of the details....
1220 2009-03-31 Times editor Dana Jennings writes about how dogs, besides being pets, can also be our teachers....
1221 2009-03-31 Sun-Times Media, the parent company of The Chicago Sun-Times newspaper, said Tuesday it filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection and hired an investment bank to explore possible asset sales....
1222 2009-03-31 Monologue | Aired Monday night on "Late Night With Jimmy Fallon" on NBC: Barack Obama is taking his first overseas trip as president tomorrow. He is headed to the G20 economic summit. And he's been rehearsing his opening line to foreign leaders. "...
1223 2009-03-31 It seems that the charmed life of Andrés Piedrahita, the managing partner of the hedge fund that lost $6.9 billion to Bernard Madoff's ponzi scheme, is entering a decidedly un-charming period. Now, with the collapse of Mr. Madoff's $50 billion sc...
1224 2009-03-31 The largest 15 global banks are expected to further shrink their balance sheet by about $2 trillion in 2009 and longer-term return on equity will remain subdued for the next two years, Reuters said, citing a joint report from Morgan Stanley and Ol...
1225 2009-03-31 A federal bankruptcy judge on Monday refused to finalize the sale of Myrtle Beach's Hard Rock Park to new owners, saying its founders retain rights to some of the creative touches originally built into the theme park. The park's buyers said the de...
1226 2009-03-31 A federal judge dismissed on Monday a closely watched lawsuit brought against UBS, the Swiss bank, by individual investors who said it had misled them when it sold them auction rate securities. The judge, Lawrence M. McKenna of United States Distr...
1227 2009-03-31 Stock markets in Asia and Europe on Tuesday recouped some of the previous session's losses, but in Asia the results were mixed and the gains were modest. In Europe, the FTSE 100 was up 1.7 percent in early trade, while the CAC 40 in Paris gained 1...
1228 2009-03-31 Shares in Spanish banks sank Monday after the government announced its first significant bank bailout in 16 years and fueled worries that other financial institutions might need to be rescued, The New York Times's Victoria Burnett reported. The Ba...
1229 2009-03-31 UBS said its investment banking department hired two new managing directors for its financial institutions group....
1230 2009-03-31 Tuesday | Today's idea: Suburban shopping malls were the death of Main Street, and now the recession is the death of malls. But that doesn't mean resurrection for Main Street. [The Week, Mother Jones]...
1231 2009-03-31 Shares in Spanish banks sank after the Bank of Spain said it would take over management of Caja de Ahorros Castilla-La Mancha, a regional savings bank, and inject liquidity into the bank, backed by government loan guarantees of up to 9 billion euros ($11.8 billion).
1232 2009-03-31 When she appeared for her lesson, she said, Mr. Wagner refused to teach her, saying there was no future for a woman trying to play the flute in orchestras. But he finally agreed to six lessons, and then more.

Ms. Blaisdell’s father wanted her to pursue a career, but saw no future for her in music. He gave her the choice of being a teacher, nurse or secretary. She persuaded him that since she was graduating at 16, two years early, she should spend the two years pursuing her dream.

“Two years, but not another day,” he said.

So in 1928 she wrote Georges Barrère, the great French flutist, who taught at what is now Juilliard. She was given an appointment, perhaps because her name had been taken down as “Francis.” She was admitted with a scholarship.

Ms. Blaisdell later studied with two other giants of the flute, Marcel Moyse and William Kincaid. In 1941, after Barrère had a stroke, she took his place in the Barrère Trio.

In 1930, she became first flute of the National Orchestral Association and soon joined Barrère to play Bach’s Brandenburg Concerto No. 4 under the baton of Walter Damrosch at Madison Square Garden. She was first flute in the New Opera Company and in the New Friends of Music.

On Nov. 26, 1932, she was the soloist with the Philharmonic at a children’s concert, playing Mozart’s Flute Concerto No. 2 in D major. Josh Marcum, a spokesman for the Philharmonic, confirmed the appearance.

But in 1937, she was refused an audition for an opening as assistant first flute of the Philharmonic because she was a woman. In 1962, she said, she became one of the first women to play a woodwind with the Philharmonic, when a piece demanded extra flutes. Mr. Marcum said this was possible, but not provable.

In 1937, Ms. Blaisdell married Alexander Williams, first clarinetist for the Philharmonic. They and three other Philharmonic players formed the Blaisdell Woodwind Quintet, which had a radio series. Mr. Williams died in 2003.

In addition to her son, Frances Louise Blaisdell is survived by her daughter, Alexandra Hawley; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

Ms. Blaisdell played several concerts with the soprano Lily Pons, providing the requisite flute trills that accompany many showpieces for a coloratura soprano, and taught at the Manhattan School of Music, among other places. In 1973, she moved to California, where she taught at Stanford for 35 years.

Ms. Blaisdell adapted to the show business side of classical music. She said she wore a beautiful gold lamé dress at Radio City Music Hall for five shows a day in 1934 or 1935. She had two Rockettes on each side of her. Still, she was deathly frightened the first time she gazed into the immense black space, which looked, she said, like the “caverns of hell.”

A Rockette nudged her and said, “Get going, kid, and smile.”

Ms. Blaisdell did. After a couple of shows, it was easy.
1233 2009-03-31 The Chinese government will reopen Tibet on Sunday after nearly six weeks, the state-run news agency Xinhua said. Foreign tourists were barred from visiting Tibet in late February, before the 50th anniversary of a failed rebellion against Chinese rule, and security in the Tibetan regions was stepped up. The anniversary passed Saturday without serious unrest.
1234 2009-03-31 A federal judge dismissed on Monday a closely watched lawsuit brought against UBS, the Swiss bank, by individual investors who said it had misled them when it sold them auction rate securities.

The judge, Lawrence M. McKenna of United States District Court in Manhattan, ruled that the investors were not entitled to continue their litigation because UBS had reached a $19.4 billion settlement in the matter in August with the Securities and Exchange Commission and regulators in several states. The bank agreed to buy back nearly that amount of securities as well as pay a fine.

The investors, who filed their complaint in March 2008, asserted, as did federal and state regulators in their own lawsuit, that UBS had known that the market for the securities was collapsing amid the financial crisis.

UBS, the investors said, nonetheless promoted the securities widely and aggressively to individual investors at artificially inflated prices. The securities had previously been regarded as safe and as liquid as cash, but the collapse of the market for them left investors losing money and with holdings tied up indefinitely.

The dismissal could mean that similar lawsuits against other banks might also be dismissed.
1235 2009-03-31 He makes baseball comparisons as a knowledgeable American, and now he is undertaking a soccer mission for the nation that gave him shelter. He has joined the committee that is seeking to bring the World Cup of soccer to the United States in 2018 or 2022.

“I will be 99 years old,” he said in his deliberate style, referring to 2022. “I have sort of a moral obligation to stay around.”

Well, why not? Octogenarian Cubs fans keep going in the hope of seeing a World Series in Wrigley Field. Boston Bruins fans dream of one more Stanley Cup sometime in this century. Knicks fans? Well, never mind.

In a news conference Monday, Kissinger stressed how the World Cup drew record crowds in the United States. But there is a geopolitical drawback to American hopes: the international soccer federation, known as FIFA, has committed to placing the quadrennial tournament around the globe — first in South Africa in 2010, then in Brazil in 2014.

Ever the realist, Kissinger suggested that Europe would somehow snag the 2018 Cup but that the United States could win for 2022. Both hosts will be chosen at the end of 2010.

FIFA, powerful and secretive, has often treated the United States like a distant relative, perhaps because the United States has not emerged as a major soccer power. Ranked 17th in the world, the United States is improving by increments. On Saturday night in El Salvador, in a World Cup qualifying match, the United States fell behind, 2-0, but rallied behind a frenzied older defender, Frankie Hejduk, to gain a 2-2 draw, one of the best comebacks in American history.

The United States has Major League Soccer, growing sanely and drawing an average of 16,000 fans a game, and last weekend the new Women’s Professional Soccer league began play, hoping to catch up to the spectacular Women’s World Cup of 1999.

No doubt Kissinger will emphasize all this as he schmoozes his numerous contacts all over the world. To some, he is remembered as the American official who prolonged the war in Vietnam; to others he is remembered for winning the Nobel Peace Prize in 1973.

But he is also known to be a soccer buff, who has seen every World Cup but one starting in 1974 and who helped talk Pelé into joining the New York Cosmos in the false spring of the 1970s.

On Monday he recalled that whenever he went to Europe as Secretary of State, his handlers would come up with free time on Saturday, and tickets to a key match. He became a fan of Juventus of Turin because of his friendship with the owner, Gianni Agnelli of Fiat. And he said he liked two teams in England, Manchester United and Arsenal, a duality unimaginable to any English fan.

In international play, he praised the varying styles of several countries, saying: “Nobody would mistake a Brazilian team for a German team. The French teams are always the most elegant team in Europe.” He confessed to not loving the defensive Italian style — “Say it in a kind way, will you?” he asked reporters — but added that the Italians were masters at throwing opponents off their game. Diplomatically, he said he did not think the United States had exactly found its style yet.

Although he praised the complicated modern democracy of Germany, he dryly noted, “You know, my experiences in Germany were not that great.” He added, “I follow them, I wish them well, but I don’t feel about them the way I do the Yankees.”

He does keep up with Fürth, currently in second place in the German second division, which would qualify it for the top level of the Bundesliga next year. Somebody in Fürth sent him a jersey, but Kissinger says he does not wear it.

“I don’t know why the hell I should care,” he mused. “This town that I left 70 years ago, why I should care, but I do.”

He cares because nobody moved the team to Los Angeles, because nobody shut it down. It is still there, in the second division maybe, but also in Henry Kissinger’s worldly old heart.
1236 2009-03-31 Confronted with frequent flight delays, inadequate leg room and interminable waiting on the tarmac, passengers, understandably, desire to get off an airplane as quickly as possible. But, the authorities say, a 60-year-old British man took that desire too far.

The man, Robert McDonald, was charged with recklessly endangering the lives of passengers by opening an emergency exit door while his plane  delayed for hours  idled on a taxiway Sunday during a layover at Kennedy International Airport, the Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, announced on Monday.

Mr. McDonald was detained pending arraignment in Queens Criminal Court on charges of second-degree reckless endangerment and second-degree criminal tampering. If convicted, he could face up to a year in jail.

Mr. Brown said that Mr. McDonald was aboard Delta Flight 149, on a layover from Las Vegas to England, when he opened the emergency door at around 7:45 p.m., which activated an emergency indicator light in the cockpit.

“The flight was delayed for several hours at Kennedy Airport last night due to inclement weather conditions,” Mr. Brown said in a statement. “Apparently, the defendant wanted to get off the plane, so he opened the emergency exit door. Fortunately, members of the flight crew were able to stop him before he could fully open the door and deploy the emergency chute.”

Mr. McDonald was arrested by police officers of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the airport.

Mr. McDonald “caused a substantial interruption and delay in the flight,” and his actions might require “replacement of the plane’s emergency chute,” the district attorney’s office said.
1237 2009-03-31 The demise of Hummer would be cheered by environmentalists, who have relentlessly criticized its model lineup, which gets, on average, less than 10 miles a gallon. Other brands, such as Land Rover, have similar mileage ratings, but Hummer came to be viewed as the quintessential gas guzzler. A Web site that asks visitors to send in pictures of themselves giving a one-finger “salute” to Hummers has posted nearly 5,000 of them.

For Mr. Lynch and the 379 other Hummer dealers worldwide, however, it would be a sudden end to a brand that once seemed to have a strong future.

Among its staunchest advocates was Robert A. Lutz, G.M.’s product development chief, who is retiring this year. Shortly after joining G.M. in 2001, Mr. Lutz envisioned Hummer as a global brand that could challenge the rugged image and off-road supremacy of Chrysler’s Jeep products.

“I think Hummer has a lot more potential than even G.M. knows,” Mr. Lutz said at the time. “It stands for something, and that’s what people want.”

Now Hummer is a symbol of a time when S.U.V.’s ruled American highways and pumped big profits into the coffers of G.M. and other automakers.

“There was a lot of reason for optimism within the brand, but that was a very different market,” Ms. Lindland said. “Everything changed very, very quickly. It almost collapsed as quickly as it shot up.”

It has been a rude awakening for Mr. Lynch, 46, who began selling Hummers 15 years ago, shortly after A. M. General, based in Mishawaka, Ind., began manufacturing a civilian version of its military Humvee.

Mr. Lynch bought one of the 6,200-pound behemoths in 1994, while working at his father’s Toyota dealership, and ended up quitting and becoming the only Hummer dealer in Missouri.

“I thought I was the only one goofy enough to want one of those big beasts,” he said. “But then I realized it was like no other vehicle and had capabilities that you can’t find in just a regular vehicle.” Mr. Lynch loved the Hummer’s handling and its ability to drive almost anywhere, and he later realized its durability in two accidents. In each case, the vehicle that struck him was totaled, but he drove home with no visible evidence of a crash.

For seven consecutive years, Mr. Lynch was Hummer’s largest-volume dealer, often selling more than double the number of vehicles as his next-closest competitor. A mural on the side of a customized trailer he used to transport Hummers to events around the country boasts of his being the “world’s #1 Hummer dealer.”

These days, he keeps about 50 new Hummers on his lot. Four years ago, he stocked about 300 at any time, enough to fill an adjacent field.

Mr. Lynch sold more of the original Hummer, the H1, than anyone else before it was discontinued in 2006. He runs a thriving parts and accessories business that he plans to focus on more, particularly if Hummer goes away.

His building is for sale, though he hopes only to move back to a smaller location, not to close the dealership outright. That would mean abandoning the track on which he has held huge free rallies for his customers several times a year.

He already has sold the Bobcat utility vehicle that he used to maintain the track, which he worked on around the clock to finish in 2005 before a crew from the Travel Channel arrived on short notice to film a segment about it. “It was mostly me and my parts manager, with chain saws and Hummers,” he said.

G.M. has told dealers very little about its plans for the Hummer, but Mr. Lynch says he hopes executives find a way to save the brand that has been his livelihood for 15 years.

He recalled a snowstorm last winter, when many tractor-trailer trucks were stuck on Interstate 64 near his store. He pulled two of them back onto the highway and over an icy hill by hitching the cabs to the 1997 Hummer he drives.

“We were the only things moving,” he said. “I told them, ‘Next time somebody tells you everybody should be driving a hybrid, you tell them about this.’ ”
1238 2009-03-31 The United States and Canada have asked the International Maritime Organization to designate their coastal regions as areas where oceangoing ships would face strict controls on emissions of sulfur, particulate matter like soot and other pollutants that endanger human health.

Lisa P. Jackson, administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, announced the action Monday at a news conference in Newark.

The agency said the maritime organization, the United Nations agency that regulates international shipping, was expected to consider such a designation in July. Approval could come next year, and the limits could go into effect as early as 2012.

The proposal calls for a 200-mile buffer zone in which shippers would be required to make large reductions in the pollutants they emit. For example, they would have to cut sulfur emissions 98 percent by 2015, by burning cleaner fuel or through a process of “scrubbing” exhaust gas to remove sulfur.

Ms. Jackson said the emission-control areas were “long overdue” and would save many lives. The agency said that oceangoing vessels dock at more than 100 coastal and Great Lakes ports in the United States and that 40 were in metropolitan areas that did not meet federal air quality standards.

Calls and e-mail messages to the International Maritime Organization’s headquarters in London were not returned.

On its Web site, the agency said creating the control areas would be unlikely to prompt shippers to divert cargo to ports in other countries because proximity to inland transportation routes in the United States and Canada would be considered more important. Still, Ms. Jackson said discussions intended to bring Mexico into the agreement were under way.
1239 2009-03-31 One-quarter of all deaths from tuberculosis are in patients also infected with the AIDS virus, twice as many as previously thought, the World Health Organization said last week.

In its annual Global TB Control report, the organization said that being infected with the virus can increase the risk of developing tuberculosis by 20 times.

Up to one-third of the world’s people are infected with tuberculosis bacteria, but the infection usually is dormant unless the immune system is weakened by malnutrition, alcoholism, drug abuse, immunosuppressive drugs, AIDS or other causes.

About 9.3 million people develop TB each year, the report said, and 1.8 million die. About 456,000 are counted as AIDS deaths because the victims have both.

The apparent jump in dual cases is not because of a leap in infections but because African countries are doing a better job of testing patients for both diseases.

Curing a typical tuberculosis infection requires taking four different antibiotics daily for six months. But resistance to those drugs is a growing problem. About 500,000 people now have multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, which is common in Eastern Europe and in the countries of the former Soviet Union, as well as in China and India. Fewer than 1 percent of them are receiving care that meets W.H.O. standards, which includes daily injections of toxic drugs for two years.

More than 50 countries have reported cases of XDR-TB, the extensively drug-resistant form. Many of those patients die quickly despite treatment.
1240 2009-03-31 Let a lot of it sit. Every year, about a cubic yard of concrete is produced for each of the six-billion-plus people on the planet.

Think of it this way. The stretch of sidewalk in front of your house? That is you and your spouse’s share. That concrete truck rumbling down the street? It holds a yard for each member of the New York Yankees’ starting lineup. Add the Mets and the Red Sox, and you have enough for the typical house foundation and basement floor.

But those are small projects. The St. Anthony Falls Bridge used about 50,000 yards of concrete. Hoover Dam used more than three million. And the Three Gorges project in China contains more than a yard for every man, woman and child in Canada, population 33 million.

All that concrete may seem the same. And the basic product did remain relatively unchanged since the invention of Portland cement in the early 1800s. (The ancient Romans made concrete, too, but from volcanic ash.) Producers have always tinkered with the mix to find the right proportions of concrete’s basic ingredients, but the recipe never varied much.

Now the experimentation is more elaborate, designed to tailor the concrete to the need. Increasingly, that need includes the environment. Aesthetic considerations aside, concrete is environmentally ugly. The manufacturing of Portland cement is responsible for about 5 percent of human-caused emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide.

“The new twist over the last 10 years has been to try to avoid materials that generate CO2,” said Kevin A. MacDonald, vice president for engineering services of the Cemstone Products Company, the concrete supplier for the I-35W bridge.

In his mixes, Dr. MacDonald replaced much of the Portland cement with two industrial waste products — fly ash, left over from burning coal in power plants, and blast-furnace slag. Both are what are called pozzolans, reactive materials that help make the concrete stronger. Because the CO2 emissions associated with them are accounted for in electricity generation and steel making, they also help reduce the concrete’s carbon footprint. Some engineers and scientists are going further, with the goal of developing concrete that can capture and permanently sequester CO2 from power plants or other sources, so it cannot contribute to the warming of the planet.

Given the numbers, the possibilities for carbon sequestration are enormous. The United States concrete industry’s big annual trade show, held in Las Vegas each winter, is called World of Concrete, and for good reason. Concrete is made and used just about everywhere, with China responsible for half the world’s production.

In the making of concrete, the Portland cement and water form a paste in which a series of reactions occur, hardening the paste and locking the aggregates within it. Those reactions use up the water — concrete doesn’t “dry out” through evaporation — and produce heat. They also make the product caustic. While most of the strengthening occurs in the first few days and weeks, the process can continue for years, as long as there is a little moisture around.

Michelle L. Wilson, director of concrete knowledge for the Portland Cement Association, a trade group, described a hydrating cement particle this way: “It’s not a piece of popcorn, it’s not popping from the inside out. It’s more like a jawbreaker — as the water hits it, the hydration is in layers from the outside in. You can continue to hydrate that jawbreaker down.”

Just as a dose of brandy or other extra ingredient can improve a fruitcake, concrete can be modified by adding other materials and chemicals. The recipes have become much more sophisticated, said Jay Shilstone, a concrete consultant in Plano, Tex.

“It used to be that the chemicals added to concrete were soaps or sugars — very simple,” Mr. Shilstone said. “Now we’re doing designer chemicals to work on specific components.”

Some chemicals make wet concrete flow better into a form’s nooks and crannies without separating. Others prevent the cement particles from flocking together, so the amount of water can be reduced — which means that less cement is needed as well. Chemicals can be added to slow the reactions to give contractors more time to work with the wet concrete. Isocyanates and other catalysts can speed the reactions up, if the concrete needs to reach a certain strength in a short time.

Increasingly engineers are also paying attention to the internal structure of the concrete to improve strength and reduce permeability. “There’s been a major push to look at the particle size distribution,” Mr. Shilstone said.

Although powdery, on a microscopic scale cement actually consists of relatively large grains. So researchers are looking at even smaller particles, “microproducts that can go in and do magical things with the cement matrix,” Mr. Shilstone said.

Dr. MacDonald added a small percentage of silica fume, another industrial waste material, to the mix for the bridge’s box girders, to make the concrete more impermeable to road salt, which corrodes rebar, eventually destroying concrete from within.

One large cement producer, the Italcementi Group, adds titanium dioxide particles to one of its products. The cement makes the concrete white by acting as a catalyst under sunlight to break down organic pollutants in the air. “It speeds up the natural oxidation process,” said Dan Schaffer, a product manager for an Italcementi subsidiary, Essroc, which supplied the cement for the I-35W bridge sculptures.

Some researchers want to eventually eliminate Portland cement entirely and replace it with other cements to produce zero-carbon, or even carbon-negative, concrete.

Portland cement is at the heart of concrete’s environmental problems. About a ton of CO2 is emitted for every ton of cement produced. The basic manufacturing process involves burning limestone and other minerals at about 2,700 degrees Fahrenheit to create an intermediate product called clinker.

“Essentially, we’re trying to make the same minerals that they did in 1825,” said Mr. Stehly, who is head of a committee addressing sustainability issues at the American Concrete Institute.

The cement industry, particularly in the United States and Europe, has reduced CO2 emissions through the use of more efficient kilns and processes, and is now allowed to add some ground unburned limestone to the clinker, reducing the actual cement in the mix. But about half of the CO2 from cement cannot be eliminated — it is produced in the reaction, called calcination, that occurs as the limestone (which consists of calcium carbonate) is being burned.

So to reduce concrete’s carbon footprint to near zero or less, different approaches are needed. Novacem, a British startup, is developing a cement that does not use carbonates and can make concrete that absorbs carbon dioxide. Carbon Sense Solutions, in Halifax, Nova Scotia, wants to bubble CO2 through wet cement, sequestering the gas through carbonation (a process that occurs naturally, though very slowly, under normal conditions).

At a site adjacent to a gas-fired electricity generation plant in Moss Landing, Calif., the Calera Corporation is developing a process to bubble power plant flue gases through seawater or other brackish water, using the CO2 in the gases to precipitate carbonate minerals for use as cement or aggregates in concrete. The process mimics, to some extent, what corals and other calcifying marine organisms do.

Calera calculates that producing a ton of these minerals consumes half a ton of CO2, so the resulting concrete could potentially be carbon negative — sequestering carbon dioxide permanently.

Brent R. Constantz, the company’s founder, has a background in cements, having made specialty products for use in orthopedic surgery. But he does not describe Calera as a cement company. “We’re primarily driven by the need to capture large amounts of CO2 and sequester it,” he said.

The company probably will begin by making aggregate, because the barriers to making a commercially acceptable product are lower than with cement. Even with aggregate, any new product must meet standards and must be accepted by the concrete industry, which can be conservative. “Any time you introduce anything new,” Dr. Constantz said, “it’s a challenge.”
1241 2009-03-31 For people over 55, an alcoholic drink a day reduces the risk of death, a new study has found, but having one drink or less a week is no help at all.

Many studies have found health benefits in moderate alcohol consumption, but the effect has been unclear because people who drink moderately tend to be healthy to begin with.

But this prospective study, in the March issue of The Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, included more than 12,000 people, followed them for four years and controlled for factors including sex, race, smoking, obesity, cancer, heart disease, recent heart attack, angina, physical function and socioeconomic status.

After all these variables were accounted for, moderate alcohol consumption was associated with a 28 percent reduction in the risk for mortality compared with not drinking. But there was no advantage in drinking one drink or less a week, and those who had more than three drinks a day increased their risk by 11 percent.

Dr. Sei J. Lee, the lead author and a geriatrician at the San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, said that he was not prepared to advise nondrinkers to take up drinking and that the study supported federal guidelines for alcohol consumption. “There are other things you can do that we know are helpful and have a lower chance of harming you, like getting more exercise,” he said.
1242 2009-03-31 Richard Ji, a technology analyst at , called the agreement a milestone for cooperation between portals and the music industry. He also said that music and video downloads would grow even more important with the release of more 3G multimedia offerings.

Baidu, which has about 62 percent of the Chinese search engine market, has grown partly by offering music search services and linking to sites that offer free downloads of music.

By comparison, Google — which until now has not offered links to free music downloads — has only about 28 percent of the search engine market in China, according to Analysys International, a Beijing research firm.

Saying they are losing a great deal of money in China, the big global music companies have sued Baidu in a bid to stop it from linking to Web sites offering unlicensed music downloads. But Baidu has defended itself, saying it is simply offering search links. The cases are pending.

Baidu also says it has its own revenue-sharing deals with 100 record companies, though most of the world’s big record companies are not part of that agreement. Last December, the company hired Catherine Leung, a former executive at Universal Music Group China, to head its digital entertainment division.

But on Monday, Google said it was determined to match Baidu, adding that it would offer Chinese consumers exactly what they want but would do so legally by striking a deal with a Chinese partner and the global music industry, including about 140 independent music companies.

The Google service allows Chinese consumers to search for music, link to the Web site of a Beijing company called Top100.cn and download licensed music from that Chinese site, which has signed contracts with the music industry.

Google hopes to gain market share in music search. Top100.cn will sell advertising on its own site to pay for more than 1.1 million songs it plans to offer to Chinese consumers. And the struggling music industry gets a new revenue source, sharing income with Google.

The IFPI, which represents some of the biggest music companies, estimates that 99 percent of the online downloads of music in China are illegal.

Mayseey Leong, the IFPI’s regional director for , praised the Google deal.

“This shows you can do the right thing and still have a good service,” Ms. Leong said. “It’s going to be a legitimate service.”

Google also said its new service would offer high-quality music downloads and protect consumers from viruses and poor-quality recordings, which the company says are a problem with illegal sites.

Courtney Hohne, a spokeswoman for Google, said that the company had worked for a long time preparing the alliance.

Google officials said that searches for music dominate the Internet in China — even more than online games or news.

“Consumers spend so much time with music,” Ms. Hohne said. “Music was really the big piece that was missing for us.”
1243 2009-03-31 North Korean officials have said the launching, expected to take place between April 4 and 8, is designed solely to push a satellite into orbit. Although the peaceful, commercial and scientific use of space is protected under international law, a United Nations Security Council resolution specifically bars North Korea from testing missiles and nuclear devices.

Mr. Gates said on “Fox News Sunday,” “I don’t know anyone at a senior level in the American government who does not believe this technology is intended as a mask for the development of an intercontinental ballistic missile.”

Even so, Mr. Gates said the United States had no plans to take military action to halt the launching or to shoot down the missile in flight — with one exception.

“If we had an aberrant missile, one that was headed for Hawaii, that looked like it was headed for Hawaii or something like that, we might consider it,” Mr. Gates said.

One of America’s closest allies in the region, Japan, has authorized its military to shoot down any debris from the rocket that might fall toward its territory, and has joined the United States and South Korea in saying the launching is a cover for testing technology for a long-range missile that could carry a nuclear warhead.

Japan deployed two Aegis vessels to waters off its west coast at the weekend, with an order to prepare to shoot down any debris that could fall on Japanese territory if the rocket launch fails. South Korea is also dispatching an Aegis-equipped Sejong the Great destroyer off the east coast.

Dave Palmer, a spokesman for the American military in Seoul, declined to unveil the missions for two Aegis radar-equipped destroyers — USS John S. McCain and USS Chafee — which were seen docked over the weekend in Busan, a South Korean port. Rear Admiral Chae Hong-pil of the South Korean navy told foreign media reporters last week that the American vessels would move into the sea between Japan and Korea to monitor the North Korean launch.

Mr. Lee, in an interview published Sunday on the Financial Times Web site, said that while Seoul had no position on Japan’s stated intention to shoot down debris, military action in response to the launch would not be appropriate. “What I do oppose is to militarily respond to these kind of actions because it is also not in their interest to test-fire anything,” he said, referring to North Korea’s plans.

All three countries have demanded that North Korea cancel the launching but have conceded there is little they can do to force acceptable behavior on the isolated government in Pyongyang, beyond threatening even more sanctions. American officials acknowledge that the launching would be the first major test for Mr. Obama in dealing with North Korea’s ambitions to field long-range missiles and nuclear weapons.

The worker detained by the North on Monday faces charges of "denouncing the North’s political system and corrupting North Korean female workers in a plot to persuade them to defect to the South," a spokesman from South Korea’s Unification Ministry said, citing a notice from the North.

Two American journalists captured March 17 are still also being held by the North. Analysts said the detentions appeared to be attempts by the North to increase leverage in diplomatic negotiations with Seoul and Washington.

Mr. Gates’s comments came as senior administration officials, led by President Obama, took to the Sunday talk shows to describe the strategy unveiled Friday to focus American counterterrorism efforts in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

In battling terrorists in Afghanistan and Pakistan, the president, appearing on the CBS program “Face the Nation,” said the United States would respect Pakistani sovereignty but reserved the right to strike at important terrorist targets, after consultations with the government in Islamabad.

“If we have a high-value target within our sights,” Mr. Obama said, “after consulting with Pakistan, we’re going after them.”

But he stressed that those attacks would not be with American ground forces, implying that he was referring to continued strikes from the air.

The American commander in the region, Gen. David H. Petraeus, appeared on CNN’s “State of the Union” and explained that “there is no intention for us to be conducting operations in there, certainly on the ground, and there is every intention by the Pakistani military and their other forces to conduct those operations.”

Richard C. Holbrooke, the president’s top adviser on Afghanistan and Pakistan, said on CNN that success required overcoming tensions between Washington and Islamabad, and he cited what senior Pakistani officials have labeled “the trust deficit.”

But since the Afghanistan-Pakistan strategy will require months to be put into effect, the prospect of a long-range North Korean missile launching as early as this week generated a more immediate national security risk.
1244 2009-03-31 BEIJING — The Chinese government will reopen Tibet to foreign tourists on April 5 after a nearly six-week ban, according to the state-run news agency Xinhua.

Foreign tourists were barred from visiting Tibet in late February before the 50th anniversary of a failed rebellion against Chinese rule. Security was stepped up in the Tibet Autonomous Region and border areas. The anniversary passed on Saturday without serious unrest.

Bachug, the head of Tibet’s tourism department, told Xinhua on Sunday that the region is “harmonious and safe now” for tourists. Mr. Bachug, who like many Tibetans uses only one name, said more than 100 foreign tour groups have registered to visit Tibet.

An uprising in the Tibetan capital of Lhasa March of last year led to the deaths of at least 19 people, most of them Han Chinese civilians. Hundreds of protesters were detained. Exile groups claim that 220 monks, nuns and other Tibetans died and more than 1,000 were injured in the ensuing crackdown.

Determined to head off any renewed unrest this year, the government dispatched thousands of troops and police officers across western China, creating an unofficial state of martial law.

YouTube was blocked for most of last week in China and again on Monday, apparently because of a video that purports to show the police brutally beating Tibetans after last year’s riots. Without identifying the video, Xinhua reported that Tibetan separatists had fabricated a video of police misconduct.

Foreign reporters are barred from Tibet, but the Chinese news media reported limited unrest over the past six weeks. In the most serious skirmish, nearly 100 people, most of them monks, were arrested in a Tibetan area of northwestern China after a crowd attacked a police station on March 21, authorities said. Chinese officials said 13,000 people in Lhasa celebrated Saturday, the anniversary of the day China took control of Tibet and forced its spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, into exile. The state-run media posted photographs of smiling Tibetans playing tug of war and other games in commemoration of what the Chinese government terms “Serf Emancipation Day.”
1245 2009-03-31 A DIFFICULT DECISIONPresident Obama's order that the automakers must adopt radical change came after meetings last week in which the president wrestled with his conclusion that General Motors and Chrysler are not viable and his determination to sa...
1246 2009-03-31 WEISS--Joel, on March 29, 2009. Joel passed away suddenly at the age of 67. He was a resident of Jericho, NY. Beloved husband of Joan, married for 45 years. Proud father of Steven, Greg, and Todd. Adoring grandpa of Shawna, Madison, Julia, Astrid,...
1247 2009-03-31 One-quarter of all deaths from tuberculosis are in patients also infected with the AIDS virus, twice as many as previously thought, the World Health Organization said last week.     In its annual Global TB Control report, the organization said tha...