1 2012-02-01 Lost amid the hubbub over Facebook's first public prospectus was the fact that another Internet-focused company, the antivirus software maker AVG Technologies, had priced its I.P.O....
2 2012-02-01 Lost amid the hubbub over Facebook's first public prospectus was the fact that another Internet-focused company, the antivirus software maker AVG Technologies, had priced its I.P.O....
3 2012-02-01 The bank, which had led LinkedIn, Groupon and Zynga to the public markets, beat rivals like Goldman Sachs in becoming the lead underwriter for Facebook's initial public offering....
4 2012-02-01 The bank, which had led LinkedIn, Groupon and Zynga to the public markets, beat rivals like Goldman Sachs in becoming the lead underwriter for Facebook's initial public offering....
5 2012-02-01 In "Chronicle,'' a small Hollywood film, the normally extravagant superhero narrative is given a toned-down presentation and tries to capitalize on its intimacy....
6 2012-02-01 In "Chronicle,'' a small Hollywood film, the normally extravagant superhero narrative is given a toned-down presentation and tries to capitalize on its intimacy....
7 2012-02-01 Federal prosecutors accused three former Credit Suisse traders of inflating the value of mortgage bonds in 2007 just as the housing market was deteriorating....
8 2012-02-01 Federal prosecutors accused three former Credit Suisse traders of inflating the value of mortgage bonds in 2007 just as the housing market was deteriorating....
9 2012-02-01 Conventional wisdom in Hollywood has been that when Howard Stringer departed as chief executive the pictures group might be put up for sale, a theory that Sony has denied....
10 2012-02-01 Conventional wisdom in Hollywood has been that when Howard Stringer departed as chief executive the pictures group might be put up for sale, a theory that Sony has denied....
11 2012-02-01 Pfizer is recalling packages of birth control pills because of a packaging error....
12 2012-02-01 Pfizer is recalling packages of birth control pills because of a packaging error....
13 2012-02-01 "21 Jump Street" will have its premiere at South by Southwest, one of 130 films to be screened at the festival, organizers announced....
14 2012-02-01 "21 Jump Street" will have its premiere at South by Southwest, one of 130 films to be screened at the festival, organizers announced....
15 2012-02-01 Osi Umenyiora of the New York Giants was fined $20,000 by the N.F.L. for missing a mandatory session with the media on Wednesday....
16 2012-02-01 Osi Umenyiora of the New York Giants was fined $20,000 by the N.F.L. for missing a mandatory session with the media on Wednesday....
17 2012-02-01 The producer Scott Rudin has dropped out of his involvement with “Clybourne Park,” expected to open on Broadway in April and contend for the 2012 Tony Award for best play....
18 2012-02-01 The producer Scott Rudin has dropped out of his involvement with "Clybourne Park," expected to open on Broadway in April and contend for the 2012 Tony Award for best play....
19 2012-02-01 Business Day Live is a new daily broadcast at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time, featuring insight and analysis from Times reporters and columnists. Today, Facebook's stock offering....
20 2012-02-01 Business Day Live is a new daily broadcast at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time, featuring insight and analysis from Times reporters and columnists. Today, Facebook's stock offering....
21 2012-02-01 Dealbook reporter Evelyn M. Rusli talks David Gillen about Facebook’s plans for its long-awaited public offering.
22 2012-02-01 Although projections suggest that the costs of installing solar energy may outweigh the benefits in the near term, a report recommends that New York State embrace the technology....
23 2012-02-01 Although projections suggest that the costs of installing solar energy may outweigh the benefits in the near term, a report recommends that New York State embrace the technology....
24 2012-02-01 The struggles of a business trying to survive.
25 2012-02-01 For Cassie Dagostino, a senior at Brooklyn Technical High school, has a mother, father, stepmother, stepfather, two half-siblings and five stepsiblings, it can be difficult to apply for financial aid....
26 2012-02-01 NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Börse said they were in talks to call off their planned merger, after European antitrust regulators formally opposed the deal....
27 2012-02-01 NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Börse said they were in talks to call off their planned merger, after European antitrust regulators formally opposed the deal....
28 2012-02-01 That makes it the quietest January since 2007, when the S.& P. moved at least 1 percent on just one day.

“The market definitely is holding its own, even though we start out poorly during the day,” said Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst for S.& P. indices.

The so-called January Barometer, created by Yale Hirsch of the Stock Traders Almanac — who coined the saying, “As January goes, so goes the year” — shows that of the 38 years since 1950 when the S.& P. has gone up in January, it has finished the year higher for 34 of those years.

The index finished up 4.4 percent for the month, even after falling for a fourth consecutive day on Tuesday to 1,312.41, or down by 0.05 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 3.4 percent in January, closing on Tuesday at 12,632.91. The Nasdaq was up 8 percent for the month, after a slight 0.7 percent rise on Tuesday.

Liz Ann Sonders, the chief investment strategist for Charles Schwab, wrote in a market note that a palette of “technical, sentiment and simply fun” indicators, like the “golden cross” of moving averages, the Yale Crash Confidence Index and the Ned Davis Research Crowd Sentiment Poll, could show the market is vulnerable to a pullback in the near term, but it will likely remain a bull market with further gains.

Although concerns over Europe, bank and market liquidity, and the economy are still in play, traders said there was a sense that the crisis in Europe was being addressed. The European Central Bank has infused banks with hundreds of billions in funding, and spiking Italian bond yields have settled.

“Risky assets in general have shown less volatility in January as the rally thus far has been steady, consistent and measured,” said Otis C. Casey III, the director for credit research at Markit.

When talks between Greece and its private sector creditors over restructuring its debt hit a snag more than a week ago, the broader stock market held above 1,300. It stayed about that mark at the end of trading on Monday, despite a temporary 1 percent slip early as observers tried to make sense of the latest summit of European leaders.

Quincy Krosby, a market strategist for Prudential Financial, said she started to notice volatility easing in late 2011, after the Federal Reserve and European central banks took steps to ease financing conditions for European banks.

“There was a sense that central banks globally were monitoring the situation,” she said.

But she added: “Sentiment levels have risen, the market is overbought, and the VIX is coming down. Those all add up to the seasonality that we are going to face in February. We are expecting a pullback in equity indexes.”

The calm follows a volatile year. In 2011, the debt crisis in Europe stirred fears of sovereign defaults and concerns that financial contagion could spread to the United States. A downgrade of the United States’ credit rating for the first time also hit the markets, as did concerns over slow growth and Washington’s debt-ceiling stalemate.

On 35 trading days in 2011, the S.& P. 500 closed with a gain or loss of 2 percent or more — the most number of days of that magnitude since the financial crisis of 2008-9. The VIX spiked to levels not seen since March 2009, hitting a high of 48 on Aug. 8, 2011.

There are still the prospects for volatility to return, analysts caution, because of persistent worries that a wave of sovereign and banking defaults will swamp the euro zone.

As an indicator of future volatility, the VIX, officially known as the CBOE Volatility Index, is showing that investors are already pricing in their expectations that the index will rise. Despite its Tuesday level of just over 19, futures contracts are betting on the VIX being at 26 in June and 27 in July, which would mean corresponding daily swings of about 1.5 percent on average on the S.& P., Mr. Tyrrell said.

Mr. Tyrrell said he did not attribute the predicted rise in the VIX to specific events, but it was more because investors believed the index could not go any lower.

“Investors are wary of predicting that the market is going to be totally calm,” he said. “In the last few years, we have seen so many instances where it is not. They are pricing in that risk of a major market pullback.”
29 2012-02-01 Florida’s voters labeled themselves as more conservative than those interviewed four years ago, but they were still more moderate than their counterparts in Iowa and South Carolina.  About 7 in 10 Republican primary voters in Florida consider themselves conservative, and about 2 in 10 moderate. In 2008, 61 percent of Florida primary voters said they were conservative, and 28 percent were moderate.

Very conservative voters, about a third of the electorate, backed Mr. Gingrich, giving him more than 4 in 10 of their votes. Mr. Romney was backed by about 30 percent of very conservative voters.

Four years ago, Mr. Romney was considered the conservative alternative to a more moderate Senator John McCain, who became the party’s nominee.  In 2008, 44 percent of very conservative voters chose Mr. Romney, compared with 21 percent for Mr. McCain and 20 percent for Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York.

In this primary, about 4 in 10 voters said that Mr. Romney’s positions were not conservative enough, while only half as many viewed Mr. Gingrich in a similar vein.

The state’s ethnic diversity contrasts sharply with the largely white electorate in earlier contests this year. Mr. Romney did far better this time with Latino voters than in 2008: a majority of Latino voters, who made up about 15 percent of this year’s Republican primary-goers, selected him. Four years ago, Mr. Romney finished far behind both Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani in the Hispanic bloc.

White evangelical Christians were important in Mr. Gingrich’s victory in South Carolina. They made up 65 percent of that state’s primary voters. But in Florida, 4 in 10 are white born-again or evangelical Christians; in South Carolina, it was 64 percent.

On Tuesday, these voters divided their support about evenly between Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich. Ten days ago in South Carolina, 45 percent voted for Mr. Gingrich and 23 percent backed Mr. Romney.

Many of those evangelical Christians in South Carolina identified with or supported the Tea Party. And its popularity is just as strong in Florida as it is there or in Iowa. Two-thirds of Florida’s G.O.P. voters said they supported the Tea Party, and they divided their votes closely between Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich.  In South Carolina, 45 percent of Tea Party supporters voted for Mr. Gingrich.

In Florida, Mr. Romney regained his status as the candidate most likely to win in November, and the ability to beat President Obama is becoming more important to Republican voters. It was the most important quality for about a third of those polled in Iowa and New Hampshire. About 45 percent in South Carolina said electability was the top quality, and about same number of voters in Florida agreed. But nearly 6 in 10 of those Florida Republicans selected Mr. Romney; half of those in South Carolina chose Mr. Gingrich.

The exit poll, conducted by Edison Research for a consortium of the television networks and The Associated Press, includes in-person interviews with voters as they were leaving polling places across the state and telephone interviews with early and absentee voters.
30 2012-02-01 “I can think of more exciting ways to spend the day,” the Giants co-owner John Mara said with a smile as the news media availability was ending. “But the fans seem to be enjoying it very much. Not many have left. We will have to consider discussing how else we can involve the fans in these kinds of events.”

The players went along for the ride, occasionally speaking directly to the fans.

“You all having a good time?” the New England Patriots’ Patrick Chung shouted to the crowd like a comic doing a stand-up routine. “This is crazy, man. I’ve got my own audience.”

Giants defensive end Justin Trattou autographed footballs and threw them to fans.

The N.F.L. Players Association executive director, DeMaurice Smith, was in the throng, walking and talking among the players. What did he think of the new, more public media day? “Insane, insane,” he said. “It’s staggering.”

There was a public address announcer working the floor of the stadium, occasionally giving commentary to the day’s events. For maybe the first time in media day history, hucksterism went unheeded. Fans seemed most interested in quietly listening to the players having unedited conversations. Others had brought cameras.

“It’s cool to see them sort of up close without their helmets,” said Susan Carchedi, who came from Plainfield, Ind., about 14 miles away.

The Patriots appeared first for an hour beginning at 10 a.m. The Giants were in the stadium between noon and 1 p.m. There was a 60-minute intermission, during which semi-prominent news media types were interviewed on the giant scoreboard monitors.

In the loudest media day statement, very few fans remained in their seats to watch those intermission interviews. They retreated to the stadium concourse for food and drink.

Most attending fans appeared to be primarily from Indiana, with a majority wearing Indianapolis Colts jerseys. But there were Giants fans, Patriots fans and N.F.L. fans from all over the region, each eager for a piece of the Super Bowl experience.

“I wanted to get a taste of the Super Bowl and I wasn’t spending $2,500 on a ticket,” said John Kanis, who drove the nearly two hours from Cincinnati. “For $25, that’s a good business deal.”

Kanis brought three co-workers with him.

“We’ve heard some dumb questions, like some reporter who asked Wes Welker if he had seen the Kardashians in town,” Kanis said. “Somebody asked Tom Brady about the Year of the Dragon. But otherwise it’s been kind of fun to take it all in. We’ll walk around the city, see some of the other Super Bowl hoopla, have a steak dinner and drive home.

“On Sunday, I’ll be watching on my couch drinking free beer. But I’ll have got a feel for what the game is like in person.”

Heath Gillette of Coldwater, Mich., arrived wearing a Pittsburgh Steelers jersey and with his wife, Theresa, and their 11-year-old twins, Steel and Sebastian. They had left home at 5 a.m. for the three-hour drive to Indianapolis and planned to return to Michigan on Tuesday night.

“I think it’s great — being able to see the players — and the cost is right,” Gillette said. “It was affordable for the family. It’s an opportunity for football junkies to get this close.”

Andy Leidolf, a 28-year-old bartender from Indianapolis, bought a scalped ticket outside the stadium for $40. He said it was difficult entering the Colts’ home stadium to fete the rival Patriots, but he said that listening to Brady speak actually made him respect the star quarterback more.

“And that’s hard for a Colts fan,” Leidolf said. “But it’s been entertaining. Some people might have been skeptical about what we’d see today. But I haven’t been bored at all.”

Mary Armbrust of nearby Franklin, Ind., happily watched her first media day — in person — while sitting in the last row of the lower grandstand.

“I’ve seen this on TV, of course,” she said. “But it’s historic to be part of the first media day open to the public.”

Nonetheless, she had a suggestion for modernizing the event.

“They ought to let the fans text in their questions to the players,” Armbrust said. “That might be a relief to the players.”
31 2012-02-01 Out of ideas about how to end the Israeli occupation, a growing number of Palestinians are already proposing the opposite: that the Palestinian Authority, an interim body set up in the 1990s to practice limited self-rule pending a final peace deal, should dissolve itself and hand the keys back to Israel.

“The authority defends itself by saying, ‘We are still under occupation,’ ” said Muhammad Hassouneh, 30, an air-conditioning contractor from Ramallah. “That is true, so they should dissolve themselves.”

The Palestinian Authority has suffered a worsening financial crisis over the past two years, a situation that Mr. Fayyad, who is also the finance minister, has been trying to address.

The rising prices are a function of global processes and more particularly the high cost of living in Israel, because the West Bank economy is intrinsically linked with Israel’s under the political accords of the 1990s.

The Palestinian Authority imports electricity from Israel, and monthly bills have doubled or even tripled since last winter, according to Salah Haniya, who runs the Palestinian Consumer Protection Society. The price of chicken has almost doubled in the last few months.

“It is related to Israel,” Mr. Haniya said, “but also to the policy of the Palestinian government, which refuses to introduce subsidies or increase salaries. Instead, it is increasing the taxes.”

Mr. Fayyad’s goal is to reduce the Palestinian Authority’s current budget deficit of $1.1 billion, and balance the budget, his government says. In 2011, the Palestinian Authority received $750 million in aid from foreign donors, and it does not expect to receive more than that this year, leaving Mr. Fayyad to try to make up a $350 million shortfall.

The new tax laws are intended to increase the Palestinian Authority’s revenues and reduce tax evasion, and are being coupled with austerity measures aimed at reducing expenditure, said Ghassan Khatib, a government spokesman. Talk of a forced early retirement plan for more than 20,000 public sector employees stirred such anger that it was immediately set aside.

The Palestinian Authority has introduced new tax brackets, doubling the taxation on the highest earners to 30 percent from 15 percent. Mr. Khatib said that only about 5 percent of Palestinians would fall into the high income category. The rest, he said, will not be affected. And even with the higher rates, taxation in the West Bank is still lower than elsewhere in the region, he said.

The demonstrations, he said, were partly a result of populism and a widespread misunderstanding that the price increases were caused by raised taxes.

But many Palestinians argue that the burden placed on businesses by the tax increases will inevitably be passed on to consumers. Moreover, they accuse Mr. Fayyad, normally considered a friend of the private sector, of stifling investment.

Ahmed Awaida, chief executive of the Palestinian Stock Exchange, said that a new capital gains tax could drive local and foreign investors away. Between direct and indirect taxes, Mr. Awaida said, Palestinians were being asked to pay “a Scandinavian level of taxation for a Somali level of government services.”

Mr. Khatib, the government spokesman, disagreed with that. The Palestinian Authority provides free education for a million schoolchildren and semi-free higher education, he said, as well as a social net for 96,000 needy families, including those of prisoners in Israeli jails.

The new tax laws were approved by Mr. Abbas, and one veteran political leader, Qadura Fares, a longtime critic from within the movement, offered Mr. Fayyad some rare praise.

“Fayyad at least has a vision, a strategy,” Mr. Fares said.

“He is thinking about how the Palestinian Authority can rely on itself,” he said. “The question is whether there is any deep dialogue going on within Fatah about how to deal with the economy. I do not believe that there is one.”

Other Fatah officials have distanced themselves from the unpopular measures.

The more common view in the West Bank is that with Israel fully controlling about 60 percent of West Bank land as well as the borders, Israel or the donor nations should pay for economic failures, and the Palestinian people should not have to shoulder the cost.

“Once we are independent,” said Mr. Awaida of the stock exchange, “we will not need a penny from anyone.”
32 2012-02-01 A new map detailing all known geologic faults east of Denver was issued Tuesday by the government and a nonprofit electric research group, opening the way for nuclear power plants in the United States to embark on a broad re-evaluation of their vulnerability to earthquakes. It was the first major update of the map since 1989. While researchers began the computer modeling for the map long before the earthquake and tsunami that caused last year’s Fukushima Daiichi plant disaster in Japan, that calamity lent urgency to a renewed effort to assess the American plants. Further concerns were raised by a quake last summer near Mineral, Va., that shook a twin-reactor plant there beyond the extent that its designers anticipated, resulting in its shutdown for safety checks. The study does not calculate the risk of damage from an earthquake or even specify what amount of ground motion is likely at the reactor sites, leaving that to their owners. “The model is the first step,” said Scott Brunell, a spokesman for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The computer model was developed by the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit utility consortium, with help from the Department of Energy and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
33 2012-02-01 Russia blamed radiation on Tuesday for a computer glitch that doomed its mission to a moon of Mars, but space industry experts cast doubt on the findings. Russia’s Phobos-Grunt spacecraft became stranded in Earth orbit in November and crashed into the Pacific Ocean on Jan. 15, one of five botched Russian launchings recently. But the state RIA Novosti news agency cited an industry official as saying it was “simply absurd” that Phobos-Grunt had not been made to withstand cosmic rays on its two-year mission.
34 2012-02-01 It is probably impossible to recreate in modern audiences the wonder that the very earliest films must have incited. For us the poetry and pathos of those rudimentary artifacts — brief slices of life — come mainly from their mere survival, while the people in them, and the people who made them, are long gone.

Therein lie the promise and the problems of Catherine Galasso’s “Bring on the Lumière!,” which had its New York premiere at Joyce SoHo on Thursday. In it the Lumière brothers, pioneering French filmmakers, and some of their creations from the 1890s are brought to life. Ms. Galasso sets these reimagined scenes next to projections of the films and surrounds both with fantasies of her own.

Playing the brothers are two female dancers, their mustaches and eyebrows penciled in. One, Christine Bonansea, French herself, does a fine impression of a portly, pompous Frenchman, more with body language than with costume. She occasionally speaks, but the other, Marina Fukushima, does not, investing her Buster Keaton-like straight face with some Butoh-like distortion. As a big-small pair, they recall teams like Laurel and Hardy, though most of their comedy stays muted.

That they are trained dancers is clear in a few light dances, one a kind of fin-de-siècle contact improv. The genuinely funny ideas — a cheerleading routine with film-stock pompoms — tend not to be developed, and too many of the sequences are poetic in a vague, inscrutable sense. They make you say “huh?,” while Ms. Galasso’s decision to break in as a stage manager deserves only a groan.

Lumière means light in French. The lighting here, designed by Elaine Buckholtz, is appropriately humble yet ultimately disappointing. A shadow takes on a life of its own; the silhouette of a live performer appears to interact with film images; a billowing sheet causes a projected movie of the sea to ripple — that we’ve seen all these effects before might be the point, but that doesn’t give them fresh magic.

The ending is the most cinematic moment, an updated re-creation of the Lumières’ first film that suggests a future they could not have foreseen. It’s cinematic in a post-Lumière sense, heightened by the scoring of Ms. Galasso’s father, Michael, a film composer who died in 2009. His music sets the mood throughout: elegiac, jaunty, ominous. By including it, Ms. Galasso tries to keep her father, in some sense, alive. Nothing in the work itself is as affecting as that.
35 2012-02-01 Competition from low-cost generic drugs squeezed quarterly profits at Pfizer Inc. and Eli Lilly & Company, the companies reported on Tuesday, but each was able to weather those declines somewhat with help from other medicines.

Pfizer, the world’s biggest drug maker by revenue, and Lilly topped Wall Street’s profit expectations. Lilly also said its closely watched experimental Alzheimer’s treatment received approval for further study.

For Pfizer and Lilly, the fourth-quarter results were the first since they lost United States patent protection on their top-selling medicines.

Sales of Pfizer’s Lipitor cholesterol treatment, long the world’s top-selling drug, dropped 24 percent, to about $2 billion. In the United States, where Lipitor lost patent protection in late November, sales fell 42 percent.

Sales of Lilly’s Zyprexa antipsychotic drug, for years the company’s biggest product, fell 44 percent, to $750 million. Sales in the United States, where the pill lost patent protection in October, plunged 56 percent.
36 2012-02-01 European officials, waiting for a study of Greece’s debt sustainability from the International Monetary Fund, hope to reach a deal with private investors in days.

“Now is the time for tough negotiation, not later,” the Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, said Tuesday in Athens. “We are one step — just a formality — from the completion of the procedure.” He told lawmakers that private sector investors could take a loss of more than 70 percent, according to Greek media reports.

Mr. Venizelos said the aim was to conclude talks with the so-called troika of foreign lenders — the European Union, the European Central Bank and the I.M.F. — by the end of the week so that the framework of a new economic program for Greece would be in place before a possible meeting of euro zone finance ministers next Monday.

Officials hope the agreement on the second Greek bailout will be followed in March by a decision to build a bigger firewall for the euro zone at the same time that a permanent 500 billion-euro rescue fund is established. Both steps are seen as crucial for the restoration of market confidence in the single currency.

At a meeting Monday, all European Union nations except Britain and the Czech Republic agreed to a new fiscal compact demanded by Germany, intended to tighten budget discipline. The hope is now that this agreement has been reached, Berlin may have more political ability to be flexible over the firewall.

German officials are adamant that the other euro zone governments and the I.M.F. have already done much to protect private bondholders by, for example, providing Greece with financing after it was no longer able to sell bonds on the open market. Those measures have helped Greece avoid a default and prevented more catastrophic losses for holders of Greek bonds.

As a result, officials are loath to do bond investors any more favors. And they remain fiercely opposed to any solution that involves the central bank forgoing profits on its holdings of Greek bonds, arguing that it would then become difficult for the bank to justify continued intervention in the debt market.

The central bank’s purchases of Greek, Irish, Portuguese, Spanish and Italian debt, totaling 219 billion euros so far, have helped hold down borrowing costs for those countries, at least temporarily.

If the central bank took a loss on its Greek holdings, it could also face accusations that it was violating its own charter by indirectly financing a euro zone government. At least publicly, the bank is sticking to its position that it is not a party to the talks between Greece and its bondholders and that it does not feel an obligation to participate in debt relief.

Still, there has been speculation that the central bank might agree to sell its Greek bond holdings to the European Financial Stability Facility, the euro zone bailout fund, at the same discounted price it paid for the debt on the open market. The fund would then pass on the savings to the Greek government.

That idea is seen as less likely than the central bank offering to surrender future profits on Greek bonds. Yet even that step might not be uncontroversial.

“If they are going to have some capital gain, the question is, how is that gain distributed?” said Nick Matthews, an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland.

“I’m sure you would find some people that would argue that the gain should be shared across the euro system,” he said, referring to the network of central banks. “Some others would argue that the E.C.B. should not be profiting from the conditions in Greece.”
37 2012-02-01 “We remain bullish on the future of natural gas,” he said. “We continue to be focused on the long term.” He said the merger with XTO was working out well, with improved productivity and efficiency driving down the costs of gas wells. That, he added, is “paying off and that helps mitigate the lower prices. We are progressing well.”

He noted, however, that the company was shifting its rigs from drilling dry gas wells to gas wells rich with hydrocarbon liquids like ethane and butane used in many gasoline and petrochemical products. Analysts expect that the company’s total production in 2012 will be 51 percent oil and 49 percent gas, with North American gas representing about 16 percent of the company’s total gas production.

“Exxon Mobil results were in line with expectations,” said Fadel Gheit, a senior oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. “But weak natural gas prices continue to depress the stock. Although I don’t expect Exxon Mobil to shut in gas production, I am surprised they have not reduced discretionary gas drilling because of the low returns.”

Refining and marketing results were also somewhat disappointing, with earnings declining in the quarter to $425 million from $1.15 billion the year before. Total production of oil and gas for the quarter slipped, though it was slightly higher in all of 2011 over 2010. Exxon Mobil, like other large oil companies, is struggling to maintain production through acquisitions and exploration at a time when many of the wells in its inventory are aging and losing productivity.

Rex W. Tillerson, Exxon Mobil’s chairman and chief executive, spoke positively of the quarter. “Exxon Mobil recorded strong results while investing at record levels to develop new supplies of energy,” he said in a statement. “Capital and exploration expenditures were a record $36.8 billion in 2011.”

Exxon Mobil shares, which remain close to their 52-week high, declined Tuesday by 2 percent to $83.74 a share.

On Tuesday, Valero Energy, a refinery giant, reported fourth-quarter net earnings of $45 million, well short of the $180 million profit for the same quarter last year, because of low gasoline and petrochemical margins.

Still, higher oil prices have helped some of the other major integrated oil companies report larger profits.

ConocoPhillips reported last week a 66 percent increase in earnings for the fourth quarter from the year before, attributed to high crude prices and asset sales. But its refining and marketing business reported a drop of nearly 3 percent. Chevron reported a 3.2 percent decline in fourth-quarter earnings, as poor refining results overwhelmed higher revenue from oil sales.
38 2012-02-01 The written statement did not provide any details on what types of attacks Mr. Clapper thought were possible, and senators did not ask him about it during the panel’s annual session to review global threats to the United States.

The session was the first such hearing since the death of Osama bin Laden last May, and Mr. Clapper used the opportunity to say that sustained pressure from the United States and its allies will probably reduce Al Qaeda’s remaining leadership in Pakistan to “largely symbolic importance” over the next two to three years as the terrorist organization fragments into more regionally focused groups and homegrown extremists.

Flanked by senior intelligence officials from throughout the government, Mr. Clapper also noted the rising volatility in the Middle East and North Africa after the popular uprisings of the Arab Spring, increasing threats of cyberattacks against government and private business computer systems, continued tensions with North Korea over its nuclear program and rising drug-fueled violence in Mexico and Central America that threatens to spill over the border.

As American diplomats step up their efforts to broker a peace deal with the Taliban and other militants to end the war in Afghanistan, Mr. Clapper also defended the administration’s discussions of preliminary trust-building measures, including a possible transfer of five Taliban prisoners from Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

Senator Saxby Chambliss, a Georgia Republican who is the committee’s vice chairman, signaled Congressional opposition to the plan, which administration officials have said would not release the prisoners outright but transfer them to authorities in Qatar, where the Taliban are setting up an office to hold political talks. “We should not transfer these detainees from Guantánamo,” Mr. Chambliss said, citing American intelligence assessments warning of the risks the prisoners posed.

Mr. Clapper acknowledged that the Taliban remained “a resilient, determined adversary” and underscored that any deal involving prisoners would hinge on “where these detainees might go and the conditions in which they would be controlled or surveilled.”

As Taliban leaders debate whether to fight or cut a deal, the death of Bin Laden has severely weakened a Qaeda leadership that was already reeling from the death or capture of several other top leaders. The losses have forced the organization to rely more heavily on affiliates in such places as North Africa, Iraq and Yemen, as well as individual “lone wolf” extremists in the United States.

Intelligence officials say that continued pressure by the United States and its allies — including drone strikes, efforts to dry up terrorists’ financing and campaigns to counter extremist recruiting propaganda — are likely to fragment this already decentralized movement.

“As long as we sustain the pressure on it, we judge that core Al Qaeda will be of largely symbolic importance to the global jihadist movement,” Mr. Clapper said in his opening statement.

Of all the affiliates that have sprouted up over the past decade, intelligence analysts say that the Qaeda arm in Yemen, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, poses the greatest immediate threat to the United States. Mr. Clapper said that the death last September of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American-born cleric who was a top propagandist and operational planner for the Yemen affiliate, “probably reduces, at least temporarily, A.Q.A.P.’s ability to plan transnational attacks.”

Over all, Al Qaeda has struggled to keep pace with events unfolding as result of the Arab Spring, Mr. Clapper said, warning, however, that “prolonged instability or unmet promises of reform would give Al Qaeda, its affiliates and its allies more time to establish networks, gain support and potentially engage in operations, probably with less scrutiny from local security services.”

The domestic instability in Syria could potentially escalate into regional crises, and American intelligence officials were wary on Tuesday of being pinned down on how long the government of President Bashar al-Assad could survive and what would replace it if it fell.

“It’s a question of time before Assad falls, but that’s the issue; it could be a long time,” Mr. Clapper told senators. “The opposition continues to be fragmented.”

David H. Petraeus, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, said the opposition had shown increasing resilience in the face of stepped-up attacks by Syrian military forces in suburbs of Aleppo and Damascus. “It has shown, indeed, how substantial the opposition to the regime is and how it is, in fact, growing and how increasing areas are becoming beyond the reach of the regime’s security forces,” he said.

Hopscotching around the world in his remarks, Mr. Clapper singled out Iran for special attention in both his opening comments and a more detailed written statement.

He reiterated the American intelligence assessment that “Iran is keeping open the option to develop nuclear weapons, in part by developing various nuclear capabilities that better position it to produce such weapons, should it choose to do so.”

He added, “We do not know, however, if Iran will eventually decide to build nuclear weapons.” The United States also faces evolving cyberthreats from nations like Russia and China, as well as nonstate entities. Robert S. Mueller III, the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said his agency was beginning to reorganize to combat this. “Down the road, the cyberthreat, which cuts across all programs, will be the number one threat to the country,” he said.

Nearly a dozen senior administration officials, including the homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, are scheduled to brief senators on Wednesday about the latest cyberthreats and American responses.
39 2012-02-01 The American market for single-family homes continued to wobble, with prices declining again in November, nearly six years after they began to fall, a private report showed on Tuesday.

Single-family house prices in a group of 20 metropolitan areas tracked by the Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller composite index fell by close to 0.7 percent from October, and were down by 3.7 percent from November 2010, worse than the 3.4 percent annual decline seen in October.

Average home prices were back down to levels last seen in mid-2003, the index showed.

Housing has played a dominant role in the country’s economic sluggishness, as homeowners have struggled with foreclosures or mortgage burdens that far exceed the values of their homes. Hundreds of thousands of construction workers and other real estate-related employees have been thrown out of work and are still struggling to cobble together incomes.

The 28-county metropolitan Atlanta region continued to stand out as the worst performer in the index, with home prices tumbling close to 12 percent from the previous November. In addition to Atlanta, home prices in Las Vegas, Seattle and Tampa all hit new lows in November.

Of the 20 cities traced by the index, home prices fell in 19 in November; only Phoenix had higher prices from the month before. On an annual basis, only Detroit and Washington experienced price rises.

“Despite continued low interest rates and better real G.D.P. growth in the fourth quarter, home prices continue to fall,” David Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at Standard & Poor’s, said in a statement.
40 2012-02-01 Apple looked outside the company for an executive to run its growing chain of Apple stores with the hiring of John Browett, the chief executive of one of Europe's largest electronics sellers, Dixons Retail.     Starting in April, Mr. Browett, 48, ...
41 2012-02-01 7:55 p.m. | Updated      Federal prosecutors expanded their case against Rajat K. Gupta on Tuesday, filing a new indictment that broadens what they claim was an insider trading conspiracy between the former director of Goldman Sachs and Raj Rajara...
42 2012-02-01 Lincoln Center Theater will open its newest stage, the Claire Tow Theater, with the world premiere of ''Slowgirl,'' a  play by Greg Pierce to be directed by Anne Kauffman (''Maple & Vine,''''This Wide Night'').      ''Slowgirl,'' which is Mr. Pier...
43 2012-02-02 Fans of "American Idol" breathed a sigh of relief as the shows devoted to mass auditions ended last night and the program moves on to the winnowing phase in Hollywood next week....
44 2012-02-02 Fans of "American Idol" breathed a sigh of relief as the shows devoted to mass auditions ended last night and the program moves on to the winnowing phase in Hollywood next week....
45 2012-02-02 The Broadway theater owner Jordan Roth on Thursday night assured the cast of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play "Clybourne Park" that the show would open on Broadway in April as planned, despite the departure of two of its lead producers....
46 2012-02-02 The Broadway theater owner Jordan Roth on Thursday night assured the cast of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play "Clybourne Park" that the show would open on Broadway in April as planned, despite the departure of two of its lead producers....
47 2012-02-02 Verizon and Comcast have gotten awfully close lately, and politicians have taken notice. The two companies have made two separate deals that essentially make them partners....
48 2012-02-02 Verizon and Comcast have gotten awfully close lately, and politicians have taken notice. The two companies have made two separate deals that essentially make them partners....
49 2012-02-02 A House panel faulted risk oversight by some ratings agencies and MF Global's chief risk officer for the firm's demise....
50 2012-02-02 A House panel faulted risk oversight by some ratings agencies and MF Global's chief risk officer for the firm's demise....
51 2012-02-02 Mitt Romney has revived his assertion that President Obama made the recession worse. Economists, the nonideological ones, disagree....
52 2012-02-02 Mitt Romney has revived his assertion that President Obama made the recession worse. Economists, the nonideological ones, disagree....
53 2012-02-02 Pharmaceutical companies have cut spending on television advertising by 20 percent over the last five years, according to a Nielsen study. Analysts expect drug advertising to continue to fall as more brand-name drugs face generic competition....
54 2012-02-02 Pharmaceutical companies have cut spending on television advertising by 20 percent over the last five years, according to a Nielsen study. Analysts expect drug advertising to continue to fall as more brand-name drugs face generic competition....
55 2012-02-02 Daily updates on the business of digital music.
56 2012-02-02 Daily updates on the business of digital music.
57 2012-02-02 The Interior Department says that offshore wind farms pose no significant threat to the environment off the coasts of Maryland, Virginia, New Jersey and Delaware. Although the department is now encouraging developers to submit applications, it is ...
58 2012-02-02 The Interior Department says that offshore wind farms pose no significant threat to the environment off the coasts of Maryland, Virginia, New Jersey and Delaware. Although the department is now encouraging developers to submit applications, it is ...
59 2012-02-02 Anna Ewing, Nasdaq's chief information officer, talks about the speed of trades, which now take place in under 100 microseconds, which is one one-millionth of a second. That's not fast enough for today's stock traders and will be laughably slow fo...
60 2012-02-02 Anna Ewing, Nasdaq's chief information officer, talks about the speed of trades, which now take place in under 100 microseconds, which is one one-millionth of a second. That's not fast enough for today's stock traders and will be laughably slow fo...
61 2012-02-02 Shares in LinkedIn, Groupon and Zynga all leaped on Thursday after Facebook unveiled its prospectus. But not all Internet-focused companies have benefited from the social network's I.P.O. filing....
62 2012-02-02 Shares in LinkedIn, Groupon and Zynga all leaped on Thursday after Facebook unveiled its prospectus. But not all Internet-focused companies have benefited from the social network's I.P.O. filing....
63 2012-02-02 The Huffington Post Streaming Network, expected to be introduced this summer, is described by its founders as a "never-ending talk show."...
64 2012-02-02 The Huffington Post Streaming Network, expected to be introduced this summer, is described by its founders as a "never-ending talk show."...
65 2012-02-02 "We are accustomed to thinking of the left as having an internationalist perspective," writes Chrystia Freeland. "The irony today is that the real internationalists are no longer the bleeding-heart liberals, they are the cutthroat titans of capita...
66 2012-02-02 "We are accustomed to thinking of the left as having an internationalist perspective," writes Chrystia Freeland. "The irony today is that the real internationalists are no longer the bleeding-heart liberals, they are the cutthroat titans of capita...
67 2012-02-02 "Inadmissible," a new play by D.B. Gilles, parodies the college admissions process to help applicants laugh at their anxiety....
68 2012-02-02 "Inadmissible," a new play by D.B. Gilles, parodies the college admissions process to help applicants laugh at their anxiety....
69 2012-02-02 MF Global's internal watchdogs defended their tumultuous tenures at the brokerage firm, telling Congress on Thursday that they sufficiently sounded the alarms about risky wagers on the European sovereign debt that toppled the firm....
70 2012-02-02 MF Global's internal watchdogs defended their tumultuous tenures at the brokerage firm, telling Congress on Thursday that they sufficiently sounded the alarms about risky wagers on the European sovereign debt that toppled the firm....
71 2012-02-02 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
72 2012-02-02 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
73 2012-02-02 The selection of Ellen Biben is said to have included some dissents and angered some legislative leaders, whose behavior the ethics commission oversees....
74 2012-02-02 Now that Facebook is going public, do secondary markets suffer? | For American Airlines employees, the costs of bankruptcy become clear....
75 2012-02-02 Now that Facebook is going public, do secondary markets suffer? | For American Airlines employees, the costs of bankruptcy become clear....
76 2012-02-02 Now that Facebook is going public, do secondary markets suffer? | For American Airlines employees, the costs of bankruptcy become clear.
77 2012-02-02 A dip in the ratings for Nickelodeon and costs from a legal fight with the makers of the video game Rock Band contributed to lower earnings, and domestic advertising revenues were also down....
78 2012-02-02 A dip in the ratings for Nickelodeon and costs from a legal fight with the makers of the video game Rock Band contributed to lower earnings, and domestic advertising revenues were also down....
79 2012-02-02 Of course, those who invest in the stock market want results, not just rosy ambitions. And when they don’t get results, they move on to the next big thing.

“I would suspect that Mark Zuckerberg could say whatever he wants, but he’s probably still going to find that Wall Street is going to influence how he runs his company,” said Danny Sullivan, an expert on the industry and editor of the Web site Search Engine Land.

Mr. Zuckerberg’s lengthy letter also tries to help investors understand the philosophy of the computer programmer — the Hacker Way, as he puts it.

“Hackers try to build the best services over the long term by quickly releasing and learning from smaller iterations rather than trying to get everything right all at once,” he wrote, summing up with a slogan that he said was painted on Facebook’s walls: “Done is better than perfect.”

This approach explains both Facebook’s swift, extraordinary success at drawing users and the fierce anger that it sometimes provokes. To a user, it can often seem as though Facebook takes a leap of 20 steps ahead, riles users and then rolls 10 or 15 steps back.

This ethos seems close to that of Google and diametrically opposed to that of Apple, where perfection has been paramount, and a product could not go to market until it met the exacting standards of its late founder and chief executive, Steven P. Jobs.

But the approach is spreading across Silicon Valley. Even Apple surprised people when it introduced the voice-powered Siri feature on the iPhone 4S in a test version, complete with flaws.

“We have a saying: ‘Move fast and break things,’ ” the letter from Mr. Zuckerberg continued. “The idea is that if you never break anything, you’re probably not moving fast enough.”

The four-page letter laid out what Mr. Zuckerberg called “the five core values” of the company, emphasizing ambition, speed and risk taking. “We have another saying: ‘The riskiest thing is to take no risks.’ ”

The tricky thing about parables like this is that people remember. In their letter the Google founders included an unofficial corporate motto: “Don’t be evil.” Its detractors remember it, and use it to shame Google at every perceived transgression.

Though Google says it has maintained its unconventional philosophy over all, Mr. Page, now Google’s chief executive, has lately been more deferential to Wall Street. On a recent earnings call, he struck a different tone when he told analysts, “We have a few small speculative projects happening at any one time, but we are very careful stewards of shareholders’ money.”
80 2012-02-02 Of course, those who invest in the stock market want results, not just rosy ambitions. And when they don’t get results, they move on to the next big thing.

“I would suspect that Mark Zuckerberg could say whatever he wants, but he’s probably still going to find that Wall Street is going to influence how he runs his company,” said Danny Sullivan, an expert on the industry and editor of the Web site Search Engine Land.

Mr. Zuckerberg’s lengthy letter also tries to help investors understand the philosophy of the computer programmer — the Hacker Way, as he puts it.

“Hackers try to build the best services over the long term by quickly releasing and learning from smaller iterations rather than trying to get everything right all at once,” he wrote, summing up with a slogan that he said was painted on Facebook’s walls: “Done is better than perfect.”

This approach explains both Facebook’s swift, extraordinary success at drawing users and the fierce anger that it sometimes provokes. To a user, it can often seem as though Facebook takes a leap of 20 steps ahead, riles users and then rolls 10 or 15 steps back.

This ethos seems close to that of Google and diametrically opposed to that of Apple, where perfection has been paramount, and a product could not go to market until it met the exacting standards of its late founder and chief executive, Steven P. Jobs.

But the approach is spreading across Silicon Valley. Even Apple surprised people when it introduced the voice-powered Siri feature on the iPhone 4S in a test version, complete with flaws.

“We have a saying: ‘Move fast and break things,’ ” the letter from Mr. Zuckerberg continued. “The idea is that if you never break anything, you’re probably not moving fast enough.”

The four-page letter laid out what Mr. Zuckerberg called “the five core values” of the company, emphasizing ambition, speed and risk taking. “We have another saying: ‘The riskiest thing is to take no risks.’ ”

The tricky thing about parables like this is that people remember. In their letter the Google founders included an unofficial corporate motto: “Don’t be evil.” Its detractors remember it, and use it to shame Google at every perceived transgression.

Though Google says it has maintained its unconventional philosophy over all, Mr. Page, now Google’s chief executive, has lately been more deferential to Wall Street. On a recent earnings call, he struck a different tone when he told analysts, “We have a few small speculative projects happening at any one time, but we are very careful stewards of shareholders’ money.”
81 2012-02-02 Most “rugged devices,” those designed to tolerate being outdoors on a regular basis, run Microsoft’s older Windows Mobile operating system, and it’s questionable how long the software giant can fend off competitors....
82 2012-02-02 When a UPS delivery worker shows up at your house, the bulky handheld that he yanks out for you to write your digital signature is known as a "rugged device." Microsoft's older Windows Mobile operating system is running on the vast majority of the...
83 2012-02-02 4 Paws for Ability, an agency in Xenia, Ohio, trains service dogs that will live with children who have disabilities.
84 2012-02-02 This primary season, pro-choice Republican women don’t have good options....
85 2012-02-02 This primary season, pro-choice Republican women don't have good options....
86 2012-02-02 In a career of nearly 50 years, Mr. Rich directed episodes of nearly 100 television series, among them “Our Miss Brooks” (for which he directed 27 episodes), “Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C.” (27 episodes), “That Girl” (19), “Gunsmoke” (14) and “The Brady Bunch” (7).

But it was his direction of “All in the Family” from 1971 through 1974 (81 episodes) and “The Dick Van Dyke Show” from 1961 through 1966 (41 episodes) that brought Mr. Rich the most acclaim.

Norman Lear, the creator and producer of “All in the Family,” said in an interview on Tuesday that one of Mr. Rich’s strengths was his willingness to let actors improvise.

“John knew funny,” Mr. Lear said. “So as much as we who wrote the scripts liked what we wrote, when we came to a run-through we could expect to see innovation from the actors, because John encouraged spontaneity.”

He did so in one instance in an episode of “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” in which Mr. Van Dyke’s character, Rob Petrie, is suffering from what he believes is an allergy. “I said to Dick, ‘How many ways can you sneeze?’ ” Mr. Rich told DGA Quarterly. “He figured out a way to do about 35 different sneezes, and it was hysterical.”

Mr. Rich won an Emmy for “The Dick Van Dyke Show” in 1963 and a Golden Globe for “All in the Family” in 1971. He received those awards again in 1972 and 1973 for “All in the Family.”

Mr. Rich, in the DGA Quarterly interview, said “there was a universality to what was going on with Archie Bunker.”

“In fact,” he added, “he was partly my father; certainly he was Norman Lear’s father.”

John Rich was born on July 6, 1925, in Rockaway Beach, Queens, to Louis and Jenny Rich, who owned a candy store on the boardwalk. He served in the Army Air Forces during World War II and received a bachelor’s degree from the University of Michigan in 1948. In his senior year he was a dollar-an-hour disc jockey at a local radio station. After moving to New York in 1950, he was hired as a stage manager at NBC. By 1953 he was directing episodes of “The Dennis Day Show.”

As a board member of the Screen Directors Guild he was instrumental in its merger with the Radio and Television Directors Guild to form the Directors Guild of America.

Besides his wife of 22 years, the former Patricia Dodds, Mr. Rich is survived by two sons, Anthony and Robert; a daughter, Catherine Rich; three stepdaughters, Megan Lewis, Kimberly Beres and Dana Benton; and eight grandchildren. His first two marriages ended in divorce.

“He understood the foolishness of the human condition,” Mr. Lear said.
87 2012-02-02 Two Christian missionaries from Texas were killed at their home near Monterrey, relatives and the United States Embassy said Wednesday. The missionary couple, John and Wanda Casias, had been living in Mexico since 1979, preaching and founding a Baptist church in the town of Santiago, where they lived. Relatives said that Mrs. Casias’s body was found hanging in the kitchen of their home, and that Mr. Casias’s body was found later behind a guesthouse on their property. The motive for the slaying was not known, but the area has been ravaged by drug cartels battling for control.
88 2012-02-02 Of course, those who invest in the stock market want results, not just rosy ambitions. And when they don’t get results, they move on to the next big thing.

“I would suspect that Mark Zuckerberg could say whatever he wants, but he’s probably still going to find that Wall Street is going to influence how he runs his company,” said Danny Sullivan, an expert on the industry and editor of the Web site Search Engine Land.

Mr. Zuckerberg’s lengthy letter also tries to help investors understand the philosophy of the computer programmer — the Hacker Way, as he puts it.

“Hackers try to build the best services over the long term by quickly releasing and learning from smaller iterations rather than trying to get everything right all at once,” he wrote, summing up with a slogan that he said was painted on Facebook’s walls: “Done is better than perfect.”

This approach explains both Facebook’s swift, extraordinary success at drawing users and the fierce anger that it sometimes provokes. To a user, it can often seem as though Facebook takes a leap of 20 steps ahead, riles users and then rolls 10 or 15 steps back.

This ethos seems close to that of Google and diametrically opposed to that of Apple, where perfection has been paramount, and a product could not go to market until it met the exacting standards of its late founder and chief executive, Steven P. Jobs.

But the approach is spreading across Silicon Valley. Even Apple surprised people when it introduced the voice-powered Siri feature on the iPhone 4S in a test version, complete with flaws.

“We have a saying: ‘Move fast and break things,’ ” the letter from Mr. Zuckerberg continued. “The idea is that if you never break anything, you’re probably not moving fast enough.”

The four-page letter laid out what Mr. Zuckerberg called “the five core values” of the company, emphasizing ambition, speed and risk taking. “We have another saying: ‘The riskiest thing is to take no risks.’ ”

The tricky thing about parables like this is that people remember. In their letter the Google founders included an unofficial corporate motto: “Don’t be evil.” Its detractors remember it, and use it to shame Google at every perceived transgression.

Though Google says it has maintained its unconventional philosophy over all, Mr. Page, now Google’s chief executive, has lately been more deferential to Wall Street. On a recent earnings call, he struck a different tone when he told analysts, “We have a few small speculative projects happening at any one time, but we are very careful stewards of shareholders’ money.”
89 2012-02-02 The State Supreme Court said late Wednesday that it would take up the legal challenge to the pardons approved by Gov. Haley Barbour before he left office, scheduling a hearing for Feb. 9. State Attorney General Jim Hood, a Democrat, wants to invalidate dozens of the 198 pardons that Mr. Barbour, a Republican, handed out before his term ended Jan. 10. Mr. Hood says only about two dozen of the people pardoned followed the State Constitution’s requirement to publish a notice about their reprieves in their local newspapers for 30 days. He wants the others invalidated. Most of the people who could lose their pardons have already served their sentences and been out of prison for years.
90 2012-02-02 Ms. Szymborska lived most of her life in modest conditions in the old university city of Krakow, working for the magazine Zycie Literackie (Literary Life). She published a thin volume of her verse every few years.

She was popular in Poland, which tends to make romantic heroes of poets, but she was little known abroad. Her poems were clear in topic and language, but her playfulness and tendency to invent words made her work hard to translate.

Much of her verse was contemplative, but she also addressed death, torture, war and, strikingly, Hitler, whose attack on Poland in 1939 started World War II in Europe. She depicted him as an innocent — “this little fellow in his itty-bitty robe” — being photographed on his first birthday.

Ms. Szymborska began writing in the Socialist Realist style. The first collection of what some have called her Stalinist period, “That’s What We Live For,” appeared in 1952, followed two years later by another ideological collection, “Questions Put to Myself.”

Years later she told the poet and critic Edward Hirsch: “When I was young I had a moment of believing in the Communist doctrine. I wanted to save the world through Communism. Quite soon I understood that it doesn’t work, but I’ve never pretended it didn’t happen to me.

“At the very beginning of my creative life I loved humanity. I wanted to do something good for mankind. Soon I understood that it isn’t possible to save mankind.”

By 1957, she had renounced both Communism and her early poetry. Decades later, she was active in the Solidarity movement’s struggle against Poland’s Communist government. During a period of martial law, imposed in 1981, she published poems under a pseudonym in the underground press.

She insisted that her poetry was personal rather than political. “Of course, life crosses politics,” she said in an interview with The New York Times after winning the Nobel in 1996. “But my poems are strictly not political. They are more about people and life.”

Ms. Szymborska “looks at things from an angle you would never think of looking at for yourself in a million years,” Dr. Cavanagh said on the day of the Nobel announcement. She pointed to “one stunning poem that’s a eulogy.”

“It’s about the death of someone close to her that’s done from the point of view of the person’s cat,” she said.

That poem, “Cat in an Empty Apartment,” as translated by Dr. Cavanagh and Mr. Baranczak, opens:

Die — You can’t do that to a cat.

Since what can a cat do

Rub up against the furniture?

Nothing seems different here,

but nothing is the same.

Nothing has been moved,

And at nighttime no lamps are lit.

but they’re new ones.

The hand that puts fish on the saucer

as it should. Someone was always, always here,

Wislawa Szymborska was born on July 2, 1923, near Poznan, in western Poland. When she was 8, her family moved to Krakow. During the Nazi occupation, she went to a clandestine school, risking German punishment, and later studied literature and sociology at the prestigious Jagiellonian University in Krakow.

Her marriage to the poet Adam Wlodek ended in divorce. Her companion, the writer Kornel Filipowicz, died in 1990. She had no children, and no immediate family members survive.

Czeslaw Milosz, the Polish exile who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1980, said of Ms. Szymborska’s Nobel selection: “She’s a shy and modest person, and for her it will be a terrible burden, this prize. She is very reticent in her poetry also. This is not a poetry where she reveals her personal life.”

Her work did, however, reveal sympathy for others — even the biblical figure who looked back at Sodom and turned into a pillar of salt. Ms. Szymborska speculated in the opening lines of “Lot’s Wife” on why she looked back:

They say I looked back out of curiosity,

but I could have had other reasons.

So I wouldn’t have to keep staring at the righteous nape

From the sudden conviction that if I dropped dead

He wouldn’t so much as hesitate.

From the disobedience of the meek.

Struck by the silence, hoping God had changed his mind.

Her last book to be translated, “Here,” was published in the United States last year. Reviewing it for The New York Review of Books, the poet Charles Simic noted that Ms. Szymborska “often writes as if on an assigned subject,” examining it in depth. He added: “If this sounds like poetry’s equivalent of expository writing, it is. More than any poet I can think of, Szymborska not only wants to create a poetic state in her readers, but also to tell them things they didn’t know before or never got around to thinking about.”

In her Nobel lecture, Ms. Szymborska joked about the life of poets. Great films can be made of the lives of scientists and artists, she said, but poets offer far less promising material.

“Their work is hopelessly unphotogenic,” she said. “Someone sits at a table or lies on a sofa while staring motionless at a wall or ceiling. Once in a while this person writes down seven lines, only to cross out one of them 15 minutes later, and then another hour passes, during which nothing happens. Who could stand to watch this kind of thing?”
91 2012-02-02 WITH a name like Open House, one might expect no guest list, no hassles and no velvet rope. A big banner would seem appropriate, too. But partygoers arriving at this new Lower East Side haunt will have no such luck. In yet another iteration of the hidden speakeasy, Open House is disguised behind an unmarked beige facade with its misleading name spelled out in small, red neon letters.

In theory, only in-the-know partygoers are supposed to be clued in. But a huge line was outside on a recent Friday night. “It’s like a two-hour wait!” grumbled one novice. So much for keeping it a secret.

THE PLACE Open House opened in November on a dim stretch of East Houston Street lined with shuttered nail salons and bodegas. The street level is a long, narrow room with pressed-tin-patterned walls, Encyclopaedia Britannica on bookshelves and wood tables fashioned from old letterset trays. But the real action is in the basement, behind a not-so-secret door camouflaged by Corona boxes that leads to a small dance floor with black banquettes, a D.J. booth and a disco ball.

THE CROWD Around midnight on a recent weekend, over-groomed 20-somethings packed the dance floor, just as they would the No. 6 train during rush hour. Young women shed their furs and puffy coats to reveal sparkly dresses and tight miniskirts; their male counterparts sport button-downs and fleece. “It’s not a very cool crowd, but it would be a safe place to bring my brothers,” one patron said.

THE PLAYLIST The D.J.’s change their repertory depending on the night. On a recent visit, the duo upstairs mixed Ibiza-style techno with the occasional Adele or hip-hop track. Their counterparts downstairs drew from a similar stock of upbeat house music.

GETTING IN Table reservations are important in securing swift entry on weekends. Otherwise, admittance is at the doorkeeper’s discretion.

DRINKS Bottle service is encouraged, with flavored vodkas starting at $250 and a magnum of Dom Pérignon capping things off at $1,200. Otherwise, mixed drinks are from $9; a pour of Johnny Walker Black Label is $14.
92 2012-02-02 Profit at the Nasdaq OMX Group topped analysts’ expectations in the fourth quarter, bolstered by revenue from market data and technology that helped offset a soft trading environment.

The group, which has diversified its revenue through a number of small acquisitions over the years, reaped the benefits.

Higher demand for its proprietary data services helped drive the company’s market data revenue up 10 percent, while market technology revenue rose 4 percent from a year earlier because of recently delivered projects.

Nasdaq, which runs American and Nordic markets, earned $82 million, or 45 cents per diluted share, in the fourth quarter, down from $137 million, or 69 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $422 million; analysts expected $417.16 million.

Nasdaq’s shares were up a penny to $24.77 on Wednesday.
93 2012-02-02 The letter also disclosed that the e-mail’s existence became known only because investigators unearthed a hard copy from a storage crate filled with material left behind last summer when The News of the World was closed.

A News International spokeswoman said the company had no comment and would not discuss what other e-mails might have been deleted at the same time.

The e-mail has become significant in the hacking case as possible evidence of what Mr. Murdoch knew and when he learned it. Two company officials — Tom Crone, then a News International lawyer, and Colin Myler, then the News of the World editor — have said they informed him at the time that phone hacking was endemic at the newspaper.

Mr. Murdoch has always maintained that they never told him and that he knew nothing about it until much later.

Three days after the June 7 e-mail, Mr. Murdoch met with Mr. Crone and Mr. Myler and decided to pay more than $1.4 million to settle a hacking lawsuit. The details of the suit were kept secret, and until December 2010, News International maintained that hacking at the newspaper was limited to a “rogue reporter.”

The Linklaters’ letter said the crate in which the hard copy of the e-mail was found “had a sticker on it which suggested the contents were originally held in Mr. Myler’s office.”

Electronic copies were then found in two of Mr. Murdoch’s laptops, and one from an assistant’s desktop computer, Linklaters said. Mr. Myler’s copy, though, was “lost from the e-mail archive system in a hardware failure which occurred on 18 March 2010,” the law firm added.

News International has given varying accounts about what e-mails it has, where they are and why it did not immediately make them available to investigators. At one point, it said that its e-mail archive had been lost on the way for storage in Mumbai, India; at another, it said it could only retrieve e-mails that were less than six months old.

But new intimations that the company may have purposely destroyed evidence are raising questions about whether the company might be investigated for obstruction of justice.

A judge accused News International last month of destroying possibly relevant e-mails. And The Guardian reported Tuesday that the police were examining “an enormous reservoir of material from News International’s central computer services” that was “deliberately deleted from News International’s servers.”
94 2012-02-02 Stocks extended a January rally on Wednesday after upbeat global manufacturing data helped sentiment. In addition, Greece was nearing a long-delayed deal with private creditors.

The recent run of better-than-expected economic data around the world, though still not suggesting a booming expansion, has helped lift equity markets.

An index of American manufacturing rose in January to its highest level since June, an industry group said, while China’s factory sector expanded slightly, confounding expectations for a contraction. Germany recorded its first rise in manufacturing output in four months.

“The numbers aren’t horrible. The trend continues that the news is O.K.,” said Brian Battle, director of trading at Performance Trust Capital Partners in Chicago. “I think we’re going to grind higher.”

Optimism spurred gains in industrials, financials and basic materials shares. Caterpillar, a company heavily involved with global industry, rose 1.3 percent to $110.52.
95 2012-02-02 The nine had been set to plead innocent to terrorism charges but changed their pleas to guilty at the last minute when the judge warned them of heavy sentences, including up to 13 and a half years for the man suspected of being the ringleader, if the case went to a prolonged trial. By pleading guilty, legal experts said, the men made themselves eligible for a “discount” of as much as 10 percent in their prison terms when sentenced next week.

For years, Britain’s top counterterrorism officials have been warning of what they called a network of Islamic terrorist cells across the country, and saying that the security agencies, despite major increases in financing and staff, lack the resources to track them all. Bob Quick, a former head of counterterrorism at Scotland Yard, said in a BBC radio interview that the plot “serves to remind us that there are still people out in the country contemplating and capable of carrying out terrorist attacks on innocent people.”

But other experts said that the arrests and convictions of the men showed the vast improvements in British methods of hunting down would-be terrorists.

Alexander Carlile, a member of the House of Lords and formerly the government’s independent reviewer of counterterrorism legislation, said the tracking of the militants in the stock exchange plot had been “an excellent example of the surveillance and interception capabilities of British intelligence, as good as and probably better than any other country in the world.”

But he added, “We must not cease for one moment to be vigilant about the dangers of terrorism, particularly in this Olympic year.”

Much of Britain’s covert electronic listening, code-breaking and surveillance is conducted by an institution called Government Communications Headquarters, known as GCHQ, run in close collaboration with the National Security Agency in the United States. GCHQ is one of three British intelligence agencies, along with the domestic MI5 security agency and the overseas MI6 secret intelligence service. GCHQ’s operations are conducted mainly from its headquarters at the entrance to the spa town of Cheltenham, where most of the agency’s 5,500 staff members work, according to its Web site.

The militants involved in the case that went to court on Wednesday met through their affiliations with Islamic groups, prosecutors said, and communicated via Internet and cellphone. They also met in public places, like parks, where they believed official surveillance would be more difficult, unaware that undercover agents were scrutinizing their movements.

Mohammed Chowdhury, 21, and Shah Rahman, 28, both of Bangladeshi descent and from London, together with two militants from Wales, Gurukanth Desai, 30, and Abdul Miah, 25, admitted planning to plant a bomb at the London Stock Exchange “with the obvious attendant risk but without any intention to cause death or even injury but with the intention to terrorize, damage property and to cause economic damage,” said Christopher Blaxland, a lawyer acting for Mr. Chowdhury.

The nine were arrested before they had set a date for attacks or built bombs, the prosecution said. Though not members of Al Qaeda, they were inspired by the anti-Western tirades of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American jihadist killed by an American drone strike in Yemen in September, said Andrew Edis, a prosecution lawyer.

Counterterrorism officials found the men in possession of a Qaeda magazine containing an article titled: “Make A Bomb In The Kitchen Of Your Mom,” the prosecution said.
96 2012-02-02 Very few cases related to the financial crisis have been brought against executives at large companies, and the ones that have been involved are almost entirely civil fraud, rather than criminal allegations. Here are the prominent cases so far. In many of them, the government negotiated a settlement with the defendants before it even filed a complaint, then announced both the case and settlement at the same time.
97 2012-02-02 JUST in time for Fashion Week, J. Crew has teamed up with Selima Optique, the luxury eyewear label known for Selima Salaun's French retro-glam shades, to make some affordable sunglasses in Pop colors and playful shapes. The three styles -- round t...
98 2012-02-02 Wislawa Szymborska, a gentle and reclusive Polish poet who won the 1996 Nobel Prize in Literature, died on Wednesday in Krakow, Poland. She was 88.     The cause was lung cancer, said David A. Goldfarb, the curator of literature and humanities at ...
99 2012-02-02 NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Borse said on Wednesday that they were in talks to call off their planned merger, after European antitrust regulators formally opposed the deal.     Both exchanges said they fundamentally disagreed with concessions that ...
100 2012-02-02 National signing day has turned into a made-for-television affair, with recruits selecting their universities' caps before crowds of friends and family members and an audience at home. The 2012 version of this annual rite yielded a few additional ...
101 2012-02-02 4:24 p.m. | Updated INDIANAPOLIS - Giants defensive end Osi Umenyiora was fined $20,000 by the N.F.L. for missing a mandatory session with the news media Wednesday morning. Umenyiora, according to the league, was the only player on either the Gian...
102 2012-02-02 6:23 p.m. | Updated  The producer Scott Rudin is known around Broadway and Hollywood for both superb taste and an expectation that his colleagues - actors, directors, publicists, fellow producers - will submit to his wishes. The playwright Bruce N...
103 2012-02-02 9:48 p.m. | Updated      The government charged three former Credit Suisse traders on Wednesday with inflating the value of mortgage bonds as the housing market collapsed, a rare criminal prosecution of Wall Street executives for their conduct dur...
104 2012-02-02 Morgan Stanley, which has not had much joy in a rough year for Wall Street, had reason to celebrate on Wednesday.     As the lead underwriter on Facebook's initial public offering, the firm will reap not only millions of dollars in fees, but more ...
105 2012-02-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
106 2012-02-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
107 2012-02-03 All the fashion news of the week that's fit to reprint....
108 2012-02-03 All the fashion news of the week that's fit to reprint....
109 2012-02-03 With a $2 million base salary, the 2011 pay package for Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, so far totals $9 million. Goldman has not yet disclosed the size of his cash bonus....
110 2012-02-03 With a $2 million base salary, the 2011 pay package for Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, so far totals $9 million. Goldman has not yet disclosed the size of his cash bonus....
111 2012-02-03 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar news. Friday's selection includes items on federal authorities seizing sports Web sites, large companies that do not admit to the S.E.C. that they ...
112 2012-02-03 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar news. Friday's selection includes items on federal authorities seizing sports Web sites, large companies that do not admit to the S.E.C. that they ...
113 2012-02-03 The author and cook Melissa Clark takes you into her kitchen to show you how easy it can be to make exquisite and delicious meals.
114 2012-02-03 Judith Newman talks about three books that explore the real-life inspirations for the hit TV series "Downton Abbey."...
115 2012-02-03 Judith Newman talks about three books that explore the real-life inspirations for the hit TV series "Downton Abbey."...
116 2012-02-03 Kimchi Taco Truck, Gorilla Cheese NYC, Taim Mobile and Van Leeuwen Artisan Ice Cream will be the first four trucks....
117 2012-02-03 Kimchi Taco Truck, Gorilla Cheese NYC, Taim Mobile and Van Leeuwen Artisan Ice Cream will be the first four trucks....
118 2012-02-03 This week's Your Money column tells the tale of Thomas Mitchell's consumer victory: he managed to get an identical auto insurance policy at half the cost he was paying....
119 2012-02-03 This week's Your Money column tells the tale of Thomas Mitchell's consumer victory: he managed to get an identical auto insurance policy at half the cost he was paying....
120 2012-02-03 Harbinger Capital Partners lost 46.6 percent last year as Philip Falcone's biggest - and most controversial - investment took a beating, according to investors who spoke on condition of anonymity....
121 2012-02-03 Harbinger Capital Partners lost 46.6 percent last year as Philip Falcone's biggest - and most controversial - investment took a beating, according to investors who spoke on condition of anonymity....
122 2012-02-03 College textbooks are "impermissible benefits," the N.C.A.A. insists....
123 2012-02-03 College textbooks are "impermissible benefits," the N.C.A.A. insists....
124 2012-02-03 The arrival of Super Bowl commercials before the game reflects a broader trend across the media of sharing content with consumers ahead of time. Magazines release big articles early, to draw more readers to newsstands, and networks like NBC are offering opportunities to watch online the first episodes of series like “Smash,” sometimes weeks before the shows make their debuts on television.

By some estimates, almost half the 50-plus commercials that are scheduled to appear in the Super Bowl are already online in one form or another. Many of those sneak peeks are for car ads, seeking to stand out amid the clutter in the automotive category. Spots for 11 automotive brands will appear in the game, along with ads for related products like Bridgestone tires. “So many people are launching commercials early to feed the beast,” said Don Springer, founder and chief executive at Collective Intellect in Boulder, Colo., which analyzes conversations in social media.

The first full Super Bowl XLVI spot to be shared early, for the Chevrolet Camaro, went online on Jan. 19 — 17 days before the game. Kia Motors even began showing its entire Super Bowl spot on Thursday in more than 18,000 movie theaters around the country.

In addition to the actual ads, there are teaser videos, preview clips and, in some cases, extended versions with more content that sponsors hope will provide fodder for pregame conversations and media coverage, including articles like this.

“This is the one time of the year people like to talk about advertising,” said Greg Artzt, founder and chief strategic officer at the Charlotte, N.C., office of General Sentiment, another company that analyzes interactions in social media. “There’s millions of dollars of unpaid exposure being gained, before the ads are aired.”

In some instances, sponsors are choreographing the prelude to the Super Bowl as carefully as a halftime show. American Honda Motor sought to build interest in its coming commercial for the Honda CR-V, which features Matthew Broderick in an homage to his 1986 movie, “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off,” by uploading to YouTube on Jan. 26 a mysterious 10-second teaser. It has been watched more than five million times.

Four days later, an extended version of the commercial joined the teaser on youtube.com. The mega-version, which had been watched 8.6 million times as of Thursday afternoon, runs 2 minutes and 25 seconds — almost two and a half times as long as the 60-second commercial to be shown during the Super Bowl. Concerns have been raised that, by being so forthcoming before the game, advertisers may dampen enthusiasm for watching the commercials in the game. As Collective Intellect gathered data for its pregame report, called the CNBC/Collective Intellect Super Sunday Ad Tracker, a small number of people “said they are almost a little disappointed they’ve seen the ads early,” said Jennifer Roberts, marketing manager.

That does not worry sponsors like Brian Smith, vice president for marketing at the Lexus division of Toyota Motor Sales USA. Lexus, a first-time Super Bowl advertiser, is offering computer users a chance to watch its full commercial, for the 2013 GS sport sedan, on Facebook and YouTube. Mr. Smith likened Super Bowl Sunday to Christmas Day. As much fun as it would be to come downstairs and find presents without knowing it was Dec. 25, he said, it is “a lot more fun when you’ve gone through the buildup, the anticipation, when you know what’s coming.”

Another Super Bowl ad newcomer, MetLife, is turning to social media to drum up discussion of its coming commercial, which features more than 50 familiar cartoon characters joining the longtime MetLife endorsers from the “Peanuts” comic strip to promote a new campaign, themed “I can do this.”

Recent visitors to the MetLife fan page on Facebook may have noticed that the almost 153,000 people who “like” MetLife include, in addition to Snoopy, characters like Scooby-Doo and Voltron. Those characters are teasing fans on Facebook with cryptic comments; for instance, Scooby-Doo declares, in his unique patois, “Rook out for me and Shaggy on TV Feb. 5th!” Between now and Sunday, “it’ll build and build,” said Beth Hirschhorn, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at MetLife, until “people figure out why the characters are talking.”

After the Super Bowl, the social media outreach will continue, she added, with make-believe outtakes from the commercial uploaded to YouTube.

The MetLife commercial is being created by Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners. A reason the spot is stuffed with cartoons, said Henry Gonzalez, vice president and account director at the agency, is to give viewers something to talk about in social media.

“It’s designed to be seen over and over,” he said, “so that every time you see it, you’ll see more.”

The agency for Volkswagen is Deutsch L.A., owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. The other agencies are: for Kia, David & Goliath; for Honda, RPA, which is also busy in social media promoting a commercial for a Honda sibling, Acura; and for Lexus, Attik.
125 2012-02-03 The arrival of Super Bowl commercials before the game reflects a broader trend across the media of sharing content with consumers ahead of time. Magazines release big articles early, to draw more readers to newsstands, and networks like NBC are offering opportunities to watch online the first episodes of series like “Smash,” sometimes weeks before the shows make their debuts on television.

By some estimates, almost half the 50-plus commercials that are scheduled to appear in the Super Bowl are already online in one form or another. Many of those sneak peeks are for car ads, seeking to stand out amid the clutter in the automotive category. Spots for 11 automotive brands will appear in the game, along with ads for related products like Bridgestone tires. “So many people are launching commercials early to feed the beast,” said Don Springer, founder and chief executive at Collective Intellect in Boulder, Colo., which analyzes conversations in social media.

The first full Super Bowl XLVI spot to be shared early, for the Chevrolet Camaro, went online on Jan. 19 — 17 days before the game. Kia Motors even began showing its entire Super Bowl spot on Thursday in more than 18,000 movie theaters around the country.

In addition to the actual ads, there are teaser videos, preview clips and, in some cases, extended versions with more content that sponsors hope will provide fodder for pregame conversations and media coverage, including articles like this.

“This is the one time of the year people like to talk about advertising,” said Greg Artzt, founder and chief strategic officer at the Charlotte, N.C., office of General Sentiment, another company that analyzes interactions in social media. “There’s millions of dollars of unpaid exposure being gained, before the ads are aired.”

In some instances, sponsors are choreographing the prelude to the Super Bowl as carefully as a halftime show. American Honda Motor sought to build interest in its coming commercial for the Honda CR-V, which features Matthew Broderick in an homage to his 1986 movie, “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off,” by uploading to YouTube on Jan. 26 a mysterious 10-second teaser. It has been watched more than five million times.

Four days later, an extended version of the commercial joined the teaser on youtube.com. The mega-version, which had been watched 8.6 million times as of Thursday afternoon, runs 2 minutes and 25 seconds — almost two and a half times as long as the 60-second commercial to be shown during the Super Bowl. Concerns have been raised that, by being so forthcoming before the game, advertisers may dampen enthusiasm for watching the commercials in the game. As Collective Intellect gathered data for its pregame report, called the CNBC/Collective Intellect Super Sunday Ad Tracker, a small number of people “said they are almost a little disappointed they’ve seen the ads early,” said Jennifer Roberts, marketing manager.

That does not worry sponsors like Brian Smith, vice president for marketing at the Lexus division of Toyota Motor Sales USA. Lexus, a first-time Super Bowl advertiser, is offering computer users a chance to watch its full commercial, for the 2013 GS sport sedan, on Facebook and YouTube. Mr. Smith likened Super Bowl Sunday to Christmas Day. As much fun as it would be to come downstairs and find presents without knowing it was Dec. 25, he said, it is “a lot more fun when you’ve gone through the buildup, the anticipation, when you know what’s coming.”

Another Super Bowl ad newcomer, MetLife, is turning to social media to drum up discussion of its coming commercial, which features more than 50 familiar cartoon characters joining the longtime MetLife endorsers from the “Peanuts” comic strip to promote a new campaign, themed “I can do this.”

Recent visitors to the MetLife fan page on Facebook may have noticed that the almost 153,000 people who “like” MetLife include, in addition to Snoopy, characters like Scooby-Doo and Voltron. Those characters are teasing fans on Facebook with cryptic comments; for instance, Scooby-Doo declares, in his unique patois, “Rook out for me and Shaggy on TV Feb. 5th!” Between now and Sunday, “it’ll build and build,” said Beth Hirschhorn, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at MetLife, until “people figure out why the characters are talking.”

After the Super Bowl, the social media outreach will continue, she added, with make-believe outtakes from the commercial uploaded to YouTube.

The MetLife commercial is being created by Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners. A reason the spot is stuffed with cartoons, said Henry Gonzalez, vice president and account director at the agency, is to give viewers something to talk about in social media.

“It’s designed to be seen over and over,” he said, “so that every time you see it, you’ll see more.”

The agency for Volkswagen is Deutsch L.A., owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. The other agencies are: for Kia, David & Goliath; for Honda, RPA, which is also busy in social media promoting a commercial for a Honda sibling, Acura; and for Lexus, Attik.
126 2012-02-03 Barbara J. Desoer, who served as a point person for the bank amid fierce criticism of its foreclosure practices, is retiring....
127 2012-02-03 Barbara J. Desoer, who served as a point person for the bank amid fierce criticism of its foreclosure practices, is retiring....
128 2012-02-03 A look at how far the United States economy has to go before it fully recovers from the Great Recession....
129 2012-02-03 A look at how far the United States economy has to go before it fully recovers from the Great Recession....
130 2012-02-03 January's positive employment data doesn't assuage long-term concerns about job growth | A man who pays more in taxes than he makes in a year....
131 2012-02-03 January's positive employment data doesn't assuage long-term concerns about job growth | A man who pays more in taxes than he makes in a year....
132 2012-02-03 Save the date! A new bridal salon, Stone Fox Bride, rewrites the rules of wedding planning....
133 2012-02-03 Save the date! A new bridal salon, Stone Fox Bride, rewrites the rules of wedding planning....
134 2012-02-03 Jacquelyn Nealon, who handles enrollment, communications and marketing at New York Institute of Technology, advises students on the best ways to ensure they get the financial aid package they deserve....
135 2012-02-03 Jacquelyn Nealon, who handles enrollment, communications and marketing at New York Institute of Technology, advises students on the best ways to ensure they get the financial aid package they deserve....
136 2012-02-03 Glenn Hutchins of Silverlake discusses January’s positive employment data and the prospects for long-term job growth. ‘Common Sense’ columnist James B. Stewart on a man with higher taxes than income.
137 2012-02-03 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
138 2012-02-03 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
139 2012-02-03 China has more than $3 trillion in foreign currency reserves, far more than any other nation, and for two years Europe has been begging Beijing to use some of that money to buy troubled European debt. Has China's economic might already reordered t...
140 2012-02-03 China has more than $3 trillion in foreign currency reserves, far more than any other nation, and for two years Europe has been begging Beijing to use some of that money to buy troubled European debt. Has China's economic might already reordered t...
141 2012-02-03 The Kala Ghoda Arts Festival, one of the most eagerly awaited annual events in Mumbai, runs this year from Saturday through Feb. 12....
142 2012-02-03 The Kala Ghoda Arts Festival, one of the most eagerly awaited annual events in Mumbai, runs this year from Saturday through Feb. 12....
143 2012-02-03 For Clare Tiarsmith, a senior at the Marist School in Atlanta, sustaining her academic performance through the remainder of high school means not succumbing to that dreaded upperclassmen ailment, senioritis....
144 2012-02-03 For Clare Tiarsmith, a senior at the Marist School in Atlanta, sustaining her academic performance through the remainder of high school means not succumbing to that dreaded upperclassmen ailment, senioritis....
145 2012-02-03 “It’s just a huge risk,” she said, noting that the financing came from family and friends, not a bank. “At several points you wonder if you should just walk away and take the loss.”

Ms. Pries said she had to endure months of runaround and pay a lawyer to determine whether her location (a former grocery, vacant for years) was eligible to become a restaurant. There were permit fees of $20,000; a demand that she create a detailed map of all existing area businesses (the city didn’t have one); and an $11,000 charge just to turn on the water.

The ice cream shop’s travails are at odds with the frequent promises made by the mayor and many supervisors that small businesses and job creation are top priorities.

The matter has also alarmed some business leaders, who point out that few small ventures could survive such long delays.

“Someone of lesser fortitude would have left three months into it,” Ted Loewenberg, president of the Haight Ashbury Improvement Association, said of Ms. Pries. “Through these hard times we’ve heard all the rhetoric about streamlining the process, about one-stop shopping. It hasn’t happened.”

That could soon change. An ordinance easing the process for opening a small business is expected to be considered by the supervisors within weeks. It has already been approved by the planning commission.

“The city has had the reputation of being a difficult place, and a hostile place, to do business,” said Mark Farrell, the city supervisor who has the most private-sector experience (he still operates a venture capital firm). “We’re changing the dialogue.”

According to Mr. Farrell, a critical shift occurred last year when supervisors approved a tax incentive to keep the headquarters of Twitter, the social network, in the city after the company threatened to move.

But he admitted that such actions were relatively easy compared with reforming the city’s entrenched bureaucracy. “To change the inner workings of government is a longer proposition,” he said.

Christina Olague, a former Planning Commission president who was recently appointed city supervisor, said that planning codes governing businesses had ballooned over the years to become hundreds of pages long. “It’s so convoluted,” she said. “It’s so difficult for these businesses to move ahead.”

Even the planning department itself is calling for reform. “Hello City Planner,” an animated cartoon produced by the department and posted on its Web site, depicts a litany of farcical city hassles faced by a woman applying to sell ice cream.

“Wow! That’s a long time and expensive,” the ice cream lady says after the planning employee in the animation explains the slow process and high fees.

Cases like Ms. Pries’s inspired the video, although some believe her runaround was exceptionally absurd. Even after she acceded to all the city’s demands, her paperwork sat unprocessed for months. Ms. Pries would not say exactly how much it all cost, including construction, but smiled and nodded when asked if it was in the hundreds of thousands of dollars.

And yet, remarkably, she does not complain. Ms. Pries is as effervescent as her sodas, and excited about her prospects — looking ahead, rather than back. Perhaps this optimism is why she finally prevailed, when so many others would have given up.
146 2012-02-03 “Perfect Sense” is a solemn sci-fi parable set in present-day Glasgow, whose deepening sense of foreboding is sustained by the enigmatic, pseudo-biblical reflections of an unseen narrator.

“There is darkness,” she intones. “There is light. There are men and women. There is food.”

This voice weaves in and out of a fable about the possible end of the world, as an epidemic sweeps the planet, depriving human beings of one sense, then another and another.

The movie, directed by David Mackenzie (“Young Adam”) from a screenplay by Kim Fupz Aakeson, is also the love story of a rakish chef, Michael (Ewan McGregor), and Susan (Eva Green), a chilly epidemiologist recovering from a broken heart. After a casual hookup, Michael dismisses Susan by explaining that he can’t sleep in the same bed with another person. Susan, who is furious, belongs to a medical team studying the case of a man who has suddenly lost his sense of smell. He turns out to be one of the first of millions of Britons who become afflicted.

The film has some startling scenes of the symptoms experienced at the onset of each wave of the epidemic. Moments before losing their sense of smell, the victims have fits of inconsolable grief that evoke the connection between smell and memory.

The next to go is taste, the loss of which is preceded by ravenous, animalistic bingeing on whatever is at hand. In his restaurant kitchen Michael gulps from a huge jar of mustard. Frenzied colleagues stuff slabs of raw meat into their mouths; one drains a huge bottle of olive oil. In another part of the city Susan, who is carrying flowers, frantically tears into them with her teeth.

For all of its ominousness, “Perfect Sense” is also a dour celebration of the ability to adapt. At his restaurant Michael compensates for the absence of smell and taste by focusing on the texture and color of the food, and soon all is more or less back to normal. But there are limits to adaptation, and when the third wave of the disease hits, affecting hearing, it triggers worldwide chaos. Deafness is preceded by outbursts of violent rage. Michael, who has reconnected with Susan, suddenly turns on her with contempt.

Unlike “Contagion,” “Perfect Sense” doesn’t trump up a halfhearted medical analysis of the disease. As in “Children of Men,” where the world is gripped by an epidemic of infertility, the ailment here is also metaphorical. It could be a global spiritual malaise or a dire warning from above, though the story refers neither to religion nor to God. The narration (voiced by Katy Engels) offers few clues beyond the admonition expressed in vague, tepid language, to appreciate life and to remember, as Joni Mitchell sang, “You don’t know what you’ve got till it’s gone.”
147 2012-02-03 The mayor of Providence, R.I., on Thursday laid out a series of steps he said were crucial to shoring up the city’s finances. He warned that it would otherwise run out of money in June.

Mayor Angel Taveras, a Democrat, outlined plans to reduce pensions for retired municipal workers and vowed to appeal a recent state court ruling preventing the city from forcing its retirees to switch to the federal Medicare health insurance program when they turned 65. He also called for bigger contributions from major tax-exempt universities and hospitals in Providence.

“The worst-case scenario is bankruptcy,” Mr. Taveras said in a phone interview after a news conference at City Hall. “This will be the consequence if we are not able to accomplish our goals.”

Providence, the state capital, is only one player in the municipal crisis gripping the state: collectively, Rhode Island’s cities and towns are facing an estimated $2 billion in unfinanced pension liabilities. The city of Central Falls is in receivership and declared bankruptcy last year; this week, the state legislature approved a $12.6 million advance to struggling East Providence, which is also under state supervision.

Mr. Taveras said he would meet with retirees in March to discuss pension cuts. He said he would ask state lawmakers to allow him to suspend annual cost-of-living increases, which are between 5 and 6 percent, for the city’s retirees. “It’s unsustainable,” Mr. Taveras said.
148 2012-02-03 The star of the night, however, was Derrick Rose, the N.B.A.’s reigning most valuable player, who twisted and slashed his way to 32 points and 13 assists, despite shooting 12 for 26 from the field. The Bulls never trailed in the second half and pushed their Eastern Conference-leading record to 19-6.

Stoudemire made 16 of 27 shots and carried the Knicks all night, but it was his last miss that proved decisive. Kyle Korver had hit two free throws to give the Bulls a 103-100 lead with 13.7 seconds to play. Stoudemire received an inbounds pass at the top of the arc and quickly fired over Joakim Noah. The shot hit the front of the rim.

“He can make that shot as well as anybody,” said Coach Mike D’Antoni, adding, “If he’s wide open, I said go ahead and take it.”

The play was designed for either Stoudemire or Anthony to take a 3-pointer. Stoudemire made one under similar circumstances in a game against Boston last season. He was 5 for 14 from the arc coming into this game.

“That shot normally falls for me,” Stoudemire said. “We played hard, we played well, had a chance to win, so on to the next one.”

Anthony typically takes the big shots down the stretch, but he said he was fine with the decision.

“If he would have made it, he would have been a hero,” Anthony said of Stoudemire. “He’d have been our hero. It was a good shot for him. He was open. And that’s the play Coach drew up for us.”

Anthony hit two free throws to make it a 2-point game with 6.3 seconds left. Rose hit 1 of 2 free throws to extend the Bulls’ lead to 105-102 with 5.3 seconds left, opening the door for a possible game-tying shot. But Anthony’s 30-foot heave at the buzzer clanged off the rim. He finished a 10-for-26 night from the field with a 1-for-6 fourth quarter.

After a slow start this season, Stoudemire seems to be getting his game legs back. His midrange jumper was smooth, and his drives to the basket were ferocious. He scored the Knicks’ first 7 points, 16 of their first 32 and had 18 by halftime.

Stoudemire fueled an early third-quarter rally with a driving dunk, followed by a block of Rose. Anthony scored twice and fed Tyson Chandler for an alley-oop dunk as the Knicks gradually whittled the deficit from 12 points to 2. After Chicago pushed the lead back to 8 points, Anthony rallied the Knicks again, hitting three straight jumpers to tie the score at 75-75. He was 6 for 10 in the quarter.

The Bulls were playing their fourth game in five nights — including a lopsided loss to Philadelphia on Wednesday — and they were missing two injured starters, Luol Deng and Richard Hamilton. But Rose, as usual, kept them humming with his dazzling mix of speed, acrobatics and passing savvy.

After a strong start, the Knicks’ offense came apart in a 10-turnover second quarter, when Chicago built a double-digit lead. Anthony had four turnovers in just over six minutes. Shumpert added two more, and Stoudemire, Bill Walker, Toney Douglas and Renaldo Balkman had one apiece, in one of the sloppier periods the Knicks have played all season.

Carmelo Anthony is just the second Knick to be voted an All-Star starter in the last 15 years, following Amar’e Stoudemire in 2011. Stoudemire and Tyson Chandler could receive consideration as reserves when the coaches vote in the coming days. However, the Knicks’ poor start (and Stoudemire’s early struggles) could hurt them in the balloting. The Knicks have not had two All-Stars in the same year since 2001 (Allan Houston and Latrell Sprewell). ... Before Stoudemire, no Knick had been named a starter since Patrick Ewing in 1997. In all, six Knicks have been voted All-Star starters, for a total of 12 times. ... The Knicks continue to take a guarded approach with Baron Davis as he recovers from a herniated disk. Davis is still dealing with some residual soreness and is not yet in game condition. “If you watch him play or run and he struggles a little bit, just because it’s not fluid, it’s not quite there,” D’Antoni said.
149 2012-02-03 In Iowa, the results changed when the party found that the totals of the hand-written and hand-counted ballots had been misreported in 131 of 1,774 precincts. Many more turned in certification forms without the necessary signatures. And eight— a record few, in fact — never filed the paperwork needed for certification.

“We really don’t have any set procedures for how to handle things,” said Matt Green, a volunteer in Lee County who oversaw two of the Iowa precincts that did not file paperwork. “Probably every caucus that’s ever happened there have been mistakes and forms not turned in. I know from my own experience. But in the past it hasn’t mattered because the vote hasn’t been this close.”

As the Republican race continues, the Nevada caucus, in particular, will be closely watched for signs of trouble. Four years ago, both parties’ caucuses were riddled with problems before, during and after the vote. There were lawsuits, and difficulty accommodating high turnout, and after the counting was done, candidates discovered that whoever won the most votes would not necessarily get the most delegates.

This year, despite assurances that the process was improved, there were new concerns, like the decision to allow counties to set their own rules, which means that people voting in different parts of the state will have very different voting experiences.

Craig Robinson helped run the Iowa caucus for the Republican Party four years ago, and afterward traveled to Nevada to lend his expertise, but was stunned by the disarray. “I can’t tell you how big of a mess it was,” he said.

“I’m nervous about the other caucus states coming up,” said Mr. Robinson, now editor of the Web site The Iowa Republican. “My fear is if there is another problem with a caucus you’re going to have more people say, ‘Why are we doing this?’ ”

In Maine, where most of the caucuses take place over a week and according to rules set by municipalities, Mike Quatrano, the executive director of the state Republican Party, said other state processes seemed simple by comparison.

"Smooth? No,” he said. “It would be nice if it was like Iowa, and we had one day and everyone caucused. But this process, where everyone does their own thing, I have to be honest with you, it can be very challenging.”

Four years ago, the mastery of the labyrinthine rules and procedures in often-overlooked caucus states was a critical part of President Obama’s strategy to win delegates during the bruising battle for the Democratic nomination.

The difficulty Hillary Rodham Clinton’s campaign had in caucus states led supporters to push unsuccessfully to remove them from the nomination process, saying they limited participation and lacked protections to ensure fairness.

This year, Mr. Romney, the Republican front-runner, has focused on building the strong organization that helps in the low-turnout affairs. Ron Paul has also focused on the caucuses, believing his dedicated supporters give him an advantage; he even sidestepped Florida to campaign in Maine.

Any number of examples — including the George W. Bush-Al Gore battle in Florida — serve as reminders that the closest elections, even those run by the professionals, are rarely as simple as tallying the votes and declaring a winner. Totals change as errors are discovered. Big turnouts strain systems. Media pressure to quickly declare winners sometimes overstates initial results, and all of this can be exaggerated by a close race at the top.

Because of Iowa’s elevated role in the nomination process — the four remaining candidates in the race were the top four vote-getters in the caucus — the stakes are high. Some political observers argue that the current dynamics of the race would be different had Mr. Santorum, not Mr. Romney, properly been declared the winner.

Hugh Winebrenner, a retired professor who wrote a book on the Iowa caucuses, said they had a history of problems. At times, he said, it appeared that leaders from both parties were filtering or spinning results to support establishment candidates, a charge that emerged this year as well.

Because the vote totals were usually incomplete and often opaque — the Iowa Democratic Party does not release vote totals for the candidates or maintain records from older races, a spokesman said — the State Legislature eventually made misreporting caucus results a misdemeanor.

The problems added a new line of attack for critics, prompting fears here that the negative publicity had jeopardized the state’s position on the election calendar. Gov. Terry Branstad, saying the process was already transparent, brushed aside those concerns. “I think they generally did a good job,” he said. “Remember this is a caucus, not a primary. So you don’t have all the professionalism that you have with the county auditors and all of those people handling it. You have volunteers.”

After the Iowa caucus, The Associated Press added a disclaimer about caucuses in its election advisories: “This event is a party run, party administered affair. No voting equipment is being used, and professional election administration officials are not managing the process.”
150 2012-02-03 Super Bowl Advertising: What $116,667 a Second, Will Buy

About three dozen companies are buying commercial time on Sunday night during Super Bowl XLVI on NBC. The network is charging an estimated $3.5 million for each 30 seconds. Here is a look at the commercials that are planned to run nationally during the game; the schedule is subject to change based on factors that include the flow of play.
151 2012-02-03 With great élan, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Thursday that the city did not need to raise taxes later this year. No one jumped up to argue that point.

Taxes, however, are not the only way to trim the public hide.

A few hours after Mr. Bloomberg spoke, a team of police officers set up in SoHo for one of their twice-daily exercises in shooting fish in a barrel: nabbing drivers going south on Broadway just below Houston Street in Manhattan.

During the morning and evening rush, there is a virtually unlimited supply of law-breaking drivers who encroach on a lane reserved for buses. A relatively new traffic configuration limits cars to a single lane from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., a change that is announced on signs hanging over the lane, and to which the drivers must adjust immediately after they have crossed Houston.

So police officers, crooking a single finger, have ordered scores of drivers to the curb for breaking the law and issued them a fine for $130. Whatever the virtues of bus lanes, and there are many, this one is a trap — a lucrative one. One police officer, giving a summons at that spot recently, conceded that traffic would be backed up to 14th Street if some drivers did not make their way into that Broadway bus lane.

No mayor for decades has been able to resist the lure of raising revenue with fines, the tax that dares not say its name. During one blitz in the 1990s, the city was ticketing electric pony rides outside stores on Myrtle Avenue in Queens. Around the same time, a driver in the Bronx discovered that the police had figured out a way to abruptly trigger a red light near the Bronx Zoo. They needed to bring fresh supplies of ballpoint pens every day to keep up with the workload of drivers caught running the surprise light.
152 2012-02-03 Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York and an architect of the bill, said its purpose was simple: “to make sure that members of Congress play by the exact same rules as everyone else.”

The bill would prohibit members of Congress from trading stocks and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers. It says explicitly that they are not exempt from the federal law and regulations that ban such insider trading.

Moreover, the bill requires members of Congress to disclose the purchase or sale of stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other securities within 30 days of transactions. The information would be posted on the Web.

A similar disclosure requirement would apply to many federal employees in the executive branch, including the White House, cabinet departments and independent agencies.

The new reporting requirements would not apply to transactions involving investments in mutual funds with “widely diversified” assets.

“For the first time,” Ms. Gillibrand said, “this bill would establish that we have a clear fiduciary responsibility to the people we serve. It removes any doubt that both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission can investigate and prosecute cases involving insider trading of securities from nonpublic information that we have access to when we do our jobs.”

By a vote of 60 to 39, the Senate approved an amendment requiring “political intelligence” firms to register like lobbyists. Such firms collect information on Capitol Hill and sell it to hedge funds and others who use it to inform their investment decisions.

The main bill was genuinely bipartisan — a product of work by Ms. Gillibrand and Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut; Susan Collins, Republican of Maine; and Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts.

Republicans led the effort to impose new financial disclosure requirements on federal agency officials, similar to those for members of Congress. “What is good for the goose should be good for the gander,” said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama.

By a vote of 58 to 41, the Senate approved Mr. Shelby’s amendment requiring executive branch employees to report promptly on stock transactions, just as members of Congress would have to do.

Lawmakers disagreed about the number of executive branch employees who would be affected. Mr. Lieberman said it was more than 300,000. Aides to Mr. Shelby said it was fewer than 28,000.

Federal securities law does not explicitly exempt members of Congress. But, Ms. Collins said, “there is a dispute among experts” about whether lawmakers are covered by existing laws on insider trading.

The bill is meant to eliminate any ambiguity. It says that lawmakers have “a duty arising from a relationship of trust and confidence” to Congress, the federal government and citizens of the United States — a duty they violate by trading on nonpublic information.

Mr. Lieberman, the chief sponsor of the bill, said its passage would “help assure our constituents that we are here in Washington to address their concerns and not to profit personally” from public service.

The Senate voted Thursday on more than a dozen amendments before passing the bill, the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act, or Stock Act.

A few lawmakers complained that the Senate was moving too fast, without proof of wrongdoing.

“The assumption here is that some of our colleagues are doing insider trading on the stock market,” said Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma. “Nothing could be further from the truth. The real insider trading is the horse-trading that goes on in this body that is not always in the best interest of the country.”

The “no” votes were cast by Mr. Coburn and Senators Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, and Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina. Mr. Bingaman said, “I can’t support a bill that places unreasonable and burdensome reporting requirements on over 300,000 federal workers.”

The Senate also approved an amendment to block payment of bonuses to senior executives of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said it was outrageous that the executives were receiving bonuses after the mortgage giants had been bailed out by taxpayers.
153 2012-02-03 The works by Valie Export include videos, photographs and two early films. “It’s what she calls expanded cinema,” Ms. Breitwieser said. “It does not consist of the usual things like a screen and a projection; rather she has deconstructed elements about how a film is generated.”

STILL LIFE FOR THE NATIONAL

Over the last few years the National Gallery of Art in Washington has been strategically increasing its holdings of works by African-American artists of various periods and styles. Last year it bought its first painting by the contemporary artist Kerry James Marshall, and now the gallery has stepped back in time, acquiring “Still Life With Fruit and Nuts,” an 1848 canvas by Robert Seldon Duncanson.

Measuring just 12 by 16 inches, the painting features an immaculately composed pile including a pear, an apple, grapes, walnuts, hazelnuts and peanuts on a table.

It was auctioned in 2000 at what was then Phillips de Pury & Luxembourg (now Phillips de Pury & Company), selling for $222,500. The buyer was the Babcock Galleries in New York, which sold it to an unidentified private collector. That collector took it back to Babcock to sell for an undisclosed price. John Driscoll, the Babcock’s owner, offered it to the National Gallery.

Franklin Kelly, the National Gallery’s deputy director, said he did not remember seeing the still life when Phillips had it for sale.

“We’ve been looking for a painting by Robert Seldon Duncanson for a long time,” Mr. Kelly said, explaining that although the artist is better known for his landscapes, the gallery sought a still life for two reasons: It would be a particularly fitting addition to an already world-class collection of American still lifes by masters including Raphaelle Peale, Martin Johnson Heade, John Frederick Peto and Michael William Harnett. And Duncanson’s landscapes are already well represented in the nearby Smithsonian American Art Museum as well.

The painting was hung this week in the American galleries of the National Gallery’s West Building.

It has been less than two weeks since “Maurizio Cattelan: All” closed at the Guggenheim Museum, and the place is noticeably quieter. Nearly 337,000 visitors flocked to see the Cattelan retrospective — wacky creations that included the eerie image of Pope John Paul II felled by a meteorite, an old woman stuffed in a refrigerator, even the artist himself as a precocious boy on a tricycle — all dangling from ropes down the Frank Lloyd Wright rotunda. The show was a final curtain call of sorts. When the exhibition opened in November, the 51-year-old Mr. Cattelan said that it was the end of his art making.

Well, we haven’t heard the last of him after all. Maybe he won’t be making his often disturbing and whimsical pieces anymore, but as he said by telephone from Milan, Italy, this week, “When I called for early retirement, I never said I’d be unemployed.”

On Feb. 16 in Manhattan Mr. Cattelan will open Family Business, a closet-size exhibition space at 520 West 21st Street, next door to one of Gagosian’s two Chelsea galleries. The nonprofit space is a sequel to the Wrong Gallery, a minuscule exhibition space that Mr. Cattelan and the curators Massimiliano Gioni and Ali Subotnick ran on West 20th Street from 2002 until being evicted in 2005. (It then re-opened at the Tate Modern in London, but closed in 2008.)

Family Business will be financed in part by the Bard Center for Curatorial Studies in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. “It’s a museum in miniature,” said Tom Eccles, executive director of the center. “This will give our students a presence in the heart of New York.”

Bard’s won’t be the only students involved in Family Business. The artist and teacher Marilyn Minter has organized the inaugural exhibition. Called “The Virgins Show,” it will be work by young artists who are either past or present students from the two graduate schools where she teaches: the School of Visual Arts and Yale University Art School. None of these artists have shown their work outside their academic environments. “Hence they are virgins,” Ms. Minter said.

“All of a sudden there’s a new crop of abstract painters,” she explained when asked what the work was like. “I think it’s a trend.”

Rather than painting on conventional canvases, these so-called virgins have painted on everything from panty hose to signs found on the street.

“The art world takes itself too seriously,” Ms. Minter said. “We’re trying to have some fun.”

The space won’t be exclusively for fine art. Ms. Minter said that a band from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, appropriately called the Virgins, will play at the opening.
154 2012-02-03 “People are now seeing the reality that the yakuza are not chivalrous, but just an antisocial force,” said Kitakyushu’s mayor, Kenji Kitahashi, who said he was not intimidated by the death threat. He said the violence had turned many residents against the yakuza for hurting this former steel-making city’s efforts to lure new and jobs.

Japan has tried four times since the early 1990s to rein in the yakuza and has failed to make more than a dent in their numbers, currently about 80,000 (compared with estimates of 5,000 members of the American mafia at its height in the early 1960s). Like many Japanese gangs, the Kudokai even maintains its own public headquarters, the Kudokai Hall — a four-story, fortresslike white building surrounded by tall walls, barbed wire and security cameras — that sits in the center of Kitakyushu, a city of one million residents.

Until recently, the gangs were a quietly accepted fact of life. The yakuza were tolerated because they helped Japan keep its streets safe by imposing the same rigid rules and hierarchy on the criminal world that are seen in the rest of Japanese society. But as Japan has developed into a modern, middle-class nation, it has also refashioned itself into a society that relies on courts and lawyers to keep order, not medieval outlaws. The growing intolerance of the underworld has been evident in recent scandals in which a top television comedian and the national sport of sumo were forced to cut ties with gangsters.

Still, many admit, it has proven tough to completely cut ties.

“Society has used the yakuza for so long that it is hard to just get rid of them,” said Chikashi Nakamura, 75, head of a residents’ association in Kitakyushu that has campaigned to drive out the Kudokai.

Indeed, lawyers and antimob activists say the nation remains reluctant to take the final step of outlawing the gangs outright, a step many here have called for. There are fears that a ban could lead to what many here call a mafia-ization of the gangs, driving them underground and removing their last restraints on violence against regular civilians.

“It has taken 30 years to get this far, and Japan still hesitates to crush these violent groups once and for all,” said Naoyuki Fukasawa, a lawyer who specializes in defending citizens against organized crime. “The police are like archers who intentionally avoid the bull’s-eye, and instead aim at the target’s outer rings.”

The National Police Agency, which sets national crime policy, says outright criminalization is difficult because of constitutional protections on the right to assembly. But Shigeyuki Tani, director of the office of organized crime intelligence at the agency, said the office was drawing up a new law that would designate gangs like the Kudokai as “particularly dangerous,” and make it easier for the police to search their buildings and arrest members for requesting payoffs. (The current law bans only the actual payment.)

However, officials in Kitakyushu say they need even stronger powers to battle organized crime, which is deeply rooted in this city’s blue-collar neighborhoods.

Of the 44 mob-linked shootings in Japan last year, 18 took place in Fukuoka Prefecture, the district on Japan’s southernmost main island, Kyushu, where Kitakyushu is located.

While mob violence is nothing new here, the latest rampage is the worst in memory. It began two years ago, when the Kudokai angered local residents by buying a mansion across the street from a kindergarten to use as an office. After residents protested in front of the mansion’s gate, the home of a resident association leader was shot up in a nighttime attack.

Local authorities responded with the new penalties, aimed at off the gang’s sources of income. The police say the Kudokai then lashed out at companies that stopped payoffs, including the grenade attacks on the homes of executives from Kyushu Electric Power and another utility. The most recent attack took place on Jan. 17, when gunmen wounded a construction company president who stepped outside to buy a drink from a vending machine.

That shooting and the killing in November of the chairman of a different construction company have created an atmosphere of fear. One construction executive refused an interview by saying he was going to a hot-springs resort. However, it proved much easier to speak with the Kudokai.

At the gang’s headquarters, Hiroshi Kimura’s business card, written in elaborate calligraphy strokes, identified him as the captain of one of the Kudokai’s sub-groups. Mr. Kimura, who wore a well-tailored black suit and glasses, was meticulously polite.

He led reporters to a room with soft chairs and a low table that looked like a typical Japanese corporate meeting room, except for the black-and-white portraits of deceased gang leaders on the wall. As Mr. Kimura spoke, burly young men in black suits silently knelt to serve cups of green tea and traditional sweets.

Mr. Kimura said the new restrictions had hurt the Kudokai, though he refused to go into detail about the gang’s economic dealings. He said the Kudokai was not behind the recent violence, though he admitted that it could have been the work of errant individual gang members. If so, he vowed, the gang would also mete out its own punishment.

He said the police shared the blame for the violence by trying to drive a wedge between the Kudokai and the community.

“If they crush us, organized crime will just become harder to see, and more violent, like in ,” said Mr. Kimura, who is 58.

He spoke nostalgically of an earlier era when yakuza worked with the police to maintain social order. Police officials said those days were over, though national attitudes have been slow to catch up.

“There are still feelings to use the yakuza to solve troubles,” said Daisuke Harada, head of the organized-crime section of the Fukuoka police. “We need to root out those old attitudes, once and for all.”
155 2012-02-03 A ratings slump at Nickelodeon, traditionally the leading cable channel for children, and a legal fight with the makers of the video game Rock Band contributed to lower earnings for Viacom in the last three months of 2011, the company said Thursday.

A 3 percent dip in Viacom’s domestic advertising revenue surprised some analysts and attracted new attention on the ratings shortfalls that were first discussed by Philippe Dauman, the chief executive of Viacom, last November.

On a conference call Thursday morning, he acknowledged that if Nickelodeon’s ratings had stayed steady last fall, total ad revenue would have been up, not down. But the ratings slipped, and “it did impact last quarter’s ad revenues in a significant way,” Mr. Dauman said.

He also cited “significant softness” in the scatter market, a reference to ad time that is bought close to the air date, as a factor in the decline in ad revenue, but said the company was seeing improvement in ad sales in the current quarter.

The company reported $212 million in profit for the quarter that ended in December, or 38 cents a share, down 65 percent from the same quarter a year earlier, when it reported $610 million in net income, or $1 a share. Excluding a $379 million charge that was awarded in December to Harmonix, the original makers of Rock Band, earnings were $1.06 a share. Viacom is contesting the award.
156 2012-02-03 Wegelin & Company, the 270-year-old Swiss private bank, was indicted in New York on Thursday on federal charges that it had helped Americans evade taxes.

The indictment follows charges filed Jan. 3 against three Wegelin bankers accused of conspiring to help American clients hide more than $1.2 billion in assets from tax authorities. Wegelin announced on Jan. 27 that it had agreed to a sale to Switzerland’s Raiffeisen Group.

Wegelin was indicted in federal court with three bankers at its Zurich branch, Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller. Prosecutors said that from 2002 to 2011, more than 100 American taxpayers conspired with the defendants and others to hide accounts from the Internal Revenue Service. The bank held more than $1.2 billion in undeclared assets this year, according to the indictment.

Prosecutors said Wegelin and the three bankers had wooed American clients fleeing UBS, the largest Swiss bank.
157 2012-02-03 The American art world has never gotten over its first love, Europe. And so, when the Occupy movement heated up last year, many art types reached instinctively for European theory and precedents. But in recent decades examples of direct action and a sustained movement made of small affinity groups have flourished in New York. An exhibition devoted to one such group, Gran Fury, is on view at New York University.

Gran Fury existed as a collective with a core of around 10 members from the end of 1989 until the mid-’90s. It grew out of Act Up (the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power), which formed in 1987. The group’s name is also suitably local, taken from the Plymouth Gran Fury, which was used as a squad car by the New York City police in the 1980s.

The political climate of that period informs the entire show. This was an era before “cozy prime-time homosexuals,” as the group says in its catalog introduction. Ronald Reagan, elected in 1980, did not mention AIDS publicly until 1987, and Gran Fury’s work often took aim at conservative politicians and religious leaders who opposed gay rights. To grasp the cheerful assurance with which one could be homophobic in the ’80s, just gaze upon a Gran Fury poster with a photograph of a smiling girl wearing a T-shirt that says, “Thank God for AIDS.”

New York as an aesthetic landscape is also important. The catalog notes that downtown Manhattan in the ’80s was “plastered with graffiti, posters and stickers: a vital, free-for-all public forum,” and Gran Fury’s output fits in with that. They were artists using the language of advertising, and there are almost no “original” works here, save a couple of billboard panels like “The Pope and the Penis,” which was exhibited in the 1990 Venice Biennale. The display also includes photographs showing what happens when agitprop is circulated in the public realm: There’s playful graffiti, but also angry defacement.

Some of Gran Fury’s successes included “Kissing Doesn’t Kill” (1990), a series of posters displayed on buses and television service announcements that defied contemporary claims that AIDS could be spread by kissing. “Read My Lips” appropriated George H. W. Bush’s famous line from the 1988 Republican National Convention, turning it into a homoerotic provocation. A subway poster featuring a businessman’s handshake questioned the slow response to AIDS by the government and drug companies: “Is this medical apartheid?”

Didactic displays track media coverage and identify celebrity victims and saints: Rock Hudson and Liberace, who died from the disease; Magic Johnson, an early public figure to disclose his H.I.V.-positive status; Elizabeth Taylor, a vocal AIDS activist; and Diana, Princess of Wales, the first major celebrity to be photographed shaking the hand of an H.I.V.-infected patient.
158 2012-02-03 To an extent, it is all in the family.

Lee Berke, the president of a media consulting company, said that Time Warner Cable and Comcast “don’t want to see the team stumble as it has been, because it directly impacts what they’re putting on TV. This is shaping up as a multiyear downswing for the Mets, and this is a way to keep them above water.”

Cohen, as it happens, was one of the first people asked by the Wilpon family to buy a large chunk of the team. Cohen, the founder of SAC Capital Advisors, grew up a Mets fan in Great Neck and is a season ticket-holder at Citi Field. He chose not to buy into the team last year, but now is almost certain to purchase a single share worth $20 million. His plans to do so were first reported by The Los Angeles Times.

A person familiar with his plan to buy a share in the Mets said he was doing it as a favor to his friend Fred Wilpon, the team’s principal owner. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Cohen, declined to comment, as did executives for Comcast and Time Warner Cable.

But Cohen might not own a bit of the Mets for long. If he beats a crowded field of rivals bidding for the Dodgers, he would have to sell his Mets’ stake. Wilpon, however, would be able to use his money until then and have first dibs on buying back the share. Major League Baseball would give the Mets a reasonable amount of time to find a buyer to replace Cohen.

As for Time Warner Cable and Comcast, it was not immediately clear why they would not invest directly in the Mets. But the two companies clearly want to put money into Wilpon’s financially beleaguered hands (the club has lost some $120 million in the last two years), even if it has to be routed through SNY, to ensure that the team meets its $200 million goal.

“Their interests are aligned with the team’s doing well,” said Chris Bevilacqua, a sports media investor and adviser. “They were probably monitoring the situation very closely and probably made a judgment that there’d be a point in time where they’d have an opportunity to do what they’re doing.”

Together, Time Warner Cable and Comcast own about 30 percent of SNY. The network started carrying Mets games in 2006.

The ownership profile that the Mets envisioned last September, after the Einhorn deal blew up, was described by Steve Greenberg, the Mets’ investment banker, who is also advising Cohen on the Dodgers.

“We’ve had calls from people who said, ‘We can’t put up $200 million, but we can put up $20 million,’ ” he said at the time. “There are dozens who have contacted us.” He said a lineup of “legitimate Mets fans” who wanted a small slice of the team would be “more collegial, a lot of fun and a lot less stressful” than having a single minority owner.

An early term sheet provided to potential Mets investors said that buyers of the $20 million minority shares would have to hold on to them for at least three years.

The Mets need the $200 million to repay a $25 million loan to Major League Baseball and a $40 million loan to Bank of America.

In another inside-the-family transaction, the Mets recently sold two additional shares, worth $40 million, to Sterling, their parent. The money was earmarked to offset losses.
159 2012-02-03 In a further possible complication, euro zone leaders are expected to ask the three parties in the governing coalition, which are gearing up for elections, to endorse the terms of a second bailout.

Providing that a deal is reached with Greece’s creditors, euro zone finance ministers will meet Monday to decide on the conditions Greek politicians would have to accept to secure the €130 billion bailout.

Greek leaders have no choice but to approve unpopular measures, said Pantelis Kapsis, the government spokesman. “It’s time for difficult decisions,” Mr. Kapsis said on the private television channel Mega. “As a country we have reached the edge of official default.” Without further aid, Greece is almost certain to default when a bond repayment of €14.4 billion comes due in March.

Evangelos Venizelos, the Greek finance minister, said that the budget gap might be covered by reducing state spending on medicines, cutting military spending and closing down state-backed entities. He did not give details.

Mr. Ackermann said that holders of Greek bonds would probably take a 70 percent loss, but he said he was confident that it would still be possible to work out a voluntary arrangement with creditors.

“A default would be much more expensive,” he said. Mr. Ackermann is chairman of the Institute of International Finance, a banking industry group that has taken the lead in negotiating on behalf of Greece’s private sector creditors.

There was some question, however, as to whether a deal with creditors would be enough to bring Greek debt down to a level where the country would have a realistic chance of repaying it.

Mr. Ackermann suggested that the European Central Bank, which owns Greek bonds with an estimated face value of €50 billion, might also need to pitch in. “Investors have made a big contribution,” Mr. Ackermann said, in response to a question about the E.C.B.’s role. “With so much at stake, all sides should contribute.”

The E.C.B. has refused to take part in debt relief because it does not want to be seen as providing financing to governments, which it regards as a violation of its charter. There is speculation, however, that the E.C.B. might find a way to contribute profit from its holdings of Greek bonds. The E.C.B. bought the bonds on the market at a steep discount and could profit from interest payments and repayment of principal.

In a sign that market tension about the euro zone has eased somewhat, Spain and France were able to sell bonds at reduced interest rates Thursday. The successful sales helped calm fears that the countries’ borrowing costs would become dangerously high.
160 2012-02-03 American officials said they believed that Mr. Yaalon’s assertions were at best premature, and at worst badly exaggerated.

Speaking on the condition of anonymity because assessments of Iran’s missiles are largely classified, the officials said that Iran might harbor the ambition of having missiles that could reach the United States, but that it was not close to achieving that goal. They declined to say what kind of work was being done at the base where the blast took place.

Today, the maximum range of Iran’s known ballistic missiles is roughly 1,200 miles, rocket experts say. That means they could reach targets in the Middle East, including Israel, as well as Turkey and parts of Eastern Europe.

Iran is known to be working on missiles with a range of 2,000 miles, which are considered medium range. The United States defines long-range or intercontinental ballistic missiles as having ranges greater than 3,400 miles.

A range of 10,000 kilometers, slightly more than 6,200 miles, would let a missile fired from Iran fly halfway around the globe to reach the United States.

Mr. Yaalon’s comments came in an address to an annual conference that examines Israel’s security challenges.

Mr. Yaalon, who was in the United States last week for talks with American officials, said that Turkey had been helping Iran circumvent international sanctions by allowing it to use its banking system. He also argued that all of Iran’s nuclear sites could be hit with Western weapons.

“We need a credible military option,” he said. “The Iranians understand the West has capabilities, but as long as the Iranians don’t think that the West has the political stomach and determination to use it, they will not stop. Currently they don’t think the world is determined.”

Earlier, Maj. Gen. Aviv Kochavi, the chief of Israeli military intelligence, told the audience that he believed crippling sanctions could persuade the Iranian government to abandon what he believed was its determination to build a nuclear weapon. He said if Iran chose to build a bomb, it would take it about a year.

General Kochavi also estimated that Israel faced 200,000 missiles and rockets aimed at it from its enemies.

Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, speaking at a NATO meeting in Brussels, declined to comment on a column by David Ignatius in The Washington Post that reported that Mr. Panetta believed there was a “strong likelihood” that Israel would strike Iran in April, May or June.

Mr. Panetta would say only that “Israel has indicated that they’re considering this, and we have indicated our concerns.”
161 2012-02-03 Questions about illegal computer hacking by The Times of London were raised on Thursday when officials at the judicial inquiry into press ethics said they would recall the paper’s editor for further testimony and the police confirmed that they were investigating an incident in 2009 in which one of the paper’s reporters apparently hacked an e-mail account.

So far the bulk of the police investigation has focused on phone hacking, which officials at ’s News International have admitted was rampant at the now-defunct tabloid. Hacking into people’s e-mails is a potentially more serious crime than listening to their voice mail messages, and last summer the police opened Operation Tuleta, an investigation into computer hacking that is being held in tandem with one on phone hacking (Operation Weeting) and another on bribing the police (Operation Elveden).

One suspect, identified only as a 52-year-old man, was arrested in November on suspicion of computer hacking as part of Operation Tuleta. He has not yet been charged.

The judicial investigation, known as the Leveson Inquiry, earlier heard testimony by the editor of The Times of London, James Harding, referring to an incident in 2009 when one of the paper’s reporters illegally gained access to an e-mail account. The account belonged to a police officer who was writing a blog under the pseudonym Nightjack and whose true identity was subsequently revealed by the paper.

It is this incident that the police say they are looking at.

Mr. Harding told the Leveson panel that he had reprimanded the reporter and directed him to find the officer’s identity legally.
162 2012-02-03 No matter how you slice the numbers for this year's best-picture nominees, they look the same: dismal.     The year's nine nominees, according to the charts from boxofficemojo.com, have taken in about $546 million at the domestic box office to dat...
163 2012-02-03 ALBANY - The state ethics commission, meeting behind closed doors this week, named a top aide to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo as its executive director, raising questions about its independence from the executive branch and its commitment to transparency....
164 2012-02-03 WASHINGTON - Congress delved deeper into the downfall of MF Global on Thursday, accusing the rating agencies and one of the firm's chief risk officers of failing to sound alarms.     At the hearing, the fourth Congressional forum to focus on MF Gl...
165 2012-02-03 CBS News cameras were lined up inside the billionaire investor Warren Buffett's office on Wednesday for a new edition of ''Person to Person,'' a celebrity interview show that dates back to the 1950s, when Edward R. Murrow was the host.     Newly r...
166 2012-02-04 IBM and U.S.C. have teamed up to try to gauge the public sentiment toward the players heading into the Super Bowl, using Facebook and Twitter to provide the data....
167 2012-02-04 IBM and U.S.C. have teamed up to try to gauge the public sentiment toward the players heading into the Super Bowl, using Facebook and Twitter to provide the data....
168 2012-02-04 Political news from today's Times, plus a look at the president's weekly address....
169 2012-02-04 Political news from today's Times, plus a look at the president's weekly address....
170 2012-02-04 “I never would have agreed to buy this house for all this money had I known it was opening,” she added, saying that real estate agents told her the jail was going to be converted into condominiums. The couple paid $3.4 million for the town house in July. “We took a gamble and lost on this neighborhood.”

But there had always been speculation that the city would eventually reopen the jail, which was closed as the inmate population decreased. A 2009 lawsuit, led by William C. Thompson Jr., the comptroller, blocked the city from doubling the building’s size and the number of inmates it could house.

In August 2010, the Department of Correction announced that because it was shutting down crumbling buildings at Rikers Island, it planned to reopen the 759-bed Brooklyn complex. The timing did not become official until December.

“I can say that while people are disappointed, I’ve had concern, not any hysteria, and more curiosity,” said Howard Kolins, the president of the Boerum Hill Association, a neighborhood group.

Four hundred people have signed up for a chance to peek inside on Saturday during an open house. Carrot cake made on Rikers Island, not bread and water, will be served.

“We are fully committed to being good neighbors,” Walter Nin, the warden, told reporters during a tour on Friday. “As a commanding officer of this facility, my primary concern is the safety and security of all uniformed staff, all civilians and inmates.”

Mr. Nin said the overwhelming concern in the community was not security, but parking, since many spots were reserved for official vehicles. Mr. Nin said that no new parking placards would be issued and that all 544 employees assigned to the jail were advised to take public transportation. One correction officer will patrol the outside of the jail, in part to give tickets to official vehicles improperly parked, he said. And five city police officers will provide security outside.

The jail will incarcerate primarily prisoners who have been arraigned and are awaiting trial in Brooklyn or on Staten Island. Because those prisoners are no longer coming from Rikers, this will reduce bus traffic, officials say. The average stay will be 56 days. Prisoners are escorted from the complex to and from Brooklyn Criminal Court through an underground tunnel.

A visitors’ center that was built in 2003 will accommodate visitors Wednesdays through Sundays, with an entrance on Boerum Place.

On Friday, the prison bars smelled of fresh paint (the work was done by inmates) and freshly waxed floors. A cafeteria on the third floor will serve 3,000 “heart healthy” meals a day. The rooftop recreation area will be reopened and will be visible from the surrounding high rises.

“I obviously do not want it,” said Heather Dadourian, pushing her 18-month-old son in a stroller outside the Atlantic Avenue Y.M.C.A. “I guess we have to embrace it at this point, but it’s going to limit the gentrification of that area.”

But Louis Stogianos, 55, the manager of the New St. Clair diner, across the street, said the extra visitors could mean more customers. “Anything that opens up around here can only be good for me,” Mr. Stogianos said.

“I’m mostly nervous for the girls who work on their own here from 6 to 8 o’clock at night,” said Barbara Shelsky, 38, the manager at Callalilai. She added, referring to the foot traffic, “It doesn’t bring anything to the neighborhood.”

At the Nu Hotel, which opened in 2008 across the street from the jail, one guest, Tom Slater, who has been visiting his children in the neighborhood for 15 years, said the jail could continue to improve the area. “More police presence is a good thing,” said Mr. Slater, 67, from Vero Beach, Fla.

Should he return, he would have a prime view of the fully operating jail. The Nu Hotel plans to open a sidewalk cafe in the summer.
171 2012-02-04 Facebook filed to go public, minting new millionaires while cementing Mark Zuckerberg’s leadership role; the housing market continued to fall, but the employment picture is brighter; and advertisers prepared for the Super Bowl, many by releasing...
172 2012-02-04 “He got into the conversation at the right time, and he was the first person to have acted,” said George Arzt, a New York City political consultant who has observed six mayoral administrations.

“It looks to anyone like a precursor of Mike Bloomberg after the mayoralty,” Mr. Arzt said. The donation, he added, “gives you an idea of what he would like to do and how he would like to shape the discourse on major issues.”

By Thursday morning, a day after news broke widely that the foundation had decided to pull its money from Planned Parenthood, the mayor had apparently made up his mind to act. A few minutes after 8 a.m., he met with two of his top deputies, Howard Wolfson and Patricia Harris, at his desk in the City Hall bullpen.

Mr. Bloomberg, aides said, appeared mystified and angered by the foundation’s decision. Mr. Wolfson suggested a donation that would make up the $700,000 that had been lost, but the mayor said he preferred a so-called challenge grant, which would encourage others to match his donation.

Mr. Wolfson called Cecile Richards, the president of Planned Parenthood. She was, not surprisingly, immediately receptive.

“This came at a really important moment for us,” Ms. Richards said in a telephone interview.

“For our folks from the front lines, our doctors and our nurses, to have someone of Mayor Bloomberg’s stature stand with them at that moment meant an enormous amount,” she said.

The details were hammered out at City Hall at the same time that final preparations were being made for the mayor’s city budget presentation that afternoon.

When he appeared before reporters at City Hall, poring over a PowerPoint presentation clad in a blue sweater to cheer on the New York Giants, Mr. Bloomberg looked every bit the municipal steward, walking reporters through the minutiae of the city’s capital projects and its long-term pension woes.

But the budget proposal was rapidly overshadowed, at least in the world of social media, by Mr. Bloomberg’s pledge. Messages reporting the donation were quickly reposted on Twitter and Facebook by thousands of people, many adding praise for his actions. Aides at City Hall said they had rarely seen a busier day on the mayor’s Web site and Facebook page.

It took less than three hours for Planned Parenthood to receive $250,000 worth of additional donations, the full amount that the mayor had pledged to match. “It was like wildfire,” Ms. Richards said.

Several people involved in city politics described the mayor’s donation as a “political masterstroke.” And it seemed to resonate particularly with liberals, many of whom had chafed at aspects of Mr. Bloomberg’s lengthy tenure.

“Anything that covers the mayor’s left flank helps him these days,” said Ken Sherrill, a professor of political science at Hunter College. “This will remind people of the good Bloomberg, and for progressives, it’s not just someone that they can approve of, but someone they can be proud of.”

The mayor discussed his pledge in several appearances on Friday, including a hastily scheduled interview on MSNBC, as well as his regular weekly radio interview, on WOR-AM. Asked on the radio to explain his action, he replied, “I never like people who complain without doing something about it.”
173 2012-02-04 Harbinger Capital Partners, the hedge fund run by Philip A. Falcone, lost 46.6 percent in 2011, as its biggest investment took a beating, according to investors who were not authorized to speak about the matter publicly. That investment, LightSquared, is a wireless broadband company aiming to bring more than 200 million consumers wholesale 4G wireless access. But as a private company, the firm is tricky to value. In December, the firm marked the position down by about 50 percent, according to an investor. That came in addition to about a 9 percent markdown earlier last year.
174 2012-02-04 Chevron said Friday that it had no intention of apologizing for the environmental damage to the Amazon rain forest for which an Ecuadorean court ruled it responsible. Attorneys for both sides have said that if Chevron apologized, its legal liability of $18 billion would have been cut to $9.5 billion. Ecuador’s judiciary had set Friday as the deadline for an apology. James Craig, a Chevron spokesman, said an apology would be “a false admission of responsibility.” Chevron has no assets in Ecuador, so the plaintiffs must to try to collect the award abroad.
175 2012-02-04 OTTAWA — Just over a month after locking out its unionized employees, Caterpillar said on Friday that it would close a Canadian locomotive factory that employs about 670 people.

The New Year’s Day lockout at Electro-Motive Canada came after contract demands that the Canadian Auto Workers union said would have cut wages in half, substantially reduced benefits and significantly altered pensions for the operation’s 470 unionized workers. The company’s demands were well outside the norm for Canadian contract negotiations and attracted widespread attention, and considerable criticism, in the nation.

In a brief statement, Progress Rail Services, the Caterpillar unit that acquired Electro-Motive in 2010, said that production from the plant in London, Ontario, would be shifted to other operations “in North and South America.” Progress Rail Services recently opened a plant in Muncie, Ind., where it builds passenger locomotives, and announced plans last year to start making locomotives under the Electro-Motive brand in Brazil.

The company said that the previous contract terms covering workers in London made the factory inflexible and not competitive by international standards.

“While the company’s final offer addressed those competitive disadvantages, the gulf between the company and the union was too wide to resolve and, as such, market conditions dictate that the company take this step,” the statement said. No date for the closing was announced and a spokeswoman declined to comment further.

The union said that it was repeatedly told during the negotiations that Progress Rail Services did not intend to close the plant. But Ken Lewenza, the union’s president, said that a permanent shutdown was the plan all along.
176 2012-02-04 The two had had bit parts in the 1969 comedy “If It’s Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium,” but it was in “Husbands” (1970), directed by Mr. Cassavetes, that they, along with Peter Falk, really made an impression as unhappily married men out for a drunken night on the town together. As Mr. Gazzara wrote in his autobiography, “In the Moment” (2004), the on-camera camaraderie was so convincing that people assumed the three men had been lifelong friends; in fact they had barely known one another when the filming began, though they became friends during it.

Mr. Gazzara’s most important role for Mr. Cassavetes was in “The Killing of a Chinese Bookie” (1976), in which he played a strip club owner in debt to the mob. “It’s a thoughtful, intelligent interpretation of a role that just may not have as much depth to it as he’s ready to give it,” Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote of Mr. Gazzara’s performance.

In 1977 Mr. Gazzara had a supporting role behind Mr. Cassavetes and his wife, Gena Rowlands, in the backstage story “Opening Night,” with Mr. Cassavetes again directing. Speaking of Mr. Cassavetes recently, Mr. Gazzara said, “He set the climate for an actor to feel free to give whatever, and if it didn’t work, it didn’t work.” Mr. Cassavetes died in 1989.

Two years after making “Opening Night,” Mr. Gazzara joined forces with another important director, Peter Bogdanovich, who gave him a rare leading role in “Saint Jack,” an adaptation of Paul Theroux’s novel about an American who operates a brothel in Singapore. He worked again for Mr. Bogdanovich in “They All Laughed” (1981), as a private detective who falls in love with the woman he is assigned to follow. The woman was played by Audrey Hepburn, with whom Mr. Gazzara had a brief romance after they met on the set of the 1979 film “Bloodline.”

Mr. Gazzara worked with numerous other notable directors, among them Otto Preminger, whose courtroom drama “Anatomy of a Murder” (1959) featured Mr. Gazzara as a military man who is tried for killing his wife’s rapist and defended by James Stewart’s small-town lawyer. In David Mamet’s 1997 film, “The Spanish Prisoner,” he played the possibly duplicitous boss of an inventor who has come up with a valuable idea. Wearing a slick white suit, he was a producer of pornographic movies in the Coen brothers’ “Big Lebowski” in 1998. In Spike Lee’s “Summer of Sam” in 1999, he was a mobster.

Beginning in the early 1980s Mr. Gazzara spent substantial stretches of time acting in movies in Italy, where he had a villa in Umbria. He appeared in Marco Ferreri’s 1981 adaptation of Charles Bukowski’s “Tales of Ordinary Madness”; “Il Camorrista” (1986), directed by Giuseppe Tornatore; and Stefano Mignucci’s “Bandits” (1995).

“You go where they love you,” he said in a 1994 interview with Cigar Aficionado, explaining his work in Italy.

Mr. Gazzara had parallel careers on the stage and in television. His first significant stage role was as a two-faced bully named Jocko in “End as a Man,” about life in a Southern military academy. Developed at the Actors Studio, it opened on Broadway in 1953. “Jocko is attractive, clever and alert on the surface, but evil at the core,” Brooks Atkinson wrote in The Times, “and Mr. Gazzara’s acting perfectly expresses this ambivalence.”

Then, in March 1955, came “Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,” in which he played the alcoholic son Brick to Burl Ives’s Big Daddy in the Tennessee Williams classic, with Barbara Bel Geddes as Maggie. Elia Kazan directed. The play ran till November 1956, but Mr. Gazzara left the cast early to take another Broadway role, in “A Hatful of Rain,” which opened in the fall of 1955. He played a dope addict named Johnny Pope, and the performance earned him a Tony Award nomination.

But his next Broadway venture, “The Night Circus,” closed in less than a week in 1958, and he did not return to Broadway until a revival of Eugene O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude” in 1963. His other Broadway work included a 1976 production of “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” opposite Colleen Dewhurst, which earned him another Tony nomination, as did his dual roles in a 1975 double bill of O’Neill’s “Hughie” and David Scott Milton’s “Duet.”

Mr. Gazzara also acted in Off Broadway and regional productions, among them “Nobody Don’t Like Yogi,” a one-man show about Yogi Berra, which Mr. Gazzara began performing in 2003 and took all over the country for two years.

He was a familiar presence on television. “Run for Your Life,” in which he played a terminally ill man, was seen on NBC from 1965 to 1968, earning him two Emmy nominations. He was nominated again for his role as the father of a young man with AIDS in the 1985 television movie “An Early Frost”; his old friend Ms. Rowlands played his wife. He won a supporting-actor Emmy for his work in the 2002 HBO film “Hysterical Blindness,” playing the romantic interest of a character again played by Ms. Rowlands.

Mr. Gazzara was born Biagio Anthony Gazzara on the East Side of Manhattan on Aug. 28, 1930, the son of Antonio Gazzara, a laborer who did carpentry and laid bricks, and the former Angela Cusumano. Both his parents had immigrated from Italy, and they often spoke Italian at home, giving Mr. Gazzara a language skill that served him well when he began making films there. He grew up in a building at 29th Street and First Avenue, where, he wrote in his autobiography, he slept on the fire escape in summer and occasionally heard screams from the patients at Bellevue psychiatric hospital.

When he was about 11, he saw a friend act in a play at the Madison Square Boys Club and was bitten by the acting bug himself. He performed in shows there and, when he was older, found his way to the Dramatic Workshop in Midtown. A radio actress he met there, Louise Erickson, who would become his first wife, told him about the Actors Studio, and in 1951 he successfully auditioned for it.

That marriage ended in 1957. In 1961 he married the actress Janice Rule, whom he had met in 1958 when they appeared in a short-lived production of “The Night Circus.” They had a daughter, Elizabeth. That marriage, too, ended in divorce, not long after Mr. Gazzara met a German model, the former Elke Stuckmann, while filming the war movie “Inchon” in Seoul in 1979.

They were married in 1982; she and his daughter survive him, as does another daughter, Danja, his wife’s child from a previous relationship, whom Mr. Gazzara adopted. A brother, Anthony, also survives.

Mr. Gazzara was treated for oral cancer in 1999, but he said his bigger health battle was against depression, lasting on and off for decades. In a 2005 appearance before a group of mental health professionals, he recalled dealing with the condition 25 years earlier while shooting “They All Laughed.”

“I was in a depression during the whole shooting, and I was terrific in that film,” he said. “And I don’t remember doing it.”
177 2012-02-04 In cold periods, the former Soviet pipeline system that provides about a quarter of Western Europe’s natural gas routinely reaches its maximum capacity, and consuming nations are encouraged to dip into reserves to meet higher demand.

Still, the squabbling over fuel on cold winter days has tended to bring out an ill temper in European officials that belies the ostensibly well-regulated, highly detailed contracts that are supposed to determine who will stay warm, and at what price, in the dead of winter.

Energy ministers and executives at the national energy companies in Russia and Ukraine blamed each other’s country for the shortfalls in Western Europe. Each accused the other of drawing heavily and inappropriately on the shared pipeline system, leaving insufficient supplies for those farther west.

“The main problem is that it has gotten much colder in Russia,” Ukraine’s minister of coal and industry, Yury Boiko, said in comments carried by the Interfax news agency. He said Russia was consuming more gas at home, to heat homes and generate electricity.

He said that supplies at the border had fallen to 415 million cubic meters per day from 490 million.

The director of the export arm of the Russian company Gazprom, Aleksandr I. Medvedev, told Russian news agencies that Ukraine was to blame. Ukraine, he said, is “sitting on the transit pipes” and taking out “significantly more than contract volumes.”

Another Gazprom executive, Sergei Komlev, the head of the contracting department, told participants at an economic forum in Moscow that Western European energy companies had inappropriately elevated their daily demands, knowing they could not be met, thus exaggerating the extent of the shortfall from Gazprom.

“They are asking for more than we are obligated to deliver,” he said. “There is a difference between wishes and agreed contract quantities.”

About 80 percent of natural gas exports to Europe go through Ukraine in pipelines used both for transit and to meet internal demand in that former Soviet republic. From there, the pipelines snake westward.

The Italian national gas company, Snam Rete, reported deliveries fell 29 percent below what it had requested from Gazprom on Friday. Russian gas deliveries to Italy petered out through the week, beginning Tuesday with a 7 percent shortfall.

On Friday, the European Union activated an emergency council of energy officials who coordinate shipments between countries to alleviate a drop in supplies from outside the bloc. Europe relies on Russia for about a quarter of its natural gas consumption.

The transit of Russian natural gas across former Soviet states to customers in Western Europe is a pivotal economic and security concern for the Continent. Countries are less vulnerable today than during politically tinged shutoffs in 2006 and 2009 because they have built additional storage capacity and interconnecting pipelines to shunt fuel between states.

The shortfall in Italy this week, though significant, has not yet affected homes or factories. Italy also receives gas via pipeline from Algeria, Libya and Norway and shipments of liquefied natural gas from ports.
178 2012-02-04 At some point during each of his trippy, turbocharged electric bass solos at S.O.B.’s on Wednesday night, Thundercat assumed an air of rapture: head thrown back, mouth agape, eyelids fluttering as his fingers raced across the strings. There were a lot of bass solos, so this happened often. But the implicit bliss of the gesture was always welcome: a calm, quiet harbor amid a relentless lashing of notes, including his own.

Thundercat, a k a Stephen Bruner, has had a multifarious career as a sideman, playing hardcore and thrash metal with Suicidal Tendencies; laconic hip-hop with Snoop Dogg; and astral R&B with Erykah Badu. His crucial recent affiliation has been with Flying Lotus, the producer whose 2010 album “Cosmogramma” (Warp) enlisted him not only as a bassist but also — notably on “MmmHmm” — as featured vocalist. Flying Lotus went on to produce the entirety of Thundercat’s debut, “The Golden Age of Apocalypse” (Brainfeeder), released last year.

If we can trust that album as a reflection of his core interests, then Thundercat is a jazz-funk retro-futurist, fascinated by the pulse and promise of the 1970s. Its opening track incorporates a sample of the George Duke tune “For Love (I Come Your Friend)”; later there’s a fetching cover of the same. Elsewhere you sense that the tone of the Moog bass synth on certain Stevie Wonder albums was a guiding beacon for him; likewise the crooked grace of Mr. Wonder’s drumming.

Wednesday’s show was another story, more muscular in its virtuosity and less beholden to swirling mystery. Thundercat led the charge, backed by his brother Ronald Bruner Jr. on drums, Brandon Coleman on Moog and Fender Rhodes piano and Joel Whitley on secondary electric bass. They played material from the album but only rarely recreated its mood, as on the circuitous ballad “Is It Love?,” which featured Om’Mas Keith on guest vocals before spinning out into an extended, ecstatic jam, complete with bass heroics.

About those solos: they could veer into noodle-land at times, but Thundercat was too savvy to go there completely. On “Fleer Ultra,” the most rhythmically frenetic workout in the set, he started with a waft of ethereal long tones, his sound heavily processed, before gradually moving on to spidery arpeggios and bulletlike runs. During his more aggressive fretboard work he recalled the young Stanley Clarke.

His brother, who has toured and recorded with Mr. Clarke, was his equal in astonishment: a force behind the drums, laying a pocket and subverting it, hanging back or pushing ahead, grinning like a gremlin all the while. It was intensity at the price of subtlety.
179 2012-02-04 ATHENS — Lucas Papademos faced his most difficult test as Greece’s interim prime minister on Friday when his three-month-old government reached an impasse over proposed demands by the country’s foreign lenders to reduce private-sector wages drastically in exchange for the aid the country needs to prevent default.

On Friday, the Greek news media swirled with rumors that Mr. Papademos was even threatening to resign if the political parties in his fragile interim coalition — the Socialist party, the center-right New Democracy party and the smaller, hard-right Popular Orthodox Rally, or L.A.O.S. — did not accept the lenders’ demands.

Even as government officials denied the rumors on Friday, it was clear that the prime minister was fast running out of options. To get the bailout money Greece needs and to complete an agreement with private creditors on a write-down of Greek debt, Mr. Papademos must persuade his coalition to support a new round of austerity measures that could drain them of their little remaining political capital.

In a climate of intense economic and political uncertainty, it remained to be seen whether Mr. Papademos, a former vice president of the European Central Bank with little experience in the blood sport of Greek politics, would be able to maintain control of his government, with a critical meeting with the three parties expected as soon as Saturday.

Still, analysts said they expected Mr. Papademos to pull it off. “I think it’s probable that he will in the last moment,” said Harry Papasotiriou, a political science professor at Panteion University in Athens and a member of a policy research group affiliated with New Democracy. He said the political parties were buying time, hoping to show that they were being pushed into the unpopular measures by Greece’s so-called troika of foreign lenders: the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank.

“They want to pass the blame to Europe and the I.M.F.,” Professor Papasotiriou said.

It was unclear exactly what sort of wage cuts the troika was demanding. Some news reports said the lenders were seeking changes that would reduce most private-sector salaries by as much as 25 percent; others said the group was insisting on a cut in the minimum wage that, at least directly, would affect fewer than 300,000 people.
180 2012-02-04 WASHINGTON (AP) — Orders to factories rose in December, supported by a rebound in business investment in capital goods. In addition, service companies grew at the fastest pace in 11 months in January as companies started hiring to keep up with rising demand.

Factory orders rose 1.1 percent in December after gaining 2.2 percent in November, the Commerce Department reported Friday. For the year, total orders were up 12.1 percent after a gain of 12.9 percent in 2010. Orders had plunged 22.1 percent in the 2009.

For December, orders for so-called core capital goods, which are viewed as a good measure of business investment plans, rose 3.1 percent to a record high. That gain was driven in part by a rush by businesses to take advantage of expiring tax breaks.

The advances in 2011 pushed orders for the year up to $5.36 trillion, still slightly below the peak of $5.44 trillion set in 2008.

For December, orders for durable goods, items expected to last at least three years, rose 3 percent, a figure that was unchanged from a preliminary report last week. Orders for nondurable goods slipped 0.4 percent, reflecting declines in petroleum products.
181 2012-02-04 Had Mr. Gingrich earned the same amount as a banker or a lawyer from a company or partnership, he would have paid the Medicare tax on the full amount of his income. In 2010, Mr. Gingrich paid $1,000,959 in federal taxes (which included Medicare tax on the $450,000 of his income classified as wages).

Mr. Gingrich’s savings from an S corporation pale in comparison to the savings that John Edwards, the Democratic vice presidential candidate in 2004 and a presidential candidate four years later, got from one. Mr. Edwards’s law firm was structured as an S corporation. In the mid-1990s, that designation saved him over $700,000 in Medicare taxes.

To be fair, the two men simply availed themselves of what was in the tax code. “They were in positions where they made a lot of money in these specific years,” Mr. Nichols said. “It’s probably a little misleading.”

Other tax lawyers were less generous. They argued that Mr. Gingrich was overly aggressive in using the S corporation to divide payouts between income that was fully taxed and distributions that avoided the Medicare tax, since the corporation’s sole source of profits was Mr. Gingrich’s speaking and consulting work.

“I’m somewhat skeptical that Gingrich was entitled to the tax benefits he said he is entitled to,” said Daniel Shaviro, a professor of taxation at New York University School of Law. “What the S corp. has to offer is his services. It’s not like he has all these factories.”

That is an issue for the Internal Revenue Service to decide. But any discussion of S corporations offers an opportunity for entrepreneurs and small-business owners to contemplate whether setting up their business like Mr. Gingrich would pay off for them.

OPTIONS All business owners have to weigh complexity, cost and protection from liability — along with taxes — when choosing how to set up their businesses.

According to a study last year by the accounting firm Ernst & Young, 95 percent of businesses in 2008 were entities that allowed the profits to flow through to the owner and to be taxed at the individual income rate. An S corporation is one example of this, along with limited liability companies, sole proprietorships and partnerships, which come in many forms.

In 2010, the I.R.S. said there were 4.5 million tax returns filed for S corporations, compared with 2.35 million returns for standard companies, known as C corporations and 3.5 million for partnerships. Accountants and lawyers say the fastest-growing entity today is the limited liability company because of its greater flexibility.

Entrepreneurs who hope to eventually take their company public are more likely to set them up as a C corporation. From the perspective of a small-business owner, though, C corporations can be more costly because the company is taxed twice — first on its profits and then when dividends are paid out.

The big advantages of an S corporation are its relative simplicity and a structure that can reduce a person’s tax bill by paying out money as either wages or distributions.

Family businesses that were incorporated as C corporations can also reduce their taxes by converting to an S corporation. The one caveat is that if the family sells the business within 10 years of the conversion, they have to pay any taxes they would have paid as a C corporation.

LIMITATIONS None of these entities is without limitations. S corporations cannot have more than 100 shareholders, the owners have to be United States citizens and there can only be one class of stock. The larger the company gets, the more challenging the structure can be.

While a service business, like Mr. Gingrich’s speaking and consulting firm, can benefit from being an S corporation, other companies can be hurt by the restrictions.

Steven R. Schneider, a partner at Goulston & Storrs, a law firm, said real estate companies were particularly ill-suited for S corporations, which limit the amount of depreciation on properties to the equity in them.

Limited liability companies are popular because they can be set up so members can be taxed at the individual rate, but they also offer protection against liability lawsuits. Yet they are not recognized by the federal government for tax purposes; members have to elect to be a corporation, partnership or sole proprietor. These companies are also more complex and often have to pay state administration fees. But what they lack in simplicity, they make up for in flexibility.

Using the same example of a real estate partnership, Mr. Schneider said that a limited liability company would be easier to break up than an S corporation. “Say we own three properties together and you want one of those properties back,” he said. “In an S corporation, when you distribute that property out, it accelerates the taxable gain. In an L.L.C., you carry that gain with you.”

STRATEGY But back to the original question: How aggressive can small-business owners be in using an S corporation to reduce their tax bill?

Mr. Gingrich’s savings on the Medicare tax would not have been possible in a limited liability company, where the members pay ordinary income tax on their earnings and distributions. (Here, the ideal place to be is in Mitt Romney’s shoes: the sources of his income, including dividends and private equity shares, are taxed at the lower capital gains rate.)

But, advisers said, consultants, speakers and other people in service businesses thinking of emulating Mr. Gingrich should beware. The real savings come from pushing the limits on reasonable compensation — only $450,000 of Mr. Gingrich’s income was fully taxed — and the I.R.S. could challenge such a comparatively low amount.

“Could he have defended $2 million in compensation and $1 million in dividends?” asked Steve Rosenthal, a tax lawyer and visiting fellow at the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings Institution in Washington. “That would have been defendable. But fundamentally, the S corp. is his alter ego. Its sole business is service.”

Mr. Rosenthal said Mr. Gingrich should have filed as a sole proprietor for his speaking business since he would not need the liability protection. “By contrast,” he added, “with his consulting for Freddie Mac, he’d want to run that through an entity to insulate himself from consequential damages.”

And that, more than taxes, is the larger benefit for any of these entities: to limit liabilities from any business decision.
182 2012-02-04 HONG KONG — Hampered by poor weather, rescue workers pressed their search on Friday for the more than 100 people still missing after a ferry sank on Thursday off the cost of Papua New Guinea, officials said.

A second full day of searching for survivors from the ferry, the MV Rabaul Queen, was drawing to a close with no signs of passengers, said Capt. Nurur Rahman, rescue coordinator for Papua New Guinea’s National Maritime Safety Authority. Captain Rahman said no bodies had been found, and the official number of survivors remained at 238, unchanged since late Thursday night.

The authorities said they could not determine whether the missing were trapped inside the ferry. Rescue workers aboard three ships, two helicopters and a plane would search the warm tropical waters until dusk Friday, Captain Rahman said. Weather conditions at the site of the sinking were worse on Friday than the day before.

“The sea conditions are pretty rough, and the winds are pretty high. But I still remain positive about finding survivors,” Captain Rahman said. “We still do not know, for example, how many people may have been able to swim ashore.”

The ferry was traveling from Kimbe on the island of New Britain to the town of Lae on Papua New Guinea’s main island on Thursday morning when it sank about 10 miles of the northern coast of Papua New Guinea.

On Friday the owner of the ferry, Rabaul Shipping Company, said 350 people were aboard the ship. The authorities in Papua New Guinea said 14 were crew members.
183 2012-02-04 The Broadway theater owner Jordan Roth on Thursday night assured the cast of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play ''Clybourne Park'' that the show would open on Broadway in April as planned, despite the departure of two of its lead producers, according...
184 2012-02-04 Nasty letters from lawmakers. A powerful lobby threatening his very livelihood. Regulatory investigations. These are the things that billionaire hedge fund manager Philip A. Falcone contends with on a near-daily basis.     Today, scorekeepers can ...
185 2012-02-05 Torture, custodial killings and failure to protect vulnerable communities stained India's human rights record in 2011....
186 2012-02-05 Torture, custodial killings and failure to protect vulnerable communities stained India's human rights record in 2011....
187 2012-02-05 Mara Lynn Rieden and Mike McCarthy were married Saturday at China Cabin, a historic building in Belvedere, Calif. The Rev. Peggy M. Sharyon, an interfaith minister of the Chaplaincy Institute in Berkeley, Calif., officiated.

Until last September, the bride, 34, was a cycling instructor at Endurance Performance Training Center in Mill Valley, Calif. She graduated from San Francisco State University.

She is a daughter of Evon L. Rieden and Stephen M. Rieden of Tiburon, Calif. The bride’s father retired as a senior vice president for City National Bank in San Francisco. Her mother retired as a finance officer for Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco.

The bridegroom, 43, is a managing director specializing in institutional stock trading in San Francisco for the Oppenheimer Company, the New York investment bank.

Until 1998, he was a professional cyclist. A 17-time United States national champion, he was a member of the American cycling teams in the 1988 and 1996 Olympics and was the 1992 world professional cycling pursuit champion. In 2010, he was elected to the United States Bicycling Hall of Fame in Davis, Calif. His first marriage ended in divorce.

He is the son of Penny A. McCarthy of Napa, Calif., and John D. McCarthy of East Windsor, N.J. The bridegroom’s mother retired as a psychoanalyst in private practice in New York. His father retired as a senior vice president at Smith Barney in New York.
188 2012-02-05 Hansen and Union Rags, who dueled to a 1-2 finish in the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile, and the undefeated Algorithms, who defeated Hansen in the Holy Bull on Jan. 29, lead the list of 397 early nominees for the Triple Crown series for 3-year-olds.
189 2012-02-05 Parcells, Martin’s longtime coach, reached the final 10 in this year’s selection process, but he was eliminated from consideration before the final five. The two-time Super Bowl-winning coach of the Giants, the Jets, the Patriots and the Dallas Cowboys, Parcells drafted Martin and engineered his move from the Patriots to the Jets.

“The bittersweet part is Parcells,” Martin said after the announcement. “I think that without him, my career would have been 30 percent of what it was. He helped me be a professional, to be a professional athlete, but he also had a lot to do with teaching me how to be a man.”

In a conference call, Martin said he would like Parcells to introduce him at his induction.

“There is no one more befitting to present me at the Hall of Fame,” Martin said. “Parcells has meant everything to my career. There’s been God, and there’s Parcells as far as the meaning they’ve had to my career.”

Three talented wide receivers — Cris Carter, Tim Brown and Andre Reed — did not make it past the top 10 in the voting. Despite ranking 4th, 6th and 12th in career receiving touchdowns, the three have yet to garner the support needed for induction.

Also failing to make the cut was the Pittsburgh Steelers running back Jerome Bettis, who played in six Pro Bowls and scored 91 career touchdowns.

Butler, the lone senior committee selection, was a Steelers cornerback from 1951 to 1959.

RODGERS IS M.V.P. Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers won the 2011 Associated Press N.F.L. Most Valuable Player award, earning 48 votes to 2 for New Orleans quarterback Drew Brees in balloting by a panel of 50 news media members who cover the league. Rodgers is the first Green Bay player honored since Brett Favre in 1997.

Rodgers led the N.F.L. in passing with a 122.5 rating built on 45 touchdown passes, 6 interceptions and a 68.3 completion percentage as the Packers went 15-1 and won the N.F.C. North.

Brees’s record-setting season earned him the Offensive Player of the Year award. Brees (43 of 50 votes) shattered Dan Marino’s 27-year-old mark by passing for 5,476 yards, and his 468 completions broke Peyton Manning’s 2010 record of 450. Baltimore linebacker Terrell Suggs won the Defensive Player of the Year award. Suggs (21 votes) had 70 tackles, including 14 sacks. He also forced seven fumbles and had two interceptions.

Carolina quarterback Cam Newton (47 votes) won the Offensive Rookie of the Year award, becoming the second straight No. 1 overall pick to take the honor and the first Panther. Newton set an N.F.L. record for rushing touchdowns in a season by a quarterback with 14 and became the first player in league history to throw for 4,000 yards and run for 500.

San Francisco’s Jim Harbaugh won the Coach of the Year award. In his first season as an N.F.L. coach, Harbaugh guided the 49ers to a 13-3 mark and the N.F.C. West title and the conference championship game. (AP)

PATRIOTS CUT RECEIVER Wide receiver Tiquan Underwood was cut by the Patriots less than 24 hours before the Super Bowl, a move that increases the likelihood Chad Ochocinco will be active. Ochocinco had a career-low 15 catches in his first season with the Patriots and was inactive for the A.F.C. championship game. (AP)

PREMATURE POST BY GIANTS About 24 hours before the Super Bowl, “The Giants are Super Bowl Champions,” with an image of the Lombardi Trophy and a link to order gear, showed up on the Giants’ Web site. The N.F.L. said that the page was set up for possible use after the game but was “inadvertently available for a brief period of time.” (AP)
190 2012-02-05 Green River Community College, 45 minutes south of Seattle, has no special overseas cachet, no global name recognition — but it has enrolled 1,400 international students this year, most of them recruited by overseas agents who get 15 percent of the $9,732 first-year tuition.

“It would be impossible for us to attract students by advertising or going to recruitment fairs, since the whole community college concept of coming for two years and then transferring to a four-year university is unknown in most countries,” said Ross Jennings, vice president for international programs at the college in Auburn, Wash. “We need agents who know us and understand what we do.”

In the United States, it is illegal to pay recruiters for each student they bring in — a practice outlawed 20 years ago because of widespread abuse by agents who signed up anyone they could, regardless of academic potential.

But the use of commissioned agents to recruit international students remains a highly divisive, hotly debated issue in higher education circles.

“When you deputize someone to represent you who doesn’t eat unless he brings you warm bodies, you can expect all kinds of unfortunate practices,” said Barmak Nassirian, an associate executive director of the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers and one of the most outspoken critics of commissioned agents.
191 2012-02-05 Marcus Denmon of host Missouri hit three 3-pointers in the final 2 minutes 5 seconds, the last for the go-ahead points, as the No. 4 Tigers fought off No. 8 Kansas, 74-71, on Saturday night in Game 1 of what could be the teams’ final border showdown.

Denmon scored 29 points, 2 off his career best, and ended a long-range shooting slump with a career-best six 3-pointers in nine attempts.

Denmon’s last 3-pointer gave Missouri a 1-point lead with 56 seconds to go. Michael Dixon added two free throws with 9.8 seconds left after an offensive foul on Tyshawn Taylor, and the Jayhawks’ Elijah Johnson missed badly on a shot to tie it at the buzzer.

Missouri (21-2, 8-2 Big 12), which will join the Southeastern Conference in the fall, beat Kansas for the second time in the last 12 meetings.

Thomas Robinson had 25 points and 13 rebounds for Kansas (18-5, 8-2).

KENTUCKY 86, SOUTH CAROLINA 52 Anthony Davis and Terrence Jones of top-ranked Kentucky combined for 34 points in the first half, and the visiting Wildcats (23-1, 9-0 SEC) won their 15th straight. Davis finished with 22 points and Jones 16. Damien Leonard scored a career-high 19 points for South Carolina (9-13, 1-7).

OHIO STATE 58, WISCONSIN 52 Jared Sullinger scored 24 points and had 10 rebounds as No. 3 Ohio State (20-3, 8-2 Big Ten) ended a nine-game losing streak to Wisconsin (18-6, 7-4) in Madison.
192 2012-02-05 Still, officials here said they believed that the corps was trying to shield itself from the embarrassment that followed Hurricane Katrina by issuing expensive and unreasonable requirements and oversight. “Basically, the corps has said, ‘We are not going to make those mistakes again,’ ” said Les Sterman, the chief supervisor for the Southwestern Illinois Flood Protection District Council. “It seems to me the risk that they’re mostly protecting from is the risk to the bureaucracy, as opposed to the risk to the public.”

Col. Christopher G. Hall, the commander of the corps for the St. Louis district, said the corps had not changed its standards. Instead, he said, improved technologies for assessing risks help engineers get a more accurate picture of the condition of the soil in and underneath the levees. People “don’t like to hear that they have a level of risk,” Colonel Hall said, adding, “Everybody lives with some risk.”

Eric Halpin, the special assistant for dam and levee safety at corps headquarters in Washington, says the agency is enforcing its rules more consistently than it had. “We’re going to hold public safety paramount,” he said. “The people that work and live behind the levees are the most important thing.”

Local officials worry that the corps’s action will cause the Federal Emergency Management Agency to alter its flood maps in ways that would require businesses and residents to buy millions of dollars in flood insurance. The classification of unacceptable also means that if a levee’s deficiencies are not fixed and it is damaged in any future flood, the federal government is not obligated to pay for its repair.

“You’re going to stop a lot of growth, and you’re going to hurt a lot of residents and businesses,” said Bill Mixon, an insurance agent in East St. Louis who often recommends flood insurance for his clients but opposes a FEMA-imposed requirement.

Moreover, said Mr. Sterman, the local levee official, the corps was hindering the community’s efforts to meet the standards required by FEMA to keep it from changing the maps. Specifically, the levee boards want to raise the level of protection to withstand what is known as a 1 percent flood — the kind of water levels that have a 1-in-100 chance of occurring in any given year.

To help achieve that goal, three counties in the Metro East region, which includes East St. Louis, passed a local sales tax, collected since 2009, to provide for the financing of $150 million or more for levee projects.

But the corps is also planning a more ambitious, longer-term project to bring the levees to the full level of safety authorized by Congress: withstanding the kind of flooding that has a 1-in-500 chance of occurring in any given year. It is trying to ensure that its work and the Metro East project are complementary, a goal that local officials say has not been successful so far.

“They are making projects that are already onerous impossible to do,” Mr. Sterman said. “It’s impossible to get decisions made and get the project done.”

He said that conducting required reviews and writing reports would cost a half-million dollars, and that corps standards were beyond the reach of local financing. “They say, ‘Do it like the corps does it, and it will be fine,’ ” Mr. Sterman said. “We don’t want to do it like the corps does it, because it will never be done.

“All we are asking is that the corps get out of our way.”

Mr. Sterman is not the only levee official who says that the corps is adding cost and impediments to levee projects through regulations, or that the local share of costs when working with the corps is too expensive.

David R. Human is a lawyer representing about 30 levee districts in the region. In one project, Mr. Human said, a community wants to add a 10-foot-deep layer of clay along the slope of a five-mile stretch of levee to fortify it against high water.

The town estimated the cost at $3 million. But the corps demanded a review of the project that would take 18 months and cost the community another million dollars — conditions that Mr. Human said would not have been imposed just a few years ago. “We’re not going to proceed under today’s conditions,” he said.

Despite the local protests, problems with flood protection infrastructure in the American Bottom are easy to find. In the enormous flood of 1993, which inundated nearby Alton, water seeped under many Metro East levees and bubbled up on the other side, carving channels that during later floods have allowed more “underseepage,” which can eventually cause levees to fail.

With every new flood since 1993, said David R. Busse, the chief of the engineering and construction division for the St. Louis district of the corps, “we are seeing the underseepage sooner than what we had before.”

There were also corrosion holes big enough to put a hand through in the steel gates that are used to close off openings in flood walls that roads and rail tracks pass through. Several pump stations were outmoded and in states of disrepair. Drainage culverts had collapsed, and relief wells, which control underseepage to keep it from damaging the levee, are spaced so closely in some areas that there is effectively no room to put in more.

The biggest problem, Colonel Hall said, is age. At 40 to 60 years old, the structures can no longer do what they were designed to do, despite the efforts to maintain them. Colonel Hall said his office was working with the upper tiers of the corps, trying to get “doors beat in” and projects moving more quickly. He said he hoped that by working directly with the Metro East levee groups, he was setting a model for doing things right the first time.

The point, he said, is long-term protection that should be measured in centuries. “We don’t build stick homes,” he said. “We build cathedrals.”
193 2012-02-05 Didier Drogba made up for an early mistake by scoring twice Saturday as Ivory Coast advanced to the semifinals of the African Cup of Nations with a 3-0 victory against co-host Equatorial Guinea.

Zambia joined the Ivorians in the next round; it knocked out Sudan, 3-0, to make the last four for the first time in 16 years. Ivory Coast will play the winner of Sunday’s Gabon-Mali match; Zambia will face Ghana or Tunisia.

After missing a penalty kick, Drogba took advantage of a defensive slip to score in the 36th minute and then added a header into the top corner in the 69th. Yaya Touré added a late third on a free kick in the 81st minute.

“My teammates gave me a lot of encouragement after missing the penalty, and I had to score for them,” Drogba said. “I owed it to them.”

Ivory Coast has won all four of its games in the tournament without conceding a goal.

MAN CITY EXTENDS STREAK Manchester City rediscovered its attacking game in England’s Premier League, beating Fulham, 3-0, to maintain its perfect home record and keep Manchester United at arm’s length in the title race. City’s 12th straight league victory at Etihad Stadium left the club 3 points ahead of United, which visits fourth-place Chelsea on Sunday.

Sergio Agüero converted a penalty kick and also set up Edin Dzeko as Manchester City battled through the heavy snow that affected most English games.

The day’s most resounding victory came at Emirates Stadium in London, where Arsenal hammered Blackburn, 7-1. Robin van Persie had three goals, raising his season total to 22.
194 2012-02-05 *Spending totals for the Obama campaign are since 2009. The campaign had $81.7 million in cash on hand at the end of 2011.

Another type of group bringing in millions in contributions is the nonprofit 501(c)4. These groups can raise unlimited funds and run ads or donate to super PACs, as long as more than half of their activities are not considered political. They do not have to report their donors or balance sheets to the Federal Election Commission, but some chose to release overall contribution amounts:
195 2012-02-05 If nothing else, Marianne Gingrich’s allegation, which the candidate has denied, provided an unexpected publicity bounce for advocates of open relationships, who have long been trying to paw their way out of the cultural margins.

“We could never afford this kind of a public-relations opportunity,” said Anita Wagner Illig, an organizer of the Polyamory Leadership Network, an online organization advocating nonmonogamous relationships. She was interviewed by the BBC and Washington’s ABC news affiliate after the statements by Marianne Gingrich, and traffic at ModernPoly.com, an advocacy Web site promoting open relationships, spiked nearly 30 percent in the weeks that followed.

Though Mr. Gingrich’s candidacy unintentionally helped reintroduce the topic of open marriages in mainstream conversation, no one in the subculture appears to be embracing him as a celebrity spokesman.

As Ms. Gingrich told reporters, her ex-husband asked for an open marriage, though not in those exact words, after a counseling session so he could continue to see another woman, Callista Bisek, to whom he is now married (a story Mr. Gingrich angrily refuted). Advocates go to great pains to dispel the idea that open marriage, at least when practiced responsibly, is just a handy after-the-fact excuse for wandering spouses.

“Cheating while married can technically fall under polyamory since it does mean ‘many loves,’ ” said Birgitte Philippides, a New York makeup artist and former president of Polyamorous NYC. “However, people in the polyamory movement don’t usually like to look at it that way. They think cheating is just cheating.”

As practiced today, open-marriage arrangements can take many forms. Some fall under the rubric of polyamory, which involves a couple sharing emotional and romantic attachment, as well as sexual, with more than one person. (Not all polyamorists are married, however, and many relationships involve bisexuality.)

Some fall under the term “partnered nonmonogamy,” which involves outside sexual relationships, but no emotional attachment, said Tristan Taormino, the author of “Opening Up,” a 2008 survey of 100 nonmonogamous relationships in this country that includes advice on managing jealousy and parenting duties for latter-day Bobs and Carols and Teds and Alices.

Despite the whiff of Roman-scale hedonism, modern open marriages often have little to do with the swinging sex romps of the “Love the One You’re With” era. Ground rules are usually settled on in advance by all parties. Some even sign family contracts delineating financial obligations, said Diana Adams, a New York lawyer and practicing polyamorist. Others seek to lend the practice an air of legitimacy by using terminology like the lawyerly “negotiated monogamy.”

In some cases, sex is beside the point. The cartoonist Robert Crumb and his wife, Aline Kominsky-Crumb, have been outspoken in the past about keeping other partners on the side. But, Ms. Kominsky-Crumb said in one interview, “We’re old and not as sex driven as we once were.” Her “second husband” (whom she says she no longer sees) came in most handy when she needed “somebody to do the ‘man’ things that Robert can’t do, such as fix the plumbing or drive a car.”

What exactly constitutes “sex” has changed, too. Technology has played a major role in increasing awareness of relationship options for a new generation, said Janet W. Hardy, who wrote, with Dossie Easton, “The Ethical Slut,” a 1997 book advocating nonmonogamous relationships that has sold more than 100,000 copies (a second edition was published in 2009).

Online culture brings new opportunities to engage with other partners outside the traditional bounds of monogamy, whether they are hookups on Craigslist or flirtatious “direct messages” on Twitter, Ms. Hardy said. But more important, it allows polyamorists a means to find one another and trade strategies for maintaining workable open relationships.

In the first flush of open marriage in the ’70s, there was hardly any way for the curious to find like-minded people. “Then the Internet came along and it was all just a keystroke away,” she said, adding that there are dozens of online forums devoted to the practice today. “It turned from an oddity into a community.”

And in Hollywood (where the bonds of marriage are often junk grade), it is not uncommon for celebrities to muse on the idea, however hypothetically, in interviews.

The actress Mo’Nique made headlines in 2010 when she told Barbara Walters that “it would not be a deal-breaker” if her husband, Sidney Hicks, had sex outside their marriage. “What if it’s 20 times?” the star of the film “Precious” was quoted as saying. “So what?”

“We’ve been best friends for ... is it over 25 years? And we truly know who we are,” she said. “Truly.”

Even the homespun Dolly Parton, the polar opposite of Hollywood values, inspired tabloid speculation after an interview with a British newspaper in 2007. “I don’t want to know it, if he’s cheating on me,” she said of her longtime husband, Carl Dean. “If I’m cheating on him, he wouldn’t want to know it. And if we do, if that’s what’s making it work, then that’s fine, too.”

It has reached the point that whenever any Hollywood power couple displays fissures, rumors (like lawyers) soon follow. After Ashton Kutcher’s and Demi Moore’s recent split, Chelsea Handler speculated on Piers Morgan’s CNN show about their marital boundaries. “I don’t know them personally very well,” she said. Not letting that stop her, she added, “But I think it’s pretty obvious that they probably had a lot of open marriage-type situations.”

All of which raises this question: How many people are actually trying this? Even academics who study sexuality have no idea, since most practitioners remain in the closet, fearing bias, said Dr. Elisabeth Sheff, an assistant professor of sociology at Georgia State University and author of a forthcoming study on polyamory in America.

And good luck finding out from the subculture’s leadership, which is loosely organized at best, said Ms. Illig of the Polyamory Leadership Network. And no wonder, she added. “We don’t have much time for it with multiple partnerships to see to.”
196 2012-02-05 THE relationship Brooklynites have with their cars is different from that of their counterparts in Manhattan, and so, too, is the parking situation.

While developers of residential buildings in Manhattan have not been compelled to provide parking facilities since the Clean Air Act of 1981, builders in Brooklyn must still accommodate a certain number of automobiles.

Given the diversity of neighborhoods in the borough, the requirements vary, but in general the zoning regulations are car-friendly.

That, however, could be changing. In light of a new study of parking in the Manhattan core, city officials are planning to meet with community leaders in Brooklyn to discuss easing the rules requiring parking in densely populated areas well served by public transit.

Specifically, they are considering eliminating parking requirements for new buildings in Downtown Brooklyn. Not only is the neighborhood easily accessible by subway, but many of the lines run close to street level, making it difficult to dig down deep enough to build garages.

Affordable housing projects across the city, including Manhattan, are still often required to provide parking. Two city officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they had not yet met with community leaders, said they were looking at doing away with these requirements as a way to reduce construction costs and spur development.
197 2012-02-05 For more than a year after Iyal’s 3rd birthday, child psychiatrists, pediatricians and specialists examined him without reaching consensus. Finally he was seen by Alan G. Weintraub, a developmental pediatrician, who noted his small head, the small and widely spaced eye openings, the extra skin folds close to the nose and the way the middle area of his face appeared flattened. When the little boy became anxious during the exam, he began making animal noises­ and tried to escape. He detected scary themes in benign pictures. The doctor’s conclusion was a blow the Winokurs had not seen coming: Iyal’s brain and central nervous system had been severely, irreversibly damaged in utero by the teratogen of alcohol, resulting in an incurable birth defect. Though alcohol consumption by Iyal’s birth mother could not be documented, the available evidence pointed to fetal alcohol syndrome, F.A.S., the most extensive form of the range of effects known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders, or F.A.S.D.

It is well known that maternal drinking can lead to neurobehavioral and growth impairments in a fetus, as well as malformations in the face, palate, joints, kidneys, genitals, heart, brain and nervous system. There is no known safe window during pregnancy for alcohol consumption of any kind or quantity, according to Dr. Jacquelyn Bertrand of the National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities of the . The U.S. surgeon general calls for total abstinence. C.D.C. estimates of the prevalence of F.A.S. in America range from 0.2 to 1.5 children per 1,000 live births, but this data may represent chiefly those children whose facial dysmorphia render them recognizable; the rest may appear physically typical while contending with hidden neurological damage.

It’s possible that as many as one in 100 children are born with some exposure to fetal alcohol. , learning disability or mental illness are just a few of the accompanying disorders that may be diagnosed instead. Adults who presented symptoms before the syndrome’s description in the U.S. medical literature in the 1970s may never have been given an accurate diagnosis.

Iyal Winokur was intellectually impaired and at high risk for a range of secondary disabilities, including poor judgment, impulsive behavior, social isolation, limited academic achievement, unemployment, drug and alcohol abuse, imprisonment, mental-health problems including suicidal ideation, inability to live independently and inappropriate sexual behavior. Few medications or therapies could be recommended as truly effective.

At 7, 8 and 9 years of age, Iyal often babbled a nonstop stream of senseless chatter and baby talk. He required a full-time aide at school and his mother’s undivided attention in the house. Donnie put aside her production career. Harvey juggled the needs of hundreds of congregants while facing escalating mayhem at home. But if their friends wondered what their lives would have been like if they hadn’t adopted Iyal, the Winokurs would have reacted with horror. “It’s unbearable to imagine our child growing up without us,” Donnie says. “We never considered dissolving the adoption! We fell in love with our son.” Still, she admits: “Staying in love with him has been trickier. People with brain injuries aren’t able to reciprocate love in the ways you expect. You’re struggling with this cluster of emotions toward your child — love, but also anger, bewilderment, resentment, frustration and yearning.”

As Donnie found her footing in the parallel universe of special-needs families, she discovered that a nonprofit service-dog agency in rural placed assistance dogs with children. Could a service dog help Iyal? “Are you kidding me?” cried her husband. “We don’t need a dog!” He felt that one more howl raised under their roof, one more living creature whining for attention, one more source of strife between the children would push him beyond endurance. “No, Donnie. It’s too much. I couldn’t take it.”

“This could be the help we need,” she persisted.

“A dog?” Harvey said. “Forget about it, please. It’s me or a dog.”

Karen Shirk operates a dog-training school in Xenia, Ohio, a charming antebellum village flattened twice by tornadoes. Dressed in baggy jeans and a man’s white T-shirt, swaying deeply as she walked, breathing through the metal button of a tracheotomy tube, she led me into her office at the far end of a brick building that once served as the local V.F.W. Hall. We waded into a crowd of bouncing ecstatic Papillons — toy dogs whose wide, silky ears inspired the breed’s name, the French word for “butterfly.” Though she stepped away only a moment earlier, the dozen little dogs rejoiced as if they’d feared never seeing her again: some spun in excitement, others leapt onto her desk and one tap-danced along the computer keyboard. They raised their pointed little faces and emitted high-pitched yips of hallelujah. When Shirk, who is 49, reached her desk chair, they settled on the floor at her feet, folded up their ears like kites and watched her. When she laughed, they took out their ears and waved them around.

As a young woman, Shirk pursued a master’s degree in social work and held a full-time job with cognitively impaired adults. She felt, she says, “carefree,” until the day she collapsed in respiratory distress and was rushed to an emergency room. Hospitalized for months, she received the grim diagnosis, at age 24, of , a rare neuromuscular disease. She left the hospital only to become a respirator-dependent patient in need of constant care.

“Why don’t you get a service dog?” a new nurse asked Shirk, six years into her illness. Supine in front of the TV, Shirk seemed unaware of the hour, day or month. A dog could offer mobility assistance, the nurse said, like opening a drawer and bringing clean socks. She seemed also to suspect that a dog might jump-start the life of this sad and lonely patient.

“How could I take care of a dog?” Shirk rasped. “I can’t even take care of myself.”

“You could take care of a dog,” the nurse said.

Beginning in 1992, Shirk applied by mail to service-dog agencies around the country. Every program rejected her. “They’re not going to give a dog to a respirator-dependent individual who will never lead a productive life,” she told the nurse. Finally she won a spot at the bottom of a waiting list. In 1994, a trainer visited to prepare for the placement of a golden retriever. Shirk began to feel strangely hopeful. But then the agency sent a letter instead of a dog: “Our guidelines prohibit the placement of service animals with people on ventilators.”

“I didn’t care if I lived or died after that,” she told me, placing a fingertip over the metal knob in her throat to enable speech, in a voice that is winningly husky. “All I could see ahead of me was a long, slow death. I started stockpiling morphine.”

“Karen,” the nurse said, “get out of this bed, and let’s go get you a puppy.”

Feebly, she dressed herself in bed and crumpled forward into a wheelchair. The nurse drove her to see a litter of black German shepherd pups, the breed of Shirk’s childhood dog, and there she found Ben. “I didn’t leap back into life with Ben so much as inch back into it,” she said. The puppy had to be taken outside, and to obedience classes. Wherever he frolicked, strangers greeted the tubed-up woman in the motorized wheelchair, as they did not when she was alone. It was a lesson Shirk wouldn’t forget.

When year-old Ben graduated from puppy classes, he was a gorgeous animal with a shiny -black pelt, orange-flecked brown eyes and a feathery tail. He wasn’t a complex thinker or problem-solver. But he was smart, and she loved him.

She acquired a wheelchair-adapted van and commuted to a dog-training school in , where Jeremy Dulebohn, a crew-cut man from rural Ohio, taught Ben the basics of mobility work: to open and close doors and drawers; to hand Shirk’s wallet to retailers and return it with change to her lap; to brace her for balance as she moved from bed to wheelchair and back; and to remove her shoes, socks and jeans at bedtime. “When I asked for water, Ben opened the refrigerator and brought me a bottle,” she told me. “When I asked for laundry, he pulled my clean clothes out of the dryer, put them in a basket and dragged them over.”

Dogs evolved over at least 15,000 years to know and like humankind as well as, or better than, we know and like ourselves. Like many German shepherds, Ben was a one-person dog. He seemed to watch Shirk closely when she returned to her apartment following open-heart surgery. “I had a daytime nurse but was alone at night,” she says. “I was on a morphine pump and — though I didn’t realize it — a deadly combination of drugs. I slipped into unconsciousness.” When the phone rang, Ben waited — as he’d been trained to do — for Shirk’s command to answer it rather than to let it ring into the answering machine. But that night, with his owner failing, Ben picked up the receiver without her command, dropped it on the bed and barked and barked. It was Shirk’s father. Realizing something was wrong, her father hung up and called 911. The rescue team told Shirk she wouldn’t have lived through the night.

With Ben at her side, Shirk became manager of a day care facility for cognitively impaired adults. Gaining in strength and confidence, with new medications allowing her to come off the ventilator during the day, she wondered how many other people were being told they were “too disabled” to get a dog. “I could start my own agency,” she thought. “I could place four or five dogs a year with people rejected by the big agencies.” She mentioned the idea to co-workers and almost instantly heard from a couple seeking a mobility dog for their 12-year-old daughter, who’d been paralyzed by a spinal stroke. Their impression was that no service-dog agency worked with children.

Shirk studied the Americans With Disabilities Act governing service animals and found no legal impediment to placing a dog with a child if a parent served as co-handler. In October 1998, she assembled a board and founded 4 Paws for Ability, a nonprofit corporation. She rescued Butler, a German shepherd mix, from a shelter; hired a trainer to prepare him for mobility work with the 12-year-old; and became a pioneer among service-dog agencies. “People started calling from all over to ask, Am I too young? Am I too old? Am I too disabled? Am I disabled enough?” she says. “I said, ‘If your life can be improved by a dog, and if you and your family can take good care of a dog, we’re going to give you a dog.’ ”

A couple with a 10-year-old son on the autism spectrum called 4 Paws. This was new ground. Placing dogs with adults with “invisible disabilities” like post-traumatic stress disorder or seizure disorder was the cutting edge of service-dog work; it hadn’t been widely tried with children. Patches, a rescue-hound mix, became one of the world’s first dogs trained for autism assistance for a child.

In 2001, Dulebohn joined 4 Paws full time as training director. Today he oversees an expanding staff of trainers, vets, groomers and dog-walkers. The dogs are a mix of shelter dogs, donated dogs and puppies bred in-house, and every one gets 500 hours of training, well beyond the 120-hour industry standard. “Any breed can become a service dog,” says Dulebohn, who is 37, “but, over time, we found that roughly 70 percent of Labradors, golden retrievers and German shepherds graduated from our program, while only about 2 percent of other breeds made the cut.” It costs $22,000 to train a 4 Paws dog; clients are asked to contribute $13,000 to the organization, with the difference made up through charitable donations and grants. To date, 4 Paws has placed more than 600 dogs.

For socialization, Dulebohn places foster puppies with local families, and for basic obedience training he places them with specially chosen inmates in regional prisons. “Convicted murderers cry when it’s time to give back their dogs,” Shirk says. “But we give them another one.” Since most 4 Paws dogs go to children — and children want playmates more than they want therapists and trackers — Dulebohn asks the prisoners to teach their pups tricks, including “Roll over,” “Gimme five” and “Play dead.”

“I learned with Ben that a dog helps you make friends,” Shirk says. “We place dogs with kids in wheelchairs, kids on ventilators, kids with autism, kids with , kids with seizure disorder and cognitive impairments; but if your dog does tricks, other kids want to meet you. Kids will ignore your disability if you’ve got a cool dog.”

One prisoner with a sense of humor returned a dog who — upon hearing the command “Play dead” — lurched, as if shot, staggered across the floor, knelt, got up, buckled, whined piteously and then dramatically collapsed.

In 2007, a phone call came into 4 Paws from an Atlanta mother of a boy with special needs. Iyal Winokur’s doctors had tried 20 different medications without lasting success. Iyal was 9; his I.Q. was 80 and falling; his language was primitive. He got hooked on bizarre thoughts and repeated them endlessly. He still suffered from night terrors and bed-wetting. Sometimes Iyal touched his mother’s shirt, sniffed his fingers and tried to wipe off the smell. Aware that a majority of individuals living with fetal alcohol syndrome also fight mental illness, his parents feared impending or .

“Do you place dogs with children who have fetal alcohol syndrome?” the mother asked Shirk.

Donnie Winokur, who had by then founded the affiliate of the National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome, explained with rapid and precise diction.

“Is your son likely to verbally abuse a dog?” Shirk asked.

“Well, yes,” Donnie had to admit, at a reduced speed.

“Is he likely to try to physically abuse a dog?”

“It’s not impossible,” she said, now certain of rejection.

Shirk said. “We’ll need a doctor’s prescription and we’ll need video. We want to see your son every day, everywhere — getting up in the morning, eating breakfast, getting in a car, at school at bedtime. We need to hear his noises and see his tantrums.”

That night at home, Harvey gasped, too. “Thousands of dollars for a dog?” he cried. “Instead of for a nanny, or respite care, or a private school? Does that make sense? A dog’s not going to mean anything to Iyal.”

“You’re talking about a dog with a vest like a seeing-eye dog? It will be embarrassing to go into public like that!”

“It’s already embarrassing to go into public with Iyal, especially for Morasha.”

“But a dog in a vest will make him seem so disabled.”

“A dog in a vest will tell people that he acts like this because he’s living with a disability.”

She wore him down. He loved her, trusted her judgment and knew she wasn’t going to give up.

In January 2008, Donnie, her father, her first cousin and her children drove to Xenia for a 10-day class with other special-needs families and their new dogs. In the parking lot at 4 Paws, parents carried, coaxed, dragged, pushed, chased and wheeled their children toward the front door. A circle of threadbare sofas, sunken love seats and canvas sports chairs surrounded a training area in the former V.F.W. social hall. In an inner room, pet crates and pens held dogs of all ages and sizes — 200 dogs are in training at all times — while dog-walkers, vets and groomers came and went through the side door. The building smelled fragrantly of dog, with undertones of ammonia.

For children with autism or behavior disorders, dogs were trained in “behavior disruption.” For children with seizure disorder or or respiratory issues, dogs were trained to alert the parents at the onset of an episode, and there have been a few able to predict the medical incidents 6 to 24 hours in advance. (How they do this is something of a mystery.)

“The dogs are nonjudgmental,” Dulebohn tells each class. “You’ve got a kid who’s picking his nose? The dog isn’t thinking, That is gross. He’s thinking, Save one for me! Or your child has disappeared and you say: ‘Find Jeffrey.’ The dog isn’t thinking, Jeffrey’s in danger! The dog thinks: Game on!”

About 10 percent of 4 Paws placements fail. “Some fail because parents weren’t prepared for how much extra work a dog would be,” Shirk says. “They can barely get themselves and their special-needs child out the door; adding a dog feels overwhelming.” Others fail because it’s not a good match. A family’s video may not have reflected the severity of behavior. “A child looks gentle on his video, so we place a soft dog,” Shirk says. “Then the child’s violent meltdowns scare the dog, and he starts avoiding the child.” Dulebohn and Shirk try to discourage clients from engaging in “the Lassie syndrome”: the belief that a devoted, sensitive and brilliant dog will gallop into their lives and make everyone feel better.

And yet, sometimes, that’s what families get.

Dulebohn matched Iyal with Chancer, a big, good-humored golden retriever with “high self-esteem” who wouldn’t be hurt or insulted by the boy. Chancer was originally purchased as a puppy from Mervar Kennel in Youngstown by a family that lost interest in him; he was returned, after a year, overweight, matted, undisciplined and lonely. Knowing that 4 Paws successfully placed Mervar dogs in the past, Judy Mervar donated Chancer. Like all 4 Paws dogs, he was shown kindness and affection in the course of his training, but he was not offered a long-term close human friendship. “Once dogs have been matched with families, we pet them and love them, but we don’t give them that intense, ‘I love you so much, you’re my baby’ kind of one-on-one attention,” Shirk says. “We don’t take them home with us at night. Every one of our dogs wants that closeness, is primed for that closeness; but we want them to find it with their families, not with our staff.” Chancer didn’t know what he was missing. But his trainers knew. “Chancer,” Dulebohn says, “really needed a boy.”

The dog’s deeply encoded desire to attach to humans came alive when he was introduced to the Winokurs. A shaggy, tawny giant, he panted and wagged with pleasure. Something similar, on the human side, was sparked, too. Morasha dropped to her knees and embraced Chancer’s big neck. Donnie felt like doing the same. “Hi, hi, hi good boy,” she cooed, stroking his broad handsome head. Iyal was briefly interested but then wandered off.

They were in a hard stretch with Iyal. He was throwing tremendous rages daily, and instantly did it here. “I’m so sorry,” Donnie said, mortified, unable to budge the explosive boy from the dog-training circle on the very first morning. But she was among friends; special-needs parents all, they patiently waited for Iyal’s tantrum to die down. Unfortunately, on a lunch break in town, Iyal lost control again and threw a fit in the drive-through lane at Wendy’s. He crossed his arms, sat down hard and bawled. The backed-up drivers looked at Donnie with less empathy than had the 4 Paws parents. Shirk says, “Iyal really needed a dog.”

At the conclusion of the second day’s class, the families were invited to keep their dogs overnight for the first time. At the hotel, Donnie’s cousin took Chancer outside for a walk while Donnie supervised Iyal and Morasha in a hot tub in the indoor pool area. “When they came back from their walk,” she says, “Chancer looked around, and then broke away! I thought: Oh, my God, he’s escaping. We’re going to lose him. He streaked past everybody in the solarium and took a flying leap into the hot tub. He was saving Iyal!”

Chancer had not been trained to do water rescue. Why he leapt unnecessarily into a hot tub is hard to know. Shirk thinks that after 36 hours, Chancer had bonded to Iyal. The reverse, though, may not have been true yet. Part of the havoc wreaked by alcohol on a child’s brain is to scramble the emotional pathways. The routes to friendship, fun, intimacy and love are underdeveloped or buried under cognitive roadblocks. But Iyal’s burst of laughter when the big yellow dog came sailing through the air and clumsily exploded into the hot tub was the greatest sound his mother had heard out of him in a long time.

The morning after Chancer’s first night in the house outside Atlanta, the Winokurs woke up after a full night’s sleep for almost the first time since 1999. They looked at each other in semihorror: was Iyal still alive? They found him snoozing beside the big yellow dog, the latter hogging the mattress. Since Chancer’s arrival in the house, they’ve rarely been disturbed in the night. Iyal may still wake up, but he’s evidently reassured by the dog’s presence and returns to sleep.

“The moment he walked in the house with Chancer, I knew something had changed,” Harvey says. “I could feel it instantly, the magnetism between Iyal and the dog. . . . Chancer was an emotional and physical anchor for a kid who was pretty lost in the world.”

When Iyal is distressed, Chancer is distressed. Unlike Iyal, Chancer knows what to do about it. Iyal rages by crossing his arms, sitting down hard on the floor and screaming and kicking. Chancer unknots the crossed arms by inserting his wide muzzle through the locked arms from below, opening them up and nuzzling toward Iyal’s face, licking and slobbering, until the boy’s screams turn to tears of remorse or to laughter.

Chancer sometimes heads off tantrums before they start. If a tutor or a therapist has worked with Iyal in the dining room a bit too long, Chancer moves between the visitor and the boy, clearly relaying: We’re done for today. From two floors away, he will alert, flicking his ears, tuning in. Sensing that Iyal is nearing a breaking point, he gallops up or down the stairs to find him, playfully head-butts and pushes him down to the floor, gets on top of him, stretches out and relaxes with a satisfied groan. Helplessly pinned under Chancer, Iyal resists, squawks and then relaxes, too. The big dog lies on top of the boy he loves, and seals him off from the dizzying and incomprehensible world for a while.

When I ask Dulebohn about Chancer’s preternatural sensitivity, he says: “We trained Chancer to disrupt tantrums. Being able to prevent tantrums is coming from subtle training within the family. He may be reading Donnie’s body language or facial expressions, or he may be smelling some chemical changes in Iyal or hearing some noises from him that predict a tantrum. He feels rewarded when Iyal stabilizes.”

Donnie says: “Lately, and this is the best yet: if Iyal gets distressed, he goes to find Chancer, and he curls up next to him. He picks up Chancer’s big paw and gets under it.” It’s the closest the boy has come to mood self-regulation.

Two weeks after Chancer’s arrival, Iyal startled his parents by using multisyllabic words. He was suddenly possessed of opinions, judgments and important questions, and he expressed them.

“B.C., Before Chancer,” Donnie says, “which is how we refer to our life then, Iyal echoed Morasha word for word. It drove her nuts. Every morning I asked, ‘Do you want to take your lunch today or eat lunch at school?’ and every morning Iyal parroted whatever Morasha said. If she said, ‘School,’ he said, ‘School.’ With his frontal-lobe damage, decision-making like that was difficult for him. One morning, A.C., when I asked about lunch, Morasha said, ‘School,’ and Iyal said, ‘I’d rather have lunch from home than a school lunch.’ It was a more sophisticated expression of his thoughts than we’d ever heard.

“B.C., driving in the car with Iyal, if I turned down an unfamiliar route, he might say, ‘What happened?’ A.C., sensing I’d taken a wrong turn, Iyal asked: ‘Were you distracted by Chancer and that’s why you made a bad turn?’ That showed an understanding of cause and effect, and a high-level word choice.

“B.C., Iyal never mentioned his disability, although we have educated him about it. A.C., he suddenly started asking things like, ‘Did Chancer’s birth mother drink alcohol?’ and ‘Does Chancer have a boo-boo on his brain?’ and ‘Why did my birth mother drink alcohol?’ ”

Before Chancer, Iyal didn’t seem to possess “theory of mind,” the insight, usually achieved by age 4, that other people have points of view different from your own. But Chancer has inspired him to think about what Chancer likes and what Chancer wants and what Chancer thinks. Only since the dog’s arrival has Iyal shown sheepishness or regret following a tantrum, signaling a new awareness that his outbursts may affect others. “Is Chancer mad at me?” he asks his parents. “Mommy, tell Chancer I love him, O.K.?”

“The sad flip side of ‘theory of mind,’ ” Donnie says, “is that Iyal is deathly afraid that if he misbehaves too much, Chancer will want to be someone else’s dog. We’ll be in a park, and he’ll tell me that Chancer is smiling at another kid and wants to be his dog.”

The science behind Iyal’s cognitive leaps is still in its infancy. Alan M. Beck, the director of the Center for the Human-Animal Bond at ’s College of Veterinary Medicine, is among those intrigued by it. “There is a real bond between children and animals,” he told me. “The younger the child, the greater the suspension of disbelief about what an animal understands or doesn’t understand.” According to Beck, more than 70 percent of children confide in their dogs, and 48 percent of adults do. “The absolutely nonjudgmental responses from animals are especially important to children,” he says. “If your child with F.A.S.D. starts to misbehave, your face may show disapproval, but the dog doesn’t show disapproval. The performance anxiety this child may feel all the time is absent when he’s with his dog. Suddenly he’s relaxed, he’s with a peer who doesn’t criticize him.”

The hypothesis is that the sudden drop in Iyal’s anxiety level — the sudden decrease in his hypervigilance, the lowering of his and the disarming of the fight-flight physiology — frees up cognitive energy that he can use for thought and speech. “A child with a disability feels freer not to suppress his ideas and behaviors when he’s with his dog,” Beck says. “There’s a level of trust and confidentiality he has with no one else. And it’s a good choice: the dog is his true confidant and friend.”

“From the moment Iyal wakes up in the morning, there’s tension in the house,” Donnie says. “He has neurological and psychological damage Chancer’s paws can’t reach. But Chancer mitigates the disability. It’s like we have a nanny.”

Last fall the Winokur family wrestled with the likelihood that Iyal was being bullied at middle school. “Some boys told me to hump a chair,” he reported to his mother and psychiatrist a few days into eighth grade.

“Hump a chair?” Donnie said. “I’m not sure what that means,”

“Look at Chancer,” murmured the psychiatrist to Donnie. As Iyal engaged provocatively with a chair, Chancer rose, distressed. Whining, he tried to block Iyal’s lunges.

On another day, a distraught Iyal told his parents that the boys said: “Go kiss that boy or we’ll hang your dog.”

“This is the classic setup for people with impaired judgment,” Donnie says. “They’re at risk of being exploited criminally and sexually. They can become both victim and perpetrator.” It may not be classic bullying either. “Iyal may have pursued those boys,” Donnie says. “He desperately wants friends. He doesn’t understand personal space or social distance. He might have been annoying them, and they reacted.”

The school principal was instantly responsive; his staff spoke to the other boys. “But Iyal keeps talking about it,” Donnie says. “It’s hard for Harvey and me to know if the bullying is still happening or if Iyal has just fixated on the trauma of it. Past, present and future get confused in his mind.”

Chancer doesn’t accompany Iyal to school because the boy can’t take the reins as Chancer’s handler. “He can’t even take Chancer for a walk around the block,” Donnie says. “He might drop the leash, and Chancer might interpret that release as permission to track a hamburger. Chancer’s an amazing service dog, but he is a dog, and he loves meat.”

If Iyal ordered Chancer to do a wrong or dangerous thing, or to join him in reckless behavior, would Chancer recognize that they were transgressing? Would Chancer disobey Iyal? “When a dog puts a vest on, it changes his persona,” Donnie says. “He knows he’s working. In the service-dog world, they call it the halo effect. Guide dogs for the blind are trained in ‘intelligent disobedience’ for dangerous situations, like traffic. But I don’t know if a dog can reason between right and wrong.”

With every passing year, the challenges to Iyal’s safety, and to the well-being of those around him, multiply. Iyal’s attempts to touch his mother inappropriately are escalating; the Winokurs fear that soon the principal’s office will be calling them, rather than vice versa. “Harvey and I feel like we’re sitting on a volcano,” Donnie says. “Iyal is a 13-year-old who functions cognitively, emotionally and socially like an 8-year-old. That gap will widen. He will never catch up to his chronological age. And few outsiders perceive the difference between ‘neurological noncompetence’ and ‘behavioral noncompliance,’ in other words, that Iyal’s doing the best he can.”

Iyal will never drive. He will never hold a regular job. He doesn’t understand money or time. Experts say that the transition from adolescence to adulthood is particularly difficult for individuals with F.A.S.D. And Chancer won’t be around forever. For as long as they live, the Winokurs hope to make sure there is a 4 Paws dog at Iyal’s side; for now, they cannot conceive of a life without Chancer.

Chancer doesn’t know that Iyal is cognitively impaired. What he knows is that Iyal is his boy. Chancer loves Iyal in a perfect way, with an unconditional love beyond what even the family can offer him. Chancer never feels disappointed in Iyal or embarrassed by Iyal. Beyond cognitive ability or disability, beyond predictions of a bright future or a dismal one, on a field of grass and hard-packed dirt, between the playground and the baseball diamond, you can see them sometimes, the two of them, running, laughing their heads off, sharing a moment of enormous happiness, just a boy and his dog.
198 2012-02-05 What made all this seem possible, even logical, was that the Chinese league was kind of a joke. I saw this firsthand when I spent the 2008-9 season following the Shanxi Brave Dragons, a team owned by an eccentric Chinese steel baron. The C.B.A. fervently wanted to emulate the N.B.A., but it was more like a crazy carnival instead. The refereeing was often shady, the coaching at best mediocre and the level of play sometimes downright awful. Even though basketball was one of China’s most popular sports, several teams struggled to attract more than a few thousand fans. The N.B.A. was far more popular, with higher television ratings and a huge fan base crazy about Kobe Bryant and other stars. The N.B.A. also had , the Chinese center who became an All-Star with the Houston Rockets and was so popular in China that domestic television ratings doubled and tripled for Rockets games.

Those advantages are now fading. Unable to overcome injuries, Yao retired from the N.B.A. after last season and is a part of the C.B.A. as the owner and public face of its team in Shanghai. Television ratings for the Chinese league have jumped, partly because of the added star appeal of exiled N.B.A. players like Chandler, while ratings for the N.B.A. have declined since Yao’s peak years. The C.B.A. has also received a boost from its most surprising star, Stephon Marbury, who has proved unexpectedly adroit at public relations in China after his tumultuous time in the N.B.A. Perhaps the N.B.A.’s biggest challenge of all is that the C.B.A. is part of the Chinese government, under the control of the ruling Communist Party.

Foreign companies doing business in China must inevitably navigate the country’s distinctive brand of “state capitalism,” in which the invisible hand of the market is often hard to free from the tentacles of the authoritarian government. The companies that do best usually exercise patience, maintain a low profile and are careful not to give the state cause to regard them as a threat. When the N.B.A. revealed its ambitious plans for China, it was pursuing the logical next step to expand its already successful business there. But the logic of the Chinese state was very different. As Arthur Kroeber, the managing director of GK Dragonomics, a business consultancy in Beijing, puts it, “Foreign companies that come in here with announced, large, grand strategies — as well as these grand statements about what they are going to achieve — rarely are going to get there.” Stern and the N.B.A. owners were able to handle the players’ union in the lockout. The People’s Republic of China is proving much, much tougher.

Jiang Heping is arguably one of the most powerful figures in global sports as the head of China Central Television’s all-sports channel, known as CCTV5 and sometimes described as China’s equivalent to ESPN. Jiang’s office is inside the old CCTV building on Beijing’s bureaucratic west side. When I met him in December, it was a delicate moment. He was in a tough negotiation with the N.B.A. over the renewal of broadcast rights, with less than two weeks to go before the opening of the lockout-shortened N.B.A. season on Dec. 25.

“To be frank, I haven’t found a solution,” Jiang told me, conceding that failure to reach a deal would mean a blackout of the N.B.A. on the country’s all-sports channel.

Jiang, whose office is decorated with photographs of him with Shaquille O’Neal and Kobe Bryant, seemed genuinely anxious about the stalemate. The problem was advertising: CCTV was demanding changes in an arrangement that for years allowed the N.B.A. to sell a share of ad time during games for its own corporate partners. “I was instructed from above that we can’t maintain such a business model,” Jiang said, referring to the officials who run all the CCTV channels, which constitute the Communist Party’s most influential propaganda mouthpiece.

The N.B.A.’s formal relationship with CCTV began in 1987 — the year Wilson Chandler was born — when David Stern visited Beijing with a demo tape in hand. Stern had no idea that China’s economy would soon remake the world — few people did — but he realized earlier than most that globalization would change sports by transforming games and players into commodities that television could deliver across borders. He made a deal to provide CCTV with videotapes of N.B.A. game footage, sent weekly from New York, in exchange for a share of advertising revenues. Since advertising barely existed in China, Stern later said he assumed he was largely giving his highlights away in exchange for exposure to the vast Chinese audience. Basketball already had a long history in China, having been brought to the country by the Young Men’s Christian Association a few years after James Naismith invented the game in 1891 in Springfield, Mass. Nearly a century later, rough highlights of N.B.A. games would begin appearing on a weekly CCTV sports program, and Chinese viewers would get their first glimpses of Magic, Bird and, most significant, Michael Jordan.

By the 1990s, when Jordan’s Chicago Bulls were most dominant, CCTV was paying the N.B.A. to show its games, as were provincial and city TV stations. What’s more, advertising revenues were starting to materialize, as the games became a popular way for companies to introduce themselves to the Chinese consumer. Today a major chunk of the N.B.A.’s revenues in China come from marketing partnerships with multinational corporations and Chinese companies.

The biggest boon for the N.B.A. came in 2002, when Yao was the first pick in the N.B.A. draft. CCTV5 soon began broadcasting live N.B.A. games throughout the week. Viewership soared, despite a time difference that meant N.B.A. games were on during the morning rush in China. Games between two ordinary teams might draw 10 to 15 million viewers (and perhaps three times as many if Yao was playing).

The N.B.A. had already opened an office in Beijing and inaugurated a series of annual preseason games in China when, in late 2006, Stern mentioned during the Reuters Media Summit in New York that the N.B.A. was also considering having its own league in China. Privately, N.B.A. officials were exploring how to incorporate an N.B.A. subsidiary company as a separate Chinese entity. In 2007, they made presentations to prospective investors and raised $253 million from some of China’s most powerful private and state-owned companies, as well as from ESPN/Disney. said this $253 million stake represented about 11 percent of the new company, which suggested that the total value was about $2.4 billion. The new subsidiary, N.B.A. China, was announced in January 2008, and in August, the N.B.A. used the 2008 Beijing Olympics as a stage to show off its global dominance. N.B.A. stars were playing for several countries, and more than 150 million viewers watched an opening-round game pitting the American team against Yao and the Chinese team.

Then last year, within a matter of days, Yao retired and the N.B.A. owners locked out the players. “The lockout was a blow to the N.B.A. brand,” Jiang told me in December.

The timing of the lockout certainly was lousy for Wilson Chandler. After flourishing with the and being shipped to the Nuggets in the trade for Carmelo Anthony last season, Chandler entered the off-season hoping for a big payday and some professional stability. Instead, he was restless and adrift, shuttling between workouts as his agent, Chris Luchey, listened to offers from teams in Italy and then China. In the early days of the lockout, some of the N.B.A.’s biggest stars, including Bryant, Anthony and Chris Paul, contemplated deals with Chinese teams, including an unconfirmed offer to Bryant of a once-unthinkable $1.5 million per month from the steel-baron owner of the Brave Dragons. The spectacle of China’s outbidding Europe for top American talent seemed to be a portent of a new age.

But the top official in the Chinese league is a creature of the old age, an old-school Communist Party bureaucrat named Xin Lancheng, who put his foot down, prohibiting Chinese teams from signing N.B.A. players who were already under contract at the time of the lockout. Only free agents would be eligible — and they would have to sign that binding contract. This was partly about pride, and arrogance, but it was also consistent with an ethos that has prevailed since China opened itself to the outside world in 1978: foreigners are not invited to China to profiteer; they are invited to make the Chinese better. Even N.B.A. players.

After dozens of telephone calls, and a soul-searching getaway weekend in Miami with Luchey, Chandler chose China over Italy. The Chinese league is a hybrid in the same way China’s economy is a hybrid, with some of its 17 teams still owned by local governments or sports bureaus and other teams privately owned by Chinese millionaires willing to spend for foreign talent. The Zhejiang Lions, a privately owned team, offered Chandler more than $2 million, far more than the Italian offer. The Chinese league also played a schedule similar to that in the N.B.A., with three games a week from November to February. Chandler preferred to play more games, because he had lost past off-seasons to rehabbing injuries and wanted to hone his skills. Chandler also was eager to work with the new head coach of the Lions, the longtime assistant and N.B.A. lifer Jim Cleamons, who moved to China for opportunity as well.

Italy did offer one distinct advantage: if the lockout ended, Chandler could return to the N.B.A. “We had 15 different conversations about what happens when the lockout ends,” Luchey says. “I told him 100 times: ‘The season is going to go. There is going to be a season.’ ” But Luchey also reminded Chandler that he would be the first N.B.A. player in his prime to sign in China. “Once you do this, you are going to be a trendsetter,” Luchey promised. And soon enough, Luchey was right. J. R. Smith, Aaron Brooks, , Patrick Mills and a few other N.B.A. players signed with Chinese teams. Martin signed the biggest contract in league history, reported to be at least $2.5 million for the season.

Finally, China had one more crucial thing going for it. “You have the fan base,” Luchey says. An estimated 300 million people play basketball in China, roughly the population of the . Bryant, , Steve Nash, and other stars have visited China during past off-seasons, promoting sneakers or the N.B.A. or themselves. Playing in China meant exposure in a basketball market that seems certain to become the biggest in the world — even if how best to capitalize on that market remains an open question.

Yao Ming now lives in Shanghai with his wife and infant daughter, near the city’s fashionable Xintiandi neighborhood. He has become involved in a venture focused on the Chinese market and is a spokesman for wildlife conservation, most recently campaigning to return pandas to the wild. He is also studying at Jiao Tong University, taking classes in algebra and English as well as a survey course called Topics in Modern Chinese History. Having grown up inside China’s government-run sports system, one of his new priorities is pushing for an expansion of college sports. The C.B.A. still depends on the Soviet-style system that produced Yao, yet that system is failing — not only in training elite players but also in producing enough players.“We have to build a bridge between the C.B.A. and college basketball that doesn’t exist now,” he told me. “We need more players and good, quality players.”

By “we,” Yao was obviously no longer talking about the N.B.A. Most fans in the United States and even China identify him with the N.B.A., but the Chinese league never completely let him go. When I spoke with Bai Xilin, the C.B.A.’s director of basketball operations, he described Yao as a prodigal. “He’s someone who left the C.B.A. and has come back as an owner,” Bai said, smiling. “He’s really influential.” Now owner of the Shanghai Sharks, the team he played for before moving to the N.B.A., Yao had obvious star appeal at a home game I attended in December. When he arrived midway through the first quarter, fans stopped watching the game and rushed forward to snap his photograph or just gawk.

When I asked Yao about the challenges facing the N.B.A. in China, he smiled and teasingly asked, “Besides losing me?” He quickly emphasized that his wasn’t a “big deal,” because other N.B.A. superstars like Bryant and James are enormously popular in China. Still, he agreed that finding another Chinese star would help. “Of course, that would be the best,” he said. The N.B.A. once hoped it had found a successor in Yi Jianlian, but Yi has never risen above mediocrity, and the most promising young players currently in the Chinese league are not ready. The C.B.A. has still not found a formula to produce world-class players.

The Shanghai Sharks have struggled to sell tickets, and Yao said that Chinese fans, having watched the N.B.A. on television, are understandably impatient with the lower quality of play in the Chinese league. This is one reason why the idea of an N.B.A.-affiliated league in China made perfect sense. But that wasn’t enough to prevent it from being a political miscalculation. Stern’s comments at the Reuters Summit, delivered almost as an aside, were quickly picked up in the Chinese media and caught the attention of the man who then ran the C.B.A., Li Yuanwei. A former college professor, Li was known as a reformer who admired the N.B.A.’s business model. I spoke with Li during my season following the Shanxi Brave Dragons, and he recalled being stunned when he learned about Stern’s plans for an N.B.A. league.

“He had never said this before to us,” Li said. “If he had said he wanted to cooperate with the C.B.A., then that would have been understandable. But he didn’t say a word, which meant he knew nothing about China.”

Some C.B.A. officials told me that they wondered if the N.B.A. fully understood Chinese law, which made it very difficult to form a league without approval from the government, which, after all, ran the C.B.A. Stern and the N.B.A. seemed to recover fairly quickly, though, with talk of collaborating with the C.B.A. in any future league. Some sort of deal seemed possible, especially if the Olympics, as many predicted, ushered in a new wave of reform of the country’s state-dominated sports system. By the opening ceremony, expectations were rising that an announcement might be coming.

It didn’t happen. Months earlier, in an unpublicized meeting, Tim Chen, then chief executive of N.B.A. China, presented a proposal to Li Yuanwei, in which both sides would equally control a new eight-team league under the N.B.A. brand. C.B.A. owners would have the first right to buy a team for $50 million. Li Yuanwei, already distracted by preparations for the Olympics, flatly rejected the plan and postponed any further discussions until after the Games. Instead, when Stern returned to Beijing for an exhibition game, a month and a half after the Olympics, he discussed the N.B.A.’s plans to help develop and manage a network of new arenas across China. “If we do get to the point where we have that cooperative league,” he said, “we’ll have the buildings already.”

The N.B.A., however, has largely suspended those grand plans for the foreseeable future, while also stalling plans to build N.B.A. retail stores throughout the country. David Shoemaker, who became N.B.A. China’s chief executive in June, said the N.B.A.’s agenda now involves several collaborations with the Chinese league, including exchanges in which Chinese coaches and referees receive training in the United States, as well as a basketball academy in southern China to develop elite players. As for a league? Shoemaker called it a distant possibility, if the conditions are right, and if cooperation can be achieved with the C.B.A. “We’re taking a long-term view,” he told me, adding later that “N.B.A. basketball is clearly the most popular sports league in the country.”

Shoemaker said he was now emphasizing the development of e-commerce to sell merchandise, while also expanding the league’s thriving online presence, where more and more Chinese fans are watching games streamed on the Internet. In late December, the N.B.A. did conclude a new contract with CCTV5, avoiding what would have been an embarrassing absence on state television. Shoemaker declined to discuss the deal’s specifics beyond saying it did have “an advertising component.” But given the tough line taken by CCTV officials, it seems very likely that the split in advertising is less generous than it was in the past. As a privately held entity, N.B.A. China does not issue public earnings reports, but Shoemaker said it is “a cash-flowing and fast-growing company at present.”

Shoemaker did say he would love to collaborate with Yao, whose influence does seem to be growing. Last month, Yao was appointed to the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference of Shanghai, which advises the city’s government. The position is mostly ceremonial, but Yao is now part of the Chinese state, too.

Kenyon Martin, the former Denver Nugget, was the first to leave China. In late December, Martin’s team, the Xinjiang Flying Tigers, allowed him to buy out his contract. His teammate, Patrick Mills, formerly of the Portland Trail Blazers, was released in early January, after the Xinjiang general manager accused him of faking a hamstring injury, a charge Mills denied. The catch for Mills and Martin is that their exile continues: Xinjiang refused to grant them the required letters of clearance, meaning neither can sign with an N.B.A. team until after the Chinese season. Everyone else seems to have gotten the message: J. R. Smith, another former Denver Nugget, opened the season by getting in a public spat with his general manager but has since mostly toed the line while putting up big numbers for his team in southeastern China.

The voice of reason, the man counseling Smith and other frustrated N.B.A. players, is Marbury, the former Knicks guard whose behavior often infuriated coaches and fans in the United States. Having found that N.B.A. teams either no longer wanted him or no longer wanted to pay him what he thought he was worth, Marbury moved to China three seasons ago and is now the country’s most beloved foreign player, starring for the Beijing Ducks, professing his love for the country, riding the Beijing subway to show the common touch (and posting photographs of himself doing so on his microblog). Marbury has proved himself a good citizen and a shrewd marketer; he is now promoting his discounted line of Starbury sneakers in the Chinese market. When I mentioned Marbury’s name to Bai Xilin, the C.B.A. official, Bai jumped out of his chair and pantomimed Marbury — Ma Bu Li! — directing lay-up drills, as he has been reported doing by the Chinese press. “The other foreign players are just sitting on the bench in warm-ups and don’t take part,” Bai said. “It looks arrogant, extremely arrogant. He knows how to be part of the culture of a Chinese team and with Chinese society.”

In Hangzhou, Chandler has consulted with Marbury, who told him to stay positive, though Chandler had already reached out to his Chinese teammates. A team in the Chinese league could be compared to a tenuous geopolitical coalition. Each team is usually allowed two foreign players, whose playing time is restricted, because their stated purpose is to provide better competition for domestic players without taking all the minutes. Yet it is a formula that distorts the game: because foreigners make the most money, they are expected to score the most points or grab the most rebounds, which means they often hog the ball during their time on the court, sometimes annoying their Chinese teammates. There are other demarcations too: on most teams, the Chinese players live together for much of the year in drab dormitories, while the foreigners live in nice hotels with room service and other amenities. As a season wears on, resentment can easily arise.

Not long after he arrived, Chandler asked the general manager’s permission for a one-night waiver of the curfew and took the entire team, including the team interpreter, to dinner and a night of karaoke. Luchey says he probably calls Liu Hua, the team interpreter (whose English name is Bob), from 3 to 15 times a day. Need to order a steak-and-cheese sandwich for delivery from Subway? Call Bob. Need to talk to the team’s general manager? Call Bob. One evening in December, Chandler invited two teammates, Wang Fei and Wang Zirui, to dinner at a Western-style restaurant where the Chinese waiters were dressed in red Santa caps. Bob was absent, so the three players smiled, slapped hands and then barely spoke, instead whipping out their iPhones and typing into their translation apps. Chandler held the phone in his huge hands, pecking away for a few minutes, then handed it to Wang Fei, who read it for a moment and started laughing. Then he typed out a response and handed it to Chandler, who stared at the phone and started laughing.

“They are pretty much regular guys,” Chandler says. “Fun to be around.” He has been startled by how often the Chinese players are required to practice, almost year round. “It seems like it is the army,” he says. “You start when you are young, in the schools, and you sleep at the gym. You are just drilled every day.” On the court, Chandler averaged more than 26 points and about 10 rebounds a game up to the holiday break for the Lunar New Year. In past seasons, some disgruntled foreigners simply did not come back after the holiday, but Chandler stayed in Hangzhou and practiced.

“We’re big on commitment,” Luchey says. “When you make a commitment, you stand on it.”

It hasn’t always been easy, especially when the lockout ended. “It was tough,” Chandler says. “I was like, ‘Man, it ended kind of early.’ I wanted to go back and play.” He has kept in contact with friends in the N.B.A. by and says he grew mopey when players began reporting to training camps without him. Luchey predicted that Chandler would be rewarded with a good contract once he returns to the N.B.A., and the Nuggets seem eager to keep him, maintaining regular contact with him. Depending on the playoff fate of the Zhejiang Lions, Chandler could be back in the N.B.A. by March.

Till then, Chandler will continue to live the relatively unpampered life of a C.B.A. basketball player. His team travels on commercial flights, economy class. Chandler tries to sit on an exit row, for leg room, but twice flight attendants have ordered him to move, on the grounds that he cannot speak Mandarin in case of an emergency. “It’s not bad if you are next to one of the guards,” he says. “But it is when you are by one of the big guys.” One thing Chandler has not lacked during his Chinese exile is public support. After a game, when he walks out of the locker room to the team bus, fans swarm around him, pressing together in a scrum, screaming and shouting. Some foreign players find these crowds unnerving, given all the pushing and shoving, but Chandler just moves forward, signing autographs as he goes.

“They are really good people at heart, prideful people,” he says. “They want to be their own brand, own country. Just look at how they didn’t sell the C.B.A. to the N.B.A. They want to build their own brand.”
199 2012-02-05 Hundreds of readers responded online to an article in last Sunday's Metropolitan section by Jenny Anderson and Rachel Ohm about the rising cost of private-school tuition in New York City, many expressing outrage -- at the excesses of private educa...
200 2012-02-05 Land Rovers began as basic, functional equipment, said Gerry McGovern, the company's head of design since 2004. But with the introduction of the Range Rover models, it became modern and comfortable. Mr. McGovern compared the evolution to that of m...
201 2012-02-06 Jelle Visser, a journalist for the Dutch news television program, “EenVandaag,” explains why he was charged with invading the privacy of a convicted Nazi war criminal in Germany.
202 2012-02-06 The larger issue of the harm to homeowners from foreclosures triggered by the collapse in the housing market has not yet been addressed in any criminal prosecutions, according to White Collar Watch....
203 2012-02-06 The larger issue of the harm to homeowners from foreclosures triggered by the collapse in the housing market has not yet been addressed in any criminal prosecutions, according to White Collar Watch....
204 2012-02-06 "The Intouchables," the comedy-drama by Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano, stars Francois Cluzet as a paralyzed millionaire who forges an unlikely friendship with the Senegalese parolee (Omar Sy) he hired to take care of him. It has gone on to bec...
205 2012-02-06 "The Intouchables," the comedy-drama by Olivier Nakache and Eric Toledano, stars François Cluzet as a paralyzed millionaire who forges an unlikely friendship with the Senegalese parolee (Omar Sy) he hired to take care of him. It has gone on to be...
206 2012-02-06 Gary Caloroso joined the Los Angeles office of GolinHarris, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, executive director, lead and managing accounts in the food and beverage area of the office’s consumer practice. Mr. Caloroso had most recently been vice president at AugustineIdeas, Roseville, Calif.

Teresa Caro joined the Atlanta office of Engauge in a new post, vice president for social marketing. She had most recently been vice president for strategy at rDialogue.

Kristin Cohen rejoined Saveur magazine, New York, as associate publisher, the post she held there before leaving to become vice president for business development at the Intellivent Group. The post had not been filled in her absence, the magazine said. Saveur is part of the Bonnier Corporation, owned by the Bonnier Group.

Frannie Danzinger joined Bizo, San Francisco, in a new post, director for marketplace development. She had most recently been senior vice president for media at Gyro.

Denver Zoo selected Cactus, Denver, as advertising agency of record. Since 2008, the assignment, with a budget of less than $1 million, had been handled internally and by various agencies on a project basis.

David Garber joined Pixomondo as executive producer for motion graphics, leading a newly formed design division in the Los Angeles office. He had been executive producer and head of production at Rok!t Studio, Santa Monica, Calif.

Gazprom International hired Fifteen Degrees, New York, to create its worldwide online identity. Billings have not been determined. There was no previous agency for the assignment.

Greenough, Boston, promoted two employees and hired two others as part of a reorganization. Scott Bauman, senior vice president, becomes executive vice president, overseeing creative services. Stacey Mann, senior vice president, becomes executive vice president, overseeing account services. The new employees are Barbara Call, who joins as director for content after working for publications that include PC Week, and Andrea LePain, who joins as director for media relations after serving as managing editor with New England Cable News.

Hill & Knowlton Strategies, New York, part of WPP, will offer clients a new service, called the Corporate Advisory Group, to be led by Jack Martin, global chairman and chief executive at Hill & Knowlton Strategies, and Andrew Laurence, global vice chairman for corporate, who is based in London.

Hospitality Sales and Marketing Association International, will present its lifetime achievement awards to two recipients at the association’s annual Adrian Awards event, to take place in New York on Feb. 27. Eric A. Danziger, president and chief executive at the Wyndham Hotel Group, will receive the Albert E. Koehl Award for advertising and marketing. And Mary Gendron, president and Middleton & Gendron Brand Communications, will receive the Winthrop W. Grice Award for public relations excellence.

John Howard joined the New York office of Broadway Systems as project manager. He has worked at companies that include SiriusXM Radio and VCI Solutions.

Michael Iantosca joined AdSafe Media, New York, in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had been vice president for ad sales at Vevo.

J Public Relations, San Diego and New York, hired three employees and promoted three others. The newcomers are Greer Brody, publicity assistant in the New York office; Lauren Kita, publicity assistant in the San Diego office; and Ali Lundberg, director, in the San Diego office. The employees being promoted are Calee Brean, a publicist, who becomes a senior publicist; Allison Frazier, a junior publicist, who becomes a publicist; and Jessica Smith, a publicist, who becomes a senior publicist.

David Kieselstein joined Penton Media, New York, as chief executive, succeeding Sharon Rowlands, who left to join Altegrity, Falls Church, Va., as chief executive. Mr. Kieselstein had been chief executive at TNS North America, part of the Taylor Nelson Sofres division of the Kantar Group, which is owned by WPP. Penton is owned by MidOcean Partners and Wasserstein & Company.

Dean Mastrojohn joined Reckitt Benckiser, Parsippany, N.J., as communications director for North America. He had been corporate media relations manager for North America at Unilever, Englewood Cliffs, N.J.

Nature Made vitamins and supplements, sold by Pharmavite, Northridge, Calif., selected Amazon Advertising, San Francisco, part of the Leo Burnett division of the Publicis Groupe, as agency of record for campaigns to appear in traditional and digital media. Spending was not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by Ogilvy West, Los Angeles, part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP.

PQ Media, Stamford, Conn., reported that advertising revenue for mobile and social media in the United States totaled $45.4 billion last year, up 30.2 percent from 2010. The growth rate for this year is expected to be 30.8 percent, the company said in a report, “PQ Media U.S. Mobile and Social Media Forecast 2012-16.”

Harry Roman joined Leo Burnett New York as strategy director. He has previously worked for agencies that include Droga5, New York, and the New York office of Taxi. Leo Burnett New York is part of the Leo Burnett division of the Publicis Groupe.

Fernando Emilio Silva joined MediaCom, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, as chief executive for Latin America, succeeding Mariano Roman, who left in July, the agency said. Mr. Silva had been chairman for Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean at Vivaki, part of the Publicis Groupe.
207 2012-02-06 Stella McCartney appears in a new video by the People for the Ethical Treatment Animals, released today. It's worth watching....
208 2012-02-06 Stella McCartney appears in a new video by the People for the Ethical Treatment Animals, released today. It's worth watching....
209 2012-02-06 The two companies will combine to try to give customers more access to video on the Web, and possibly position the new venture as an alternative to Netflix....
210 2012-02-06 The two companies will combine to try to give customers more access to video on the Web, and possibly position the new venture as an alternative to Netflix....
211 2012-02-06 International students make up a higher percentage of incoming students at state schools than in the past, and pay a disproportionate amount of tuition....
212 2012-02-06 International students make up a higher percentage of incoming students at state schools than in the past, and pay a disproportionate amount of tuition....
213 2012-02-06 According to Garp, there are more than21,000 certified financial risk managers around the world. Certification involves, in addition to passing the organization’s exam, two years of experience, and costs from $800 to $1,200.

The campaign is aimed more broadly than previous ads from Garp, which were directed to risk managers wanting to achieve certification to improve their career prospects.

The new ads are also being addressed to organizations, institutions and employers, asking them to regard certification as a financial risk manager as a seal of approval.

“It is a challenge” to raise awareness among both potential audiences, says Kathleen Alcorn, managing director and global head of marketing and membership at Garp in Jersey City.

But “there has always been a need to expand the conversation,” she adds, and “this year our goal was to try to find that common ground.” “The beauty of this campaign is that it speaks directly to those who want to take the exam and to senior managers,” Ms. Alcorn says, “talking about what ‘certified financial risk manager’ means.”

The ads are “a direct call, a call to arms, if you will, to get certified or hire someone who’s certified,” she adds.

The organization, which has worked with the Gate Worldwide for about a year and a half, gave the agency “a strategic messaging brief,” Ms. Alcorn says, that discussed how “there’s a need in the financial industry worldwide right now, and F.R.M.’s are the solution.”

The agency “came back with three very different campaigns,” she adds, and the ads with the images resembling photos taken at boxing matches were “the most dramatic and the most eye-catching.”

“It certainly was the one of the three that got the most attention and the most discussion” from Garp executives, Ms. Alcorn says, who concluded that what they were seeking to accomplish “requires that stopping power.”

“The reason we chose it was that it’s rooted in an emotionally charged truth,” she adds, that the photos bring to life “what’s felt when an institution is not prepared” for problems like “rogue trading, mismanagement of funds and sovereign debt crises.”

“These issues continue to plague our industry,” Ms. Alcorn says, which is a reason “why this campaign was chosen” from among those proposed.

“The point is that the industry is getting hammered, but there’s a solution,” she adds. “It’s a positive message: ‘We have qualified people out there you can hire.’ ”

The text of the print ads expand on that message.

“Unforeseen risk is everywhere,” one ad begins. “You can find it within an organization or throughout the global economy.”

“That’s why more companies are turning to certified financial risk managers,” the ad continues. “Every F.R.M. has mastered the specialized knowledge that’s sought after by banks, consultancies, corporations and asset management firms.”

Another ad begins: “In a world of financial risk, organizations can never be too prepared. That’s why more global companies are relying on certified financial risk managers.”

“As an F.R.M., you’ll be recognized for mastering the complexities of credit, market and operational risks,” the ad continues. “You’ll also play a critical role in the financial well-being of banks, consultancies, corporations and asset management firms.”

The ads all end by pointing readers to the Garp Web site, at . The ads also include a QR (quick response) code, which can be scanned to learn more about the organization.

“We’re all experiencing this financial crisis,” says David Bernstein, executive creative director at the Gate Worldwide, adding he knows that “as a veteran of a lot of advertising agencies that no longer exist.”

“In the past, we’ve done advertising telling people to get the certification by saying, ‘You’ll be more qualified, you’ll have a better career, you’ll make more money,’ ” Mr. Bernstein says, an approach that is “logical for any credential.”

“Now, we’re also telling employers, ‘Hey, these are the kind of people you need, credentialed,’ ” he adds.

Although the concept for the campaign “did make the palms sweat” of some executives at Garp, Mr. Bernstein says, something “so visceral” was just what was needed.

He describes the message the ads convey this way, with a nod to the economist Adam Smith: “The invisible hand, it packs a punch.”

That has a double meaning, Mr. Bernstein acknowledges, in that the hand delivering the punch in each ad is invisible, too.

“We don’t want to show someone getting hit,” he says. “We want to show the result: what it feels like, what you look like.”

“Movies do this all the time,” he adds. “Instead of seeing the house on fire, you see the crispy doll.”

In this instance, “you see somebody in a suit, and the aftermath of getting hit,” Mr. Bernstein says. “Anyone would want to read the headline” and the rest of the ad, which asks “wouldn’t you want the smartest people, F.R.M.’s, on your side?” in case of financial emergency.

In trying to raise awareness for the certification exam, the campaign is certainly timely.

“In 2009, we had our largest year in registrations” for the exam, Ms. Alcorn says, which rose 70 percent compared with 2008.

“People stood up and took notice,” she adds.

The campaign is running in several media that are owned by Bloomberg, including magazines, Bloomberg Radio and the Bloomberg terminals.

In social media, Garp has a presence on Facebook, http://www.facebook.com/#!/garpfrm LinkedIn and Twitter. https://twitter.com/#!/GARP_Risk

“Social has been a good vehicle for us,” Ms. Alcorn says.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. And read coverage anytime of advertising, marketing, television, print, movies and new media on the Media Decoder blog at mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com.
214 2012-02-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
215 2012-02-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
216 2012-02-06 Studies indicate that putting in extra hours at the office can elevate the risk of developing anxiety and depression....
217 2012-02-06 Studies indicate that putting in extra hours at the office can elevate the risk of developing anxiety and depression....
218 2012-02-06 No matter how much discipline you think you have, automating good financial behavior will probably lead to more success than sheer willpower....
219 2012-02-06 No matter how much discipline you think you have, automating good financial behavior will probably lead to more success than sheer willpower....
220 2012-02-06 The business model of social media sites like Facebook are threatened by the increasing use of mobile devices.
221 2012-02-06 "Rango," "Hugo," "Harry Potter" and "Dragon Tattoo" took home specialty awards over the weekend....
222 2012-02-06 "Rango," "Hugo," "Harry Potter" and "Dragon Tattoo" took home specialty awards over the weekend....
223 2012-02-06 Basic economics, still relevant....
224 2012-02-06 Basic economics, still relevant....
225 2012-02-06 It is one of the most convoluted arrangements in Washington for complying with campaign finance laws - and that is saying something....
226 2012-02-06 It is one of the most convoluted arrangements in Washington for complying with campaign finance laws - and that is saying something....
227 2012-02-06 China says it has instructed its airlines not to comply with European Union rules requiring carriers to pay to offset their emissions....
228 2012-02-06 China says it has instructed its airlines not to comply with European Union rules requiring carriers to pay to offset their emissions....
229 2012-02-06 Plus: Do you plan to attend a trade show this year?...
230 2012-02-06 Plus: Do you plan to attend a trade show this year?...
231 2012-02-06 Mali and Ghana advanced to the semifinals at the African Cup of Nations....
232 2012-02-06 Mali and Ghana advanced to the semifinals at the African Cup of Nations....
233 2012-02-06 A double standard about paid agents leaves foreign students vulnerable, some say....
234 2012-02-06 A double standard about paid agents leaves foreign students vulnerable, some say....
235 2012-02-06 ¶Merck & Company named McCann HumanCare, New York, as the agency of record for consumer advertising for the respiratory brands Dulera, Nasonex and Singulair. Spending was not disclosed. The decision was the most recent in a series of changes in agency relationships for Merck drug products. Dulera had previously been handled by DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group, and Nasonex had previously been handled by BBDO Worldwide, also part of Omnicom; Singulair had no previous agency. McCann HumanCare is part of the McCann Erickson Worldwide unit of the McCann Worldgroup, which is owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.

¶Medifast, Owings Mill, Md., which offers weight-loss programs, selected Solve, Minneapolis, to handle tasks like branding, for which there had been no previous agency. Spending was not disclosed; in past years, the budget ranged from $30 million to $40 million. A campaign will carry the theme “Become yourself.”

¶Safety-Kleen Systems, Plano, Tex., hired the New York office of Cramer-Krasselt as the first agency of record for EcoPower, its brand of motor oil recycled and refined from reclaimed motor oil. Spending was estimated at less than $5 million.

¶Destination D.C., the convention and tourism corporation for Washington, D.C., chose MDB Communications, Washington, as agency of record for creative and media planning tasks. Spending for the assignment, which had previously been handled internally, was estimated at $1.8 million.

¶National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, Cooperstown, N.Y., named Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its strategic and creative adviser. There had not been an agency previously. Carmichael Lynch will create campaigns pro bono to encourage tourists to visit the hall of fame and museum.
236 2012-02-06 The first thing you notice in “Lilyhammer” — before the presence of Steven Van Zandt, playing a less mannered version of his Mafia capo from “The Sopranos,” and before the sheep’s head lying in the road — is the big red Netflix logo. It announces that this is a Netflix original series (its first) and that another front is being opened in streaming video’s war on television.

Netflix didn’t make “Lilyhammer,” a low-key black comedy starring Mr. Van Zandt, who played the stand-up guy Silvio Dante in “The Sopranos.” It was made by a Norwegian production company for the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation, which began showing it on Jan. 25. But Netflix helped finance it, and on Monday all eight episodes of the first season will have their American premiere via streaming video. If you want to watch them on a television, the set will have to be connected to Netflix — but it won’t have to be connected to a cable company.

Pretty soon such things will go without saying. For now they’re still novel, and “Lilyhammer” is both a trailblazer and an interesting test case. It may be a Netflix property, but it’s a traditional TV show, and the episodes are about 50 minutes long, far beyond the norm for a Web series.

“Lilyhammer” is most distinctive simply for being a foreign show presented in its original form, with subtitles (though a good share of the dialogue, including nearly all of Mr. Van Zandt’s, is in English). That’s something virtually unheard of on mainstream American television. The possibility of increased access to current foreign-language TV, beyond newscasts and Asian cartoons and soap operas, is a good reason to root for the streaming services.

So how is “Lilyhammer”? Odd mostly. It tries to combine elements of American mob stories and Scandinavian mysteries, seasoned with frequent overt references to “The Sopranos,” but the mixture is pretty flat in the first episode.
237 2012-02-06 BEIJING — In a fresh illustration of growing turmoil among ethnic Tibetans in Sichuan Province, three livestock herders have set themselves on fire to protest what they saw as political and religious repression at the hands of the Chinese authorities, according to a Tibetan rights group and an ethnic Tibetan living in Beijing.

The latest cases bring the total self-immolations by ethnic Tibetans over the past year to 19. They were also apparently the first by lay people, rather than current or former members of the clergy, suggesting that self-immolation may be gaining popularity as a form of dissent. The self-immolations took place Friday in a remote village in Seda County, once a center of Buddhist teaching, but reports did not surface until the weekend because the government had cut off Internet and telephone connections to the area, said Tsering Woeser, a Tibetan poet in Beijing.

She said that one of the three men had died and that the two others, believed to be about 30 and 60 years old, were severely injured.

The Chinese government has sealed off a number of counties in the region and intensified security in an attempt to curtail the largest outbreak of unrest among  ethnic Tibetans since the 2008 riots in Tibet’s capital, Lhasa, and elsewhere.

Protests in late January turned deadly in Seda, which is on the border of Gansu Province, and in Luhuo County, known in Tibetan as Draggo, about 80 miles, to the south.
238 2012-02-06 “We’ve had Super Saturday at the U.S. Open for over 30 years, and our fans love it, our television viewers love it, broadcasters, sponsors, everyone loves it,” Curley said. “Even back then, the players liked it, but the game has changed a lot. It’s a lot more physical and to be able to come back on consecutive days with a semi and a final is a real challenge, and so we get that. We understand that, and now it’s just a matter of working through all the various issues we have to make that happen.”

Despite player unrest, Curley said change remained unlikely at the tournament this year because of commercial agreements already in place for 2012. “I think our goal remains to try to come up with something for next year, as in 2013,” he said. “There are so many things that need to be worked through.”

He said CBS, which has televised the U.S. Open in the United States since 1968 and holds the rights through 2014, was receptive to the idea of altering the schedule even though its latest contract, signed in 2011, reportedly stipulated that the final weekend schedule remain unchanged.

“CBS has been a very good partner on this and really wants to work with us to find a solution,” Curley said. “Because they recognize the issue as well, which is good news.”

In an interview before this season, Federer said the players were guardedly optimistic.

“I guess it’s a bit of wait and see and just proving it to us I guess a little bit,” Federer said. “But at the same time, I think it’s been a good move for them to listen to us, because I just think it’s common sense. I just think it’s logical. You just can’t expect that guys can have three days off after their first round and have no day off after the semis. Maybe you’ve dominated the entire field, you know, five matches in a row and then you get into a tough, tough Saturday and then all of the sudden you’re completely out of sorts for the Sunday match.”

In Melbourne, Curley said he had not met with the game’s leading players since the Open last year but met in November at the A.T.P. World Tour Finals in London with the tour administrator, Andre Silva, the chief player officer who works directly with the player council and the A.T.P. board of directors.

“During a Grand Slam or during the finals, you try to give the players the space that they need, so there will be other times for us to sit down and have face-to-face conversations,” Curley said, mentioning the events in March in Indian Wells, California, and Miami as possibilities.

Curley said Open organizers remained undecided on whether change would mean shifting to a Friday-Sunday schedule for the men’s semifinals and final or whether it would mean a Saturday-Monday timeline. He said he expected that if no changes are made this year, the first round would continue to be played over three days, only eventually downshifting to two days if the Friday-Sunday option is chosen. The French Open, which lasts 15 days instead of the customary 14, is the only other Grand Slam event to play the opening round over three days.

If the men are given a day of rest, Curley said that he expected the women would also be given a day of rest between their semifinals and final. The U.S. Open is the only Grand Slam event that does not build in a day of rest before the men’s and women’s singles finals.

The Australian Open, with the security provided by its roofs, plays one men’s semifinal on Thursday and the other on Friday, giving one men’s finalist an additional day of rest. But that disparity has not yet proven decisive: Nadal had the extra day to recover this year and still lost to Djokovic in the final, which, at five hours 53 minutes, was the longest recorded final in Grand Slam history.

That final — perhaps the best example yet of the game’s increased physicality — might not have finished until the following afternoon if not for the roof over Rod Laver Arena. It was closed because of rain at 4-all in the 4th set, allowing play to continue indoors. If it had been the U.S. Open, there would have been no such alternative, but Curley said despite continued study, there was still no “short-term” prospect of putting a roof over Arthur Ashe Stadium or smaller courts.

“I think the good news is that the technology continues to improve, and that provides hope, but there’s just nothing concrete there as far as covering Ashe is concerned,” Curley said. “We’re looking longer term, and that’s all part and parcel of that discussion. I don’t even know what the timeline is, but when you’ve got a facility like Ashe that is 15 years old and it has 20 to 25 years left on its life span, that becomes an issue.”

Other issues are also returning to the forefront in the men’s game, including player compensation, with many players expressing dissatisfaction with the percentage of revenue they continue to receive from the Grand Slam tournaments. Players have cited numbers ranging from 11 percent to 14 percent, which would be significantly lower than the percentage they typically receive from regular tour events.

Curley would not confirm those figures but said Open organizers were prepared to speak directly with the players. “If they have a concern, whatever that concern might be, our door is open and we’re willing to talk to them,” he said. “I think the player compensation issue is a complicated one. There’s a lot there, and at the end of the day it’s something we should discuss with the players and walk through.”
239 2012-02-06 When a UPS delivery worker shows up at your house, the bulky handheld that he yanks out for you to write your digital signature is known as a ''rugged device.'' Microsoft's older Windows Mobile operating system is running on the vast majority of t...
240 2012-02-07 Mitt Romney, Rick Santorum and Representative Ron Paul campaigned for victories, or just delegates, in three states. Mr. Santorum went on to take all of the contests, which were essentially nonbinding straw polls and drew small turnouts....
241 2012-02-07 The change is occurring as analysts and India’s central bank conclude that growth — which was at 8.4 percent or higher for much of the last decade — will fall sharply to 7 percent in the current fiscal year and remain sluggish in the next one, which begins in April.

The signs of new salesmanship from Mr. Mukherjee are a notable departure from his demeanor, and that of other Indian officials, for much of 2011, even as their economy was slowing and inflation was gathering steam. Preoccupied by a big anticorruption protest movement and internal bickering among politicians, officials tended to dismiss the gloomy data as unimportant or as temporary setbacks.

But this year, Indian leaders have begun publicly acknowledging the nation’s economic problems.

“The growth slowdown was a nice wake-up call for us,” Kaushik Basu, the chief economic adviser to the Finance Ministry, said in an interview.

Although Mr. Basu noted that some of the slowdown could be attributed to global economic problems, policy makers now recognize that “decision making had slowed down, reforms had slowed down,” he said. “This has the saving grace of avoiding the trap of denial, which is always a risk in policymaking.”

And so officials are pushing ideas that would have seemed anathema just a few months ago — including the proposal to let foreign airlines buy big stakes in Indian airlines. While nationalist sentiments have long blocked such a move, steep losses at some big airlines, including Kingfisher Airlines, Jet Airways and state-owned Air India, seem to be forcing policy makers to reconsider.

A new aviation minister, Ajit Singh, who joined the government in December, has been pushing the foreign investment proposal since a severe cash squeeze at Kingfisher late last year forced the airline to cancel scores of flights and delay paying salaries to pilots and other employees. Many analysts say the company, which is owned and run by the flamboyant liquor baron Vijay Mallya, probably cannot survive unless it finds new investors.

Before Kingfisher’s troubles became big news, bureaucrats quibbled for months about whether foreign airlines should be allowed to buy stakes of about 25 percent. Current rules do not allow any investment by foreign airlines in Indian carriers — although other foreign investors can own up to 49 percent. Soon, the Indian cabinet is expected to consider letting foreign airlines also invest at that level.

In January, the government began allowing retailers that sell just one brand of products, like Gap or Nike, to open wholly owned stores in India — as long as they buy 30 percent of their goods from Indian artisans and small Indian companies.

The chief executive of Ikea, the Swedish furniture and furnishing retailer that has long hoped to set up stores in India, publicly balked at the 30 percent requirement, saying it might force Ikea to table its India plans. That prompted the Indian commerce minister, Anand Sharma, to meet in Paris with the Ikea chief, Mikael Ohlsson, hoping to allay his concerns.

It is unclear how effective that was, or what potential inducements Mr. Sharma might have offered. But according to the government’s account of the meeting, Mr. Ohlsson told Mr. Sharma that he would soon return to India to speak to officials. An Ikea spokesman did not respond to a message seeking comment.

Investors and analysts said they were heartened by the single-brand decision, which was quickly followed by Starbucks’s announcement that it would proceed with long-simmering plans to enter India — even though its initial venture, this year, will be in collaboration with the Indian conglomerate Tata.

But many India watchers say they remain unconvinced that Indian leaders can push through bigger changes — such as opening India to multibrand retailers like Walmart or revamping government policies that have prolonged market and agricultural inefficiencies by awarding $33.8 billion a year in subsidies for food, fuel and fertilizers.

The steps that have been taken indicate “some appetite for economic reform,” said Mark Martyrossian, a fund manager for Tiburon Partners, a London-based firm that has invested in Indian companies. But he predicted the process would be slow and painful because of the “vested interests at play.”

Skeptics point to the politically disastrous effort by the government late last year to open India’s $500 billion retail market to foreign companies.

Less than two weeks after Prime Minister Singh’s administration announced that it would admit big retailers like Walmart and Tesco, it indefinitely suspended the decision. The reversal occurred after a Singh government ally — the Trinamool Congress led by the firebrand politician Mamata Banerjee — threatened to withdraw its support. Losing Ms. Banerjee’s backing could have forced the government to hold new national elections more than two years ahead of schedule.

Ms. Banerjee and other opponents of the retailing plan argued that foreign merchants would hurt small shopkeepers. Proponents, including Mr. Mukherjee, the finance minister, struggled to make the counter argument that foreign supermarkets would help farmers who must sell their produce to an oligarchy of Indian wholesale traders.

“It’s really going to be an uphill battle to convince investors that India is the place to come to,” said Eswar S. Prasad, an economics professor at Cornell University who often advises the Indian government. “The sense right now is that one politician’s whims can very easily close arms that have been opened with great difficulty.”

Professor Prasad argued that India must further liberalize its economy and welcome foreign investors if it is serious about bolstering growth and creating more opportunities for its population of 1.2 billion.

Technocrats like Mr. Basu, the economic adviser to Mr. Mukherjee and also a professor at Cornell, agree with those recommendations in principle. But they have had difficulty convincing India’s divided polity of the merits of that approach.

Much will depend on how Indians vote in elections for state legislatures under way in five states including Uttar Pradesh, India’s largest, with 200 million people, and one of its poorest. A victory for the Congress Party, which rules in New Delhi but controls only two of the five states voting, could empower the government.

Soon after the elections, the results of which will be announced March 6, Mr. Mukherjee plans to present the government’s budget for the coming fiscal year. Based on recent comments by the minister and his aides, some analysts expect him to act to rein in India’s deficit, while proposing new economic changes.

Surjit Bhalla, an economist and fund manager in New Delhi who has long been critical of the government, predicted that India’s slowing economy and ballooning deficit would force policy makers to change their approach.

“They have learned their lesson,” Dr. Bhalla said. “I have not been more optimistic on India than I am now in a long, long time.”
242 2012-02-07 The change is occurring as analysts and India’s central bank conclude that growth — which was at 8.4 percent or higher for much of the last decade — will fall sharply to 7 percent in the current fiscal year and remain sluggish in the next one, which begins in April.

The signs of new salesmanship from Mr. Mukherjee are a notable departure from his demeanor, and that of other Indian officials, for much of 2011, even as their economy was slowing and inflation was gathering steam. Preoccupied by a big anticorruption protest movement and internal bickering among politicians, officials tended to dismiss the gloomy data as unimportant or as temporary setbacks.

But this year, Indian leaders have begun publicly acknowledging the nation’s economic problems.

“The growth slowdown was a nice wake-up call for us,” Kaushik Basu, the chief economic adviser to the Finance Ministry, said in an interview.

Although Mr. Basu noted that some of the slowdown could be attributed to global economic problems, policy makers now recognize that “decision making had slowed down, reforms had slowed down,” he said. “This has the saving grace of avoiding the trap of denial, which is always a risk in policymaking.”

And so officials are pushing ideas that would have seemed anathema just a few months ago — including the proposal to let foreign airlines buy big stakes in Indian airlines. While nationalist sentiments have long blocked such a move, steep losses at some big airlines, including Kingfisher Airlines, Jet Airways and state-owned Air India, seem to be forcing policy makers to reconsider.

A new aviation minister, Ajit Singh, who joined the government in December, has been pushing the foreign investment proposal since a severe cash squeeze at Kingfisher late last year forced the airline to cancel scores of flights and delay paying salaries to pilots and other employees. Many analysts say the company, which is owned and run by the flamboyant liquor baron Vijay Mallya, probably cannot survive unless it finds new investors.

Before Kingfisher’s troubles became big news, bureaucrats quibbled for months about whether foreign airlines should be allowed to buy stakes of about 25 percent. Current rules do not allow any investment by foreign airlines in Indian carriers — although other foreign investors can own up to 49 percent. Soon, the Indian cabinet is expected to consider letting foreign airlines also invest at that level.

In January, the government began allowing retailers that sell just one brand of products, like Gap or Nike, to open wholly owned stores in India — as long as they buy 30 percent of their goods from Indian artisans and small Indian companies.

The chief executive of Ikea, the Swedish furniture and furnishing retailer that has long hoped to set up stores in India, publicly balked at the 30 percent requirement, saying it might force Ikea to table its India plans. That prompted the Indian commerce minister, Anand Sharma, to meet in Paris with the Ikea chief, Mikael Ohlsson, hoping to allay his concerns.

It is unclear how effective that was, or what potential inducements Mr. Sharma might have offered. But according to the government’s account of the meeting, Mr. Ohlsson told Mr. Sharma that he would soon return to India to speak to officials. An Ikea spokesman did not respond to a message seeking comment.

Investors and analysts said they were heartened by the single-brand decision, which was quickly followed by Starbucks’s announcement that it would proceed with long-simmering plans to enter India — even though its initial venture, this year, will be in collaboration with the Indian conglomerate Tata.

But many India watchers say they remain unconvinced that Indian leaders can push through bigger changes — such as opening India to multibrand retailers like Walmart or revamping government policies that have prolonged market and agricultural inefficiencies by awarding $33.8 billion a year in subsidies for food, fuel and fertilizers.

The steps that have been taken indicate “some appetite for economic reform,” said Mark Martyrossian, a fund manager for Tiburon Partners, a London-based firm that has invested in Indian companies. But he predicted the process would be slow and painful because of the “vested interests at play.”

Skeptics point to the politically disastrous effort by the government late last year to open India’s $500 billion retail market to foreign companies.

Less than two weeks after Prime Minister Singh’s administration announced that it would admit big retailers like Walmart and Tesco, it indefinitely suspended the decision. The reversal occurred after a Singh government ally — the Trinamool Congress led by the firebrand politician Mamata Banerjee — threatened to withdraw its support. Losing Ms. Banerjee’s backing could have forced the government to hold new national elections more than two years ahead of schedule.

Ms. Banerjee and other opponents of the retailing plan argued that foreign merchants would hurt small shopkeepers. Proponents, including Mr. Mukherjee, the finance minister, struggled to make the counter argument that foreign supermarkets would help farmers who must sell their produce to an oligarchy of Indian wholesale traders.

“It’s really going to be an uphill battle to convince investors that India is the place to come to,” said Eswar S. Prasad, an economics professor at Cornell University who often advises the Indian government. “The sense right now is that one politician’s whims can very easily close arms that have been opened with great difficulty.”

Professor Prasad argued that India must further liberalize its economy and welcome foreign investors if it is serious about bolstering growth and creating more opportunities for its population of 1.2 billion.

Technocrats like Mr. Basu, the economic adviser to Mr. Mukherjee and also a professor at Cornell, agree with those recommendations in principle. But they have had difficulty convincing India’s divided polity of the merits of that approach.

Much will depend on how Indians vote in elections for state legislatures under way in five states including Uttar Pradesh, India’s largest, with 200 million people, and one of its poorest. A victory for the Congress Party, which rules in New Delhi but controls only two of the five states voting, could empower the government.

Soon after the elections, the results of which will be announced March 6, Mr. Mukherjee plans to present the government’s budget for the coming fiscal year. Based on recent comments by the minister and his aides, some analysts expect him to act to rein in India’s deficit, while proposing new economic changes.

Surjit Bhalla, an economist and fund manager in New Delhi who has long been critical of the government, predicted that India’s slowing economy and ballooning deficit would force policy makers to change their approach.

“They have learned their lesson,” Dr. Bhalla said. “I have not been more optimistic on India than I am now in a long, long time.”
243 2012-02-07 Rick Santorum has won the nonbinding Missouri primary, giving his candidacy a boost after a long stretch in which he trailed his rivals even as he claimed to be the real conservative in the race....
244 2012-02-07 Rick Santorum has won the nonbinding Missouri primary, giving his candidacy a boost after a long stretch in which he trailed his rivals even as he claimed to be the real conservative in the race....
245 2012-02-07 Republicans today are holding caucuses in Colorado and Minnesota and a primary in Missouri. We'll be bringing you data-driven analysis, historical perspective and results as they become available....
246 2012-02-07 Republicans today are holding caucuses in Colorado and Minnesota and a primary in Missouri. We'll be bringing you data-driven analysis, historical perspective and results as they become available....
247 2012-02-07 A casino chain that became an unlucky gamble for two private equity firms is re-entering the public markets....
248 2012-02-07 A casino chain that became an unlucky gamble for two private equity firms is re-entering the public markets....
249 2012-02-07 Updates and analysis from Times reporters on the Republican contests....
250 2012-02-07 Live updates and analysis from the Republican contests in Minnesota, Colorado and Missouri....
251 2012-02-07 The results will provide an important test of how robust Mitt Romney's coalition is on less than favorable terrain and could bolster the campaign of Rick Santorum....
252 2012-02-07 The results will provide an important test of how robust Mitt Romney's coalition is on less than favorable terrain and could bolster the campaign of Rick Santorum....
253 2012-02-07 A federal appeals court has declared California's same-sex marriage ban unconstitutional....
254 2012-02-07 A federal appeals court has declared California's same-sex marriage ban unconstitutional....
255 2012-02-07 From Austin to San Angelo, a chunk of Texas that is as distinctive as the state itself....
256 2012-02-07 From Austin to San Angelo, a chunk of Texas that is as distinctive as the state itself....
257 2012-02-07 Richard J. Holwell, who has served as a federal judge in Manhattan since 2003, is stepping down to set up his own law firm, Holwell Shuster & Goldberg....
258 2012-02-07 Richard J. Holwell, who has served as a federal judge in Manhattan since 2003, is stepping down to set up his own law firm, Holwell Shuster & Goldberg....
259 2012-02-07 In addition to chugging beer and popcorn, football fans who crowded into the Super Bowl stadium were consuming copious amounts of data from wireless networks. AT&T, the nation's No. 2 carrier, said the data use came mostly from people sharing cont...
260 2012-02-07 In addition to chugging beer and popcorn, football fans who crowded into the Super Bowl stadium were consuming copious amounts of data from wireless networks. AT&T, the nation's No. 2 carrier, said the data use came mostly from people sharing cont...
261 2012-02-07 It's official, Barack Obama is joining the super PAC party....
262 2012-02-07 It's official, Barack Obama is joining the super PAC party....
263 2012-02-07 A major foreclosure services company is indicted for "robo-signing," even as a multibillion-dollar deal to provide relief to struggling homeowners offers limited legal protection for financial firms....
264 2012-02-07 A major foreclosure services company is indicted for "robo-signing," even as a multibillion-dollar deal to provide relief to struggling homeowners offers limited legal protection for financial firms....
265 2012-02-07 A major foreclosure services company is indicted for "robo-signing," even as a multibillion-dollar deal to provide relief to struggling homeowners offers limited legal protection for financial firms.
266 2012-02-07 The Oscar nominees' lunch yields interesting tidbits, like the level of applause for "The Help" stars....
267 2012-02-07 The Oscar nominees' lunch yields interesting tidbits, like the level of applause for "The Help" stars....
268 2012-02-07 Images from this prelude to the Feb. 26 Oscar ceremony....
269 2012-02-07 The Park Slope, Brooklyn, shop remains open....
270 2012-02-07 The Park Slope, Brooklyn, shop remains open....
271 2012-02-07 Amid accusations of abuse against two teachers, a Los Angeles school removes them all. Is that how you would want your child's school to respond?...
272 2012-02-07 Amid accusations of abuse against two teachers, a Los Angeles school removes them all. Is that how you would want your child's school to respond?...
273 2012-02-07 For iPhone and iPad owners looking for software in Apple's App Store, it is easy to be overwhelmed by the hundreds of thousands of available apps. To stand out in the crowd, some app makers have apparently found ways to game the system....
274 2012-02-07 For iPhone and iPad owners looking for software in Apple's App Store, it is easy to be overwhelmed by the hundreds of thousands of available apps. To stand out in the crowd, some app makers have apparently found ways to game the system....
275 2012-02-07 How did The New York Times characterize the 2012 Super Bowl ads?...
276 2012-02-07 How did The New York Times characterize the 2012 Super Bowl ads?...
277 2012-02-07 The large Swiss bank's fourth-quarter earnings fell to 393 million Swiss francs, or $427 million, as gains at UBS's wealth management unit failed to make up for the investment banking loss....
278 2012-02-07 The large Swiss bank's fourth-quarter earnings fell to 393 million Swiss francs, or $427 million, as gains at UBS's wealth management unit failed to make up for the investment banking loss....
279 2012-02-07 Kala Ghoda Arts Festival opened in Mumbai on Saturday....
280 2012-02-07 Kala Ghoda Arts Festival opened in Mumbai on Saturday....
281 2012-02-07 The automaker has tightened the front and rear portions of its Z-car for the 2013 model year....
282 2012-02-07 The automaker has tightened the front and rear portions of its Z car for the 2013 model year....
283 2012-02-07 ¶ Marcus Denmon had 25 points as No. 4 Missouri claimed first place in the Big 12 by winning at Oklahoma, 71-68. The Tigers (22-2, 9-2) moved half a game ahead of No. 6 Baylor and No. 7 Kansas. Those teams meet Wednesday. Oklahoma (13-10, 3-8) had a chance to tie with five seconds left, but Romero Osby missed two free throws and Steven Pledger a 3-point attempt.

¶ No. 24 Louisville extended its winning streak to five in an 80-59 victory against visiting Connecticut. The Cardinals (19-5, 7-4 Big East) are beginning to resemble the team that started the season 12-0. The freshman Ryan Boatright led the Huskies (15-8, 5-6) with 18 points.

¶ The No. 5 Duke women blew past No. 22 North Carolina, 96-56. The host Blue Devils (19-3, 10-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) have beaten the Tar Heels (17-6, 7-3) three times in a row.

¶ The Pacific-12 Conference’s board of directors unanimously decided to extend the contract of Commissioner Larry Scott through 2016.
284 2012-02-07 The Pacific-12 Conference’s board of directors unanimously decided to extend the contract of Commissioner Larry Scott through 2016. Since taking over in 2009, Scott has overseen the conference’s expansion, negotiated a 12-year, $3 billion contract with Fox and ESPN and helped created the Pac-12 Network and Pac-12 Digital Network.

¶ The Wisconsin campus police opened an investigation into new misconduct allegations against John Chadima, who resigned last month as associate athletic director after he was accused of sexually assaulting a student at a Rose Bowl party.
285 2012-02-07 Re “AIDS Prevention Inspires Ways to Make Circumcisions Easier” (Jan. 31): With 20 million men targeted to undergo “assembly-line” circumcisions, it’s no surprise that medical equipment manufacturers are rushing to cash in. It appears, though, there’s no money to be made from informed consent; that issue didn’t figure anywhere in this enthusiastic report on the plans of researchers and organizations dominated by white, circumcised Westerners to surgically reduce the penises of poor, non-English-speaking Africans.

The male foreskin comprises 15 square inches of erogenous tissue. Its removal results in an open wound and permanent reduction of sexual sensation.

The writer is president and chief executive of Hudson Health Plan and executive director of Intact America.

As researchers working to make voluntary adult male circumcision safer and more widely available for H.I.V. prevention, we are writing to clarify information about the safety and benefits of the Shang Ring. It was developed by Jianzhong Shang to simplify routine circumcision and reduce complications. It is a sutureless procedure with negligible bleeding, much faster than surgical circumcision, and the product has been in use in China since 2005, with over 200,000 devices sold.

The Shang Ring has substantial safety data, as documented in two peer-reviewed articles in American journals and in over 20 Chinese publications. We have completed two randomized controlled trials in Africa evaluating safety and ease of use. We believe the Shang Ring provides an important option for scaling up male circumcision programs and will help decrease the number of new H.I.V. infections. David C. Sokal, M.D.
286 2012-02-07 The health effects of fructose consumption, largely from high-fructose corn syrup, have been the subject of considerable controversy among scientists and consumers alike. Now a study in the February issue of The Journal of Nutrition reports that fructose consumption may increase cardiovascular risk factors because it increases visceral fat, the kind that accumulates around internal organs.

Researchers examined 559 14- to 18-year-olds in Georgia, recording body mass index, exercise habits and fat mass. They also asked what the students had consumed in the past 24 hours and measured their body fat.

After controlling for other factors, the researchers found that higher fructose consumption was associated with increased systolic blood pressure, C-reactive protein (a sign of systemic inflammation) and visceral fat, and reduced HDL (good) cholesterol — all known risks for cardiovascular disease and Type 2 diabetes.

But when they controlled for visceral fat, the effect of fructose alone was weakened. It was apparently not fructose itself, but its tendency to increase visceral fat that led to a rise in risk factors.

“To just say ‘fructose is bad’ is incorrect,” said Norman K. Pollock, the lead author and an assistant professor of pediatrics at Georgia Health Sciences University. “But when calorie intake from fructose is greater than 16 percent of total intake, we’re seeing these risk factors appear.”
287 2012-02-07 “Bye Bye Blackbird” is a celebration of chasing away the blues once and for all: no antidepressants needed. Eric Clapton’s guitar lends “Get Yourself Another Fool” a blues flavor, but the hue is baby blue, not inky. Frank Loesser’s trickily metered arithmetic lesson, “Inchworm,” from the movie “Hans Christian Andersen,” is aimed at the child inside us all.

More than 40 years have passed since Mr. McCartney infuriated the rock counterculture with the exquisite sketches of his first two post-Beatles records, “McCartney” and “Ram.” The rage and contempt heaped on an artist who was dismissed as trivial and reactionary and a betrayer of the Beatles’ legacy has long since dissipated. What distinguishes Mr. McCartney’s music, then and now, is his utter lack of grandiosity.

As he sang all those years ago in a slightly defensive tone: “Some people wanna fill the world with silly love songs/And what’s wrong with that?”

By sticking to his guns and insisting on being himself, he has answered his own question: nothing at all.

Few musicians working in or around jazz over the last 30 years have developed an idiomatic signature more distinctive than Tim Berne’s. An alto saxophonist with a clear but burly tone and a proprietary set of strategies for improvisation — full of gulps and leaps, odd constructions and angular attack — Mr. Berne can be identified just as easily by his compositional style, which somehow skews both discursive and direct. It’s all of a piece, coming from one central nervous system, with volatility as an underlying theme.

“Snakeoil” nails his aesthetic, right down to the barbed insecurity of the title, which begs for some back story. This is Mr. Berne’s first studio album in eight years and, more to the point, his first for a major label since the late 1980s, when he was briefly on Columbia. (In the ’90s he recorded for JMT, an independent distributed through Polygram, before starting his own shoestring operation, Screwgun.) What makes this pertinent is that “Snakeoil” sounds unmistakably like a well-financed studio product, without thwarting the restive or abrasive qualities of Mr. Berne’s music.

He probably couldn’t have struck this balance without the sinewy strength of a working band, in this case with Oscar Noriega on clarinets, Matt Mitchell on piano and Ches Smith on drums. Over the last few years Mr. Berne has led this configuration of players — Los Totopos, he called it until recently — on a host of small gigs, mainly in Brooklyn. The group, which will play the Rubin Museum of Art in Chelsea on Feb. 17 at the front end of a trans-Atlantic tour, has grown adept not only with Mr. Berne’s language but also with his way of mixing complex structure with free-form interplay.

Grinding momentum is one trademark of Mr. Berne’s approach, and it plays a role here, most obviously in “Scanners” and “Not Sure,” with their tangles of lines for alto saxophone, clarinet and piano. But some compelling frictions are generated on the fly, especially by Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Smith, who both have a way of plasticizing rhythm.

Mr. Berne and Mr. Noriega provide plenty of commentary, each in his own expressive scrawl. Near the end of “Spare Parts” they take turns modulating two-note intervals, in the spirit of answering birdsong. It feels like part of the composition rather than inspired happenstance. But there’s no easy way to be absolutely sure, which is the point. NATE CHINEN

The Australian guitarist and drummer Oren Ambarchi is after transcendence and gets there via two impulses that aren’t as mutually exclusive as they seem: free improvisation and playing within tight conceptual frames in service of a single idea. He finds a way to make one impulse fit inside the other. He’s into recklessness and symmetry.

Mr. Ambarchi, in his early 40s, is a compound musician down to the core, shaped by his travels through improvised and extreme music scenes in Sydney, Melbourne, Vienna, Tokyo, New York and other places; through minimalism, noise, rock, free jazz, doom, electro-acoustic improvisation. And “Audience of One,” recorded in sessions around the world, assumes that listeners won’t be turned off by changes of disposition among and inside its four tracks. He doesn’t mind breaking his own spell.

The first piece, “Salt,” sounds like beatless, ambient art-pop; Paul Duncan, from the Brooklyn band Warm Ghost, sings interior lyrics about gravity and memory in a baritone. But in the middle the key, form and sound change: the morose vocals drop out, and a string group arranged by Eyvind Kang produces gorgeous, consonant, deep-echo long tones over piano notes played so lightly that they seem half-erased.

The centerpiece of the record is “Knots,” which lasts for more than half an hour. It reassures the listener with a few constants: a brisk, quiet, ride-cymbal groove, played by the drummer Joe Talia, and a single note — an A — relayed through the piece by different instruments. But the constants keep evolving. After 10 minutes the cymbal rhythms start to grow more aggressive, and a welter of different sounds slither around the note, from cello, autoharp, French horn, electric guitar. One sound disappears, overlapped by the next, all of them constantly moving. It’s like an aural shell game.

They’re placid sounds, but right in the middle of the track — and also the middle of the album — Mr. Ambarchi, playing electric guitar, breaks the pattern, soloing expressively for five minutes with deep, low-frequency distortion. A horn arrangement appears, playing a series of notes too slow to be described as a melody. Toward the end the A takes a distant background as an intermittent hum, a bit of pure digital voltage. The piece tails off into vocals and reverbed dead-guitar-string sounds: wiping, splashing, flaying noises. The piece moves slowly enough for you to grasp its complete form in real time; it is dark and serene and complete, with a sense of proportion and risk, and one of the tracks of the year so far.

After the midpoint aggression, the record cools out again. Mr. Kang returns, with the singer Jessika Kenney, for “Passage,” held together by the constant throb of a Hammond organ chord and whistle of rubbed wineglasses. And that segues into the last track, “Fractured Mirror,” a cover of the acoustic-guitar instrumental that was the last track of the 1978 solo album by Ace Frehley, of Kiss. The original was contemplative; this is more so. It repeats a consonant fingerpicked pattern for nearly twice as long, into the horizon. BEN RATLIFF
288 2012-02-07 Stocks closed slightly lower on Monday as lingering questions about Europe’s debt crisis and corporate earnings overshadowed growing optimism about economic growth after a five-week rally.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index has risen about 7 percent this year, helped by better-than-expected United States economic data, which was capped by Friday’s solid jobs report.

The magnitude and swiftness of the gains, however, have kept some investors on the sidelines. The S.& P. is at levels not seen since July, and continuing worries about Europe and corporate results have some wondering if the market has room to rally.

Through Monday morning, 60 percent of the 290 companies in the S.& P. 500 that had reported quarterly results so far posted profits that topped expectations, tracking below recent quarters at this point of the earnings season.

“Companies aren’t surprising on the upside like they have in previous quarters, which could mean slow going for stocks for a while,” said Tommy Huie, president and chief investment officer at BMO Asset Management in Milwaukee. “That said, I can see us near 1,400 on the S.& P. by summer if we get decent news out of Europe.”
289 2012-02-07 The Chinese government said it was also considering unspecified measures to protect Chinese companies, something Europe can ill afford as it looks to China to help ease its debt crisis. European countries also want access to China’s fast-growing economy, including free-spending Chinese tourists who might not show up.

The intensifying dispute is another sign that European environmental regulations could lead to a trade war if governments start retaliating against carriers or products.

Much is at stake for Europe, which has sought to improve its international stature by spearheading initiatives on climate protection, including folding aviation into the Union’s six-year-old Emissions Trading System, in which polluters can buy and sell a limited quantity of permits, each representing a ton of carbon dioxide.

But making airlines account for flights that begin or end in faraway cities like Beijing has turned the system into one of the most contested environmental initiatives ever undertaken.

Airbus, the European aircraft maker, has already raised concerns that a trade conflict over the law could affect its businesses, and on Monday, Antony Tyler, the director general of the International Air Transport Association, a body representing the global airline industry, warned that some airlines could face a backlash.

“We’re concerned also about retaliatory measures taken by non-E.U. governments against E.U. carriers,” Mr. Tyler said. That was “an increasingly possible outcome,” he said, since the United States, China, India and Russia could discuss such steps at a meeting in Moscow on Feb. 21.

In the United States, the House of Representatives approved a bill last year that would ban U.S. air carriers from participating in the system. A similar bill has been introduced in the Senate.

The first payments by the airlines are due in early 2013, covering emissions from 2012. That still could leave time for the Europeans and foreign governments and airlines to reach a compromise, perhaps through the International Civil Aviation Organization, or I.C.A.O., an arm of the United Nations.

In the past, Europeans have strongly criticized the I.C.A.O. for dragging its heels on establishing standards and targets for greenhouse gases from aviation, a responsibility it was given under the Kyoto climate treaty 15 years ago.

But if the member countries of the I.C.A.O. significantly step up action to create a global system, the Europeans could relax, or even drop their system, and still save face.

Mr. Tyler, the head of the airline association, said Europe’s decision to unilaterally introduce its system had already pushed the I.C.A.O. to take a more urgent approach.

“Europe can take credit for that,” Mr. Tyler said.

For the moment, there is unlikely to be any immediate disruption to flights between Europe and China, or Europe and the United States, or penalties for Chinese and American airlines.

But airlines soon could be in a legal limbo, where their governments prohibit them from participating, but where they also risk breaking European law by refusing to pay.

Last month, the commission warned that airlines that flouted the law would face steep fines and then could face being banned from European airports.

In fact, many airlines probably will face little pain to begin with, and some may even profit.

Airlines will receive about 85 percent of their permits at no charge, to make it affordable for the carriers and their passengers to bear the cost of the system while the industry develops ways of cutting pollution.

Chinese airlines are among those that have applied for their free allocation.

Most airlines are expected to pass along the costs of the permits they buy — as well as the ones they receive free — by charging passengers a bit more for their tickets.

“The savviest airlines are figuring out that it makes sense to participate,” said Annie Petsonk, the international counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund, an environmental organization that favors carbon trading as a means to reduce emissions.

Last month, Delta added a $3 surcharge on fares to Europe in response to the system, and U.S. Airways and American Airlines have taken similar measures.

The added revenue from those charges could enable the airlines to buy the credits they need in advance while the prices of permits are low because of the weak economy, and to sell any surplus at a profit if prices recover, Ms. Petsonk said.

According to E.U. officials, the maximum increase in the price of a ticket between Europe and China should be less than €2, or $2.60, far less than the amount that many passengers routinely pay in the form of airport taxes in many countries.

The bigger worry for airlines is that they are looking at the thin end of an enormous wedge. The sums charged by the Europeans for permits could grow substantially in coming years if governments decide to auction a larger proportion of permits and if demand for the permits rises.

Mr. Tyler, the head of the airline association, conceded that some airlines that had cut capacity in recent years might be able to make money from the system.

But he said that the majority of airlines had grown capacity significantly since the European Union made its calculations about the volume of emissions and that, over all, the airlines would face costs of $1.2 billion in 2012 to pay for permits, rising to $3.6 billion in 2020.
290 2012-02-07 Mr. Abbas and Mr. Meshal announced their agreement on Monday in Doha, the capital of . Hamas has had to leave its longtime base in Damascus, the Syrian capital, because of the unrest and violence there, and Qatar appears to be seeking the role of Hamas’s new sponsor.

The two Palestinian leaders said they would announce a full government in the next week or two, along with a date for presidential and legislative elections. It was unclear what role the current prime minister, , would play in the interim government. Mr. Fayyad is admired abroad for his financial transparency, and is the reason that some countries provide aid to the Palestinian Authority — more than $1 billion annually in total. But Hamas leaders have in the past expressed their distaste for his policies.

The planned elections are unlikely to take place this spring, as promised last May when the Hamas-Fatah unity accord was first signed. Many of the details are bound to produce a struggle, and Palestinians greeted the news on Monday with relief but with skepticism, especially in Gaza.

“The Palestinian people look suspiciously at Fatah-Hamas understandings because they have been repeated dozens of times without finding their way to implementation,” said Mkhaimar Abusada, a political science professor at Gaza’s Al Azhar University.

This latest signed document may face the same fate. The rival movements have to negotiate the terms of complex power sharing and the restructuring of the , from which Hamas has been excluded.

It remained unclear how some of the Hamas leaders in Gaza, who are destined to lose their jobs in the new arrangement, would react to a deal struck by Mr. Meshal, who lives in exile and recently said he would not seek a new term as head of the movement.

In Washington, the Obama administration publicly withheld judgment on the agreement, saying that American officials were still trying to determine the details of a unity government. The agreement, however, revived questions about the future of American assistance to the Palestinian Authority.

Congressional amendments forbid foreign aid going to Hamas, which the has designated a terrorist organization. A partnership with Mr. Abbas could lead to a cutoff. “It further jeopardizes whatever existing aid is left,” said Representative , a Democrat from New York.

Until now, the State Department has declined to restrict aid, including military assistance to Palestinian security forces that totaled $450 million last fiscal year. The department has argued that the prospect of a Palestinian unity government that included Hamas, first announced last year, never fully materialized. The aid has been credited by Israeli and American officials for improving security in the Palestinian territories.

If Monday’s agreement takes root, it would force the issue, putting the administration in an awkward position, especially with Congress, according to an administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.

The State Department’s spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said that Palestinian reconciliation was “an internal matter” for the Palestinians but added that the administration would expect any Palestinian government to meet basic conditions, including recognition of Israel.

Mr. Ackerman cited Mr. Meshal’s statement about unifying against the “enemy” as evidence that Hamas remained unrepentant. “It’s not conciliatory,” he said in a telephone interview. “It continues the saber rattling and the threat.”

But some analysts argued that the regional shifts of the last year and the failure of recent Palestinian-Israeli talks to reach a breakthrough were pushing Fatah and Hamas into each other’s arms. They said that Hamas would soon undergo some of the changes that Islamist movements elsewhere in the region are seen by some to be experiencing.

“The Arab awakening is witnessing the rise of a reformist political Islam in and , and I believe we will see that Hamas is no exception,” asserted Mahdi Abdul Hadi, chairman of Palestinian Academic Society for the Study of International Affairs in Jerusalem. “Western governments are dealing with the in Egypt, and it is only a matter of time before they will meet with Hamas as well.”

There are senior defense officials in Israel who see a significant shift happening in Hamas as well. One, speaking recently on condition of anonymity, said, “Hamas is learning that governance is more important than terrorism.”

Mr. Netanyahu disagrees that Hamas is changing. He noted in his statement on Monday that until Hamas recognizes Israel, abandons violence and accepts previous agreements with Israel signed by the Palestinian Authority — the three conditions that the United States and the demand of Hamas, which has rejected them — it remains a renegade that must be shunned.

For Mr. Netanyahu, who leads the hawkish Likud Party and a coalition Israeli government with a strong base among Jewish settlers and their supporters, Palestinian unity poses a complex set of choices.

On one hand, Mr. Netanyahu says that he seeks peace with the Palestinians, and that the formation of a joint Fatah-Hamas government would appear to deprive him of the chance to pursue what he has called a historic opportunity for peace. On the other hand, a reconciliation of the two factions would free Mr. Netanyahu of the burden of those difficult negotiations, where he comes under international pressure to yield prisoners, land and greater power to the Palestinian Authority.

He could instead turn his back on the whole endeavor, which would secure him against any political challenge from the right wing just as the possibilities of elections appear on the horizon.

Mr. Abbas has his own tortured calculations. He has been pursuing three tracks toward Palestinian statehood; all have proved problematic. The first has been his recently renewed talks with the Israelis under Jordanian auspices, which have gone poorly. The second is the track of unity with Hamas, which until Monday seemed stuck and which remains far from stable.

The third is his efforts at the , meant to obtain international backing for Palestinian sovereignty in the West Bank, Gaza and East Jerusalem; that track has proved harder than expected. Last September, Mr. Abbas was unable to get enough members of the to vote yes for recognizing Palestine as a state. He did gain membership in , a United Nations agency, but that led the United States to cut off American funds to that organization and to a pause in the Palestinian efforts in international bodies.

But Palestinian officials say that Mr. Abbas is likely to revive that path in the coming weeks, especially if the Israeli track stalls, as many expect.

An abandonment of negotiations with Israel brings with it risks, in particular that Hamas will campaign on its long-standing assertion that talks with Israel were a humiliating waste of time and that Hamas’s approach of resistance and links to the broader Islamic movement deserve the people’s votes.

In addition, Israel has a great deal of power over the Palestinian economy, and could make it suffer. Israel could also make the lives of Palestinian officials even harder than they are, by denying them travel privileges.

Qatar, a Gulf emirate that is both wealthy and diplomatically ambitious, could prove to be a crucial element in helping the Palestinians. Qatar is already spending money in Gaza to help the territory rebuild and rehabilitate from the Israeli invasion there three years ago; the emirate could both greatly increase its spending there and make up for missing aid to the Palestinian Authority.
291 2012-02-07 The self-styled Tibetan government in exile said Monday it had not confirmed the reports from Seda. But at a press conference in Dharamsala, India, the organization’s seat, one official said the self-immolations should provoke the Chinese government to re-examine its repressive policies toward Tibetans.

“What is so wrong in Tibet that people are resorting to such drastic action?” asked Dicki Chhoyang, head of the information department.

Faced with the worst outbreak of unrest among ethnic Tibetans since the 2008 riots in Lhasa, Tibet’s capital, authorities sealed off a number of counties in Sichuan Province and vastly intensified security. The government blames Tibetan separatists for inciting the violence.

The police last month clashed with protesters in Seda, which is on the border of Gansu Province, and in Luhuo County, known in Tibetan as Draggo, about 80 miles, to the south. Accounts of the number of deaths ranged from two to as many as 11, with dozens wounded.

Chinese officials assert that security officers shot one rioter dead in self-defense on Jan. 23 after a mob armed with rocks, batons and gas bottles stormed the police station in Luhuo. Another protester was killed in Seda the following day when rioters attacked the police station there, they said.

Until Friday, the ethnic Tibetans who set themselves afire were all reported to be monks, nuns or former clergy members. The first case occurred in the spring of 2009 when a monk burned himself at a monastery in Aba, a town in the northwestern corner of Sichuan Province.

The latest reports suggest that self-immolation as a form of protest is spreading beyond the Tibetan clergy, Robert J. Barnett, director of the Modern Tibetan Studies Program at Columbia University in New York, said in a telephone interview.

Ms. Woeser, the poet, said that the three recent victims had herded sheep and cows and were not members of the clergy. Unlike the others, they lived far from the larger towns and monasteries where past cases had occurred, according to news reports.

“There is a lot of frustration in the Tibetan areas,” Mr. Barnett said. “People are saying they aren’t being listened to; the government didn’t respond constructively to the protests in 2008 and didn’t respond constructively to the whole year we’ve seen of self-immolations.”

In Sichuan Province in particular, he said, the authorities have blocked off monasteries and adopted other aggressive measures that have raised tensions.
292 2012-02-07 Verizon and Redbox have teamed up on a service intended to rival Netflix in allowing consumers to rent physical DVDs and stream movies via the Internet, the companies said Monday.     Any broadband customer, even if are outside the Verizon FiOS ne...
293 2012-02-07 Amar'e Stoudemire has taken an indefinite leave of absence from the Knicks after the death of his older brother in a traffic accident early Monday morning. His return date is uncertain.     Stoudemire's brother Hazell, 35, was killed when his 2007...
294 2012-02-07 One of the largest companies that provided home foreclosure services to lenders across the nation, DocX, has been indicted on forgery charges by a Missouri grand jury -- one of the few criminal actions to follow reports of widespread improprieties...
295 2012-02-07 MELBOURNE -- The Australian Open, once the weakest of the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments, now has two stadiums with retractable roofs and a third one on the way. Player response continues to be positive.     ''Of the four Grand Slams, it is th...
296 2012-02-07 THE FACTS     Routinely putting in extra hours at the office can put a strain on your social life. But can too much overtime cause depression?...
297 2012-02-08 A consumer rights group says that Google has violated its deal with the government about getting user consent before making changes to privacy policies....
298 2012-02-08 A consumer rights group says that Google has violated its deal with the government about getting user consent before making changes to privacy policies. Google says that it is making things simpler, not breaking its promise. The Electronic Privacy...
299 2012-02-08 Daily updates on the business of digital music.
300 2012-02-08 Daily updates on the business of digital music.
301 2012-02-08 Target joins two other big advertisers in what Nickelodeon called multimillion-dollar deals to be incorporated in NickMom programming....
302 2012-02-08 Target joins two other big advertisers in what Nickelodeon called multimillion-dollar deals to be incorporated in NickMom programming....
303 2012-02-08 Slouchy tomboy jean shorts and pants surprised at Wednesday morning's show....
304 2012-02-08 Slouchy tomboy jean shorts and pants surprised at Wednesday morning's show....
305 2012-02-08 Lanny Breuer, Eliot Spitzer and Mary Jo White delved into whether the authorities had done enough to bring criminal cases in the aftermath of the financial crisis during a New York University panel discussion....
306 2012-02-08 Lanny Breuer, Eliot Spitzer and Mary Jo White delved into whether the authorities had done enough to bring criminal cases in the aftermath of the financial crisis during a New York University panel discussion....
307 2012-02-08 Americans are using more prescription drugs, but the financial burden of those drugs on families is falling, according to a new study. A big reason is the rise of generics....
308 2012-02-08 Americans are using more prescription drugs, but the financial burden of those drugs on families is falling, according to a new study. A big reason is the rise of generics....
309 2012-02-08 New York City Ballet has bestowed a rare honor on a member of its corps, commissioning two works from Justin Peck, the company said on Wednesday....
310 2012-02-08 New York City Ballet has bestowed a rare honor on a member of its corps, commissioning two works from Justin Peck, the company said on Wednesday....
311 2012-02-08 The car-rental agency has committed to a newly introduced, if extremely limited, trial of wireless-charging technology produced by a Virginia-based company....
312 2012-02-08 The car-rental agency has committed to a newly introduced, if extremely limited, trial of wireless-charging technology produced by a Virginia-based company....
313 2012-02-08 Sonos, a maker of wireless home-audio products, shouldn't still be in business, but it is - thanks to its painstaking attention to detail that gives bigger companies like Apple a run for their money....
314 2012-02-08 Sonos, a maker of wireless home-audio products, shouldn't still be in business, but it is - thanks to its painstaking attention to detail that gives bigger companies like Apple a run for their money....
315 2012-02-08 Discrimination charges against Harvard and Princeton Universities have led to questions regarding discrimination against Asian-Americans at elite colleges....
316 2012-02-08 Discrimination charges against Harvard and Princeton Universities have led to questions regarding discrimination against Asian-Americans at elite colleges....
317 2012-02-08 With changes phasing in over 18 months, business owners are just beginning to understand the impact of the America Invents Act....
318 2012-02-08 With changes phasing in over 18 months, business owners are just beginning to understand the impact of the America Invents Act....
319 2012-02-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
320 2012-02-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
321 2012-02-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
322 2012-02-08 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
323 2012-02-08 The Internet industry and media giants are struggling to find common ground on how to combat online piracy. Amy Chozick reports that the two sides cannot even agree on the scale of the problem.
324 2012-02-08 The second week of the sometimes murderous cold snap poses the question: which is the greater threat to Europe, fracking or a dependence on Russia natural gas?...
325 2012-02-08 The second week of the sometimes murderous cold snap poses the question: which is the greater threat to Europe, fracking or a dependence on Russia natural gas?...
326 2012-02-08 Scotland Yard formally acknowledged on Tuesday that it had acted unlawfully in 2006 and 2007 in failing to notify hundreds of individuals targeted by The News of the World as it hacked into the cellphone voice mail messages of politicians, sports stars and other celebrities. The admission came as two judges at the High Court in London were hearing evidence in a lawsuit brought by a former deputy prime minister, John Prescott, and a group of other litigants. Top officers at Scotland Yard have previously rejected allegations that they tried to quash a wide-ranging inquiry into the hacking as part of a cozy relationship with the British newspaper subsidiary of Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation, owner of the now-defunct News of the World. At the High Court, Scotland Yard lawyers said the failure to investigate more thoroughly resulted from the pressure the police were under to investigate terrorism threats.
327 2012-02-08 This nation still has a long way to go to overcome one of the great remaining barriers to full equality and fairness, but a federal appeals court panel brought it a big step closer with a well-grounded ruling on Tuesday striking down a voter-approved ban on same-sex marriage in California.

The 2-to-1 ruling upheld a 2010 decision by Judge Vaughn Walker, which declared the marriage ban, known as Proposition 8, unconstitutional. Like Judge Walker, the court panel found that the antigay initiative, which was narrowly approved by California voters in 2008, violated the equal protection rights of same-sex couples.

The appellate panel stopped short of finding a broad constitutional right to marry that would have extended same-sex marriage to every state. Instead, the ruling follows a conservative, California-centric judicial approach that is less satisfying but will make it exceedingly hard to attack on the expected appeal.

The panel rejected arguments that Proposition 8 advanced California’s interests in promoting childbearing and “responsible procreation,” noting that it had no impact on the rights of same-sex couples in the state to raise children or adopt. Drawing heavily on a 1996 Supreme Court ruling that overturned an antigay initiative in Colorado on equal protection grounds, the panel found the initiative violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution by singling out a minority group and taking away the right to marry, which it already possessed in California, “without a legitimate reason for doing so.”

Proposition 8 served only to “lessen the status and human dignity of gays and lesbians in California, and to officially reclassify their relationships and families as inferior to those of opposite-sex couples,” wrote Judge Stephen Reinhardt. He said, “the Constitution simply does not allow for” such laws.

It was disappointing that Judge N. Randy Smith dissented, but all three panel members agreed that Judge Walker was not disqualified from ruling because he is a gay man in a committed relationship.
328 2012-02-08 The bill is intended to restore trust in Congress, but Mr. Walz said the revisions could “make the cynicism that’s rampant in America even greater.”

The thrust of the bill, passed in the Senate last week by a vote of 96 to 3, is to prohibit members of Congress from trading stocks and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers.

An amendment offered by Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, requires individuals or firms that collect intelligence from political insiders to register as lobbyists do.

At present, Mr. Grassley said, when lawmakers and their aides meet with “political intelligence consultants,” they have no way of knowing if the information they share will be sold to hedge funds, private equity firms or other investors who make a profit on it.

Ms. Slaughter, who introduced insider trading legislation in 2006, said the regulation of political intelligence-gathering was “the most important part of the bill.”

Howard Marlowe, president of the American League of Lobbyists, a professional group, said, “The legislation moved so quickly that we did not have an opportunity to discuss it with Senator Grassley or his staff.”

Under the bill, Mr. Marlowe said, “the definition of political intelligence is very fuzzy.” It includes information derived from contacts with Congress or federal agencies that is “intended for use in analyzing securities or commodities markets, or in informing investment decisions.”

J. Patrick Cave, managing partner of the Cypress Group, which does lobbying and policy research for investors, said: “People are freaking out about the Grassley amendment. For many, it’s new, and it remains rife with loopholes, but it’s a good start, clarifying the law and expanding disclosure requirements to include everyone.”

Mr. Cave and other experts on lobbying said the bill would require companies like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley and law firms like Patton Boggs to register and disclose the clients for whom they did policy research analyzing developments in Washington.

Michael W. Mayhew, who has analyzed the demand for such services as chairman of Integrity Research Associates in New York, said the global market for political intelligence services exceeded $400 million a year. He estimated that close to 300 companies systematically collected such information.

Under the bill, Mr. Mayhew said, some of the political intelligence coming out of Washington would be classified as “material nonpublic information” and “people who invest on it could go to jail for insider trading.”

In a bulletin sent to clients this week, Covington & Burling, one of the largest law firms in Washington, said the bill could have an immense impact on “the business community.”

“Hedge funds, private equity funds and investment advisers — many of which are not currently registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act — might now be required either to register or to alter their business practices to avoid the need for registration,” the bulletin said. “If, for example, a hedge fund calls a Congressional committee staffer to gather information about the status of a bill that relates to the fund’s investment decisions, the fund may need to register.”

Robert K. Kelner, chairman of the political law practice group at Covington & Burling, said: “We have been flooded with calls about this legislation. I suspect there is a lot of lobbying to change it.”

Indeed, said Representative Slaughter, critics are “flooding Congress to try to weaken this bill.”

House Republicans said they would add a provision to prohibit members of Congress, their aides and executive branch officials from receiving special access to initial public stock offerings because of their positions.

Republicans call this “the Pelosi provision” because, they say, it was inspired by an investment in 2008 by Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who was then the speaker and is now the House Democratic leader. An aide to Ms. Pelosi said that neither she nor her husband, Paul F. Pelosi, had received “preferential treatment” when the company, Visa Inc., went public.
329 2012-02-08 The Coca-Cola Company, the world’s largest soft-drink maker, reported fourth-quarter profit on Tuesday that topped analysts’ estimates as teas and juices bolstered sales in Asia.

Profit excluding some items was 79 cents a share, Coca-Cola said. That exceeded the 77-cent average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.

Net income in the quarter fell to $1.65 billion, or 72 cents a share, from $5.77 billion, or $2.46 a share, a year earlier, when the company posted a gain from an acquisition.

The company is expanding sales of beverages in Asia with global marketing campaigns and products like its Minute Maid Pulpy juice drink. Sales volume in the fourth quarter climbed 5 percent in Japan and 10 percent in China.

“Coke’s fourth-quarter results benefited from continued strength from its international beverage portfolio,” Ann Gurkin, an analyst for Davenport & Company in Richmond, Va., said in an interview. “We also found the continued strong performance by the Coca-Cola and Coke Zero franchises as a standout for the North American segment.”

The company also said it planned to reduce costs $550 million to $650 million by 2015 and use the savings to invest in its brands and offset higher commodities prices. Coca-Cola said it exceeded the $500 million it sought to cut during the four years that ended in the last quarter.
330 2012-02-08 Now, from Portland, Me., to Portland, Ore., and from Alaska to Hawaii, mead’s reputation is being restored. This may be partly due to the explosion in styles of mead as its makers move past the sweet, slightly caramelized, honey-forward traditional mead of that Renaissance Faire. Today, you can find local meads dry-hopped and as flinty and sere as the bleakest unoaked Chablis; light summer quaffers with the freshness and subtle bubbles of a good prosecco; complex, multilayered dessert meads perfect with chocolate; even seasonal meads flavored with saffron, sage, fruits or juniper berries.

“Mead is a wine and a wine made with honey instead of grapes,” said Vicky Rowe, a director of the annual Mazer Cup International Mead Competition, whose entrants have doubled to 218, from 100, in just the last three years. “People are realizing that’s what it is and treating it as such.”

As a wine’s character can be determined by its fruit and provenance, mead’s flavors can be attributed to the honey that’s used. Terroir is captured in a way winemakers only dream of, from the flowers whose pollen bees collect in a particular area at a particular time.

Mr. Beran said, “First, there are dandelions and maple trees blooming, clover and apple blossoms, so it’s very light spring honey.” The bees deposit that honey into the first of a set of boxes which are stacked on top of each other in hives. “By the end of the season you might have five or eight or even more boxes of honey, and you can see the progression of the floral diversity through the summer in the transition from the first box to the last box,” he said. “Summer is medium honey from alfalfa, then in the fall you get darker, richer, flavorful wildflower honey. So when I’m making a delicate mead, I’ll use the early clover apple blossom from the bottom frames. When we’re going for a traditional mead, we use a darker honey that tends to give the mead more character and structure.”

If this sounds like a Napa winemaker talking about parcel selection or a brewmaster discussing hops, that’s not an accident, for modern mead makers bring all of the refinements of both worlds to their craft.

“We’re kind of like the Joe Lieberman of beverages,” said David Myers, owner of Redstone Meadery in Boulder, Colo. “We’re an independent in the alcohol industry, but we caucus with the craft-beer guys.” Redstone, with about 4,000 cases a year in sales, is one of the country’s larger craft-mead makers. Mr. Myers is an innovator known for developing quaffable, lower-alcohol carbonated meads and mead cocktails, and for using craft-beer marketing techniques, like selling in kegs and developing seasonal meads to widen his market.

Across the country, Ben Alexander is introducing three reserve meads to add to five other new styles he has been making at Maine Mead Works in Portland since 2008. Take two steps into the conspicuously clean fermenting room, and your eye is drawn to four glass columns rising eight feet against one wall, filled with honey-colored liquid.

“This is our continuous fermentation line,” Mr. Alexander said proudly. It was developed in South Africa, based on traditional Xhosa meadmaking techniques. “Honey and water,” Mr. Alexander said, “go in one end and move slowly through the system, the yeast converts the natural sugars to alcohol. It comes out on the other end at about 10 percent alcohol.”

After the liquid ferments in steel tanks for a few months, the alcohol rises to about 12 percent before bottling. Some of the reserves age up to a year in old bourbon barrels.

“Our process helps produce a dry, light mead, which retains more of the subtle flavors of the honey,” Mr. Alexander said. “It has to be light but also complex enough to drink with food, too.”

While traditional meads can have more than 10 percent residual sugar, Mr. Alexander’s come in under 2 percent. Combined with a rock-bottom acidity, the result in nose and palate can be remarkably like drinking dry white wine, with a delicate overlay of fruit and floral aromas, depending on the mead.

Across town, Josh Caron, the bar manager at 555 Restaurant, has concocted a bracing, warming Apple Hot Toddy with Maine Mead Works Cyser — a hybrid mead fermented from apple cider to which honey has been added — together with apple-infused brandy, and gin and cranberry bitters both locally distilled at Sweetgrass Winery.

At the Spints Ale House in Portland, Ore., the owner Alyssa Gregg uses Chaucer’s Mead from Soquel, Calif., in a variety of seasonal cocktails.

“Mead has an earthiness to it,” she said. “It can add a mild sweetness and dryness at the same time.” She’ll use it in a drink with mezcal, where the mead, she said, “tames the alcohol and answers the heat, so you end up with a mellow, balanced cocktail.”

New York State’s largest meadmaker is Earle Estates Meadery in the Finger Lakes region. It makes about 10,000 cases a year. The owner, John Earle, attributes his business’ growth to the use of ultrafiltration.

“The machine strips out the protein that the bees put into honey in the process of making it,” Mr. Earle said. “That protein has been tied to the harshness of mead, so, take out the protein, and it’s smoother.”

One of the problems with much mead made in the past was in what people did to the honey to sterilize it. “They made mead by boiling the honey, and in doing that they caramelized and oxidized it,” he said.

But filtering is one of a panoply of issues being debated in mead circles. Producers argue that filtering damages the flavor profile, that not filtering leads to sediment and off flavors. They debate if, how, when and how much to heat: boil it? Heat to 160 degrees? They dispute when during fermentation various flavoring agents like fruits and berries should be added. And, yes, they are deep into the oak argument: whether barrel, chip or cube is best or whether all are anathema.

Sam Calagione, the founder of Dogfish Head brewery in Milton, Del., has no use for oenophilic pretensions. His Midas Touch, the most popular honey-based fermented beverage in the United States, is made with barley, honey, white muscat grapes and saffron. Beer? Wine? Mead? “We have no interest in marketing it as anything other than MidasTouch, a beer-mead-wine, take your pick,” Mr. Calagione said. “We sold 45,000 cases of it last year.”

New and innovative? Midas Touch is based on the ingredients found in 2,700-year-old drinking vessels supposedly from the tomb of King Midas.

As Mr. Myers of Redstone likes to joke, “Mead is a beverage whose popularity comes around like clockwork — every two or three thousand years.”
331 2012-02-08 Unsurprisingly, Ms. Vogel envisioned ways — concrete and abstract — to render those scenes. But her point was to encourage the imagination.

“We’re told to fix our scripts to make them producible, to make them more affordable to put on, yet it is the plays that are the most challenging to stage that are chosen because of those very impossibilities,” Ms. Vogel said, pointing to the coup de théâtre of the Angel crashing into Prior Walter’s bedroom in Tony Kushner’s “Angels in America.”

“This may sound controversial,” she added, “but I can’t possibly know everything about my play or how to stage every scene. Don’t let that keep you from writing that play or that scene, because directors and actors will help you. Why are we in theater if we’re not forming something collaboratively?”

Aiding and abetting others in the creation of drama is Ms. Vogel’s animating spark as an artist. Like Mac Wellman at Brooklyn College, the 60-year-old Ms. Vogel has long been cited by younger playwrights as a mentor.

For more than two decades she led the playwriting program at Brown University, and since 2008 she has been head of playwriting at Yale. The Pulitzer winners Lynn Nottage (“Ruined”) and Nilo Cruz (“Anna in the Tropics”) studied with her, and many others — like Adam Bock, Sarah Ruhl and Jordan Harrison — have described her guiding hand in and out of the classroom.

Several of them also joined in earlier boot camps. Mr. Bock’s play “A Small Fire” and Christina Anderson’s “Good Goods” (now running at Yale Repertory Theater) grew out of such gatherings.

But Ms. Vogel, whose other plays include “The Baltimore Waltz” (1992) and “A Civil War Christmas” (2008), has also reached hundreds of others through informal boot camps like the one at Second Stage, the 90th by her count. She has held them across the United States as well as in Canada and Brazil, usually at theaters that were producing her work.

While some multiday boot camps generated scripts that were professionally produced, most of the abbreviated, eight-hour sessions focus on brief writing exercises (like the impossible scenes) and an overview of Aristotle’s six elements of drama: plot, character, theme, language, music (or rhythm) and spectacle.

Ms. Vogel, whose ever-present smile matched her criticism-free feedback, kicked off Saturday’s boot camp (for which she was not paid) by lowering expectations without snuffing out dreams of a hit play.

“Today is not about writing ‘Long Day’s Journey Into Night,’ ” she said. “Though if you do, I want my 10 percent cut.”

Most of those at the boot camp were not professional writers, but rather theater lovers who had a favorite play to name: recent works like “August: Osage County” and “Circle Mirror Transformation,” as well as classics like “As You Like It” and “Macbeth.”

The room was savvy enough to understand why Ms. Vogel gasped upon the mention of “Macbeth,” which is not to be uttered in any performance space for fear of bad luck; she instructed the offending participant to leave the rehearsal studio where the boot camp took place, then spin around three times, swear, spit and knock on the door and ask for readmission.

David Volin, an actor who had landed an invitation, said he was especially curious to learn about the writing choices of playwrights, like mixing dialogue with pauses and long silences. In the script for “How I Learned to Drive,” for instance, Ms. Vogel wrote in a few key pauses for Uncle Peck to convey his uncertainty when he gets Li’l Bit drunk and considers seducing her.

Ms. Vogel explained that silence can be a stage direction of enormous power, not only to heighten tension among characters but also to provide a cathartic moment for audiences. She encouraged her writers, in their scripts, to consider leaving half a page blank to underscore the importance of wordlessness to directors and actors.

Such a heavy authorial hand drew heated complaints, however, from Nicholas Gray, a young theater director who had been invited by an associate. Mr. Gray railed against lengthy stage directions, saying he crossed them out in scripts before he would begin rehearsals with his actors.

“It’s the playwright being tyrannical over all of the other artists who will ever work on the play,” Mr. Gray said, adding that even “Long Day’s Journey Into Night” would not escape his pen.

His conviction drew out Ms. Vogel’s steely side for a moment — “that idea causes me a great deal of pain,” she said of his editing — before she regained her professorial posture. She said that Eugene O’Neill wrote “Long Day’s Journey” as “a valentine to his wife” and that pauses in the stage action were a way to “slow down the sensation of time.”

“Theater is one of the few places where the rush of time slows down,” she said.

Academia, by contrast, with its administrative duties and faculty meetings, has taken a toll on Ms. Vogel, who recently announced that she would step down as department chairwoman at Yale this year to focus on teaching and writing — and more boot camps.

“I’m much less joyful when I’m dealing with budgets instead of boot camps,” she said in an interview after the Second Stage session. “I came to realize that I can be far more useful to the field of playwriting, and to people who dream of writing, if I have more time to talk and think about the actual work.”
332 2012-02-08 How much of that coffee goes into a cup varies according to who (or what) controls the machine. For instance, a Lavazza Gran Crema espresso capsule has 7 grams of coffee, the standard for most chain coffee stores. But independent coffee shops regularly pack 14 to 22 grams into an espresso shot.

When it comes to single-serve systems, you’re not just paying for coffee, you’re paying for convenience and the technology that makes it possible to brew a single cup in seconds. Pop in the pod, push the button: it’s a sure thing every time. Supermarkets and specialty stores are filled with items that make it easier on you, and it’s up to the shopper to determine if it’s worth it.

Some decisions are easy (rendered pork fat, fresh pasta); others are a toss-up depending on who’s in the kitchen (chicken stock, salad dressing). Where single-serve coffee falls on that spectrum depends on whether you regard coffee as something you make or something you drink.

“Americans under the age of 40 are thinking about coffee pricing in cups,” said Ric Rhinehart, executive director of the Specialty Coffee Association of America. “If you asked my mother how much coffee cost, she would have told you that the red can was $5.25 a pound and the blue can was $4.25. If you ask people in their 20s and 30s, they’ll say coffee is $1.75 to $3.75 a cup.”

This generational shift helps explain why single-serve coffee is the fastest-growing sector of the home market. According to a study from the National Coffee Association, single-serve coffee is now the second most popular method of preparation after conventional drip brewers, by far the dominant method. In 2011, 7 percent of the cups of coffee consumed in the United States were made with a single-serve brewer, up from 4 percent in 2010.

The premium that single-serve coffee commands makes it especially lucrative. Julian Liew, a spokesman for Nespresso, said single-serve coffee is 8 percent of the global market, but accounts for 25 percent of its value. It’s likely that the number will continue to climb.

According to Keurig, 4 million of the company’s K-Cup brewers, for regular drip coffee, were sold in the 13-week run-up to Christmas 2011. During that same period, Green Mountain Coffee Roasters sold more than $715 million in K-Cup packs. The pods and brewers are now front and center at stores like Bed Bath & Beyond and Staples. Keurig licenses its technology to other companies, and last year, Dunkin’ Donuts and Starbucks started making K-Cup pods. Keurig even sells a refillable filter that you can pack with your own coffee.

Nespresso has sold more than 27 billion capsules worldwide since it was introduced in 1986. Later this year Ethical Coffee Company plans to sell Nespresso-compatible capsules for around 20 percent less on Amazon.com. So the United States might see something novel for single-serve coffee: a price war.
333 2012-02-08 It has built 23 stores in places like Fort Stockton, Tex., and Stafford, Va., that serve “food deserts,” neighborhoods that lack full-service grocery stores, and it has worked with suppliers to cut the costs of items like reduced-fat peanut butter and fat-free salad dressing.

And it said customers who bought fruits and vegetables at Walmart last year would have spent $1 billion more buying similar products at competing stores. “We’ve been very focused on cutting costs in supply chain to help us achieve this,” said Andrea Thomas, senior vice president for sustainability at Walmart.

Experts on nutrition and health generally commended the standards the company established for the Great for You label. “The criteria are pretty strict, I’ll give them credit for that,” said Marion Nestle, professor of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University. “The label will only go on to about one-fifth of their products.”

She noted, for example, that the criteria exclude all sugary cereals.

In principle, however, Professor Nestle is opposed to such labels because, she said, they are too often little more than “green ‘buy me’ schemes.” “Will this increase sales of so-called better for you Walmart brand products? Maybe. Will it make people healthier? That’s going to be a much more difficult question to answer.”

But Larry Soler, chief executive of Partnership for a Healthier America, an organization created to work with the private sector to tackle childhood obesity, said the new labeling would help families make better food choices. “Any visual cue that allows consumers to quickly differentiate healthier food options helps busy families, and we are pleased that Walmart continues to be a critical leader among a growing number of private sector organizations looking to end this epidemic,” Mr. Soler said in an e-mail.

Mr. Dach said Walmart had wrestled with a number of thorny issues to set the criteria, consulting with a variety of government agencies, nonprofit organizations and health and nutrition experts. It debated, for example, whether to put the Great for You label on eggs, which are high in cholesterol but are an inexpensive source of protein for many low-income families.

“Originally, eggs didn’t make the cut,” he said. “But eggs are important to people on a tight budget, and we went over it with consumer groups, medical groups, education groups and came to the consensus that eggs play an important role in family budgets and so they get the icon.”

Nutrition experts have criticized food companies like PepsiCo and Kraft for the labels they have put on the front of their packages to highlight healthiness, calling them misleading or downright deceptive.

“It’s been chaotic, with no oversight of any kind and very little scientific input, and companies just doing it in a way that benefits themselves and not the consumer,” said Kelly D. Brownell, director of the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University. “Now here comes Walmart, this massively powerful player, with yet another system. The question is, in the midst of all this clutter of competing systems, how helpful its approach is likely to be.”
334 2012-02-08 BRUSSELS — The European Union could suspend parts of a new law requiring airlines to account for their greenhouse gas emissions if countries were to make clear progress this year toward establishing a global emissions control system, a senior official said Tuesday.

The comments, by Jos Delbeke, the director general for climate action at the European Commission, came the day after China announced that its carriers would be forbidden to pay any charges under the European emissions system without Beijing’s permission.

The comments were the clearest sign yet that Europeans were considering how to defuse a mounting conflict over the new emissions law with its most important trading partners.

The law, which went into effect Jan. 1, requires airlines to account for all emissions on flights using European airports. Its goal is to speed up the adoption of greener technologies at a time when air traffic, which represents about 3 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions, is growing much faster than gains in efficiency.

But Europe’s bold climate initiative also could push nations heavily reliant on air travel into a trade war because of the effect of the new law on flights outside of European airspace.
335 2012-02-08 The Greeks serve this dish as a salad, and it’s one that I never failed to order at lunch when I spent 10 days on the Greek island of Ikaria, known for the longevity of its population.  If you want to make a meal of this, serve the greens and beets with a whole grain, like barley or quinoa. The authentic dish includes much more olive oil than this one. If the beets you find at the farmers’ market or the store don’t have a generous bunch of greens attached, ask the vendor or the head of the produce department for greens they have cut away for other customers. They’ve probably got a box full of them in the back.

Juice of 1 lemon (more or less to taste)

1. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Cut the greens away from the beets, leaving about 1/4 inch of stems. Scrub the beets and place in a baking dish or lidded ovenproof casserole. Add 1/4 inch water to the dish. Cover tightly. Place in the oven and roast small beets (3 ounces or less) for 30 to 40 minutes, medium beets (4 to 6 ounces) 40 to 45 minutes, and large beets (8 ounces) 50 to 60 minutes, until easily penetrated with the tip of a knife. Remove from the oven and allow to cool in the covered baking dish. Cut away the ends and slip off the skins. Slice or cut in wedges and set aside.

2. While the beets are in the oven, stem the greens and wash in at least 2 changes of water. Place in a bowl.

3. Heat a large, wide skillet over high heat and add the greens by the handful, stirring each handful until the greens wilt in the water left on the leaves after washing. Once one batch has wilted, add another until all of the greens are wilted. Add 1 tablespoon of the olive oil, turn the heat down to low, season with salt and pepper, cover and simmer for 5 minutes. The greens should be tender but still bright. Add 1 tablespoon lemon juice, toss the greens in the pan, taste and adjust seasoning. (Note: if you are not serving this right away, don’t add the lemon juice, as it will change the bright color of the greens; instead, add shortly before serving).

4. At this point you have the option of transferring the greens to a platter or serving the dish right from the pan. Whether in the pan or on a platter, arrange the beets on top of the greens. Drizzle on the remaining olive oil and squeeze on more lemon juice to taste. Mash the garlic to a purée with a pinch of salt in a mortar and pestle and stir into the yogurt. Place spoonfuls of yogurt over the top of the beets and beet greens, sprinkle on the walnuts and serve, with grains if desired.
336 2012-02-08 TOKYO — Toyota Motor raised its annual profit forecast Tuesday despite a decline in its quarterly profit, as brisker sales in the United States gave the company a much-needed lift after a year overshadowed by natural disasters.

Toyota’s net profit slipped 13.5 percent to 80.9 billion yen ($1.05 billion) for the last three months of 2011. Results were hurt by production cutbacks after the tsunami in Japan last March and flooding in the manufacturing hub of Thailand in July.

But Toyota, the maker of the Camry sedan, also raised its annual profit forecast to 200 billion yen ($2.6 billion), up from 180 billion on the strength of higher sales forecasts, as it rolled out new versions of its popular Prius gas-electric hybrid and Lexus luxury vehicles in the United States and other markets.

Toyota has said it hopes that the new models will help it regain some of the market share it ceded to rivals like General Motors and Hyundai last year, after the tsunami in northeast Japan closed factories and severed supply chains, severely limiting production for months.

Just as the company appeared to be rebounding from the tsunami damage, widespread flooding in Thailand, a major manufacturing base for Japanese automakers, again curtailed production.
337 2012-02-08 A recipe for dark chocolate-cherry ganache bars....
338 2012-02-08 8:13 p.m. | Updated      UBS, the largest Swiss bank, said on Tuesday that its fourth-quarter profit had slumped 76 percent from a year earlier, as money entering its wealth management unit did not make up for a loss in investment banking....
339 2012-02-08 Christopher L. Garcia, a federal prosecutor who helped lead the government's widespread crackdown of insider trading on Wall Street, is leaving the Justice Department for the private sector.     Mr. Garcia will join Weil, Gotshal & Manges, one of ...
340 2012-02-09 The channel will replay shows featuring Gerri Willis, Neil Cavuto and Lou Dobbs in the evening....
341 2012-02-09 The channel will replay shows featuring Gerri Willis, Neil Cavuto and Lou Dobbs in the evening....
342 2012-02-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
343 2012-02-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
344 2012-02-09 At some point in the tense, tough, visceral action movie “Safe House” a side character describes a rogue superagent played by Denzel Washington as “the black Dorian Gray.” Now that’s a movie pitch in waiting. Mr. Washington, or rather the mystery man he plays, Tobin Frost, a former operative for the C.I.A., lets out a short self-aware laugh of a man who isn’t just fielding a compliment but also owning it fully. And why not? He looks good, and he knows it.

Mr. Washington turned 57 in December, but if he’s feeling any of the aches and pains of age, it doesn’t show. “Safe House,” a “Bourne”-esque story about the bad, bad things that agents sometimes do in the name of country and company, puts Mr. Washington through his action-flick paces. He runs, he punches, he runs, he punches and occasionally discharges a gun, either coldly (it’s just business) or with the slight look of disgust of a man cleaning off the bottom of his shoe. Tobin Frost — the name smacks of airport spy fiction — isn’t really the enigma the filmmakers would like you to believe, but Mr. Washington is so good at suggesting deep reserves of cool, moody mystery and smoldering feeling that he keeps you nicely guessing.

Did or didn’t Frost betray his country is the question that the credited screenwriter David Guggenheim and Daniel Espinosa, the young, up-and-coming Swedish director, put into nimble play almost as soon as “Safe House” gets going. And, after some low-key place setting in Cape Town, where Matt Weston (Ryan Reynolds), an untested C.I.A. agent, is watching over a company safe house, the movie takes off like a shot. Frost, having just snaked his way through the city, dodging a gun-toting, shooting horde, and setting citizens scrambling every which way, has slipped into the American Embassy and, after announcing his identity, been swept away by agents to the safe house for debriefing.

Like a lot of contemporary action directors Mr. Espinosa tends to cut among several scenes, switching not simply between two scenes but also upward of four. In lesser hands this kind of editing scheme can devolve into visual and narrative chaos, as the filmmaker whiplashes from one location to another, sometimes for no apparent reason. Working with the editor Richard Pearson, whose credits include “The Bourne Supremacy,” Mr. Espinosa maintains a visually coherent, narratively rational sense of time and space no matter how fast the story shifts about, which it does with increasing speed when that same heavily armed horde that had been chasing Frost breaches the safe house, slaughtering most of the American operatives and sending Frost and Weston running.

Although the writers try to pump up the story and give it some “Bourne”-like layering, the story ebbs into more familiar cynicism rather than building toward political complexity. “Safe House” is essentially and very effectively a rollicking smash-and-crash chase movie that happens to be surprisingly well acted. Mr. Washington, it almost goes without saying, is its anchor; when he’s on screen everything seems to matter more, so much so that a prequel seems inevitable. How Frost became the man that he did is one of the mysteries, as is how well Weston and the actor playing him will rise to the occasion. Mr. Reynolds, whose curiously unsettled career is its own puzzle, rises here to meet Mr. Washington’s challenge, investing Weston with a slow-building, believable vulnerability.

Mr. Espinosa will rightly receive a lot of attention for his action scenes, which oscillate between heavily populated sequences and small-scale fights in tight, tight spaces, though it’s his work with the actors and his attention to beauty that puts “Safe House” a cut above the genre rest. The supporting cast, which includes Brendan Gleeson, Vera Farmiga, Rubén Blades and Robert Patrick, does its part too, as does the cinematographer Oliver Wood, who, it’s worth noting, also shot all three “Bourne” movies. The world, the filmmakers say again and again, is a terrible place, and yet, as you look at this film, with its beautifully bleached-out palette and somewhat coarse visual texture — the images look as if they had been lightly sandpapered — it’s hard not to be struck by its loveliness.
345 2012-02-09 Excerpts of an interview with Adam Lashinsky, the author of "Inside Apple: How America's Most Admired - and Secretive - Company Really Works," a book published last month....
346 2012-02-09 Excerpts of an interview with Adam Lashinsky, the author of "Inside Apple: How America's Most Admired - and Secretive - Company Really Works," a book published last month....
347 2012-02-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
348 2012-02-09 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
349 2012-02-09 Greece reaches a deal that could prevent a default; an agreement on mortgage relief could provide aid to struggling homeowners; are young people watching less television?
350 2012-02-09 Apple is planning to introduce an upgraded iPad tablet early next month, according to people briefed on the company's plans. An Apple employee said the new iPad being tested inside the company was "essentially the same size and shape as the iPad 2...
351 2012-02-09 Apple is planning to introduce an upgraded iPad tablet early next month, according to people briefed on the company's plans. An Apple employee said the new iPad being tested inside the company was "essentially the same size and shape as the iPad 2...
352 2012-02-09 Kentucky Senator Mitch McConnell and West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin have traded barbs over the Big 12 Conference....
353 2012-02-09 Kentucky Senator Mitch McConnell and West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin have traded barbs over the Big 12 Conference....
354 2012-02-09 Very small babies delivered prematurely by Caesarean section because they were not growing properly in the womb developed more respiratory problems than those who had induced vaginal deliveries....
355 2012-02-09 Very small babies delivered prematurely by Caesarean section because they were not growing properly in the womb developed more respiratory problems than those who had induced vaginal deliveries....
356 2012-02-09 With a market value of about $460 billion, Apple was worth more than Google, Goldman Sachs, General Motors, Ford, Starbucks and Boeing combined....
357 2012-02-09 With a market value of about $460 billion, Apple was worth more than Google, Goldman Sachs, General Motors, Ford, Starbucks and Boeing combined....
358 2012-02-09 The fire hydrant was painted black in "The Artist" while the makeup artist for "Albert Nobbs" studies the wrinkles of everyone he comes across. More on the tricks of the trade of nominees in the so-called craft categories at the Academy Awards....
359 2012-02-09 The fire hydrant was painted black in "The Artist" while the makeup artist for "Albert Nobbs" studies the wrinkles of everyone he comes across. More on the tricks of the trade of nominees in the so-called craft categories at the Academy Awards....
360 2012-02-09 Mr. Chai’s fall 2012 collection was predominantly based in urban shades of grays, blacks and navy blue....
361 2012-02-09 Richard Chai's fall 2012 collection was predominantly based in urban shades of grays, blacks and navy blue....
362 2012-02-09 But not mean enough....
363 2012-02-09 But not mean enough....
364 2012-02-09 Global food prices have taken their first monthly jump since July, and a big one....
365 2012-02-09 Global food prices have taken their first monthly jump since July, and a big one....
366 2012-02-09 For years, there was no one challenging why I never completed certain tasks. Now, that has changed....
367 2012-02-09 Why Procter & Gamble appears to have very good grounds to walk away from the sale of Pringles to Diamond Foods....
368 2012-02-09 Why Procter & Gamble appears to have very good grounds to walk away from the sale of Pringles to Diamond Foods....
369 2012-02-09 Legislation intended to help protect infrastructure from terrorists is hampered by fears of pressure from advocates who scored a victory against antipiracy bills. Meanwhile, the media and Internet giants who are at odds over dealing with purloined...
370 2012-02-09 Legislation intended to help protect infrastructure from terrorists is hampered by fears of pressure from advocates who scored a victory against antipiracy bills. Meanwhile, the media and Internet giants who are at odds over dealing with purloined...
371 2012-02-09 Berlin's annual film festival, the Berlinale, showcases a total of 395 films from around the world in its 62nd installment, which runs from Thursday through Feb. 19....
372 2012-02-09 Berlin's annual film festival, the Berlinale, showcases a total of 395 films from around the world in its 62nd installment, which runs from Thursday through Feb. 19....
373 2012-02-09 A profile of Katherine Boo, who spent four years writing about a Mumbai slum....
374 2012-02-09 A profile of Katherine Boo, who spent four years writing about a Mumbai slum....
375 2012-02-09 Punishing the long-term unemployed by refusing to extend benefits is bad economics and cruel social policy, an economist writes....
376 2012-02-09 Punishing the long-term unemployed by refusing to extend benefits is bad economics and cruel social policy, an economist writes....
377 2012-02-09 Although Greece’s so-called troika of foreign lenders — the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund — have indicated that they will ask for written agreements from the party leaders that they will support the loan agreement, the government is still expected to be able to approve the agreement without Mr. Karatzaferis’s party.

Even if he does pull out of the coalition, the government will still have a majority in Parliament, where L.A.O.S. has only 16 of the coalition’s 252 seats.

With elections expected as soon as April, the parties are fighting for their political survival.

The leaders appear to have agreed to one of the most controversial austerity measures, a 22 percent reduction in the minimum wage, to around $775 a month, according to the statement by Mr. Papademos.

That cut is expected to affect all salaried workers, because the base wage is used as a benchmark by employers.

But the leader of New Democracy, Antonis Samaras, said they had foundered over cuts to pensions. Mr. Karatzaferis, whose populist, hard-right former opposition party has been losing ground with voters since it joined the government, said he would support Mr. Samaras to prevent proposed cuts to supplementary pensions. Mr. Papademos met with troika officials late into the night to try to fill a $300 million budget shortfall that would be left if the pensions were not cut.

Analysts suggested the coalition partners wanted to avoid blame for the agreement in hopes of leaving Mr. Papademos as the main target of public anger.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the prime minster of Luxembourg, who heads a group of euro zone finance ministers, had scheduled a ministerial meeting for Thursday that he had previously said he would call only if Athens were ready to sign off on the plan.

Even that meeting would not be the final word. But it would allow for preparations for a bond swap under which private investors would take losses of up to 70 percent, according to one person briefed on discussions who agreed only to describe them anonymously.

Some details of the bailout remained unclear, but it appeared increasingly likely that the European Central Bank would agree to forgo at least some potential profits on Greek bonds once the Athens government agreed to the austerity measures.

The first installment of the bailout was supposed to be a $118 billion tranche in March, but officials now say it might be limited to about $40 billion to ensure that Greece continues to abide by the terms in coming months.
378 2012-02-09 Although Greece’s so-called troika of foreign lenders — the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund — have indicated that they will ask for written agreements from the party leaders that they will support the loan agreement, the government is still expected to be able to approve the agreement without Mr. Karatzaferis’s party.

Even if he does pull out of the coalition, the government will still have a majority in Parliament, where L.A.O.S. has only 16 of the coalition’s 252 seats.

With elections expected as soon as April, the parties are fighting for their political survival.

The leaders appear to have agreed to one of the most controversial austerity measures, a 22 percent reduction in the minimum wage, to around $775 a month, according to the statement by Mr. Papademos.

That cut is expected to affect all salaried workers, because the base wage is used as a benchmark by employers.

But the leader of New Democracy, Antonis Samaras, said they had foundered over cuts to pensions. Mr. Karatzaferis, whose populist, hard-right former opposition party has been losing ground with voters since it joined the government, said he would support Mr. Samaras to prevent proposed cuts to supplementary pensions. Mr. Papademos met with troika officials late into the night to try to fill a $300 million budget shortfall that would be left if the pensions were not cut.

Analysts suggested the coalition partners wanted to avoid blame for the agreement in hopes of leaving Mr. Papademos as the main target of public anger.

Jean-Claude Juncker, the prime minster of Luxembourg, who heads a group of euro zone finance ministers, had scheduled a ministerial meeting for Thursday that he had previously said he would call only if Athens were ready to sign off on the plan.

Even that meeting would not be the final word. But it would allow for preparations for a bond swap under which private investors would take losses of up to 70 percent, according to one person briefed on discussions who agreed only to describe them anonymously.

Some details of the bailout remained unclear, but it appeared increasingly likely that the European Central Bank would agree to forgo at least some potential profits on Greek bonds once the Athens government agreed to the austerity measures.

The first installment of the bailout was supposed to be a $118 billion tranche in March, but officials now say it might be limited to about $40 billion to ensure that Greece continues to abide by the terms in coming months.
379 2012-02-09 Weakness in its core investment banking business caused the Swiss bank to report its first quarterly loss in three years, despite beginning a cost-cutting effort last year....
380 2012-02-09 Weakness in its core investment banking business caused the Swiss bank to report its first quarterly loss in three years, despite beginning a cost-cutting effort last year....
381 2012-02-09 But Virginia M. Miller, a heart disease researcher at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., who wrote an editorial that accompanied the paper, said in an interview that the work “puts a whole different perspective on some risk factors for heart disease in men.”

Everyone knows men who did all the wrong things — ignored their cholesterol levels, smoked — and yet were spared heart disease, Dr. Miller said. And everyone knows men who were careful about their diet, controlled their cholesterol levels and blood pressure and did not smoke, yet died young from heart attacks.

The message of the new study, Dr. Miller said, was that for some of those unlucky men, “yes indeed, they did have inheritable factors that independently caused death.” And when a screening test is developed to find those Y chromosome gene clusters and researchers have a better understanding of how they act, it may be possible to protect some of them from having heart attacks.

Dr. Tomaszewski and his colleagues found the Y chromosome gene association by looking at men in two large British heart disease studies. He said he and his colleagues were surprised by the magnitude of increase in risk for men with one of two genetic clusters.

Dr. Daniel J. Rader, a heart disease researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, said it was also possible that simply having a Y chromosome instead of two X chromosomes, as women have, increased heart disease risk. The extra X could be protective.

Dr. Sekar Kathiresan, director of preventive cardiology at Massachusetts General Hospital, said it was strange that there had been almost no study of the Y chromosome’s effect on heart disease. Although the reasons were technical, having to do with the way gene searches were done, ignoring the Y, he said, “was a little bit of an oversight.”

Heart disease researchers have generally ignored the role of the Y chromosome, assuming it was mostly involved in determining maleness, Dr. Tomaszewski said. He suggested the cluster of genes on the Y chromosome of the men with lower risk may help control inflammation, a process that is part of the formation of atherosclerotic plaques.

Others were less convinced. “A lot more work needs to be done” on the gene cluster, Dr. Rader said.

Dr Kathiresan said the association between the gene cluster and heart disease risk needed to be confirmed.
382 2012-02-09 In Tripoli, a Temporary Home for the Displaced
383 2012-02-09 Egyptian officials have said the case grew out of an investigation into illicit foreign financing of nonprofit groups here. It is in many ways an easy case to make because almost every independent human rights or advocacy group is unlicensed, foreign financed and therefore illegal. The former government of President Hosni Mubarak, however, long tolerated such unlicensed groups, deliberately keeping them in legal twilight and always vulnerable to prosecution.

Saying that they had collected “dangerous” evidence, the investigating judges described a variety of discoveries, including reports that at least one group had asked what the judges suggested were inappropriate questions touching on religious divisions, and then sent that information back to foreign capitals, and a map showing Egypt divided into four parts. The judges said piles of cash worth hundreds of thousands of dollars had also been found. (They did not say which groups did what.)

The discovery of the map fed a popular conspiracy theory here that the United States might seek to divide Egypt into multiple parts as British colonialists once divided up the Arab world. But officials who worked for some of the accused organizations have said the maps were government-issued charts of election districts.

To Egyptians, the reference to questions about religion was reminiscent of the frequent suggestions by some Egyptian officials who have, after outbreaks of sectarian violence, routinely blamed unnamed “foreign hands” for stirring strife between Muslims and Christians. The questions appear to have been part of a poll conducted by the International Republican Institute and are available on its Web site. The group has said that the poll, which also contained political questions, was part of its efforts to help open up Egypt’s political process.

At times, the prosecutors were either confused or provided information that appears to be misleading. Judge Zaid said at one point that an American organization had financed a secret group called the Arrow of Confidence, which in turn created a project to take photographs of churches and military installations under the name “April 7.” To Egyptians, that was unmistakable invocation of a well-known activist organization, the April 6 Youth Group, which government officials have accused of taking American money and blamed for stirring up street protests.

But instead of a secret American-backed group, the Arrow of Confidence is an officially licensed Egyptian human rights organization, formally recognized since 2007. The group received German financing to hold a seminar on social media that just happened to take place on April 7, said Nihal Nasr el Din, the founder of the Arrow of Confidence.

“This is nonsense and a big lie,” she said in a telephone interview.

The German backer, the Konrad Adenauer Institute, is so far the only non-American group involved in the prosecution. The institute has operated in Egypt for three decades, mostly in collaboration with officially authorized organizations that include Cairo University.

All the accused groups say they seek to promote democracy, not to interfere with politics.

Charles W. Dunne, Middle East director for Freedom House — another American group chartered to promote democracy whose staff has been charged in the case — said the grab bag of inflammatory insinuations cited in the news conference was evidence of the political character of the case. “Every morning you wake up and you find the Egyptians have found some new way to escalate this,” he said.

Forty-three people have been charged in the case, including the 19 Americans. But many of those charged appear to be outside the country; perhaps as few as half a dozen of the Americans are inside Egypt, and they are barred from leaving. Sam LaHood and as many as five other Americans are taking shelter in the United States Embassy for fear of arrest.

The investigating judges said that if convicted of participating in the foreign financing of unlicensed nonprofit groups, the suspects could face jail sentences of as much as five years. The judges also said they expected the investigation to continue, potentially snaring other foreign-financed nonprofit organizations and rights groups as well.

In an effort to resolve the matter, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will travel to Egypt to meet with his counterpart on Egypt’s ruling military council. His trip was previously scheduled but is now expected to include discussion of the case.

Lawmakers on Capitol Hill are stepping up pressure as well. “There are committed opponents of the United States and the U.S.-Egypt relationship within the government in Cairo who are exacerbating tensions and inflaming public opinion in order to advance a narrow political agenda,” Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, said in a joint statement. “Congressional support for Egypt — including continued financial assistance — is in jeopardy. A rupture in relations would be disastrous, and the risks of such an outcome have rarely been greater.”
384 2012-02-09 House Republican leaders appear ready to bow to election-year pressure and pass a bill banning lawmakers from using nonpublic information they hear on the job to make financial investments. The House legislation, however, is missing two vital provisions that are in the Senate bill that won overwhelming approval last week.

The first provision requires that members of the budding “political intelligence” industry — that sells information gleaned from private talks with lawmakers and staffers — register like lobbyists and disclose Hill activities. The second provision strengthens criminal law to facilitate corruption investigations of public officials.

Both these provisions deserve enactment, but the Republican majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor, struck them from the House measure. Mr. Cantor claimed in particular that the registration language was overly vague and might even raise First Amendment issues.

That drew an angry objection from Senator Charles Grassley, a fellow Republican and sponsor of the registration mandate, who said the House retreat would keep these professional tipsters “in the shadows, just the way Wall Street likes it.”

So far, the House measure still includes the Senate requirement for greater disclosure of financial transactions by lawmakers and thousands of executive branch officials. That is not enough. If the goal is to root out corruption, and raise the public’s low opinion of Congress, the House should approve the full range of reform in the Senate bill.
385 2012-02-09 One of the most common errors investors commit, he has found, is making bad decisions simply because of the overriding fear of loss, an important concept of the so-called prospect theory he pioneered with his fellow researcher, Amos Tversky, who died in 1996.

Investors will also “anchor” to a target price for a security for arbitrary and irrational reasons, often holding the stock long after it should have been sold.

Instead of portraying investors as idealized rational beings who always act in their own best interests — often the case in standard financial economics — behavioral economics casts them as “normal” people who chase biases that have little connection to the statistical truth or the right thing to do.

Our brains, in Professor Kahneman’s view and according to neurological research, rely more on a so-called System 1 that processes information rapidly and intuitively than a System 2 that is more analytical and deliberate.

One cognitive bias is called “faulty framing.” Say you buy a stock at a certain price and it plummets. You are reluctant to sell it because of the emotional distress of taking a loss. Because it is a paper loss, you hold it in a protected mental account as something that still has hope, even though the market has decided otherwise.

Here are some other common errors researchers have identified:

MISREADING SHORT-TERM RESULTS Regarding what happens in the short term as predictive of a future outcome is a frequent mistake — for example, when an investor views last year’s strong performance as a sign that a manager’s hot streak will continue. Most good runs are a matter of luck, Professor Kahneman said. “If a manager had three or four good years, you’re asking for trouble,” he said. “Go with real statistics, not small samples.”

TRUSTING GUT INSTINCTS Intuitive insights have proved to be consistently unreliable as a basis for picking profitable investments. Professor Kahneman suggested “taking the outside view” and mistrusting your intuition.

REACTING TO OUTSIDE EVENTS No doubt the euro zone mess, debt problems in the United States and other world calamities are threats to global investing. But such problems often involve too much information to process. Investors need to make decisions one at time, in a manner that corresponds to their own goals. “There’s very little relation to the importance of problems and the time we spend thinking about them,” Professor Kahneman said.

Meir Statman, a finance professor at Santa Clara University in California and author of “What Investors Really Want” (McGraw-Hill, 2010), said, “We can overcome System 1 by employing critical thinking.” Instead, he added, “Think like a scientist.”

Professors Kahneman and Statman have found that amateur investors get into the most trouble when they start actively trading, a situation in which they have no real advantage. They are likely to lose money, several studies have shown.

“In every trade there is an idiot,” Professor Statman said. “If you don’t know who it is, it’s you.”

While Professor Statman does not begrudge investors the thrill of trading, he suggests limiting the activity. It may be all right to play the market, he said, “as long as it won’t imperil your retirement.”

Most behavioral economists are wary of active management, which applies to buying mutual funds and other vehicles where professional managers are trying to time market conditions. Even the best stock pickers failed to foresee the consequences of the 2008 financial crisis. That is an additional shortcoming most investors share — the failure to anticipate and prevent damage from a worst-case situation. Market savants call this “tail risk.”

“People are underinsured against extreme and unlikely possibilities,” Professor Kahneman said, citing Nassim Nicholas Taleb’s book “The Black Swan” (Random House, 2007), which examines highly improbable events.

Most behavioral finance experts counsel that for the majority of people, a passive investment approach is the wisest. Devise a portfolio that measures and limits the amount of risk you can afford to take, align it to your specific goals — college financing, retirement, estate building — and leave it alone. Professor Statman recommends low-cost index funds. “I just let them ride,” he said.

Professor Kahneman suggests avoiding highly leveraged funds and keeping an eye on inflation. Having experienced high inflation while living in Israel more than 30 years ago, he has invested in Treasury inflation-protected securities, known as TIPS, which can be bought individually through the United States Treasury or packaged in mutual funds like the iShares Barclays TIPS exchange-traded fund.

“We need to be more systematic,” Professor Kahneman said. “We need to slow ourselves down.”

Reflection may be the biggest ally in avoiding investment folly. To be successful in sidestepping our System 1 tendencies, one of the best strategies is to shelve a hot investment idea for a week and think about it analytically — or employ a trusted adviser to analyze the idea carefully.

In this regard, perhaps an old proverb offers some of the best advice. Haste can indeed make waste.
386 2012-02-09 “You don’t tend to see as many management buyouts when the market is growing and the business is booming,” said Bruce Cameron, president and chief executive of Berkshire Capital, a boutique mergers and acquisitions firm. “You do see them in times when firms have made acquisitions and they’re trying to retrench.”

Ms. von Seldeneck said AccuStaff had been on an acquisition spree in the five years after it bought Diversified Search, but her firm was an obvious candidate to be spun off. It was the only retained search firm — meaning it worked on behalf of a company, not a prospective employee, to fill a job — and that mismatch, she felt, gave her the opportunity get out cheaply. Her timing was great, and the firm has now been profitable for 37 years.

But price is only one of the reasons entrepreneurs are lured back to buying their old firms. And focusing just on the value of the deal carries plenty of risks.

Stephen G. Salley, the head of the family business center at GenSpring Family Offices, a wealth management firm, said founders should think more deeply before giving it another go. The reasons are that they tend to romanticize what it was like to run their company — forgetting all the late nights and stress of personally securing loans — and feel that in bad economic times they need to swoop in and save what they built. He said his goal was to dissuade clients from pursuing a buyback.

“If you were looking at it rationally, you’d say it doesn’t matter that this was my business,” Mr. Salley said. “The question is, Is this where I’d put $40 million today and what could I do with the same dollar amount elsewhere? Repurchasing the family business is as much an emotional decision as it is an economic one.”

Over the last few years, Mr. Salley said, he has had many clients come to him to discuss offers to buy back their former businesses, and he is proud that so far he has persuaded every one not to do it.

“Your family sold for a reason and very seldom was it just for the money,” he said he tells them. “You made the decision to get out and now you’re essentially saying you want to remarry an ex-wife 10 years after the fact.”

In most cases, business owners are not like Ms. von Seldeneck, who remained working at her firm. They sold and left, and the company a former owner wants to buy back, even if it carries his name, is fundamentally different.

John Dyett, a co-founder of Salem Partners, a Los Angeles-based investment bank and wealth management firm, said: “Oftentimes entrepreneurs can mistake luck for brains. It’s hard to replicate.”

The two things entrepreneurs often forget, Mr. Dyett said, are how important it is to have the proper financing and how difficult it is to build a company many years after that initial spark has passed and they have gotten used to a more relaxed lifestyle.

The deals that work best involve not just buying the company back cheaply, which is crucial, but also getting the right type of financing so the company is not burdened by debt, and having a leader who still has the drive to run a company.

In 1997, John Q. Adams Sr. had the opportunity to buy back the assets of his former drug company, Adams Laboratories. Six years earlier he had sold it to Medeva, a British drug manufacturer, for $100 million. He negotiated to buy the manufacturing plant and rehire the management team and the drug developers for a mere $3.5 million.

“Everything we needed was there,” Mr. Adams said. “It was an incredible deal, a deal we couldn’t pass up.”

But Mr. Adams did something different with the firm he renamed Adams Respiratory Therapeutics. In the original incarnation of the company, he had made his fortune selling a class of drugs that did not need approval from the Food and Drug Administration. He had focused on marketing medication that contained guaifenesin, the active ingredient in Robitussin cough syrup.

With his buyback, he wanted to try something different: put guaifenesin in long-acting form, apply for F.D.A. approval and corner the market since his old rivals would have to apply as well to compete. “This was a huge bet that we could get regulatory approval,” said Mr. Adams, 75.

It also was a shift for someone who had spent the previous years building a luxury ranch and conference center outside Dallas and generally living a nice life. But he said he missed the competition. “It was the challenge of being the first one to get a patent on guaifenesin,” he said.

It helped that he had paid only $3.5 million for the business, but another advantage was how he acquired it. He structured the transaction so that he bought only the assets of his former company. Doing a deal this way meant he was buying something with tax advantages — he could reduce the value of the assets over time, called depreciation — but he was also getting his company back without any potential but hidden legal problems that could come from buying it as a stock transaction.

“If you buy the stock, you’re buying everything, including, say, a sexual harassment claim, or a product liability,” said Jere Doyle, wealth strategist at Bank of New York Mellon. “If you buy the assets of a company, you’re just buying what you want and not all those liabilities.”

Initially, Mr. Adams thought he would need only $8 million and 18 months to get regulatory approval for the long-acting drug. But it ended up taking six years and $82 million.

In 2002, the company got F.D.A. approval for the long-acting drug, now known as Mucinex, and the next year it went public. The initial public offering raised $135 million for the company, and on the first day the shares rose in value by 50 percent.

“What drove me more than any one thing was the fear of failure,” Mr. Adams said. “I knew that if I managed the company well, the financial rewards would be automatic.”

One thing that surely helped him was essentially buying back the same management team from the old Adams Laboratories. When the new owners, Medeva, decided to move its operations to Rochester, many employees did not want to leave its base at the time, in sunny, warm Fort Worth. The stroke of luck gave Mr. Adams a team that had been successful before and knew how to work together — so successfully that the new company was itself subsequently acquired.

Next to having sufficient financing, Mr. Dyett said, keeping a management team in place increases the chances for a buyback to be successful. When Ms. von Seldeneck bought back her recruiting firm, she benefited from having lost only one critical employee in the acquisition, her chief financial officer. But he returned once Diversified was independent again.

Still, there are downsides even to successful bids to buy back a family business. All the same estate planning and succession issues come right back.

Yet from an estate tax perspective, putting some portion of the firm into a trust for heirs makes sense. Having a definite purchase price establishes a set value for those shares that the Internal Revenue Service will not be able to challenge down the road. The question, though, is how much.

“As a practical matter, I don’t think a lot of people are going to want to go out there and buy the business in trust for their kids and then go out there every day” and work the long hours again, Mr. Doyle said. “It’s great from a tax perspective, but it’s not realistic. They’ll only do it if the kids want to be involved in the business.”

The bigger concern is usually the current employees. Mr. Cameron of Berkshire Capital said many of the most successful buybacks were done with a group of employees getting a stake in the firm.

“While investment management companies have bought small firms over the years because they have good returns, we joke with our clients that you never really own one because they’re so dependent on the people, and they come and go every day,” Mr. Cameron said.

But it is hard to discount the strength of the emotional connection to a family firm. Sometimes it is the past that weighs most heavily on business owners’ decisions.

Alexandra Lebenthal said she struggled when her family’s financial firm, Lebenthal & Company, ceased to exist in 2005.

In that year, Merrill Lynch decided to mothball the family name after it paid $400 million for Advest, which had acquired the Lebenthal firm in 2001 and had kept the name, familiar to generations of New Yorkers for its radio advertisements for municipal bonds.

Now it was gone and, feeling a keen sense of loss, Ms. Lebenthal at first tried to do something else. She took a trip to Bali for 10 days. She had lunch and went shopping, but realized most of her closest friends had jobs and could not join her. After eight weeks, she realized she wanted to get back into the family business.

“For every entrepreneur who sells a business there is a period of mourning,” Ms. Lebenthal said. “I don’t care how big the check is.”

So in 2006, she restarted her family firm. But Ms. Lebenthal could not legally call the firm by her last name, a brand that stretched back to 1925 when her grandparents started the company. She opted for Alexandra & James, her first name and her father’s.

She remained intent on buying back her name. In October 2007, on her third try, she succeeded, paying $1,000 to be able to call her firm Lebenthal & Company again.

By that point, Alexandra & James had been operating as a stand-alone business and was doing well.

What to do? She decided to use Lebenthal for the firm’s capital markets business — including the old municipal bond business — and reserve Alexandra & James for the wealth management arm.

And she has no regrets. “I remember someone at Merrill telling me that Lebenthal is a good name, but Merrill Lynch is a great one,” she said. “I just believed there would come a time when I would get that name back.”
387 2012-02-09 According to Garp, there are more than 21,000 certified financial risk managers around the world. Becoming certified requires two years of experience, in addition to passing the exam, and costs $800 to $1,200.

The campaign is aimed more broadly than previous ads from Garp, which were directed to risk managers wanting to achieve certification to improve their career prospects. The new ads are also being addressed to organizations, institutions and employers, asking them to regard certification as a seal of approval.

Although “it is a challenge” to raise awareness among both potential audiences, said Kathleen Alcorn, managing director and global head of marketing and membership at Garp in Jersey City, “there has always been a need to expand the conversation.”

“This year, our goal was to try to find that common ground,” she added, and the campaign is “a direct call, a call to arms, if you will, to get certified or hire someone who’s certified.”

The Gate Worldwide, which has worked with the organization for about a year and a half, proposed “three very different campaigns,” Ms. Alcorn said, and the one with the images that evoke boxing matches “certainly was the one of the three that got the most attention and the most discussion.”

“The reason we chose it was that it’s rooted in an emotionally charged truth,” she added, of “what’s felt when an institution is not prepared” for problems like “rogue trading, mismanagement of funds and sovereign debt crises.”

“The point is that the industry is getting hammered, but there’s a solution,” Ms. Alcorn said. “It’s a positive message: ‘We have qualified people out there you can hire.’ ”

The text of the print ads expands on that message.

“Unforeseen risk is everywhere,” one ad begins. “You can find it within an organization or throughout the global economy.”

“That’s why more companies are turning to certified financial risk managers,” the ad continues. “Every F.R.M. has mastered the specialized knowledge that’s sought after by banks, consultancies, corporations and asset management firms.”

Another ad begins: “In a world of financial risk, organizations can never be too prepared. That’s why more global companies are relying on certified financial risk managers.”

“As an F.R.M., you’ll be recognized for mastering the complexities of credit, market and operational risks,” the ad continues. “You’ll also play a critical role in the financial well-being of banks, consultancies, corporations and asset management firms.”

The ads all end by pointing readers to the Garp Web site, at garp.org. The ads also include a QR (quick response) code, which can be scanned to learn more about the organization.

“We’re all experiencing this financial crisis,” said David Bernstein, executive creative director at the Gate Worldwide, adding he knows that “as a veteran of a lot of advertising agencies that no longer exist.”

“In the past, we’ve done advertising telling people to get the certification by saying, ‘You’ll be more qualified, you’ll have a better career, you’ll make more money,’ ” Mr. Bernstein said, an approach that is “logical for any credential.”

“Now, we’re also telling employers, ‘Hey, these are the kind of people you need, credentialed,’ ” he added.

Although the concept for the campaign “did make the palms sweat” of some executives at Garp, Mr. Bernstein said, something “so visceral” was just what was needed.

He described the point of the campaign with a nod to the economist Adam Smith: “The invisible hand, it packs a punch.”

That has a double meaning, Mr. Bernstein acknowledged, in that the hand delivering the punch in each ad is invisible, too.

“We don’t want to show someone getting hit,” he said. “We want to show the result: what it feels like, what you look like.”

“Movies do this all the time,” he added. “Instead of seeing the house on fire, you see the crispy doll.”

In trying to raise awareness for the certification exam, the campaign is timely.

“In 2009, we had our largest year in registrations” for the exam, Ms. Alcorn said, which rose 70 percent compared with 2008.

The campaign is running in several media outlets owned by Bloomberg, including magazines, Bloomberg Radio and the Bloomberg terminals.

In social media, Garp has a presence on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter.

“Social has been a good vehicle for us,” Ms. Alcorn said.
388 2012-02-09 The heart of the RAFI style is to avoid stocks when they are overpriced, find companies with solid financial standing and “trim stocks whose prices recently outperformed their fundamentals and add to those stocks whose prices have underperformed the businesses’ economic footprint,” Mr. Arnott has written.

In other words, fundamental indexing tries to buy low and sell high, while cap-weighted indexers usually buy high and hold. When the market rises, cap-weighted indexes represent the most popular stocks — increasing the index’s overall exposure to market risk.

In recent years, though, buying into another market mania hasn’t been much of an issue — large company stocks were essentially flat last year along with an overdose of gut-wrenching volatility. But if the economy and market rebound, buying overpriced stocks and holding onto them too long is often the undoing of millions of investors who follow the tide and jump in the water at the wrong time.

While fundamental indexing is not a perfect way of capturing solid performers at a lower price, it’s one way to avoid extremes. In fixed-income markets, it may also be a way of partly avoiding countries with the highest debt.

Had fundamental indexing been widely employed during the tech bubble, it would have helped investors sidestep the huge crash that followed, Mr. Arnott has asserted.

Like any stock market strategy, though, fundamental investing doesn’t always deliver superior returns, especially when the entire market is troubled by risks like the European and United States financial crises.

Mark Wilson, a certified financial planner and registered investment adviser with the Tarbox Group in Newport Beach, Calif., has employed fundamentally weighted index funds since 2007. Even with some rough patches over the last year, he has retained confidence in the approach.

“The key reason for fundamental weighting is to avoid the negative bias of cap-weighting,” Mr. Wilson said. “A cap-weighted index will own more of the overvalued stocks and less of the undervalued ones.”

When volatility rules or a bubble is being inflated, fundamental weighting may be one way of blunting market risk. Since it tends to tilt toward finding bargains and dividend payers, it provides a modest layer of insulation.

Kevin Reardon, a fee-only financial planner for Shakespeare Wealth Management in Pewaukee, Wis., said he was so concerned about exposing his clients to market risk that he stayed away from individual stocks entirely and generally eschewed cap-weighted index funds.

“With cap-weighted funds, we found we were buying more risk,” Mr. Reardon said. He has his clients invested in the Wisdom Tree Emerging Markets Equity Income Fund, which emphasizes dividend-paying companies in developing countries, and the PowerShares FTSE RAFI US 1000 index ETF, a fundamentally weighted United States stock index fund.

Although it has gained more acceptance in recent years, the fundamental approach has many critics, who claim that it cribs long-standing principles of value investing, which have been around for decades and practiced widely by a host of bargain-hunting money managers like Warren E. Buffett.

Many fundamental investors have stuck to a three-factor model that focuses on company book values, size and market risk. This style of investing was seeded by research by the finance professors Eugene F. Fama and Kenneth R. French, who found that portfolios dominated by smaller, bargain-priced companies had often outperformed larger stocks since the 1930s.

The Fama-French model has been one of the core philosophies of the Dimensional Fund Adviser Group, which manages more than $195 billion. The company invests in a wide range of asset classes, including American stocks, commodities and real estate. Although it is hardly a household word among most mainstream investors, DFA is favored by many fee-only advisers and planners for its low-cost funds and academic approach. Their portfolios are available only through certain advisers.

Although he has used RAFI funds in the past, Lance Alston, a fee-only financial planner with New Dimensions Wealth Management in Allen, Tex., prefers the core DFA funds. Like many in the fundamental camp, he said he was wary of cap-weighted index funds.

“Most investors don’t have the tools to see what’s held in the funds,” Mr. Alston said. His approach, he said, focuses on fundamentals “at the lowest cost.”

How do you know if fundamental weighting is a good fit for you? Since the market constantly shifts its focus from value to growth-oriented stocks, it’s certainly not a good strategy for those who are timing market momentum. And it will never protect your principal completely. Yet if you’re patient and willing to endure its ups and downs, it could be profitable in the long run.
389 2012-02-09 You can now find a low-volatility fund for nearly every corner of the global stock market. The PowerShares S.& P. 500 low-volatility fund invests in 100 companies from the index that “exhibited the lowest sensitivity to market movement, or beta, over the past 12 months.”

Skittish about emerging-market stocks? The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Minimum Volatility Index Fund could be worth a look. Tilting more toward small companies in the United States? The Russell 2000 Low Volatility fund focuses on small- and micro-cap stocks with strong growth prospects.

What if you want to bet squarely against the downward volatility of the S.& P. 500 index? Then you might consider the iPath S.& P. 500 Short-Term VIX fund, a complex exchange-traded fund based on futures contracts that track the implied volatility of the index.

For an even broader approach, Lance Gunkel — a fee-only certified financial planner with Sherpa Investment Management in West Des Moines, Iowa — uses the SEI Managed Volatility Fund, which covers a low-volatility index representing 3,000 stocks that may also invest in futures and options. The fund’s load-adjusted return was nearly 10 percent compared with a nearly flat performance for the S.& P. 500 Index last year.

The companies in the low-volatility funds he chooses for his clients tend to be “cash-flow rich with low price/earnings ratios, dividend paying with a value tilt,” Mr. Gunkel said.

While there is an appeal to tamping down portfolio extremes, the low-volatility strategy is no substitute for a comprehensive reduction of market risk. While many low-volatility funds track stocks that have had fewer price swings on average over the last year, that may not be the most prudent way to avoid future volatility.

If low-volatility funds were concentrated in “safer” stocks like dividend-rich utilities and major energy producers in 2011, unless they shifted gears to match market sentiment for this year’s favored sectors, they might fall victim to “sector rotation,” as professional money managers shift into other industries and sell the favored stocks of the previous year. Last year’s darlings may be this year’s goats.

Also keep in mind that most of these funds have been started within the last few years. Few, if any, have been battle-tested in a 2008-style collapse, which is when you would need them to offer real protection. (And they are not to be confused with balanced funds that have a mix of bonds or cash, or more exotic “inverse” funds that move in the opposite direction of stocks.)

Lee Munson, the author of “Rigged Money” and a financial planner and registered adviser with Portfolio, in Albuquerque, said he was “offended by the gentle marketing lie” of low-volatility funds because they did not address the larger need to reduce market risk in times of market crisis. Every low-volatility fund is still exposed to the market. And still looming is “event risk,” like the threat of a European country defaulting on its debt.

A lot of investors, Mr. Munson maintained, mistakenly “confuse low volatility with low risk,” adding: “You can’t call a Lexus a Mercedes. People think that when the market goes down, I won’t get hurt in these funds. They’re all stocks.”

Mr. Munson suggested a more enlightened view that looks at “risk budgeting,” or gauging how much risk you can take, and design a portfolio that tracks your tolerance — or intolerance — for stock market exposure.

It is also possible to reallocate easily to include more bonds to offset equity holdings. Real diversification includes investments that do not move in lock step when the market turns south.

A qualified investment adviser or certified financial planner can also help you hedge risk in other ways, like buying options on specific stocks or indexes you may own. The goal, as always, is to developthe portfolio that best provides for your needs in the least stressful way.
390 2012-02-09 Classical music has become so obsessed with its own permanence over the last couple of centuries that musicians have all but forgotten the joys of the ephemeral. Scores are carefully notated, and performances are rehearsed as obsessively as budgets allow. And though serendipity can yield surprising, illuminating or memorable turns of phrase, these are usually just variations on a carefully polished script.

The Ecstatic Music Festival, a celebration of the indie classical world, now in its second season, is making a point of avoiding the predictable, mainly by having musicians who do not normally work together share the stage at Merkin Concert Hall. The collaborations may pan out, or not, but the composer Judd Greenstein, who programs the festival, is betting that sparks will fly more often than not. Judging by last year’s results — and by New Amsterdam, the record label and presenting organization Mr. Greenstein runs with a few other composers — his instincts seem bankable.

The festival’s second program, on Tuesday evening, brought together five composer-performers for a combination of through-composed and impromptu works.

But even the most conventionally formal moments — the finely polished performance of Angélica Negrón’s “Gran Caleidoscopio” by Face the Music, an energetic student new-music ensemble, conducted by Jennifer Undercofler — had a freewheeling spirit, most notably in their percussion scoring.

Other set pieces, like Todd Reynolds’s “Transamerica” and Mr. Reynolds’s collaboration with Sxip Shirey on Mr. Shirey’s “I Live in New York City,” explored byways significantly different, in matters of structure and instrumentation, from those they took in past performances.

In a way Mr. Shirey’s approach to making music almost guaranteed as much. His instrumental arsenal, this time, included two guitars and a table and floor full of toys (including bells and clappers of various sorts) and other noisemaking objects, and his performances seem a combination of careful planning and spur-of-the-moment inspiration. Even when his improvisations did not amount to much — in “Our Worst Tendencies,” a collaboration with Ms. Negrón and eight bell-playing volunteers from the audience — they were always amusing.

On his own Mr. Shirey performed “Trains,” an extraordinary soundscape in which he played an acoustic guitar, with paper clips affixed to its strings, through a reverb box that yielded an eerie electronic timbre meant to evoke late-night train sounds that he heard when he was living in Missoula, Mont. And another collaboration with Ms. Negrón, “Asa Nisi Masa,” was an entrancing exploration of timbre and fragmented melody, with Ms. Negrón switching among accordion, glockenspiel and breathy vocalizations, and Mr. Shirey playing guitar and bells.
391 2012-02-09 In 2009 Ms. Boo wrote an article for The New Yorker, where she has been a staff writer since 2003, describing the Mumbai premiere of “Slumdog Millionaire” and contrasting its lavishness with the lives of some of her slum dwellers. The story was picked up and translated by a Marathi-language newspaper. This got her in hot water with the local police, who were irritated by her suggestion that they had covered up a murder of a young slum dweller, but also gave her credibility with the Annawadians. “They saw that I was really doing what I said I was doing,” she said. “They saw that I even got the jokes.”

Ms. Boo was introduced to Mumbai by her husband, Sunil Khilnani, a former Johns Hopkins University professor who spends part of every year there and thought she could write about India in a way less condescending than many Westerners. Initially she was hesitant: there was the language barrier, and also her shaky health.

Since her late teens Ms. Boo, who is now 47, has suffered from rheumatoid arthritis and several related immunological disorders. She walks a little slowly and sometimes has trouble with her eyes. Her fingers are gnarled and bent. That she is still able to type is owing in large part to a 2002 MacArthur grant, which helped pay for surgery on her right hand.

For someone in her condition the best treatment is drugs that suppress the immune system, and these do not make such a person an ideal candidate for spending time in a slum where tuberculosis is practically epidemic. But one night Ms. Boo tripped over an unabridged dictionary in her own apartment, puncturing a lung and breaking three ribs, and decided home wasn’t much safer. “I thought if I don’t work, I’m risking my mental health,” she said.

For as long as she has been a writer, Ms. Boo has only wanted to write about the poor and the disadvantaged. In 2000, while at The Washington Post, she won a Pulitzer Prize for a series about the mistreatment of the mentally retarded in the Washington area. “I think I grew up with a healthy respect for volatility, all the things you can’t control,” she said. “And I became aware of the ways in which people who write about the disadvantaged often underestimate its psychological contours, the uncertainty — economic or whatever.”

Ms. Boo is herself both a late bloomer and a prodigy. She grew up in and around Washington, where her parents, both Minnesotans, moved when her father became an aide to Representative Eugene McCarthy. (The family name is Swedish, an Americanized version of Bö.) After high school, by her own account a “confused late adolescent,” Ms. Boo took the civil service exam and became a clerk typist for the General Services Administration. When she discovered she was ill, she quit and stayed at home for a while, just reading, and then went to night school while typing again, this time for the Federal Election Commission.

Ms. Boo graduated from Barnard in the late ’80s, still typing — for The Columbia Daily Spectator, for which she wrote editorials — and was hired by Jack Shafer, then the editor of the Washington City Paper. Mr. Shafer, now a columnist for Reuters, said recently that he was impressed less by her writing than by her voluminous reading and her ability to think on her feet, and was amazed by how accomplished her first article was. “She had the soul of a poet but the arm strength of an investigative reporter,” he recalled.

Soon afterward he made Ms. Boo his No. 2, responsible not just for writing but also for editing the work of others, and from there she moved up the ladder to The Washington Monthly and then The Post, where she became known for the way she combined investigative digging, on-the-street reporting and brilliant writing. But she was never comfortable with interviewing official sources, she said, and is still proud she has never had lunch with one.

Another thing that makes her uncomfortable is policy wonkery, and by design “Beautiful Forevers,” a book as depressing as it is memorable, has no summing-up chapter full of recommendations. “I respect the division of labor,” she said. “My job is to lay it out clearly, not to give my policy prescriptions.” She added: “Very little journalism is world changing. But if change is to happen, it will be because people with power have a better sense of what’s happening to people who have none.”
392 2012-02-09 “We needed the time to experiment and develop a proof of concept,” Mr. Pate said. “If it had been first-to-file back then, a bigger company with an engineering staff and money could have heard about us doing this and filed before us. If we rushed our filing to prevent this, we would have ended up with a much less valuable set of patents.”

The old system also allowed them to delay spending money. “If we had to start the patenting process immediately, we would have had to commit to spending $20,000 to $30,000 before we were certain which attributes of our invention were the most valuable,” Mr. Pate said.

But Nick Blitterswyk, chief executive of Urban Green Energy in New York City, says he thinks moving to first-to-file will make his company less vulnerable to infringement.

“With this change, you will know what else is out there because inventors will file as soon as possible,” and their patent applications will be available, said Mr. Blitterswyk, whose company makes vertical axis wind turbines, which are smaller and quieter than the more common horizontal axis turbines used in wind farms.

Mr. Blitterswyk said it would be reassuring to potential investors to know a business had filed first, which would “make it easier to secure investment.”

Louis J. Foreman, founder of Edison Nation, which produces the PBS show “Everyday Edisons,” agrees. “With first-to-invent you run the risk of going through the patent process and at any time someone can I say, ‘I thought of that two years ago, here’s my notebook,’ ” said Mr. Foreman, who is also chief executive of Enventys, a product-design company that has more than 500 patents. “It makes it difficult to raise money.”

While it will still be possible to challenge a patent, he added, being first to file “gives you a stake in the ground.”

THE FAST TRACK A new expedited examination will allow businesses to get around the patent applications backlog, which today stands at about 668,000. It can take three to four years just to get a first response, said John A. Dragseth, a lawyer in the Minneapolis office of Fish & Richardson, an intellectual property firm. The examination, known as Track One, will set a target of 12 months for getting applications through the process for a $4,800 fee. “Sure, it costs more, but a business could use it to expedite their core idea, their home run,” Mr. Dragseth said.

Since September, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has received 2,000 fast-track requests. But Mr. Pate of ElliptiGO said he was not likely to try it. “Having to spend more money to speed up the process favors big companies, not small ones,” he said. “Accelerated patents also mean accelerated cost.”

Skyline Solar in Mountain View, Calif., took advantage of a similar fast-track program, the Green Technology Pilot Program, which is being phased out in favor of Track One. Skyline Solar, which manufactures photovoltaic systems that track sunlight and produce energy, was able to get a patent in 10 weeks through the Green Tech program. “We went from an unforecasted length of time to instantly in the patent office,” said Tim Keating, vice president of marketing and field operations. “And that’s innately good for innovators.”

THE POSTGRANT REVIEW With the new postgrant review process, anyone can challenge claims in a patent for nine months after it is granted. And the case goes before a patent examiner, not a court. “If you have a big competitor creating a cloud over your product with a patent,” said Mr. Dragseth, the intellectual property lawyer, “this is a way to take care of that without spending millions on litigation.”

Chris Hulls, co-founder of Life360 in San Francisco, says he believes the postgrant review will make it tougher for very broad patents to be issued, and that could mean less frivolous litigation. “Those broad patents are scary,” said Mr. Hulls, whose 15-employee business created an application that uses a cellphone’s location to enable family members to keep track of one another.

Parents, for example, can have their children check in via the app or they can see for themselves when their child has arrived at a destination. There is also a panic button that will send an e-mail alert to every family member.

“Every start-up is probably infringing on someone’s I.P. but it might be completely bogus,” Mr. Hulls said, in reference to intellectual property. “It’s just because the other patent is so broad. Now it will be easier to oppose a patent like that.”

In addition, Tate Scott, chief executive of KFx Medical, said patent examiners were generally more knowledgeable about patents than judges. “If you go through that review process and survive,” he said, “your patent will be stronger and less likely to be challenged.” KFx Medical, a 12-employee company based in San Diego, created a device and method for reattaching tissue to bone during orthopedic surgery.

THE CHANGE THAT WAS NOT MADE Chris Allen is chief executive of a nine-person Boston start-up, Brass Monkey, which has an application that turns smartphones into game controllers for its browser-based video game console. He had hoped America Invents would address the issue of so-called patent trolls, companies and individuals that sue to protect patents even if they are not using them.

“This was one of the biggest concerns small businesses had,” Mr. Allen said. He added that he wished the law “included a provision that said you have a certain window of time to use your patent, and if you don’t, you lose it.”

James R. Klaiber, an intellectual property lawyer with Pryor Cashman in New York, says he believes there is another side to the issue: many start-ups defend patents they are not using, he said, to maintain the company’s value. And some small companies get broader patents than they need to create a kind of fence around themselves. “They do that to protect themselves from others moving into their space,” Mr. Klaiber said.
393 2012-02-09 “Copyright violations are a serious business and we don’t condone that in any way,” said Alexander Dudley, a Time Warner Cable spokesman, when asked about Mr. Wilson’s desperate measures.

The recent highly publicized fight over two bills aimed at cracking down on online piracy threw a spotlight on this same disconnect between the Internet industry and the media giants of Hollywood and New York. Despite lobbying by big players like the , lawmakers abandoned the bills after tech companies and groups, and ordinary Internet users, mounted a frenzy of protests, saying the bills would hurt Internet freedom and innovation.

Now the challenge is for the two sides to find common ground on how to combat the piracy problem — though they can’t even come to terms on how big a problem it is.

“The fundamental issue is whether or not the sky is falling and the entertainment industry is being decimated by technology,” said James Burger, a lawyer who specializes in intellectual property and entertainment content licensing.

Seeking out an illicit stream of a game that you should be able to watch legitimately is one thing. But media companies say they are facing a relentless barrage of far less defensible thefts involving movies, television shows and .

In a letter in December announcing its support for stronger antipiracy legislation, the motion picture association said that “$58 billion is lost to the U.S. economy annually due to content theft, including more than 373,000 lost American jobs, $16 billion in lost employees’ earnings, plus $3 billion in badly needed federal, state and local governments’ revenue.” A spokesman for the association, Howard Gantman, said the $58 billion figure came from an economic model that estimated piracy’s impact on a range of tangentially related industries — florists, restaurants, trucking companies and so on.

Many outside the industry are skeptical of its analysis. “The movie business is fond of throwing out numbers about how many millions of dollars are at risk and how many thousands of jobs are lost,” said Art Brodsky, who works for Public Knowledge, a digital rights group. “We don’t think it correlates to the state of the industry.”

In one of the most public steps forward since last month’s fight, Mr. Brodsky’s group pulled together a coalition of more than 70 tech companies and advocacy groups, including , , Reddit and the Electronic Frontier Foundation, that sent a letter to Congress on Monday calling for lawmakers to rethink their approach.

“Now is the time for Congress to take a breath, step back, and approach the issues from a fresh perspective,” the letter says. It urges Congress to quantify the extent of piracy and its economic effects “from accurate and unbiased sources, and weigh them against the economic and social costs of new copyright legislation.”

Some in the Internet world, including Tim O’Reilly, a noted investor and chief executive of the tech-books publisher O’Reilly Media, go so far as to question whether illegitimate downloading and sharing is such a bad thing. In fact, some say that it could even be a boon to artists and other creators.

“The losses due to piracy are far outweighed by the benefits of the free flow of information, which makes the world richer, and develops new markets for legitimate content,” he wrote in a blog post. “Most of the people who are downloading unauthorized copies of O’Reilly books would never have paid us for them anyway.”

That free flow of information, media companies worry, is making consumers accustomed to getting something for nothing. Privately, several senior media executives said technology companies wanted to devalue copyrighted media content because it ultimately benefited the technology companies’ business.

“If intellectual property developed by creative people and covered by copyright was as respected as intellectual property developed by engineers and protected by patents, this problem would greatly improve,” said a executive who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.

Viacom is currently appealing a copyright infringement case against . In 2010 a federal judge ruled in favor of YouTube’s owner, , which Viacom accused of seeking to profit from thousands of clips from shows like “The Daily Show With ,” posted by users.

Media executives have a particular beef with Google. Some claim it started the online fervor over the antipiracy bills to advance its own business interests. Michael O’Leary, a senior executive vice president at the motion picture association, put it this way: “I’d ask Google, ‘How many jobs do we have to lose before they start taking this seriously?’ ”

A Google spokeswoman, Samantha Smith, said the company was “heavily invested in the fight against piracy,” noting that last year it took down five million infringing Web pages and spent more than $60 million to root out “bad ads,” including those for illegal or pirated goods.

Google also says it has developed ways to address the piracy problem on its own sites, pointing to Content ID, a system put in place after the Viacom suit was filed that helps copyright holders find material they own on YouTube and remove it or leave it up and share in the ad revenue.

Media companies have no plans to immediately revisit the antipiracy legislation. Instead, several entertainment executives said they planned to reorganize and talk to labor unions, pharmaceutical companies and other backers of the legislation about a unified message so the antipiracy and anticounterfeiting movement was not just associated with Hollywood. These executives, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the issue is so heated, also said they wanted to look at how they could better harness the Web to educate the public about piracy.

Of course, as consumers embrace online video and music in both legal and illegal forms, media companies have also been learning new tricks. , for example, now offers a digital locker, part of an industrywide push to let customers who buy a DVD or Blu-ray disc obtain access to the movie on many different devices.

“We’re trying to create a compelling option for consumers, but at the end of the day, unlike the pirates, we’re charging them,” said Kevin Tsujihara, the president of home entertainment for Warner Brothers.

The locker is the latest effort to stem the decline in home entertainment revenue, driven largely by and Redbox rentals, but also by piracy. The research firm SNL Kagan estimates that industry revenue from video rentals and sales fell 10.5 percent to $18.5 billion in 2010.

Media companies are also making more content available online. In 2007, Erik Flannigan, now the executive vice president for digital media at the Viacom Entertainment Group, did a Google search for on a giant screen at Viacom’s Times Square headquarters and took senior executives on a tour of sites offering pirated episodes.

Today, makes every episode of “South Park,” “The Daily Show” and “ ” available free online. The efforts, Mr. Flannigan said, put a big dent in piracy. As for the television industry as a whole, Mr. Flannigan said: “You might not like the windows, or that shows go up and come down, but it’s a far cry from where we were.”

Still, Comedy Central shows do not make billions in syndication or in DVD sales like some TV series. Shows like ’s which sold for $2 million an episode to ’s TBS and Fox, are not as easy to stream legitimately. That makes piracy a tempting option.

“If they don’t make content available where consumers are, they’re just shooting themselves in the foot,” said Ron Conway, a Silicon Valley investor and the head of the SV Angel fund.
394 2012-02-09 Alastair Campbell, the former media adviser to former Prime Minister Tony Blair, said in a statement that he had reached a “satisfactory” settlement, The Press Association said.

In a statement Mr. Hughes, who had first brought a criminal case for phone hacking in 2006, said he had decided to settle because he was “completely satisfied that the evidence which currently exists in relation to my case has been disclosed to or is being made available to my lawyers.”

There is no confidentiality clause in the settlement, he warned — News International is obliged by its terms to disclose any new information and will be “open to further action.” Mr. Hughes also condemned the original police inquiry for failing to act on the information it had of hacking on an “industrial scale.”

The scandal exploded last year as the extent of phone hacking became known, centering on the now-defunct News of the World, a Sunday tabloid. Some of the tabloid’s reporters were accused of hacking the voice-mail messages of well-known show business people, politicians and others.

One of the first settlements was with the family of Milly Dowler, a British schoolgirl whose cellphone was hacked after she was abducted and murdered in 2002.

The scandal cast a spotlight on British police officials who are accused of failing to investigate the hacking at the time.

Scotland Yard formally acknowledged on Tuesday that it had acted unlawfully in 2006 and 2007 in failing to notify hundreds of individuals who had been targeted by The News of the World.

Senior officers at Scotland Yard have previously rejected accusations that they tried to quash a wide-ranging inquiry into the hacking as part of a cozy relationship with News International.

Scotland Yard lawyers said the failure to investigate more thoroughly resulted from the pressure the police were under to investigate terrorism threats.

The settlements disclosed last month included those of the actor Jude Law, who received about $200,000; Sadie Frost, his ex-wife, who received $77,000; Ben Jackson, his assistant, who received $61,000; Gavin Henson, a Welsh rugby star, who also received $61,000; and Denis MacShane, a member of Parliament, who received $50,000.

It was unclear how much the Murdoch businesses will end up having to pay after all the cases are settled.

According to the police, there may be as many as 800 victims.
395 2012-02-09 Don’t toss out the barley cooking water: It adds flavor and texture to these sautéed vegetables....
396 2012-02-09 As fears mount that Dodd-Frank, the financial overhaul law, is about to be emasculated, it's worth reflecting on the 10-year anniversary of a major regulatory success.     I'm speaking of the mocked, patronized and vilified Sarbanes-Oxley, the law...
397 2012-02-09 Cable television dramas and movies helped raise News Corporation's revenues by 2 percent in the second quarter, offsetting the growing costs related to a phone hacking scandal at the company's British newspaper unit.     The company on Wednesday b...
398 2012-02-10 Supporters of the woman who said Greg Kelly raped her, a claim prosecutors investigated and decided not to pursue, argue that The New York Post pilloried her....
399 2012-02-10 Supporters of the woman who said Greg Kelly raped her, a claim prosecutors investigated and decided not to pursue, argue that The New York Post pilloried her....
400 2012-02-10 Vote for, share and keep track of your Oscar favorites with The Times’s interactive awards ballot. Start Your Oscar Ballot
401 2012-02-10 Vote for, share and keep track of your Oscar favorites with The Times’s interactive awards ballot. Start Your Oscar Ballot
402 2012-02-10 But Obama may have what he needs....
403 2012-02-10 But Obama may have what he needs....
404 2012-02-10 Children’s books about displays of affection....
405 2012-02-10 Bucks readers offer advice on how business people should handle their financial lives....
406 2012-02-10 Bucks readers offer advice on how business people should handle their financial lives....
407 2012-02-10 A simple procedure demonstrated on some Android smartphones allows anyone to gain access to funds stored in Google Wallet, Google's mobile payment system that acts as a substitute for traditional credit cards. No hacking is required, and it can ta...
408 2012-02-10 A simple procedure demonstrated on some Android smartphones allows anyone to gain access to funds stored in Google Wallet, Google's mobile payment system that acts as a substitute for traditional credit cards. No hacking is required, and it can ta...
409 2012-02-10 The Times's Gretchen Morgenson discusses the mortgage settlement; Pimco's chief executive, Mohamed El-Erian, on the situation in Greece; James B. Stewart talks about Chrysler and Clint Eastwood....
410 2012-02-10 The Times's Gretchen Morgenson discusses the mortgage settlement; Pimco's chief executive, Mohamed El-Erian, on the situation in Greece; James B. Stewart talks about Chrysler and Clint Eastwood....
411 2012-02-10 Clearing up some of the recent debate, on Twitter and the blogs, about online piracy and plagiarism....
412 2012-02-10 Clearing up some of the recent debate, on Twitter and the blogs, about online piracy and plagiarism....
413 2012-02-10 Interest in the German painter Gerhard Richter, already a superstar by art world standards, has surged in his native land around his 80th birthday on Thursday and a series of exhibitions and lectures, including a major retrospective that opened Fr...
414 2012-02-10 Interest in the German painter Gerhard Richter, already a superstar by art world standards, has surged in his native land around his 80th birthday on Thursday and a series of exhibitions and lectures, including a major retrospective that opened Fr...
415 2012-02-10 The Times's Gretchen Morgenson discusses the mortgage settlement; Pimco's chief executive, Mohamed El-Erian, on the situation in Greece; James B. Stewart talks about Chrysler and Clint Eastwood.
416 2012-02-10 Paul McCartney became the last member of the Beatles to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, after his bandmates John Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr and the band itself....
417 2012-02-10 Paul McCartney became the last member of the Beatles to receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, after his bandmates John Lennon, George Harrison and Ringo Starr and the band itself....
418 2012-02-10 One of the biggest risks the Southern Company faces in embarking on a big nuclear project is that natural gas will remain far more affordable....
419 2012-02-10 One of the biggest risks the Southern Company faces in embarking on a big nuclear project is that natural gas will remain far more affordable....
420 2012-02-10 It has also dispatched Mr. Clooney and Mr. Payne, both nominated for their work on the film, to link “The Descendants” to classic family dramas — and best picture winners — like “Ordinary People” and “Kramer vs. Kramer.”

“Part of the secret of the film — and you can really point to ‘Terms of Endearment’ in this sense — is the ability to turn on a dime from funny to sad,” Mr. Clooney said of “The Descendants” during a question-and-answer session on Monday night at the Egyptian Theater here.

That event, billed as “A Tribute to Classic Family Dramas From Oscars Past and Present,” was mostly just a tribute to “The Descendants,” organized by Searchlight in mid-January with the nonprofit American Cinematheque, whose membership overlaps that of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. The evening opened with a brief clip reel in which scenes from family-oriented classics (“On Golden Pond,” “To Kill a Mockingbird”) were cut together with moments from “The Descendants.” Then the crowd watched “The Descendants”; the Q. and A. followed.

The message seemed to be about staying power: When voters look back on the best picture winner five years from now, will they see a film that stands the test of time? Longtime Oscar watchers often cite the 1999 competition in which “Shakespeare in Love” overtook “Saving Private Ryan” for the top prize, noting that the latter film has proved to be the more enduring one.

The event at the Egyptian did not count as an official plea to voters under the Academy’s rules, which limit studios to two post-nomination screenings at which any individual nominee can appear. But campaigning wasn’t far from the crowd’s mind. One audience member, commenting on Mr. Payne’s use of Hawaiian music in the film, asked, “I heard a rumor that you tried to bribe the Oscar judges with ukuleles?” A mortified-looking Mr. Payne said that was news to him, and a Searchlight executive denied it. (Mr. Clooney and Mr. Payne on Wednesday participated in a similar promotional event here that was sponsored by The New York Times and moderated by a reporter from The Times.)

New advertisements for “The Descendants” are running frequently on the West Coast during “Jeopardy” and other television shows that draw older viewers. (A majority of Oscar voters are over 50, after all.) While earlier commercials emphasized how many prizes “The Descendants” was winning and its humor — an effort to reach both voters and potential ticket buyers — the new spots include a sharper emotional tug. They also double down on the family theme the studio has deemed so important to its Oscar hopes.

One ad is simply an extended shot from the end of “The Descendants” in which Mr. Clooney’s character sits on a sofa with his two daughters eating ice cream and silently watching “March of the Penguins.” Another depicts Mr. Clooney crying in his comatose wife’s hospital room.

“We have attempted to convey our own feelings about the film — that it is a deeply layered look at universal themes of complicated love, forgiveness and the importance of family, and that it is a beautifully crafted and acted film that will stand the test of time,” Nancy Utley, a president of Searchlight, said in an e-mail.

Ms. Utley declined to discuss her campaign playbook in more detail. As for Mr. Payne, he responded curtly when asked about Searchlight’s shifting strategy this week. “Ask the studio,” he said. “I just make them. I don’t contextualize them.”

He wasn’t exactly on message at the Egyptian either. As the Q. and A. moderator sought to stick to the family theme, Mr. Payne seemed to grow impatient and said, “If you’re going to try and compare this to other family dramas, I’d like to bring up another aspect perhaps of contextualizing it.” He then spoke about how Hollywood has seemed to have abandoned the good old-fashioned tear jerker.

“The closest we have right now are Pixar films,” Mr. Payne said. The audience laughed. “And hats off to ’em,” he added.

Veterans of the Oscar hunt say there isn’t much more that Searchlight, which won the best picture race in 2009 with “Slumdog Millionaire,” can do at this point. The momentum is with “The Artist,” which held back at the start of the race while “The Descendants” came out early, hitting the campaign trail hard in September with appearances at film festivals in Toronto and Telluride, Colo. And the facts are the facts: “The Artist” won the top awards at the directors and producers guilds and got 10 Oscar nominations, second only to “Hugo,” which got 11, albeit none in acting categories. “The Descendants” got five.

So Searchlight will have its fingers crossed for an upset on Feb. 26, Oscar night. But it may have to comfort itself on the ride home with its relatively big ticket sales: $111.2 million at the global box office so far, more than double what “The Artist” has taken in.
421 2012-02-10 It has also dispatched Mr. Clooney and Mr. Payne, both nominated for their work on the film, to link “The Descendants” to classic family dramas — and best picture winners — like “Ordinary People” and “Kramer vs. Kramer.”

“Part of the secret of the film — and you can really point to ‘Terms of Endearment’ in this sense — is the ability to turn on a dime from funny to sad,” Mr. Clooney said of “The Descendants” during a question-and-answer session on Monday night at the Egyptian Theater here.

That event, billed as “A Tribute to Classic Family Dramas From Oscars Past and Present,” was mostly just a tribute to “The Descendants,” organized by Searchlight in mid-January with the nonprofit American Cinematheque, whose membership overlaps that of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. The evening opened with a brief clip reel in which scenes from family-oriented classics (“On Golden Pond,” “To Kill a Mockingbird”) were cut together with moments from “The Descendants.” Then the crowd watched “The Descendants”; the Q. and A. followed.

The message seemed to be about staying power: When voters look back on the best picture winner five years from now, will they see a film that stands the test of time? Longtime Oscar watchers often cite the 1999 competition in which “Shakespeare in Love” overtook “Saving Private Ryan” for the top prize, noting that the latter film has proved to be the more enduring one.

The event at the Egyptian did not count as an official plea to voters under the Academy’s rules, which limit studios to two post-nomination screenings at which any individual nominee can appear. But campaigning wasn’t far from the crowd’s mind. One audience member, commenting on Mr. Payne’s use of Hawaiian music in the film, asked, “I heard a rumor that you tried to bribe the Oscar judges with ukuleles?” A mortified-looking Mr. Payne said that was news to him, and a Searchlight executive denied it. (Mr. Clooney and Mr. Payne on Wednesday participated in a similar promotional event here that was sponsored by The New York Times and moderated by a reporter from The Times.)

New advertisements for “The Descendants” are running frequently on the West Coast during “Jeopardy” and other television shows that draw older viewers. (A majority of Oscar voters are over 50, after all.) While earlier commercials emphasized how many prizes “The Descendants” was winning and its humor — an effort to reach both voters and potential ticket buyers — the new spots include a sharper emotional tug. They also double down on the family theme the studio has deemed so important to its Oscar hopes.

One ad is simply an extended shot from the end of “The Descendants” in which Mr. Clooney’s character sits on a sofa with his two daughters eating ice cream and silently watching “March of the Penguins.” Another depicts Mr. Clooney crying in his comatose wife’s hospital room.

“We have attempted to convey our own feelings about the film — that it is a deeply layered look at universal themes of complicated love, forgiveness and the importance of family, and that it is a beautifully crafted and acted film that will stand the test of time,” Nancy Utley, a president of Searchlight, said in an e-mail.

Ms. Utley declined to discuss her campaign playbook in more detail. As for Mr. Payne, he responded curtly when asked about Searchlight’s shifting strategy this week. “Ask the studio,” he said. “I just make them. I don’t contextualize them.”

He wasn’t exactly on message at the Egyptian either. As the Q. and A. moderator sought to stick to the family theme, Mr. Payne seemed to grow impatient and said, “If you’re going to try and compare this to other family dramas, I’d like to bring up another aspect perhaps of contextualizing it.” He then spoke about how Hollywood has seemed to have abandoned the good old-fashioned tear jerker.

“The closest we have right now are Pixar films,” Mr. Payne said. The audience laughed. “And hats off to ’em,” he added.

Veterans of the Oscar hunt say there isn’t much more that Searchlight, which won the best picture race in 2009 with “Slumdog Millionaire,” can do at this point. The momentum is with “The Artist,” which held back at the start of the race while “The Descendants” came out early, hitting the campaign trail hard in September with appearances at film festivals in Toronto and Telluride, Colo. And the facts are the facts: “The Artist” won the top awards at the directors and producers guilds and got 10 Oscar nominations, second only to “Hugo,” which got 11, albeit none in acting categories. “The Descendants” got five.

So Searchlight will have its fingers crossed for an upset on Feb. 26, Oscar night. But it may have to comfort itself on the ride home with its relatively big ticket sales: $111.2 million at the global box office so far, more than double what “The Artist” has taken in.
422 2012-02-10 The Senate Republican leader called the White House staff and allied Democrats in Congress "liberal thugs."...
423 2012-02-10 The Senate Republican leader called the White House staff and allied Democrats in Congress "liberal thugs."...
424 2012-02-10 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
425 2012-02-10 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
426 2012-02-10 JACKSON, Miss. — With the controversy still burning over the nearly 200 pardons issued by Haley Barbour in his last days in as governor, the Mississippi Supreme Court heard arguments on Thursday as to whether the pardons were constitutional.

The arguments concerned only 10 of those pardoned, including the five men who worked at the Governor’s Mansion and the only five people on the pardon list who are still in prison.

But if the court rules in favor of the state attorney general, who is arguing that the pardons violate the State Constitution, most of the other pardons would be in jeopardy as well.

The legal fight has been so politically charged that Chief Justice William L. Waller Jr. began the hearing by saying he did not want to hear any grandstanding or “political sound bites.” Jim Hood, the attorney general, is the sole Democrat in statewide office, and in recent weeks has denounced Mr. Barbour over the pardons, at one point comparing him to Boss Hogg from “The Dukes of Hazzard.”

The motives behind the pardons are not at issue. At the center of the case is a technical argument, concerning a section in the State Constitution that gives pardon power exclusively to the governor. The section also states that “no pardon shall be granted until the applicant” publishes a petition for pardon for “30 days, in some newspaper in the county where the crime was committed.”
427 2012-02-10 Just down the fabled Sand Hill Road from the Stanford Shopping Center in Palo Alto, physicists at the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory ponder questions about energy, time, space and the possibility of alternative universes.

But back at the shopping mall, a window into an alternative universe is already taking shape, just steps from the Apple Store. Workers are constructing the latest Microsoft Store, smack in the heart of Apple territory and not far from the home of Apple’s co-founder Steven P. Jobs. It is scheduled to open on April 19.

Just as the wildly successful Apple Stores have a definite look and feel, so, too, do the dozen or so Microsoft Stores that have opened since 2009.

Glass front? Yes. Blocky wood furniture on which products are displayed almost as museum pieces? Helpful employees in T-shirts? Of course. Classes and workshops? Yes. Special area for children? Yes. Apple has a genius bar; Microsoft has an answer desk.

MacBooks, iPhones, iPads, iPods and other Apple products? Not in this universe. With the exceptions of software, the Xbox entertainment console, the Zune music player and the Kinect system that allows players to control games by physical gesture, most products in Microsoft Stores are made by other companies. Unlike Apple, Microsoft does not make computers, smartphones or tablets but provides the software that makes them run.
428 2012-02-10 The Oakland Raiders released cornerback Stanford Routt less than a year after signing him to a blockbuster deal. He signed a three-year, $31.5 million contract last February, with $20 million guaranteed in the first two years. Oakland restructured the deal in August, making it a five-year, $54.5 million deal.
429 2012-02-10 BEIJING — In the latest twist of an increasingly bizarre story, China announced Thursday that a top Communist Party official spent a full day in the United States consulate in the western city of Chengdu.

The official Xinhua news agency issued a bulletin Thursday night saying that Wang Lijun, once China’s most famous crime fighter, entered the consulate on Monday “and left after staying one day.”

China’s social media networks had exploded with unconfirmed reports on Wednesday that Mr. Wang had tried to defect. Later that day, the United States State Department spokeswoman played down those reports, saying he entered the consulate but left “of his own volition.”

The official Chinese report does not contradict this but implies that something very unusual happened in the consulate. Senior Chinese officials rarely make visits of any length to a consulate or embassy.

Mr. Wang was a right-hand man to Bo Xilai, the party secretary in Chongqing and one of China’s most charismatic and polarizing leaders. A former commerce minister, Mr. Bo is one of the leading candidates to join the nine-man Standing Committee of the party’s Politburo, which would make him one of the handful of men who run China. Mr. Bo has championed high-profile drives against corruption coupled with a glorification of the Maoist era.

Mr. Wang won renown for fighting gangs in Chongqing, a metropolis of 29 million people, and his success bolstered Mr. Bo’s political fortunes.
430 2012-02-10 Re “For Soldier Disfigured in War, a Way to Return to the World” (“The Hard Road Back” series, front page, Jan. 31):

This heartbreaking story of a soldier almost burned to death in Afghanistan, his terrible ordeals, months of pain, 30 operations in 18 months and profound disfigurement is made worse by the report that the best reparative cosmetic work must be paid for not by government but by private charity.

It seems that services by the Army hospitals stop short of cosmetic surgery because it is deemed beyond the scope of their mission, which is limited to restoring function. While it is wonderful that private groups like Operation Mend are stepping in to help, it is the responsibility of the government that sent these soldiers into harm’s way to expend everything necessary to help them return to productive lives.

Shame on America for treating these badly burned soldiers as charity cases.

The writer, a retired optometrist, served as a medical service officer in Korea, 1956-58.
431 2012-02-10 Ms. Utkina’s ambivalence underscores a central problem for Mr. Putin here and in other working-class cities considered to be his strongest base of support. Many describe improvements in living standards as the highlight of Mr. Putin’s years in power. But few say they are living well, especially by the standards of Moscow and other large cities. Nor do many expect things to get much better.

Rather, support for Mr. Putin here seems to be based mostly on an absence of options. When asked why they would vote for him, most supporters gave some iteration of the same reply: “There are no alternatives.”

“This is not love for Putin,” said Natalya Zubarevich, a sociologist at the Independent Institute of Social Policy in Moscow. “Mostly, there is either passive support or dissatisfaction, which is also passive.”

These passive supporters, Ms. Zubarevich said, make up the bulk of Mr. Putin’s base. The question now is whether Mr. Putin, if and when he wins the election, can sustain such thin support.

The answer can be found to a certain extent in places like Nizhny Tagil, a city of 400,000 in the Ural Mountains, where on a recent day the heavy metallic stench of a Soviet-era steel plant combined with the subzero temperatures to create a sense of post-apocalyptic misery in many ways unique to this part of the world.

Here, as in many other Russian industrial towns, the ripples of the Soviet collapse can still be felt. There is a Lenin Prospect and Red Partisan Street. Belching smokestacks from the city’s two enormous factories, also remnants of Soviet industrial might, punctuate a skyline that is every so often broken mercifully by the gleaming cupola of an Orthodox church.

Most of the residents, men and women, work at one of the factories, and many are directly indebted to Mr. Putin for their jobs. Two years ago, with the tank factory, Uralvagonzavod, lacking orders and bleeding money, Mr. Putin swooped into town and, flexing his famous political muscles, saved the factory with a transfusion of government cash.

The move earned him appreciation from the workers (if not his economic advisers). Yet, there is a sense these days that the desire for actual progress is outstripping the Kremlin’s ability to deliver.

“The farther from Moscow you get, the worse everything is, including the roads, social programs, etc.,” said Vladislav Koznov, 32, who owns a small business. He and others complained about Russia’s tax system, which requires regions to send most of their revenues to the federal government to be redistributed rather than spent right where it is generated.

“People want to live better,” he said. “They want the money to stay here and the city to be more dynamic.”

Even apparent signs of progress, like the town’s glittering shopping mall, present a complicated reality. On a frigid afternoon recently, the mall was packed, but few seemed to be buying.

“I came to walk around this mall and window shop, if you know what I mean,” said a 45-year-old mother of two who gave only her first time, Tatyana. She said she was a saleswoman in a local auto parts store. “I walk around, say, ‘Ooh, ahh,’ and go home. Everything is too expensive, at least for my salary.”

More dire than her own material comfort, she said, were the prospects for her two sons.

“One is already living his life, but is not really doing anything,” she said. “The second will finish school this year, and who knows what he will do after. I have no means to send him anywhere. If he gets into university somewhere, he gets in.”

Most young people, she said, either leave Nizhny Tagil or settle into lives at the factories, where average salaries are about $1,000 a month. With that kind of income, few can take advantage of the sorts of benefits that are supposed to be the fruits of the Putin era.

“It would be nice to take the family on vacation to do some skiing or something,” said Igor Sharafeyev, 35, who has been a steel worker at the Nizhny Tagil steel plant for nearly two decades. “I haven’t gone anywhere in 17 years.”

Mr. Sharafeyev and others also said there was anger over a perception of being used as part of Mr. Putin’s presidential campaign.

Recently, thousands of workers from Nizhny Tagil and elsewhere in the region were taken by the trainload to Yekaterinburg, the regional capital, for what was portrayed by government television as a huge rally in support of Mr. Putin.

“How do you think they lure people there?” he asked. “Free transportation, famous singers, a free shot of vodka. People went there not for Putin, but to have a good time. And then they show this on television as a demonstration of support for Putin.”

The Yekaterinburg rally was one of several similar pro-Kremlin events where journalists have noted a lack of authentic support. Even the impassioned defense several weeks ago by Mr. Kholmanskikh, the tank factory worker, was delivered on Mr. Putin’s annual call-in show, a heavily stage-managed event devoted mostly to burnishing his image.

As for genuine support for Mr. Putin among the working class in Nizhny Tagil, Mr. Sharafeyev said, “It’s a myth.”
432 2012-02-10 “And we wanted to make the message interesting and entertaining,” he added.

Chipotle believed it had the right message already in its emphasis on more natural food. The company had shifted to more naturally grown produce and to beef, pork and chicken produced without antibiotics. It then set a goal of trying to make its customers more aware of sustainable ways to farm. Chipotle turned to the Creative Artists Agency, the Hollywood talent group, to find a director. The company selected Johnny Kelly, a director with London-based Nexus Productions, who met with Mr. Ells in London to map out a film project.

“It’s a very complex set of issues — things like animal welfare, monoculture, locally sourced produce, water pollution,” Mr. Kelly said in an e-mail from London.

The initial concept for the film was to contrast the farmer’s organic farm with a gloomy-looking factory farm next door. It later developed into an evolving process, with the farmer adopting the industrial methods himself, then realizing the error of his conveyor belt ways and moving back to sustainable agriculture.

That shift, changing the farmer from a passive observer to an instigator who transforms his own farm, “closely reflects Chipotle’s own story as they began moving away from using factory farm suppliers 10 or so years ago," Mr. Kelly explained.

Chipotle also created an eight-minute behind-the-scenes video that shows the intricate model-making and set-creating efforts by Mr. Kelly’s team during the year it took them to complete the film. Among those he hired was Gary Cureton, an animator who had worked on Wallace & Gromit, the British animated film series.

The film was released on the Chipotle Web site’s YouTube page last August, and has been viewed more than four million times. It was also shown on nearly 10,000 theater screens nationwide last fall. Chipotle said that Zeta Interactive, a digital agency that tracks the impact of commercials, rated “Back to the Start” one of the top 10 advertisements in Internet buzz in 2011. It was one of only two ads on the list that did not make its debut during that year’s Super Bowl broadcast.

The Willie Nelson rendition of “The Scientist” has been downloaded about 25,000 times so far, and 60 cents from each 99-cent download has gone to Chipotle’s foundation.

The foundation has been supported by download proceeds and $1 million from the revenue generated by Chipotle’s annual “Boorito” event on Halloween, in which customers dressed in farm-inspired costumes pay a cut-rate $2 for a burrito or other dish.

Over the last two years, the Denver-based company has donated more than $2 million to groups like Jamie Oliver’s Food Revolution and the Nature Conservancy. At the end of last year, the foundation presented its first major award, of $250,000, to Farm Aid, which was founded by Mr. Nelson and other well-known singers to promote family farms.

To underscore its message about the importance of natural ingredients, Chipotle is also sponsoring two all-day festivals with music and chefs in Chicago and in Denver this year, said Mr. Crumpacker. And he said the company was expanding its invitation-only loyalty program, called “Farm Team,” which does not reward frequent buying but instead gives customers points for knowledge about food and how it is produced. They can redeem the points for food or merchandise on a members-only Web site.

“We are shifting away from outdoors — billboards were a mainstay in the Midwest — and radio,” Mr. Crumpacker said, “and trying to engage our customers in new ways.”
433 2012-02-10 A look at some canine-centric art in New York City....
434 2012-02-10 It has also dispatched Mr. Clooney and Mr. Payne, both nominated for their work on the film, to link “The Descendants” to classic family dramas — and best picture winners — like “Ordinary People” and “Kramer vs. Kramer.”

“Part of the secret of the film — and you can really point to ‘Terms of Endearment’ in this sense — is the ability to turn on a dime from funny to sad,” Mr. Clooney said of “The Descendants” during a question-and-answer session on Monday night at the Egyptian Theater here.

That event, billed as “A Tribute to Classic Family Dramas From Oscars Past and Present,” was mostly just a tribute to “The Descendants,” organized by Searchlight in mid-January with the nonprofit American Cinematheque, whose membership overlaps that of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. The evening opened with a brief clip reel in which scenes from family-oriented classics (“On Golden Pond,” “To Kill a Mockingbird”) were cut together with moments from “The Descendants.” Then the crowd watched “The Descendants”; the Q. and A. followed.

The message seemed to be about staying power: When voters look back on the best picture winner five years from now, will they see a film that stands the test of time? Longtime Oscar watchers often cite the 1999 competition in which “Shakespeare in Love” overtook “Saving Private Ryan” for the top prize, noting that the latter film has proved to be the more enduring one.

The event at the Egyptian did not count as an official plea to voters under the Academy’s rules, which limit studios to two post-nomination screenings at which any individual nominee can appear. But campaigning wasn’t far from the crowd’s mind. One audience member, commenting on Mr. Payne’s use of Hawaiian music in the film, asked, “I heard a rumor that you tried to bribe the Oscar judges with ukuleles?” A mortified-looking Mr. Payne said that was news to him, and a Searchlight executive denied it. (Mr. Clooney and Mr. Payne on Wednesday participated in a similar promotional event here that was sponsored by The New York Times and moderated by a reporter from The Times.)

New advertisements for “The Descendants” are running frequently on the West Coast during “Jeopardy” and other television shows that draw older viewers. (A majority of Oscar voters are over 50, after all.) While earlier commercials emphasized how many prizes “The Descendants” was winning and its humor — an effort to reach both voters and potential ticket buyers — the new spots include a sharper emotional tug. They also double down on the family theme the studio has deemed so important to its Oscar hopes.

One ad is simply an extended shot from the end of “The Descendants” in which Mr. Clooney’s character sits on a sofa with his two daughters eating ice cream and silently watching “March of the Penguins.” Another depicts Mr. Clooney crying in his comatose wife’s hospital room.

“We have attempted to convey our own feelings about the film — that it is a deeply layered look at universal themes of complicated love, forgiveness and the importance of family, and that it is a beautifully crafted and acted film that will stand the test of time,” Nancy Utley, a president of Searchlight, said in an e-mail.

Ms. Utley declined to discuss her campaign playbook in more detail. As for Mr. Payne, he responded curtly when asked about Searchlight’s shifting strategy this week. “Ask the studio,” he said. “I just make them. I don’t contextualize them.”

He wasn’t exactly on message at the Egyptian either. As the Q. and A. moderator sought to stick to the family theme, Mr. Payne seemed to grow impatient and said, “If you’re going to try and compare this to other family dramas, I’d like to bring up another aspect perhaps of contextualizing it.” He then spoke about how Hollywood has seemed to have abandoned the good old-fashioned tear jerker.

“The closest we have right now are Pixar films,” Mr. Payne said. The audience laughed. “And hats off to ’em,” he added.

Veterans of the Oscar hunt say there isn’t much more that Searchlight, which won the best picture race in 2009 with “Slumdog Millionaire,” can do at this point. The momentum is with “The Artist,” which held back at the start of the race while “The Descendants” came out early, hitting the campaign trail hard in September with appearances at film festivals in Toronto and Telluride, Colo. And the facts are the facts: “The Artist” won the top awards at the directors and producers guilds and got 10 Oscar nominations, second only to “Hugo,” which got 11, albeit none in acting categories. “The Descendants” got five.

So Searchlight will have its fingers crossed for an upset on Feb. 26, Oscar night. But it may have to comfort itself on the ride home with its relatively big ticket sales: $111.2 million at the global box office so far, more than double what “The Artist” has taken in.
435 2012-02-10 WASHINGTON — The State Department’s inspector general has found no conflict of interest or improper political influence in the agency’s review of the disputed Keystone XL pipeline project.

But in a report released on Thursday, the official said the department had not adequately weighed concerns about the route of the 1,700-mile pipeline and should strengthen its oversight of contractors performing environmental impact statements for major projects.

The proposed Keystone pipeline, which is to carry heavy oil from formations in Alberta to refineries on the Gulf Coast, has become a partisan football in Congress and a debating point in the presidential campaign. President Obama scratched the project last month after being forced by Republicans in Congress to make an up-or-down decision on it. He said that there was not sufficient time to devise an alternate route that would avoid environmentally sensitive areas in Nebraska but that the builder was free to apply for a new permit.

Republican leaders in Congress are now pushing a bill to bypass the normal environmental review process to quickly approve the pipeline.

Several Democratic members of Congress late last year asked the State Department’s deputy inspector general, Harold W. Geisel, to determine whether the pipeline owner, TransCanada, had improperly influenced the review process. They also sought answers to questions about the choice of a contractor, Cardno Entrix, used to prepare the environmental impact statement for the pipeline, which found there would be minimal adverse impacts if the company operated the pipeline properly.

Cardno Entrix was paid by TransCanada to conduct the environmental review of Keystone XL, an arrangement approved of by the State Department.
436 2012-02-10 “We need to stop the insidious practice of insider trading, giving members of this body an unfair advantage over Americans who sent us here to represent them,” said Representative , Democrat of New York. “Let us begin the long process of restoring the faith of the American people in this institution.”

Representative , Democrat of New York, who has been pushing ethics legislation since 2006, said, “It appears that the House Republican leadership could not stomach pressure from the political intelligence community, which is unregulated and unseen and operates in the dark.”

Senator , Republican of , who wrote the proposed disclosure requirement, denounced “the chutzpah” of House Republican leaders, who he said had “wiped out any chance of meaningful transparency for the political intelligence industry.” He said he would fight to restore the requirement.

The House majority leader, Representative , Republican of , said the political intelligence section of the Senate bill was flawed.

“That provision raises an awful lot of questions,” Mr. Cantor said Thursday on the House floor. “There is a lot of discussion and debate about who and what would qualify and fall under the suggested language that came from the Senate. That is why we are calling for a study.”

The chamber’s Democratic leader, Representative of , said the House-passed bill had “serious omissions” and was “much diminished” from the Senate version. She supported it as a way to advance the legislation, but said, “I don’t want anyone to interpret the strong vote for it to be a seal of approval.”

Some Republicans described the bill as an overreaction, but voted for it anyway, saying they could not easily explain their concerns to a restive public. The votes against the bill were cast by Representatives John Campbell of California and Rob Woodall of , both Republicans.

The bill is known as the Stock Act, or the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge Act. The Senate version was written by members of both parties. The House version was prepared by Republican leaders — Democrats said they had not been consulted — and it was debated on the House floor under a rule that precluded amendments.

House Republicans had their own reasons for supporting the bill.

Representative , Republican of and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said: “The risk of government self-dealing is heightened by the huge growth in recent years of the federal government and its increasing entanglement with the private economy. Big government can move markets. That’s why we need strong rules to reassure the public that decision makers are not enriching themselves by investing based on insider knowledge of government policies.”

The bill would prohibit members of Congress from trading and other securities on the basis of confidential information they receive as lawmakers. It makes clear that the insider trading ban in federal law applies to members of Congress and their aides and to officials in the executive and judicial branches of the federal government.

Moreover, the bill requires members of Congress to disclose the purchase or sale of stocks, bonds, commodities futures and other securities within 30 to 45 days of transactions. The information would be posted on the Web.

A similar disclosure requirement would apply to thousands of federal employees in the executive branch, including the White House, cabinet departments and independent agencies.

The House added a provision to prohibit members of Congress and executive branch officials from receiving special access to initial public stock offerings because of their positions. Republicans said the provision was inspired by an in the initial public offering by in 2008 by Ms. Pelosi, who was then the speaker of the House.

The legislation, as passed by both houses, would deny federal pensions to members of Congress who are convicted of felonies involving public corruption. It would also require lawmakers to disclose the terms of on their homes.

Ms. Slaughter and Representative Tim Walz, Democrat of , led the charge for the legislation in the House.

“The perception is that members of Congress are enriching themselves,” Mr. Walz said. “That’s not only an affront to our neighbors, that we are not playing by the rules. It is a that can destroy the democracy.”

Federal securities law does not explicitly exempt members of Congress, but experts disagree on whether and when lawmakers may be found to have violated the law. The bill is meant to eliminate any ambiguity.

The legislation says that lawmakers have “a duty arising from a relationship of trust and confidence” to Congress, the federal government and citizens of the — a duty they violate by trading on nonpublic information.

Explaining his vote against the measure, Mr. Campbell said, “This is an ambiguous bill that could potentially and unintentionally cause constituents and members of Congress to break the law by simply asking or answering a question about the prospects of federal legislation.”
437 2012-02-10 “This is very troubling; targeting an independent judge or prosecutor through the criminal justice system anywhere raises very serious concerns,” he said. “To sanction a possible breach of ethics or misconduct is up to the professional organizations. To bring down the criminal justice system on an investigative judge for an alleged fault is to use a sledgehammer to crack a nut. It’s almost unique in Europe.”

His defenders, including international lawyers, judges, academics and human rights groups, have called the cases — including an investigation into whether he had an improper financial relationship with Santander Bank — politically motivated. On Thursday, many denounced the ruling.

Reed Brody, counsel for Human Rights Watch who has been monitoring the trials, said the “accumulation of the cases against Judge Garzón” suggested “reprisal for his past actions against vested interests.”

“Unfortunately,” he added, “it certainly looks like his enemies now got what they wanted.”

Following Thursday’s ruling, Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón, Spain’s justice minister, said that it was not for the government to make a “political assessment” of the ruling, except to say that it demonstrated “the normal functioning of our institutions.” Esperanza Aguirre, head of Madrid’s center-right regional government, said the ruling showed that in this case, “the goal, however worthy, doesn’t justify the means.”

The 7-0 ruling came in a 2008 corruption case in which Judge Garzón ordered wiretaps to monitor conversations between lawyers and their clients. The judge argued that such taps were needed to ensure that the main defendants would not be able to transfer money garnered from their corrupt business dealings while held in jail under investigation. In a case brought by the defendants who had been monitored, the Supreme Court ruled that such an order not only contravened defense rights but also “damaged the right to confidentiality.”

The ruling prohibited him from “obtaining during the duration of the sentence any employment or duty with judicial or governing functions within the judiciary.”

There is no avenue to appeal, but Judge Garzón could challenge the validity of the judicial process before Spain’s Constitutional Court or the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France, according to his lawyer, Francisco Baena Bocanegra. The Strasbourg court could find that the Spanish court  violated his rights and ask for a remedy.

He has a pending case in Strasbourg filed last March regarding the case involving the Franco era, arguing that he was within bounds to order an investigation because such crimes cannot be pardoned by an amnesty.

Judge Garzón’s lawyer in Strasbourg, Helen Duffy, said she had not yet discussed with him whether to challenge the Thursday ruling, but that the situation was nearly unheard of. “It’s so exceptional for a judge to be prosecuted in Europe that there are almost no precedents,” she said. “And his prosecution has already drawn a lot of criticism.”

Lawyers sympathetic to Judge Garzón said that even if his career in Spain ended, he could expect to be offered work as a lawyer or teacher elsewhere. Having been off the bench since his 2010 indictment, Judge Garzón already accepted work as a consultant to the International Criminal Court in The Hague.

However, posts on any international court or tribunal usually require political backing from the home government.
438 2012-02-10 The two-year ban of the Spanish cyclist Alberto Contador has revived the public debate in France over whether Spain has a serious doping problem. This week, a satirical French news show, “Les Guignols de l’info,” made Rafael Nadal one of the foils of its heavy-handed humor, depicting Nadal as a muscle-bound puppet urinating in his car’s gas tank to make it go fast and also signing a petition in support of Contador with a syringe instead of a pen.

The Spanish Tennis Federation has threatened a lawsuit against Canal Plus France, in part because the show used the federation’s logo in one of the skits.

Nadal, the six-time French Open champion, has never been found guilty of a doping offense.

“With fewer resources we have achieved more than them,” Nadal said in comments reported by the Web site Marca.com. “We’re doing something better. It’s not because of pills or syringes.”

Nadal played for nearly six hours before losing to Djokovic in the Australian Open final less than two weeks ago. But even before his marathon defeat in Melbourne, Nadal was planning to avoid Davis Cup during this Olympic year after leading Spain to a fifth title in Seville last December.

But Federer has yet to win the Davis Cup, an event that he played with great fervor earlier in his career before reducing his commitment to focus on individual success. Now, at age 30, he will attempt to attack on multiple fronts, no small risk considering what playing too much too early could do to his own chances to win the Olympic gold medal in singles later this year.

But with his Swiss teammate Stanislas Wawrinka slipping but still in the top 30, Federer surely figures that it is best not to wait another year to make a serious run in Davis Cup. The Swiss will be the favorites on clay against the Americans, who will use Mardy Fish and John Isner in singles but will only have one of the Bryans available in doubles. Mike Bryan is in Fribourg, but his twin brother, Bob, is in Florida after the birth of his first child. Mike Bryan will instead play with Ryan Harrison, 19, who is making his Davis Cup debut.

Despite his hardcourt background and United States address, Isner can be a threat on clay. He pushed Nadal to a fifth set in the first round of the French Open last year and benefits from the extra time the surface allows him to get his 6-foot-9 frame organized. He will need to be impeccably organized to trouble Federer on Friday. Federer has won the French Open and is the best clay-court player of this era not named Nadal.

Jim Courier, the United States captain, does not expect Federer to be vulnerable after his latest Grand Slam setback, a four-set loss to Nadal in the Australian Open semifinals.

“I’ve seen Roger enough over the years to know he’s pretty good at shaking off disappointment,” Courier said. “What he did at the end of last year after the U.S. Open, regrouping and going undefeated the rest of the year, is just something that by now we should expect. He’s a champion. He responds like a champion.”
439 2012-02-10 “There’s some relief that they’ve made it this far, since the negotiations could’ve gone meaningfully wrong, but this was largely priced in,” Mr. Colas said. “At the same time, there’s still some concern that this deal isn’t enough and we’ll be back in this situation again later.”

Euro zone officials said the full package must be agreed upon by Greece and approved by the European Union, International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank by Wednesday, so legal paperwork can be completed in time to avoid a default that could destabilize the global financial system.

The Dow Jones industrial average was up 6.51 points, or 0.05 percent, at 12,890.46. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was up 1.99 points, or 0.15 percent, at 1,351.95. The Nasdaq composite index was up 11.37 points, or 0.39 percent, at 2,927.23.

Providing support to the market was a report showing jobless claims fell last week, underscoring improvement in the labor market. That followed Friday’s report of a better-than-expected rise in the number of jobs created in January.

Apple’s stock hit a record high. A brokerage firm, Canaccord Genuity, said its checks indicated strong iPhone 4S sales and increased its price target to $665. The Web site AllThingsD said Apple would introduce its latest iPad tablet version next month.

Shares of Apple surged 3.5 percent to $493.17, hitting a record of $496.75 earlier. The S.& P. information technology sector rose 1 percent as the day’s best-performing group.

But the network equipment maker Cisco Systems limited gains by the tech sector as its forecast failed to impress investors. Shares fell 2.1 percent to $20.

PepsiCo fell 3.7 percent to $64.27 after it forecast lower-than-expected 2012 earnings and said it would cut thousands of jobs.

Groupon, the daily deal Web site, slumped 14 percent to $21.17. The company posted an unexpected loss in the first quarterly report since it went public.

Diamond Foods tumbled 37 percent to $23.13 after the company removed its top management and said it would restate results because of improper accounting of payments to walnut growers.

Expedia, the online travel company, fell 5 percent to $32.48 in extended trading after it reported lower quarterly profit. True Religion Apparel slumped 22 percent to $28.80 after its results.

In other company news, the networking service LinkedIn gained 8.2 percent to $82.70 after hours on fourth-quarter revenue that beat expectations.

Interest rates were higher. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 4/32, to 99 22/32, and the yield rose to 2.04 percent, from 1.98 percent.
440 2012-02-10 “If you live beyond your means, then you can repair your balance sheet only if your consumption goes down,” said Jörg Krämer, chief economist for Commerzbank in . “There is no other way but to cut your expenditures and bring them more in line with your income.”

But with the bulk of Greece’s bailout financing going to repay rather than stimulate the economy, that narrative may ring more true for German voters than Greek ones. “We’re at the mercy of God now,” said Chrisoula Koutsavli, 54, a worker in a cookie factory north of Athens.

After weeks of negotiations and intense, overnight talks, Prime Minister on Thursday reached an accord with the leaders of the three parties participating in his fragile interim coalition — the Socialists, the center-right New Democracy party and the right-wing Popular Orthodox Rally.

In a highly political climate ahead of elections expected as early as April, the leaders agreed to a range of unpopular measures, including cutting the minimum wage on which all private-sector contracts are based by 22 percent — 30 percent for workers under 25. This in a country where average wages have dropped 15 percent since 2009, after having risen by that amount in the relatively prosperous years between 2004 and 2009, according to a study by the Bank of Greece.

They also agreed to shorten the terms of collective bargaining agreements, freeze private sector salary increases until unemployment drops below 10 percent from its current 19 percent, loosen job protections in the public sector and by the end of 2015 cut 150,000 jobs from the government payroll of 800,000.

On Thursday evening, finance ministers from the euro zone countries said they were not yet ready to sign off on Greece’s agreement, demanding additional savings of up to $432 million in 2012. But they were expected to give their blessing, at least conditionally, financial experts said, because they do not want to jeopardize a broader deal in which private creditors are expected to agree to write down as much as 70 percent of their holdings of Greek debt.

The demand for additional cuts will require further austerity measures that will have to be pushed through Parliament in the coming days. They are expected to pass, nevertheless, and in spite of a growing number of lawmakers who say they will vote no — including the deputy labor minister, a member of the Socialist Party who resigned on Thursday to protest the deal.

The new cuts imposed by Greece’s so-called troika of foreign lenders — the , the and the — come at what some economists say is the worst possible time. The country’s economy shrank by 11.7 percent between 2009 and 2011 and is expected to contract a further 5 to 6 percent this year — even though the troika’s program is based on a return to growth in 2013.

During talks this week, Greece and its lenders had to readjust the program to compensate for a deeper recession than the three institutions had foreseen, which caused the country’s budget deficit to expand more than anticipated. This is precisely the vicious circle that many Greeks say could destroy their economy — and, ultimately, their society — in the absence of a strategy to promote growth.

“Their methods are theoretical and have nothing to do with reality,” Savas Robolis, the director of the Labor Institute of the General Confederation of Greek Workers, said of the troika. “We can’t keep creating deficits, then making cuts and then creating more deficits and more cuts.”

Antonis Samaras, the conservative leader of New Democracy who is likely to be the next prime minister of Greece, called on European leaders to show understanding for austerity-weary Greeks. “No nation can endure daily austerity without a light at the end of the tunnel,” he said, adding that too much pain “will fuel a social explosion.”

In spite of the pain, some say the debt write-down does not go far enough. It is expected to leave Greece with a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio of 120 percent in the year 2020, the same debt level it had in 2009, before it asked for a bailout — and that is with relatively optimistic growth projections.

Some critics say the write-down and the bailout amount to an exercise in futility.

“This thing is prolonging the agony for the whole of the euro zone by maintaining the state of denial of our European leaders about not only just Greece’s insolvency but regarding a cascade of insolvencies throughout the euro zone both in terms of public debts and private bank losses,” said Yanis Varoufakis, an economics professor at the University of Athens.

He added that letting Greece default but stay in the euro zone would be “a cathartic moment, a moment of truth in a two-year period of concerted lies.”

Greeks also complain that they get no relief from high prices, even as their incomes fall. Experts say prices of consumer goods remain high because of a high volume of imports and politically-powerful cartels that control their distribution.

In this context, the wage cuts “move us backwards,” said Konstantinos Michalos, the president of the Athens Chamber of Commerce, a leading business association. “When you have severe cuts but you are a non-producing country because you depend on imports, it’s most likely that prices will go higher.”

When Zinovia Tsikalaki, a young Greek woman studying at a university in , addressed on Tuesday night at a student forum in the German capital, her question turned into a confession and, finally, a plea.

“I am not here as a representative of Greece,” Ms. Tsikalaki told the German chancellor in a trembling voice. “I am here as a representative of a generation, my generation in Greece, which at the moment is really in despair.”

Mrs. Merkel did not offer much comfort. She said she understood that Greece found itself “in a very complicated situation at the moment.”

What is most important now, Mrs. Merkel said, is that the difficult choices “would not be perceived as something imposed from the outside.”

“I do not believe that has been a success yet,” she said.
441 2012-02-10 3. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil over medium-high heat in a large, wide skillet or wok. Add the mushrooms and chard stems, if using, and cook, stirring often, until the mushrooms sear and begin to soften, about 3 minutes. Add the garlic, thyme and a generous pinch of salt and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in the chard and raise the heat to high. Cook, stirring, until the chard wilts, which shouldn’t take more than 3 minutes (you may have to add the chard in batches, depending on the size of your pan). Season to taste with salt and pepper.

4. Once the chard has wilted, add 3/4 cup of the cooking water from the rice or barley. Cover and simmer over low heat for 3 minutes, or until the chard is tender. Uncover, stir and if you wish to have more sauce with the vegetables, add more cooking water from the grains and stir until it reduces to the desired consistency. Taste and adjust seasoning. Drizzle on the remaining oil and serve with the grains.

Advance preparation: You can cook both the grains and the vegetables several hours ahead and reheat. Retain some barley water or rice water to add to the dish if desired. The cooked grains will keep for 3 or 4 days in the refrigerator, but the cooking water will keep for only a couple of days.

Nutritional information per serving: 279 calories; 1 gram saturated fat; 1 gram polyunsaturated fat; 5 grams monounsaturated fat; 0 milligrams cholesterol; 46 grams carbohydrates; 10 grams dietary fiber; 193 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 10 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
442 2012-02-10 5:13 p.m. | Updated      Credit Suisse reported its first quarterly loss in three years on Thursday as its core businesses experienced a slowdown....
443 2012-02-10 The ''heck no'' caucus in the Senate fizzled in its first test.     After President Obama stiff-armed the Senate in January and made four recess appointments, even though the Senate was technically not in recess, some Republicans vowed revenge. Th...
444 2012-02-10 8:18 p.m. | Updated | The struggling Fox Business Network canceled its entire prime-time programming lineup in one stroke on Thursday.     In place of the political talk shows that are currently shown from 8 to 11 p.m., Fox Business will replay it...
445 2012-02-11 The strongest, most bewitching pieces in the collection were all-black, sexy and smartly tailored....
446 2012-02-11 The strongest, most bewitching pieces in the collection were all-black, sexy and smartly tailored....
447 2012-02-11 Bryan Derballa’s New York fashion week photo diary....
448 2012-02-11 A few days ago in his showroom, Prabal Gurung was fitting the last pieces of his fall collection, the follow-up to a spring show that seemed to mark a turning point in his young career....
449 2012-02-11 A few days ago in his showroom, Prabal Gurung was fitting the last pieces of his fall collection, the follow-up to a spring show that seemed to mark a turning point in his young career....
450 2012-02-11 Go to next slide
451 2012-02-11 There are not too many accolades left for Paul McCartney to win, but the tribute an all-star line-up of musicians paid him Friday night in Los Angeles when he was named the MusiCares Person of the Year must rank among the most heartfelt....
452 2012-02-11 Prancing purebreds and pound puppies do not mix, or at least they will not during the televised broadcasts of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show this year, after the club cut ties with Pedigree, a longtime sponsor, in part because of Pedigree’s commercials featuring sad-eyed mutts up for adoption.

“We want people to think of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show as a celebration of the dogs in our lives,” said David Frei, the club’s director of communications and the host of the show for over two decades. The Pedigree advertisements, showing quaking and abused homeless pets, are in stark contrast to the coddled and cosseted animals that strut around Madison Square Garden during the two-day show, which begins on Monday.

Nestlé Purina PetCare, with its peppy ads featuring bounding athletic dogs that are more Goofy and less Droopy, the depressive cartoon character, replaced Pedigree, the show’s sponsor for two dozen years. The change, made last spring, was reported on Friday by The Associated Press.

“Show me an ad with a dog with a smile; don’t try to shame me,” Mr. Frei told The A.P. The kennel club had expressed its concerns to Pedigree, he said, adding, “We told them that, and they ignored us.”

Mr. Frei said the switch was also partly for economic reasons. But Melissa Martellotti, a brand communications manager for Mars Petcare US, which makes the Pedigree brand, said that Westminster had initiated the split and that dog show officials told the pet food company that its decision involved concerns about the ad campaign.

“They’ve shared with us, when we parted ways, that they felt that our advertising was focused too much on the cause of adoption and that wasn’t really a shared vision,” she said. The kennel club, she said, is “focused on the purebred mission,” including the adoption of pure breeds as opposed to mixed breeds.
453 2012-02-11 This week, tribal leaders fired off an open letter to President Hu Jintao of China, a major investor in the project, warning that they could seek to block the deal if their views were ignored.

“We’re saying to China that if you’re coming to our territories, you better knock on our door,” said Grand Chief Ed John, one of the leaders of the First Nations Summit, an alliance of indigenous groups in British Columbia, where some of the crucial deals are located. “If you don’t knock, the answer will be no.”

No aboriginal delegates were invited during Mr. Harper’s visit this week, spurring anger among the tribes and prompting the letter, and Mr. John was interviewed by telephone from British Columbia. Chinese officials said they received the letters but declined to comment.

A spokesman at the Canadian Embassy in Beijing said the issue of the tribes was not raised during the summit.

Nonetheless, the case has become an example of how China’s economic might is drawing it into even seemingly arcane domestic disputes in other countries.

Aboriginal rights in Canada are constitutionally protected. Although treaties have yet to be established for many of Canada’s more than 630 indigenous groups — known as First Nations — a 2004 Supreme Court ruling held that the government must consult with and accommodate aboriginal peoples when territory that they have a claim to is being mined, fished or otherwise exploited.

With China now Canada’s second-largest trading partner (to the United States), aboriginal leaders like Mr. John have made several trips here to make sure that Chinese business and political leaders get the message. They emphasize that they welcome development, especially if it helps reduce unemployment — which often is over 50 percent in many aboriginal communities — and is environmentally friendly.

Last fall, Mr. John was in Beijing to meet the head of the China Investment Corporation, a sovereign wealth fund that controls more than $200 billion in assets. He and other leaders have also met Chinese natural resource companies to make their pitch.

Chinese companies have already pledged seed money for the pipeline project.

“Their message is they are part of the equation, too,” said Jiang Wenran, a political scientist at the University of Alberta. “They feel there is a lack of respect.”

Chinese business leaders say they are learning.

“We know we have to take them into consideration,” said Yang Zhongcheng, chairman of Beidahuang Xinfa Economic and Trade Company, a major Chinese natural resource company, who met the First Nations trade delegation last October. “We can provide jobs for them.”

Nonintervention remains a pillar of Chinese foreign policy — in part, analysts say, because China’s own history of foreign occupation is at the core of its national identity, an unhealed wound.

Beijing also worries that abandoning its hands-off policy could encourage other nations to meddle in Chinese trouble spots like Tibet and Xinjiang.

But the Canadian case shows the pull of domestic disputes, some of which have uncomfortable parallels to China’s policies toward its own minority groups.

Tribal leaders say they are aware that China has serious problems in its own minority areas. One reason for their activities, they say, is that they do not want Chinese companies to bring over their own workers — as they have in many other projects around the world and in China’s own minority regions — leaving little economic benefit for locals.

“We understand all about human rights,” Mr. John said. “We know it better than the politicians in Ottawa who go to China.”
454 2012-02-11 Under the new rules, the Labor Department will create a nationwide electronic registry where employers must post all jobs they are seeking to fill with H-2B workers. Also, the recruitment period of Americans is expanded, requiring employers to hire any qualified local worker who applies up to three weeks before the start of an H-2B contract.

The Labor Department also ended a labor market certification process that allowed employers to simply assert that they had searched for American workers. Now employers will have to consult formally with State Workforce Agencies to demonstrate that they could not find Americans for the jobs.

Employers will be required to pay a guest worker’s transportation costs from the home country after the migrant completes half of the contract period. Employers will also have to pay for the trip home when the worker finishes the job or is dismissed early, as well as all visa fees.

For the first time, employers will be required to pay foreign workers for three-quarters of the period of a contract, even if there is no work for the migrants to perform. This provision was greeted by employers with particular alarm.

The rules will “ensure that the program is used as intended by making these jobs more accessible to U.S. workers and providing stronger protections for every worker,” Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis said in a statement.

“Over all, we think these rules are a huge step forward,” said Jennifer J. Rosenbaum, the legal director of the National Guestworker Alliance, which is based in New Orleans. “They remove incentives to try to get around hiring an unemployed American by hiring exploitable guest workers instead.” She pointed to new provisions ensuring that migrants can raise complaints and consult with unions over work conditions without retaliation from employers.

The rules sharpened the different perceptions between Labor Department officials and H-2B employers over the availability of Americans for the jobs they are offering, which involve low-wage, often strenuous work.

“We would love to have it like we had it back in the 1960s and 1970s when we had all the American workers we could get,” said Mr. Brooks, the crab processor. “Now our search for American workers is never-ending. At the end of the day we can’t find local workers.”

The rules bar foreign recruiters from charging fees to workers who will come to the United States under the H-2B program. The Labor Department is seeking to eliminate foreign recruiters who saddle migrants with debts before they arrive in the United States, which workers struggle to pay off on their wages here.

Last year, employers won one round in the H-2B fight by appealing to Congress about a separate set of Labor Department rules on wages in the program. Employers, who argued they would be forced to more than double wages, persuaded Congress to pass an amendment that blocked them from taking effect at least until October.
455 2012-02-11 GAZA — Ismail Haniya, the prime minister of the Hamas government in Gaza, arrived in Iran on Friday for a visit that suggested that relations between Hamas and Iran remained good despite reports of tensions over Syria.

Hamas, the Islamic militant group, appeared to be trying to keep the visit low-key. Hamas officials in the Palestinian enclave either avoided calls from reporters or refused to comment on the trip, while Hamas television provided no immediate coverage. Mr. Haniya’s office sent a short text message to journalists saying only that he had arrived in Tehran on a private plane from Kuwait.

But the Iranian news media reported on the warm official welcoming ceremony, during which Mr. Haniya reviewed an honor guard.

Regional news reports have said Hamas has resisted pressure from Iran, its principal backer, to express support for President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, in his efforts to suppress the uprising there. The Hamas leadership outside Gaza recently left its base in Damascus because of the turmoil.

But analysts said the Iranian welcome for Mr. Haniya indicated that relations between Hamas and Iran remained positive.

Mr. Haniya went to Tehran after visiting Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait, his second regional tour since late December. He has been seeking support to help rebuild Gaza, which suffered extensive damage during a three-week Israeli offensive three years ago, aimed at stopping rocket fire from Gaza.
456 2012-02-11 The chief of the Turkish intelligence agency and four of his former colleagues were compelled to testify on Friday as part of an investigation into the P.K.K., the Kurdish separatist group, the latest round in a power struggle between the country’s security forces and its intelligence agency. Hakan Fidan, the chief of the National Intelligence Organization, or the M.I.T., and his former colleagues had held secret meetings with P.K.K. leaders in Oslo, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan told the news media last year. The meetings had been authorized by the government. Mr. Fidan refused to testify on Thursday, which prompted arrest warrants and a second invitation for the M.I.T. chief. Although the nature of the arrest warrants are unclear, prosecutors are likely to question the agents’ alleged role in the urban networking of the P.K.K., news media reports said.
457 2012-02-11 NYSE Euronext, which was prevented by European regulators last week from merging with Deutsche Börse, reported 19 percent decline in fourth-quarter profit after recording one-time charges related to the takeover and a French tax settlement, the company said Friday. But the shares rose as profit beat forecasts. Net income fell to $110 million, or 43 cents a share, compared with $135 million, or 51 cents a share, a year earlier, the company said. Excluding one-time items, earnings were 50 cents a share, exceeding the 48-cent average estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company said costs in 2012 were expected to be lower than last year’s $1.66 billion. Stock in NYSE Euronext rose $1.25, or 5 percent, to $28.84 a share.
458 2012-02-11 WASHINGTON — The Department of Energy’s loan guarantee program for alternative energy projects, which produced the ill-fated loan to the solar panel maker Solyndra, needs more rigorous financial oversight and stricter performance standards for recipients to reduce the chance of future defaults, according to an audit conducted by the White House and released Friday.

The audit, led by Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former financial executive and senior Treasury Department official, found that the government could lose as much as $3 billion of the total loan commitments so far of $24.3 billion granted to 30 companies under two Energy Department programs.

In setting up the loan guarantee programs, Congress set aside $10 billion for potential losses.

The riskier programs were those at the cutting edge of technology with no assured markets, the study found. Loans for solar or wind power generation, by contrast, were much less risky because they had ready buyers for their electricity.

Mr. Obama ordered the review in October as the political heat over the failed Solyndra loan was intensifying. The White House claimed that Mr. Allison’s report essentially vindicated the overall program, while recommending several ways to improve it.

“The report confirms that the overall loan portfolio as a whole is expected to perform well and holds less than the amount of risk envisioned by Congress when they designed and funded the program,” said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman.
459 2012-02-11 UniCredit, Intesa Sanpaolo and Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena were among 34 Italian financial firms downgraded by Standard & Poor’s on Friday after the credit ratings firm reduced the nation’s grade last month.

Long-term ratings on UniCredit, Italy’s biggest bank, and Intesa, its second largest, were lowered to BBB+ from A, S.& P. said in a statement. Monte dei Paschi, the No. 3 bank, was reduced to BBB from BBB+. All three have a negative outlook, the agency said.

Italy’s credit rating was cut two levels, to BBB+ from A on Jan. 13 after S.& P. said European leaders’ struggle to contain the region’s debt crisis would complicate the country’s efforts to finance borrowings. S.& P. revised its banking industry country risk assessment, known as Bicra, for Italy to Group 4 from Group 3, citing mounting risks.

“Italy’s vulnerability to external financing risks has increased, given its high external public debt, resulting in Italian banks’ significantly diminished ability to roll over their wholesale debt,” S.& P. said in a separate statement on the country’s financial industry. “We anticipate persistently weak profitability for Italian banks in the next few years.”

European nations are grappling with a debt crisis now in its third year as they seek to restore budget order and shore up the region’s financial industry. Spreads on some Italian banks are trading as if they were rated at the cusp of investment grade.

The extra yield investors demand to hold bonds of UniCredit and for Intesa rather than government debt was 508 basis points on Thursday, or 5.08 percentage points, compared with an average 306 basis points in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro Corporates Banking Index. European BBB-ranked bonds are at 381 basis points and BB debt at 664, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
460 2012-02-11 “After 11 Years, a Police Leader Hits Turbulence” (front page, Feb. 4), discussing Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly’s tenure in New York, did not emphasize enough his accomplishments in controlling police corruption, diversifying higher echelons of the department and improved public safety.

In the 1970s and ’80s police corruption was systemic. Today, there is no hint of systemic police corruption.

Regarding diversity, today in the Police Department some 48 percent of its ranks are people of color. There are many high-ranking Latinos as well as the first two-star Asian-American chief and the first three-star female chief. The N.Y.P.D. today has more three- and two-star African-American chiefs, captains and lieutenants than at any time in its history.

In public safety, Ray Kelly’s accomplishments are unparalleled. In 1992, the city seemed besieged by drug-related violent crime. Today, New York is the safest big city in America. By the end of 2011, Brooklyn for the first time since 1963 had fewer than 200 murders.

Rather than consider Ray Kelly’s leaving early, we should start figuring out what to do if he leaves at the end of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s term.

You treat the record number of stop and frisks, escalating summonses and arrest quotas, and aggressive policing as separate segments of the New York Police Department. But the common denominator is the unyielding demand for flattering crime statistics. This inflexible approach fosters over-the-top, aggressive, unethical and illegal policing.

Only true openness, oversight and transparency will address the reliability of crime statistics and other issues to which they are inextricably connected.
461 2012-02-11 Credit: Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times
462 2012-02-11 Complaints about such Congressional doings have dogged the legislative branch for more than a hundred years, dating back to the Crédit Mobilier scandal of the 1870s, which involved members of Congress cashing in on discounted railroad stock.

The disclosure of the Bachus inquiry was not welcome news to House Republicans, who are loath to have any of their members facing accusations of improper financial dealings in an election year when the party is seeking to blunt attacks that it favors the wealthy and corporations.

Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio has a record of low tolerance for ethics violations, but his office had no comment on the inquiry. “We can’t comment on something we have no information about,” said Kevin Smith, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner. “The O.C.E. has not communicated anything to the speaker on the matter.”

The inquiry by the office — set up in 2008 by Congress in the aftermath of a lobbying scandal — is the first step in what could turn into a long and politically precarious process for Mr. Bachus.  The ethics office, which does not have subpoena power, often does not turn up explicit evidence of wrongdoing, but instead finds hints of possible violations that it recommends the House Ethics Committee dig into more deeply. The committee then decides either to reject the request or conduct its own investigation, which could take more than a year.

Mr. Bachus is a decidedly active investor, according to his 2011 disclosure report, directly buying and selling — in a rapid-fire fashion — exchange-traded funds, which in his case invest in targeted market areas like large publicly traded Chinese companies.

In past years, he more frequently invested directly in major companies, like Carmax, the used car company, and Kansas City Southern Rail Network, a Missouri-based freight rail company, as well as brand-name corporations like General Electric and Exxon Mobil, his financial disclosure reports show.

Even though his returns are relatively small, such an active personal investment strategy is unwise, ethics experts said, as it potentially exposes Mr. Bachus to questions given that Congress is involved in debates that affect the industries he is investing in.

The Financial Services Committee, for example, often takes up topics related to China; last May it held a hearing on United States exports that discussed the Chinese government’s role of financing its domestic corporations in a way that American officials argue puts United States companies at a disadvantage. Any action the United States takes to retaliate against China could affect companies Mr. Bachus is invested in.

Many members of Congress leave their money over long periods of time in the same investment funds or turn their investments over to managers or to blind trusts as a way to eliminate any appearance of a conflict.

Stanley Brand, a lawyer who specializes in representing members of Congress in ethics investigations, said he worried that the Office of Congressional Ethics may be searching for wrongdoing when there are no rules that prohibit House members from trading in stocks.

“You have to measure it against the existing rules,” he said. “And there are not rules and no precedents that they need to be concerned about that.”
463 2012-02-11 So what should businesspeople be thinking about now to avoid problems later?

Taxes, for one. That has always been the biggest problem for any candidate or nominee for a post that needs Senate confirmation. In 1993, President Bill Clinton’s first nominee for attorney general, Zoë Baird, withdrew her name from consideration because she had employed illegal immigrants and failed to pay the required taxes.

Today, most hopefuls would not get so far with such an obvious tax problem. But subtler, often legal, tax issues can also cause problems.

Take the case of the 2010 Illinois gubernatorial race in which a Republican state senator, Bill Brady, sought to unseat Pat Quinn, the Democratic incumbent governor. Mr. Brady had used his losses from his real estate business to offset the tax on his state salary, something that was legal and that most accountants would advise business owners to do. But the Quinn campaign played up the issue when it realized Mr. Brady’s action resonated with voters.

“Good business is not always good politics,” said Ben Nuckels, who ran Mr. Quinn’s successful campaign. “Just because something is legal doesn’t mean voters believe it to be an acceptable practice.”

The same goes for investment portfolios. One rule of thumb is that the more complicated they are, the more explaining you will have to do. (Mr. Romney can attest to that.)

Many times it is the perception of someone’s lifestyle more than anything else that hurts business people. Analysts said that while an executive may pay $500 a week to maintain his lawn and think nothing of it, that might not play well among people who do not earn that much in a week.

How a candidate explains this situation is crucial. In the 2004 presidential campaign, both candidates, George W. Bush and John F. Kerry, were fabulously wealthy. Mr. Bush inherited his money and Mr. Kerry married into it, yet the Bush campaign managed to paint Mr. Kerry as out of touch and Mr. Bush as an average guy.

“It played to a narrative that, in the case of John Kerry, was possibly one of flip-flopping and being aloof, if you will,” said David L. Mercer, president of Mercer & Associates, a political advisory firm, and a member of the Kerry/Edwards 2004 Presidential Campaign Leadership Council. “That is the problem that in some respects Mitt Romney is facing when, on stage, he casually lays down a bet of $10,000 to Rick Perry when some people are trying to earn that amount in six months.”

A tougher hurdle for most business people would be passing the Senate confirmation hearings for a cabinet-level position.

Russ D. Gerson, who led the transition planning committee for John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign, said he had identified 750 people for top cabinet and White House positions. But he said he worried that the process of being vetted was so exhaustive, and exhausting — including producing 10 years of travel records with details of meetings — that some great nominees might decline for that reason alone.

“If you’re talking about someone who has had a track record in business or public service, you don’t need to get that granular or detailed,” Mr. Gerson said. “The comical example is 10 years of travel — what’s that going to tell someone?”

Lest anyone think the process was once easier, E. Pendleton James, who was the head of the Office of Presidential Personnel for Ronald Reagan, said it was not. It takes about six months to get someone confirmed today, if the nomination is not blocked, and it took about six months in 1980. And back then, as today, it was not the wait so much as the scrutiny.

“From the appointment standpoint, it is getting harder and harder to get competent men and women to serve at the highest level because of the financial disclosure act and other disclosures,” Mr. James said. “I remember The Washington Post saying, ‘Mr. James, why are you taking so long to fill these jobs?’ We knew who we wanted, but he had to fill out these forms so you’d know he could get confirmed.”

He remembered one potential appointee took him aside and said he had been convicted of a felony but no one knew about it. “It was all handled quietly,” he said, and the man bowed out.

Of course, if you don’t admit that fault yourself, chances are that someone will divulge it for you. Politicians spend millions of dollars to find faults, inconsistencies and hypocrisies in their opponents’ pasts. And it is all stuff that a candidate or appointee should expect to come out and be prepared to respond to. But many are still caught off guard by things that they would exploit in an adversary.

“The mind-set has to be, What is the one question that I don’t want to be asked?” said Kenneth M. Duberstein, former chief of staff in the Reagan White House. “That can be personal, financial or professional. But if you can’t answer that question, then you shouldn’t go for public office or a cabinet position.”

Of course, sometimes no amount of baggage matters. Last year, Chris Abele, the son of the billionaire co-founder of Boston Scientific, ran for the position of Milwaukee County executive. During the campaign The Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel reported that Mr. Abele, a philanthropist and Democrat, had not paid any state income tax for four years or federal tax in 2010.

Mr. Abele had also received a fine for drunken driving, which he paid seven years later, and 92 parking tickets that cost him over $2,100. Yet he won.

So what is the message for those aspiring to public positions?

“No. 1, pay your taxes on time, and don’t try anything overly creative,” Mr. Gerson, the McCain campaign staff member, said. “No. 2, as it relates to your business career, just try to make sure everything you do is with integrity and above board.”

Jason Miner, research director of Democratic National Committee during George W. Bush’s presidency, said business people needed to change their mind-set. “Your investment decisions are no longer about getting the greatest return on your money,” he said. “They’re about what they say about your values.”

And if you are particularly wealthy, he said, give to charity. “People appreciate and expect to see some largess from wealthy officeholders.”

If that were the only measure, Mr. Romney would win. He gave away nearly $3 million in 2010.
464 2012-02-11 It was South Sudanese oil that drove Sudan’s economic boom of the past decade and made the repression by Sudan’s Islamist government (which is still heavily penalized by the United States) tolerable to many Sudanese. When South Sudan declared independence, it took oil worth billions of dollars with it, gutting Sudan’s economy and creating one of the deepest crises that President has faced in his more than 20 years in power.

Mr. Bashir is now battling high inflation, a shrinking economy, student protests and several simultaneous rebellions — in , the Nuba Mountains and State — as well as genocide charges related to the massacres several years ago in Darfur, and stiff American sanctions.

At the same time, South Sudan, one of the world’s poorest countries, is facing a major food crisis and heavily armed ethnically based militias that have been sweeping parts of the countryside, killing hundreds and making a mockery of the South Sudanese security forces.

Stoking the tensions, Sudan and South Sudan have been covertly backing rebels in each other’s backyards, leading to border clashes and relentless aerial bombings. The more than 1,000-mile border between them is now effectively closed, with millions of pounds of emergency food and just about all trade held up in a two-way stranglehold.

Before the emergency accord on Friday, the situation was so precarious that many saw only violent outcomes. “I, personally, expect full-fledged war,” said Mariam al-Sadiq al-Mahdi, a leading opposition politician in Khartoum, Sudan’s capital. “This is like the previews before a film.”

In the fight over oil, the south has refused to turn over royalties for using Sudan’s pipelines. Sudan upped the ante in late December by seizing oil tankers filled with South Sudanese crude. Then the south took the drastic step of abruptly shutting down all of its oil wells, a measure that could quickly bring the economies of both north and south to their knees. South Sudanese officials have admitted they are using their oil to squeeze Khartoum to make concessions on all sorts of issues, including the disputed area of Abyei, insisting that oil production, about 350,000 barrels a day, will resume only after “all the deals are signed.”

The south has even threatened to sit on its oil for years while it builds an alternative pipeline through . But it is not clear how the new country will survive that long; oil provides about 98 percent of government revenue. And experts question whether the Kenya pipeline is even feasible. It would have to run uphill, requiring many expensive pumping stations, and most likely slice across Jonglei, a South Sudanese state that, with all its militias, is essentially a war zone.

In Khartoum, many people are still struggling to swallow the fact that the south is gone. Nobody likes the new map of Sudan. It used to be Africa’s biggest country. Now it looks as if it has been crudely amputated, left with the ragged edges of a raw wound.

“I still can’t get used to it,” said Nada Gerais, a sales manager in Khartoum. “It looks, looks ...,” she struggled for the right word. “Weird.”

Mrs. Gerais is a perfect example of the nose dive Sudan’s economy has taken. She works in a meticulously polished Nissan dealership that used to sell 50 cars a month. Now, sometimes, it is down to five. She is thinking of switching to or food.

“People can stop buying cars, but they can’t stop eating,” she explained.

During the past decade, Sudan’s oil wealth helped build factories, roads and countless shish kebab joints, and it fueled plans for a futuristic minicity, a new airport and a reconfiguring of Khartoum to include a breezy promenade along the Nile.

But now high-rise buildings stand half-finished, and the plummeting value of the Sudanese pound has pushed electronics, books and even out of reach for many.

Officials in Khartoum say the south owes them nearly $1 billion in pipeline fees, money needed to keep their economy from collapsing, and they recently sold some of the oil from the seized tankers before releasing them. South Sudan’s president, Salva Kiir, said the amount Khartoum wanted, $32 per barrel, was “exorbitant” and “completely out of international norms.”

Sabir M. Hassan, a Sudanese government negotiator, said that the north was willing to be flexible, but that the southerners were “too emotional” and still saw themselves as rebels.

“If you give them two choices, they’ll choose the one that hurts the north, not the one that helps the south,” Mr. Hassan said.

South Sudanese leaders say the same about Khartoum, which has blockaded roads leading south and recently held up humanitarian shipments, all to punish the south at the cost of millions of dollars in lost business.

Many political analysts wonder whether Mr. Bashir will be able to survive these crises. But it is hard to see who would replace him.

Sudan’s political opposition is deeply divided and run by white-bearded septuagenarians. The rebel movements do not have much support in Khartoum. Sudanese students started an Arab Spring-like movement last year, but they failed to gain any traction. The security forces were quick to arrest protesters and string them up from ceiling fans.

And Sudan has a resilience that transcends the turmoil. Every Friday, in a dusty ring on Khartoum’s outskirts, hundreds of Nuban men gather to watch traditional wrestling. Ethnic Nubans are leading the rebellion in the Nuba Mountains. But there is little evidence of that here.

“Things are fine,” said one elderly spectator.

Just as he was about to elaborate, a young wrestler scooped up his opponent and body-slammed him in the dirt.

“You see that!” the old man hollered. “My God, I love this.”
465 2012-02-11 THE economic recovery that has followed the end of the 2007-9 recession may be properly named the private enterprise bounce. While the overall recovery is comparable to recoveries after the two previous recessions, this one has been pushed higher by rising private investment and hiring, and held back by cuts in government spending and hiring.

Over all, the economy has grown a little more slowly, as measured by gross domestic product, than it did during comparable periods of the two previous recoveries. Preliminary figures for the fourth quarter of 2011 show the economy 6.2 percent larger than it was when the downturn ended, against 7.3 percent gains after the two previous downturns.

As reflected in the accompanying charts, the most impressive increase has come in the area of private investment, not including housing. It took a few quarters for businesses to begin to invest, as usual, but then the money poured in. That last report shows the level of investment is now 17 percent higher than it was at the end of the downturn. Neither of the previous recoveries did as well during the first 10 quarters of recovery.

But the government sector of the economy, adjusted for inflation, is nearly 3 percent smaller than it was when the economy hit bottom. By contrast, government spending had little impact on the recovery that began in 1991 but was a major part of the recovery that began in 2001.

Similar patterns can be seen in total employment in the United States. In each recovery, hiring was slow to start. This recovery so far has outpaced the 2001 recovery, but not the earlier one. That is largely because state and local governments have been reducing their work forces.

The current recovery followed a much more severe downturn than the earlier ones, and the nature of the latest recession continues to impede the recovery in several ways. Spending on personal consumption — the largest part of the economy — is rising less rapidly than in previous downturns, no doubt related both to the high level of unemployment and to the decline in home prices, which has reduced the availability of credit for many.

In previous recoveries, spending on housing construction was an important contributor to growth. By this stage of the previous two downturns, spending on residential investment was up more than half from the level at the end of the recession. Now, it is substantially unchanged. The housing industry is no longer a drag on the economy, but neither is it contributing to the recovery.
466 2012-02-11 That meant the S.& P., the broader measure of the equity markets, had shaved off 0.2 percent over the five-day period, which was its first declining week in 2012. The Nasdaq ended the week down 0.06 percent, also its first week lower in 2012. The Dow Jones industrial average finished lower by 0.5 percent in the week, its second week down this year.

Alan B. Lancz, the president of the money management and investment advisory firm Alan B. Lancz & Associates, said the market was overbought in the last few weeks and was due for a pullback.

“It’s been an incredible stretch,” he said, referring to the gains since the beginning of the year. “But I think the markets are a little bit ahead of themselves, and that is what we are seeing here.”

With uncertainties about Greece, new fears about inflation in China and worries about tepid growth in the United States, he said, “Nobody wants to hold over the weekend.”

The last time the S.& P. 500 had a weekly loss was the final week of 2011, when it ended down 0.6 percent.

Still, the markets have seen little of the volatile trading that characterized the financial markets last year, when there were often swings of more than 2 percent in one day.

Keith B. Hembre, the chief economist and chief investment strategist at Nuveen Asset Management, said the declines on Friday were not necessarily signs of a trend and meant only that “there are risks in the world today.”

He added that the declines on Friday reflected fears of contagion should Greece default on a bond redemption due in March.

“You get the whole financial contagion process moving forward with a lot more uncertainty, a lot more risk aversion in the near term,” he said.

Financial stocks, which have traditionally been sensitive to the turmoil in the euro zone, were down by 1 percent. Bank of America was down 1.34 percent at $8.07. Citigroup fell 2.2 percent to $32.92. Energy and materials were also lower by 1 percent or more.

Interest rates were lower. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note rose 15/32, to 100 5/32, and the yield fell to 1.98 percent from 2.04 percent late Thursday.

In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, closed down 1.7 percent, and the FTSE 100 index in London fell 0.7 percent. The DAX index in Germany was lower by 1.4 percent. Indexes were also lower in France, Italy and Spain.

The euro closed down slightly at 1.3172, from 1.3283.
467 2012-02-11 “We undermine ourselves if we don’t ensure compliance,” said Jawad S. Khawaja, another judge, as Aitzaz Ahsan, the lawyer for Mr. Gilani, tried unsuccessfully to persuade the panel of judges, led by Chief Justice Chaudhry, to quash the contempt-of-court charges.

Mr. Ahsan maintained that by not writing a letter to the Swiss authorities, Mr. Gilani was merely acting on the advice of his legal team and did not intentionally commit contempt of court.

“He holds the court in highest esteem and respect,” said Mr. Ahsan, referring to Mr. Gilani. “The contempt notice may kindly be discharged,” Mr. Ahsan said in his concluding remarks.

But Chief Justice Chaudhry upheld an earlier court summons for the embattled prime minister to appear before the court next week when he would be indicted.

After the hearing, Mr. Ahsan told reporters that Mr. Gilani would appear before the court on Monday.

Minutes later, in another hearing, Chief Justice Chaudhry ordered the country’s powerful intelligence agencies to produce seven accused militants before the court by 3 p.m. on Friday. The order was unusually strong — though the court stopped short of ordering the head of the intelligence services to appear in person.

The Supreme Court had this month ordered the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, the largest spy service, to produce in court seven suspected militants it has been holding since 2010 — and to explain how four other detainees from the same group died in mysterious circumstances over the past six months.

Pleas from Raja Muhammad Irshad Kayani, the lawyer representing the ISI, for more time were met with a curt response from Chief Justice Chaudhry.

“We are not willing to entertain a single submission,” Chief Justice Chaudhry said.

Mr. Irshad Kayani, the lawyer, still tried to argue. “Do not raise your pitch,” Chief Justice Chaudhry said loudly. “Tell us the name of the authority who is disobeying.”

“Even the prime minister of the country has appeared before the court,” Chief Justice Chaudhry said. “When will you be answerable?”

When Mr. Irshad Kayani suggested it would not be possible to produce the seven men before the court at such short notice — the ISI previously said they were being held at a hospital in Peshawar and a detention center in the tribal belt — Chief Justice Chaudhry replied, “Use a helicopter.”

Any suspects who were ill could be carried into court on stretchers, he added.

For the next few hours, families of terrorism suspects milled about in the marbled court building, anxiously waiting for the court to resume its hearing.

But as the court convened again in the evening, the sharp tone of Chief Justice Chaudhry inexplicably mellowed as he delayed the hearing and ordered the intelligence chiefs to produce the suspects on Feb 13.

Mr. Irshad Kayani, the lawyer representing the ISI, said that the suspects were no longer in the custody of intelligence agencies and had been handed over to the civilian authorities. He said arrangements were being made to bring the suspects to Islamabad.

Some had expected that the judges would serve the powerful intelligence chiefs with contempt notices, in the same manner as civilian leaders, for not obeying court orders. But such hopes were dashed Friday, leading skeptics to conclude that the court was soft on the military.

“I don’t understand why the tone of the chief justice has changed,” said Tariq Asad, the lawyer representing one of the terrorism suspects.
468 2012-02-11 8:01 p.m. | Updated      MF Global commodity customers whose cash vanished when the firm collapsed last year are owed $1.6 billion - up significantly from previous estimates - the trustee tasked with recovering the money said on Friday....
469 2012-02-11 Paul McCartney may have nearly every music-industry honor under the sun, a new marriage and a funnily titled album to promote. But until Thursday he had never been given a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.     Mr. McCartney became the last membe...
470 2012-02-11 LOS ANGELES - As usual, the average movie ticket in the United States cost more last year, but not by much. The National Association of Theater Owners said the average ticket price for 2011 was $7.93, up about 0.5 percent from $7.89 in 2010.     I...
471 2012-02-12 Ken Shipley and Rob Sevier of the Chicago record label the Numero Group discuss their Grammy nominations....
472 2012-02-12 Path, the mobile social network, has apologized for mining personal data, but the privacy violation is yet another indication of Silicon Valley’s lack of concern about its protection of customers and their personal data....
473 2012-02-12 Path, the mobile social network, has apologized for mining personal data, but it is yet one more public demonstration of Silicon Valley's lack of concern about the privacy of its customers and the protection of their personal data. Even more telli...
474 2012-02-12 Yosemite National Park plans to reduce the number of permits it issues to hikers seeking to climb Half Dome peak, one of its most popular destinations, because of safety concerns. The move comes as a result of the park's own environmental assessme...
475 2012-02-12 Yosemite National Park plans to reduce the number of permits it issues to hikers seeking to climb Half Dome peak, one of its most popular destinations, because of safety concerns. The move comes as a result of the park's own environmental assessme...
476 2012-02-12 This will be autumn of the patriarch in China, with Hu Jintao stepping down and presumably passing the leadership of the Communist Party to Xi Jinping, the current vice president. Mr. Xi is due to visit the United States this week, starting with m...
477 2012-02-12 This will be autumn of the patriarch in China, with Hu Jintao stepping down and presumably passing the leadership of the Communist Party to Xi Jinping, the current vice president. Mr. Xi is due to visit the United States this week, starting with m...
478 2012-02-12 Ford did not take bailout money but benefited from an industry rebound, as underscored by Carlo Bishop, the president of United Auto Workers Local 551.

He represents more than 3,000 members and a plant running two shifts a day to produce the Taurus, Lincoln MKS luxury sedan and Explorer sport utility vehicle. An additional 1,200 jobs will be created by mid-April, when a third shift is added to refashion the Taurus and Explorer for police departments nationwide.

Mr. Bishop’s Belvidere counterpart, George Welitschinsky of Local 1268, is sitting pretty, too. His plant employs 2,700 to make the Dodge Dart and Jeep Compass and Liberty models, and will soon add 1,800 workers. During dark days in 2008, 1,000 workers there were shown the exit.

The two distinct successes — one without direct government help, the other with emergency aid from the Obama administration and Illinois tax breaks — speak to the real message of the Eastwood ad: a case for teamwork, investing in workers and smart government assistance.

Yes, there was symbolism that perhaps fueled the ire of conservatives, whose rightful skepticism can turn into needless disdain of all government. The front man for the ad urging collective action and community was a cultural hero of theirs who portrayed the prototypical angry and alienated individual during the presidency of their beloved Ronald Reagan.

He wasn’t the fictional, merciless Harold (Dirty Harry) Callahan of the San Francisco Police Department. He wasn’t suggesting that bailed-out autoworkers were leeching off taxpayers.

He was espousing sacrifice and joint effort to tackle our hefty predicaments. They include mediocre schools, stratospheric pension liabilities, budget deficits, crumbling infrastructure and flagging economic development.

There may be signs of hope.

For example, officials of eight federal departments met in Chicago two weeks ago with Karen Freeman-Wilson, the Harvard-educated new mayor of Gary, Ind., and members of regional planning groups, including the Metropolitan Planning Council.

The goal of the rare interagency gathering was to coordinate a way to help down-in-the-dumps Gary, whose population of 80,000 represents a 22 percent decline in the past decade.

They seek to marry government, the private sector and nonprofits to revive the needy northern Indiana city and region, said Peter Skosey, vice president of the Metropolitan Planning Council. Independently, Ms. Freeman-Wilson is receiving pro bono counsel from former Mayor Richard M. Daley, who knows about remaking a city.

Meanwhile, Patrick Fitzgerald, Chicago’s top federal prosecutor, spoke about crime at an Amherst College alumni gathering on Thursday and mentioned a regular meeting he attends of all the key state, city and Cook County law enforcement agencies to deal with notorious gang members.

Any assumption about inevitable friction among the agencies is folderol, he said. They dissect their latest list of the top 20 bad guys in Chicago and constructively plot how to nab them.

It’s the sort of coordination that is lacking in Congress and state legislatures and what the Chrysler ad is actually all about.

It’s why a new Taurus or Dodge Dart will likely survive longer than many incumbent politicians, even in gerrymandered and seemingly cozy districts.

If you go, enjoy the show.
479 2012-02-12 Mrs. Due paid a price for this devotion. She wore large, dark glasses day and night because her eyes were damaged when a hissing tear gas canister hit her in the face. She took a decade to graduate from Florida A&M University because of suspensions for her activism.

Her F.B.I. file ran more than 400 pages. Her stepfather urged her to give up civil rights, to protect her and his own job. She was kicked and threatened with dogs, including a German shepherd whose police handlers gave it a racial slur for a name.

Mrs. Due’s greatest prominence came after she and 10 other students were arrested for sitting at the “whites only” lunch counter at a Woolworth’s store in Tallahassee, Fla., on Feb. 20, 1960. It was 19 days after four black students in Greensboro, N.C., had made civil rights history by doing the same thing.

Mrs. Due and seven others refused to pay $300 fines for violating laws they abhorred. Five served the full 49-day sentence.

As leader of the sit-in, Mrs. Due became a national figure. Jackie Robinson sent her a diary for her jail-time thoughts. James Baldwin, Harry Belafonte and Eleanor Roosevelt endorsed her efforts. Dr. King sent a telegram saying, “Going to jail for a righteous cause is a badge of honor and a symbol of dignity.”

It was not easy behind bars. She and her sister, Priscilla Stephens Kruize, her compatriot in many battles, had to share a narrow bed. They suspected that a mentally disturbed woman was placed in the cell to unnerve them. Food was awful; nights were cold.

Thurgood Marshall, head of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, questioned whether it was all worth it, given the deplorable state of Southern jails. But the drama of righteous incarceration seized the nation’s attention, a freed Mrs. Due went on a national fund-raising tour and the “jail-in” became a movement standard.

Patricia Gloria Stephens was born on Dec. 9, 1939, in Quincy, Fla., and was raised in Belle Glade, Fla. As high school students, she and Priscilla, who was 15 months older, started a petition to have the principal removed, The Miami Herald reported in 1990. Patricia said the two were “always testing things.”

In 1959, she formed a local chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality. It was the beginning of life as “a professional volunteer,” in her daughter’s words. She worked with youths, helped out in political campaigns and spoke on human rights issues. In the last year of her life, state, county and local governments in Florida honored her.

In addition to her husband of 49 years, her sister and her daughter, Mrs. Due is survived by two other daughters, Tananarive Due and Lydia Due Greisz; a brother, Walter Stephens; and five grandchildren.

In 2003, Mrs. Due and her daughter Tananarive, a novelist, wrote “Freedom in the Family: A Mother-Daughter Memoir of the Fight for Civil Rights.” The book discusses thorny issues like black people’s ambivalence about the civil rights struggle in the movement’s early days and the emotional turmoil of children whose parents are activists. It also contains many tales of courage.

“Stories live forever,” Mrs. Due liked to say. “Storytellers don’t.”
480 2012-02-12 COLUMBIA, Mo. — It had been nearly four minutes since a ball passed through a net. The Big 12 Conference rematch between No. 4 Missouri and No. 6 Baylor had trudged up and down the court before sputtering to a stall five minutes into the second half.

A voice in the crowd shouted, “Come on, guys, get in the game!”

As if on cue, Missouri guard Michael Dixon hit a 3-pointer, touching off a string of 8 points that sent Missouri out of a back-and-forth grudge match and on toward a 72-57 victory against Baylor on Saturday at Mizzou Arena.

Until Dixon’s shot, Baylor had contained Missouri (23-2, 10-2 Big 12), mainly by shutting down forward Ricardo Ratliffe. Ratliffe, the nation’s most effective shooter (75.5 percent), had scored 27 points in Missouri’s 89-88 win on Jan. 21 in Waco, Tex.

The Bears’ bigger frontcourt players had switched in and out of different zone defenses and gobbled up any loose ball that entered their thicket beneath the basket. But as many rebounds as it could gather, Baylor (21-4, 8-4) — featuring four players 6 feet 9 inches or taller — had trouble turning the rebounds into points.

Missouri had managed to stay just ahead until Dixon’s 3-pointer brought life to the crowd of more than 15,000. On the next possession, Missouri guard Marcus Denmon found forward Steve Moore on a deceptively quick cut to the basket. Moore’s two-handed dunk gave Missouri all the fuel it needed for a 17-3 run that put the game out of reach.

With the win, Missouri set the stage to face its biggest rival, the defending Big 12 champion Kansas, in a two-team race. Kansas is also 10-2 in the conference; Baylor is probably out of contention.
481 2012-02-12 That trend has been growing for the past several years in Afghanistan, and it parallels a similar trend in Iraq, where contractor deaths exceeded military deaths as long ago as 2009. In Iraq, however, that took place as the number of American troops was being drastically reduced until their complete withdrawal at the end of last year. And last year, more soldiers than private contractors died in Iraq (54 compared with 41, according to Labor Department figures).

Experts who have studied the phenomenon say that because many contractors do not comply with even the current, scanty reporting requirements, the true number of private contractor deaths may be far higher. “No one believes we’re underreporting military deaths,” Mr. Schooner said. “Everyone believes we’re underreporting contractor deaths.”

Qais Mansoori, 20, may have been among the uncounted. An Afghan interpreter employed by Mission Essential Personnel, a leading provider of interpreters in Afghanistan, Mr. Mansoori was killed along with five other interpreters when Taliban insurgents overran the military base where the interpreters were staying in the Mirwais district of Kandahar Province in July 2010.

That attack, typically, was scantily reported, since no soldiers died — although the death toll was 17, including an unidentified American civilian, according to Afghan officials and Mr. Mansoori’s friends and family.

Under the federal Defense Base Act, American defense contractors are obliged to report the war zone deaths and injuries of their employees — including subcontractors and foreign workers — to the Department of Labor, and to carry insurance that will provide the employees with medical care and compensation. In the case of foreign employees, which many of the dead were, survivors generally receive a death benefit equal to half of the employee’s salary for life; American employees get even more.

Mr. Mansoori’s brother, Mohammad, 35, an employee of a mine-removal charity in Afghanistan, said his brother’s employer, Mission Essential Personnel, promptly contacted the family and made a lump sum payment of $10,004, never mentioning the lifetime annuity to which they were entitled — which given Mr. Mansoori’s salary of $800 a month would have been closer to $150,000 over his survivors’ lifetimes. “I wish he was still here to look after my father and mother,” Mohammad Mansoori said. Their father is blind, and Qais Mansoori was his parents’ sole support, he said.

A spokesman for Mission Essential Personnel, Sean Rushton, disputed that, saying that his company has been making biweekly payments of $190 to Mr. Mansoori’s family and will continue doing so for 29 years. The $10,004 lump sum payment was a voluntary death gratuity paid by the company, Mr. Rushton said.

There were 113,491 employees of defense contractors in Afghanistan as of January 2012, compared with about 90,000 American soldiers, according to Defense Department statistics. Of those, 25,287, or about 22 percent of the employees, were American citizens, with 47 percent Afghans and 31 percent from other countries.

The bulk of the known contractor deaths are concentrated among a handful of major companies, particularly those providing interpreters, drivers, security guards and other support personnel who are particularly vulnerable to attacks.

The biggest contractor in terms of war zone deaths is apparently the defense giant L-3 Communications. If L-3 were a country, it would have the third highest loss of life in Afghanistan as well as in Iraq; only the United States and Britain would exceed it in fatalities.

Over the past 10 years, L-3 and its subsidiaries, including Titan Corporation and MPRI Inc., had at least 370 workers killed and 1,789 seriously wounded or injured through the end of 2011 in Iraq and Afghanistan, records show. In a statement, a spokeswoman for L-3, Jennifer Barton, said: “L-3 is proud to have the opportunity to support the U.S. and coalition efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. We mourn the loss of life of these dedicated men and women.”

Other American companies with a high number of fatalities are Supreme Group, a catering company, with 241 dead through the end of 2011; Service Employees International, another catering company, with 125 dead; and security companies like DynCorps (101 dead), Aegis (86 dead) and Hart Group (63 dead). In all, according to Labor Department data, 64 American companies have lost more than seven employees each in the past 10 years.

The American dead have included people like James McLaughlin, 55, who trained pilots on a contract for MPRI and was killed by a rogue Afghan pilot who also killed eight American soldiers last April; and Todd Walker, Michael Clawson and James Scott Ozier, employees of AAR Airlift, who were killed in a helicopter crash in Helmand Province last month for which Taliban insurgents claimed responsibility.

For every contractor who is killed, many more are seriously wounded. According to the Labor Department’s statistics, 1,777 American contractors in Afghanistan were injured or wounded seriously enough to miss more than four days of work last year.

Marcie Hascall Clark began the Defense Base Act Compensation Blog after her husband, Merlin, a former Navy explosives ordnance disposal expert, was injured in 2003 while working for an American contractor. She and her husband have spent the past seven years fighting for hundreds of thousands of dollars in disability payments and medical compensation. “It was quite a shock to learn how little my husband’s body, mind and future were worth,” she said.
482 2012-02-12 Magic 8 Ball: Concentrate and ask again.

Will the package be here tomorrow?

U.P.S. could say only that the package had been checked in at the company’s processing facility in Manhattan and, after that — gone, Daddy, gone. Did it make it to Louisville, Ky., its intended next stop? Was it in California? On its way to California? Don’t count on it, as the Magic 8 Ball might say.

Thus began the Haggler’s journey through the five phases of canceling a trip to see a friend in Canada: bargaining, denial, anger, depression and writing an embarrassed e-mail to your friend in Canada.

The friend was gracious and also a little skeptical that the passport would ever be found.

“My experience with U.P.S., is that once something is lost it takes them a while to find it,” he wrote back. “They once lost a set of golf clubs of mine for three weeks.  Found them in Minnesota when I had sent them to California!”

Resigned to both missing the trip and paying airline cancellation fees, the Haggler met a college friend in Menlo Park for lunch. After the Haggler shared his lost-passport tale, she said: “I never use U.P.S. Not after what they did to my bike case.”

This friend, it turns out, is a triathlete and ships her bicycle around the country, in a special container that cost $400. A few years ago, she said, U.P.S. damaged the container.

“They said they would reimburse me for the bike if it were damaged, but not the container,” she recalled.

Wait. Wasn’t the container part of the shipment? It was. Which is why she doesn’t use U.P.S. any more.

The Haggler thought it odd that the first two people who heard his story had U.P.S. nightmares of their own. It seemed odder after calling Delta Air Lines, to switch a flight home from Vancouver to a flight home from San Francisco.

After dolefully explaining the reason for the switch, the Delta rep said, “Oh, I can’t stand U.P.S.!”

The story took five minutes and involved a U.P.S. delivery of a portable dual-view DVD player. A U.P.S. delivery man tossed the package into Ms. Delta’s yard, she said, instead of ringing the doorbell and handing it over, even though she and her family could be seen through the window at that moment, eating dinner.

“We’ve got this big German shepherd and we let him out, not knowing that there was a package in the yard,” Ms. Delta said. “When the dog came back in later, he had wires in his mouth. My husband said, ‘What is that?’ ”

It was a portable dual-view DVD player, reduced to Kibbles ’n Bits. Mostly bits.

Many phone calls and days later, she said, U.P.S. decided that the retailer who’d shipped the DVD was responsible for the mishap because its packaging was flawed. The retailer, it will not surprise you, disagreed. Ms. Delta wound up dropping another $250 for another DVD player.

“I’m not charging you any change fees for this,” she said, returning to the flight reservation. She sounded indignant on the Haggler’s behalf.

How often does a U.P.S. delivery go wrong? A spokeswoman for the company, Susan Rosenberg, said the information is proprietary. She added that the company moves 15.8 million packages a day, on average, which is obviously a gigantic number. It means that if U.P.S. botches just one-half of one-tenth of 1 percent of all deliveries — which to the Haggler’s ears sounds like an enviably low failure rate for anything — it bungles a little less than 8,000 deliveries a day.

THE point is that in a system as large as the one U.P.S. operates, passports are bound to vanish. Less excusable, it seems to the Haggler, is the way that its front-line customer service reps handled the immediate aftermath of this unfortunate episode. One was extremely helpful, but several others were pointlessly brusque. Ms. Delta and my friend in Menlo Park had the same unpleasant experience.

Maybe this is about expectations. U.P.S. promises “to choreograph a ballet of infinite complexity.” But when the dance goes wrong, the system feels more like a mosh pit.
483 2012-02-12 Many of Romney’s debate performances have been endlessly repeating tape loops of that sort of thing, and his stump speeches are even less electric. Some last about 15 minutes in all, building to a vacuous climax of spoken fragments of the song At CPAC, he mentioned the soul of America, the durability of the Constitution, the perfidy of , the evil of : boilerplate, all of it. It’s sometimes as if he’s trying to run out the clock — on the primary season as well as the event in question — before anyone seriously questions the front-runner status that was handed to him early on.

How did he get it? He had presidential bearing, presidential hair, some boast-worthy résumé highlights and a politically fluid background that gave him a shot at the swing voters who decide general elections. He did well in hypothetical matchups against . He had a top-notch campaign organization and formidable fund-raising potential. But he never had magic, and hasn’t managed to find any. To the extent that he has succeeded, he has done so for un-magical reasons. He won in , which could almost be said to be his home state; in , where he wildly outspent rivals and turned into fleshy, white-tufted roadkill; in , where the Mormon vote helped. His victories don’t outnumber his losses, even though Gingrich, Santorum and have been splitting votes on the hard right.

IN part because they’ll continue to, he remains a good bet for the nomination. But he’s looking like an anemic nominee. And to change that he has to bust out of his timid confines.

It’s fascinating: by most estimations, his term as the governor of was laudable, but he doesn’t invoke it as often or effusively as he might, because it doesn’t exactly bolster his outsider claim and it draws attention to a somewhat centrist record, including so-called Romneycare, which is troubling to many Republican primary voters. At CPAC Friday, he invoked that record only to reframe it as a triumph of unfettered conservatism in a liberal redoubt.

His service to the Mormon church suggests a humanity and humility that might well impress voters, but he has mostly avoided that topic, too, because he’s by nature emotionally reticent and because some Americans still look askance at Mormonism. His career at Bain Capital is dicey, the phrases “venture capital” and “creative destruction” already sharpened by his opponents into stilettos.

So with a houseful of potential assets, he has been pinned in the foyer, hesitant to access some of the better-furnished rooms. And that constricted biography joins a vague agenda to produce ... an unspecific protest vote. An anti-Obama blur.

Which could be enough, if Obama continues to pick foolishly unnecessary fights, like the one last week with the Catholic Church, and if economic trend lines turn against him. Barring such developments, though, Romney would be in trouble, as his rising unfavorable ratings among independents and worsening numbers against Obama make clear. And he could nab the nomination only to see some Republican “super PAC” money steered away from the presidential contest and toward key Senate campaigns. If the party can’t get the White House, a second chamber of Congress would be a potent consolation, not to mention a roadblock against Obama’s initiatives.

Almost all of the presidents elected over recent decades have been propelled by pockets of intense enthusiasm, which can paper over so many specific political predicaments and eclipse tensions with the base. They were saviors before they were disappointments, not disappointments right out of the gate. And almost all of them had something solid — a resonant personal story or an outsize personality or a bold vision — for admirers to latch onto.

Romney wafts through a voter’s fingers, a puff of presidential-looking air. Because of flip-flops over time, he has been called squishy, but his shortcoming right now is really different — and more damaging — than that. He’s vaporous.
484 2012-02-12 This new level of cooperation includes the release of damaging material from an internal investigation that is being overseen by executives who, observers say, are using it to consolidate their power within the company, a move that could come at James Murdoch’s expense.

“There’s no good way out of it,” a former News International executive said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the continuing investigations. “If you put up your hand and say, ‘I’m going to investigate myself and here’s what I found’ and you’re not very open and full about it, then it looks like just another cover-up.”

When The News of the World was closed in disgrace last summer, its newsroom was locked down by security guards. In mid-November, News International says, investigators searching the seized materials found a storage crate that, judging from a sticker on top, had come from the office of Colin Myler, the paper’s last editor. It contained a hard copy of an e-mail sent from Mr. Myler to James Murdoch on June 7, 2008 — in reality a chain of e-mails that included correspondence with Tom Crone, then an in-house lawyer.

“Unfortunately, it is as bad as we feared,” Mr. Myler wrote, speaking of an impending lawsuit that threatened to reveal that voice-mail hacking at the paper was endemic.

Last summer, senior News International officials said that in that crucial period in 2008, Mr. Murdoch had neither been told about nor shown documentation of the extent of the illegality at The News of the World. The discovery of the e-mail, said one former official with knowledge of the situation, was completely unexpected.

Why did it take so long to come to light? Linklaters, a law firm working for News International, said that a junior employee found it in November, but that senior officials at the firm did not know about it until December.

In addition, Linklaters told the Commons Committee on Culture, Media and Sport, Mr. Myler’s electronic copy had been lost “in a hardware failure” on March 18, 2010,” while Mr. Murdoch’s electronic copy had been deleted on Jan. 15, 2011 during an “e-mail stabilization and modernization program.”

Big corporations routinely delete old e-mails. Between April 2010 and July 2011, News International discussed e-mail deletion with HCL Technologies, which manages its e-mail system, on nine occasions, according to a letter HCL wrote to Parliament last summer.

Most of the reasons were mundane. But in January 2011, HCL said, News International asked whether HCL was capable of helping “truncate” — meaning delete — “a particular database” in the e-mail system. The question came shortly after disclosures in a civil suit brought by the actress Sienna Miller raised fears that material about widespread phone hacking at The News of the World might become public.

News International did not explain why it wanted the deletion. HCL said it could not help and told the company to look elsewhere.

It is not clear whether the “stabilization and modernization program” that deleted the Murdoch e-mail was linked to News International’s request to “truncate” data. But it is clear that on Jan. 15, when the deletion took place, the company knew it was facing civil and potentially criminal inquiries. A month earlier, reacting to new information from the Miller and other cases, it had suspended the News of the World’s news editor, Ian Edmondson, on suspicion of phone hacking, and handed some material to the police.

“They were aware that it was highly likely the police were going to reopen the investigation,” said a person with knowledge of the police operation. Indeed, the police formally began Operation Weeting, their new phone hacking investigation, 11 days later.

At every step of the inquiry, the company has said it is cooperating fully and producing relevant documents. A News International spokeswoman declined to comment for this article.

A lawmaker involved in the investigations of News International said the company’s primary objective from the beginning was to protect James Murdoch, and everything else was secondary to that.

News International has given a variety of explanations for where its e-mails are and whether the ones it says it cannot find were deleted, lost in computer malfunctions or simply mislaid. In December 2010, a News of the World editor told a court in Scotland that “many e-mails had been lost when they were being moved to an archive in India.” That same month, a company lawyer said that News International could not retrieve e-mails written more than six months earlier. Neither of those statements was true, the company admitted later.

Last month, the High Court judge presiding over the civil lawsuits brought by hacking victims castigated News International for what he called its “startling approach” to e-mail. Even after the company received a formal request for documents, said the judge, Geoffrey Vos, “a previously conceived plan to delete e-mails was put in place by senior management.”

Speaking of News Group Newspapers, a division of News International, Justice Vos said that “they are to be treated as deliberate destroyers of evidence.”

At every step of the way, News International has declared that it is doing its utmost to investigate wrongdoing. In 2007, for example, the company told Parliament that it had conducted an investigation by asking an outside law firm, Harbottle & Lewis, to examine 2,500 e-mails, and that the investigation had cleared senior editors of wrongdoing.

Many of those supposedly cleared were later arrested on suspicion of phone hacking and other charges. And Harbottle & Lewis said later that the investigation had, in fact, been requested by News International to answer allegations in an unfair dismissal claim brought by a former employee involved in phone hacking — not to look for more phone hacking at the paper.

News International has pledged to police itself better. Under the aegis of its four-person Management and Standards Committee, it says it will comb through and make available every piece of potentially pertinent material.

Dozens of people — lawyers, forensic accountants, forensic computer technicians and, sometimes, police officers — gather daily at a site in Thomas More Square here, where News International is based, searching through 300 million e-mails and other documents stretching back a decade.

“Pooling data together is a complex matter,” said a person with knowledge of the standards committee. “What is recoverable is a very technical operation.”

Mr. Murdoch, who is News Corporation’s deputy chief operating officer and chairman and chief executive of its international division, relocated to New York recently as part of a long-planned move meant to help ease him into place to eventually take over News Corporation from his father. But the younger Mr. Murdoch’s position seems much more precarious than it did a year ago. Last month, he resigned from the board of GlaxoSmithKline, Britain’s biggest drug company, and last summer his dream of helping News Corporation take over all of British Sky Broadcasting shattered to pieces in the wake of the hacking scandal.

People in New York say that Mr. Murdoch is confident he will survive the storm back in London. But questions still abound about what he knew, and when.

When he got the 2008 e-mail, News International was facing a major potential disaster: a lawsuit brought by Gordon Taylor, chief executive of the Professional Footballers’ Association, who said that his phone had been hacked and that he had proof.

That is what the e-mail told Mr. Murdoch. Farther down in a short message chain, there was mention of a “nightmare scenario” of legal repercussions, and an acknowledgment that The News of the World “knew of and made use of the voice mail information” it illegally acquired from Mr. Taylor’s cellphone.

Mr. Myler’s e-mail was sent on a Saturday afternoon. Mr. Murdoch replied minutes later, agreeing to a meeting that Tuesday and telling Mr. Myler he would be home “if you want to talk before.”

Soon afterward, Mr. Murdoch approved a settlement of more than $1.4 million to Mr. Taylor, an unprecedented amount for such a case.

In December, he said he had not read the whole e-mail. “I am confident that I did not review the full e-mail chain at this time or afterwards,” he said in a letter to the Commons culture committee. “I would also like to take this opportunity to reaffirm my past testimony that I was not aware of evidence that either pointed to widespread wrongdoing or indicated that further investigation was necessary.”

Contradicting Mr. Murdoch’s testimony, Mr. Myler and Mr. Crone told Parliament they had informed him about the damaging aspects of the Taylor lawsuit. Mr. Murdoch has consistently denied this, declaring that he approved the settlement because of his lawyers’ advice, not because he knew the underlying details.
485 2012-02-12 “He was trying to change his life,” Amar’e Stoudemire said. “He’d just told me he was trying to do right, to get everything right.”

Whatever Hazell Stoudemire could not get right in his life, he steered his brother Amar’e, six years his junior, away from the path he took.

Lincoln Avenue in Lake Wales is where trouble resides and the surrounding mean streets have no off-ramps.

“This is a small town, but Lincoln Avenue is just like any bad area you’d find in an inner city,” said Burney Hayes, a former police officer and the Lake Wales High School junior varsity basketball coach, who mentored the Stoudemire boys. “See it, want it, name it, you can have it on Lincoln Avenue. Shoot dice, gambling, drugs, prostitution, all of it. You get caught there, you might never get out.”

Stoudemire said his brother Hazell would never let him go to Lincoln Avenue. He would never even let him pass through that way en route to their grandmother’s house.

“He guided me my whole life,” Stoudemire said. “Even when he was locked up, he’d write me letters. Every week, I’d get a letter. He guided me all the way to the N.B.A. I wouldn’t have made it without him.”

When Carrie Stoudemire, announced as an evangelist and prophetess, addressed the audience, she did not sugarcoat her life or her son Hazell’s.

“It’s hard to take the hood to the millionaire’s life,” she said. “Hazell stopped Amar’e from coming through the streets. Hazell stopped Amar’e from getting on the drugs. I was addicted, and Hazell was doing his things. But at the same time, he was trying to be a big brother, trying to be a father, trying to be a mother.”

Those who knew Hazell Stoudemire say he could have also been an N.B.A. player.

After spending a year at a sheriff’s youth camp, with his mother in prison, Hazell was assigned to a foster home in Bradenton, Fla. In the fall of 1994, Bradenton Southeast High School had gone to the state’s final four the previous two years, guided by a point guard named Peter Warrick, who later became a Florida State football standout and a Cincinnati Bengals first-round draft pick.

“I’d never heard of Hazell,” said Bob Carroll, who was Bradenton Southeast’s basketball coach. “All of a sudden, here was a 6-foot-9, 230-pound kid, solid, very muscular, a man even though he was just a junior, coming to me and asking if he could play basketball.”

One problem: Hazell didn’t know how to play.

“The first day of practice, during shootaround, his first shot went straight into the backboard from about 15 feet — boom!” Warrick recalled. “Hazell went right to our coach after that and said: ‘Teach me how to play. I don’t want people to laugh at me.’ ”

Soon Hazell was averaging 15 points and 20 rebounds a game, and Bradenton Southeast was tallying win after win, eventually going 35-0, the final game a state championship in which Stoudemire had 20 points and 20 rebounds.

It was not that game, though, that Carroll remembers most. It was the team’s last home game, when each player received a carnation with a ribbon of orange and blue, the school’s colors, to give to his mother in a pregame ceremony.

“Hazell was so excited,” Carroll said. “I’d never met his mother, never even saw her. But obviously she must have been out of jail because she was going to be there that night.”

One by one, each player’s name was called, and he presented his mother with a carnation. When Hazell Stoudemire’s name was called, Carrie Stoudemire was nowhere to be found.

“He just stood there with his flower, staring at the door, waiting for it to open,” Carroll said. “But it never did.”

A few minutes later, Hazell Stoudemire went to center court for the game’s opening jump ball. Just then, the gym door opened and in walked Carrie Stoudemire.

“Hold on, Ref,” Hazell said, running off the court, grabbing the carnation and running over to give it to his mother.

Three weeks after the state championship, the school had its spring break. When classes resumed, Hazell Stoudemire was gone.

“I heard that his mother came, told him to pack his stuff and get in the car, that they were heading to New York,” Carroll said. “Just like that, Hazell disappeared. That was the only year he played basketball. It’s just so sad. I felt so sorry for him. He never really had a chance.”
486 2012-02-12 “It’s a very nice course; it’s a complete downhill,” he said. “Maybe it’s possible to change a bit on the upper part, but that’s just a small detail. It’s just too bad the Olympics are not next year and I’ve got to wait two years to come back.”

With heavy security and the race finish halfway up the mountain, there were only about a thousand fans on hand, and the stands were only half full.

The race was held in frigid conditions, with the sun moving in and out of a mostly cloudy sky, making the icy upper portion of the course extremely difficult.

A super-combined race is scheduled for Sunday. The women’s circuit will then arrive and begin downhill training on another new course Wednesday.

SCHILD TRIUMPHS AGAIN Marlies Schild of Austria won her sixth World Cup slalom of the season after the overall leader Lindsey Vonn crashed out in the opening run on the Pyrenees course in Soldeu-Grandvalira, Andorra.

After finishing the first run in fifth place, Schild blazed through the 59 gates in a strong second run to clock a best time of 1:39.44, putting her one victory shy of the 34 slalom wins held by the Swiss star Vreni Schneider.

Frida Hansdotter of Sweden was 0.60 seconds behind; Kathrin Zettel of Austria was 0.86 seconds back in third.

Vonn started well but fell after taking a gate wide and slid down the center of the hill. The defending champion Maria Höfl-Riesch also fell in her first run.

Tanja Poutiainen of Finland led after the opening run, but missed a gate with gusty wind on the Avet course.

RETAKING CROSS-COUNTRY LEAD Marit Bjoergen of Norway won the 15-kilometer mass start in Nove Mesto, Czech Republic, to regain the overall World Cup cross-country lead. Bjoergen pulled away from Justyna Kowalczyk of Poland shortly before the finish line to complete the classical style race in 39:20.3.

Kowalczyk, who was leading the overall standings by 2 points before the race, was 4.0 seconds back. Another Norwegian, Therese Johaug, was third.

FRENCHMAN WINS IN BIATHLON Martin Fourcade of France edged Timofey Lapshin of Russia to win a 10-kilometer World Cup biathlon sprint in Kontiolahti, Finland.

With one penalty, Fourcade finished in 24:58.2, only nine-tenths of a second ahead of Lapshin, who shot clean in the cold. Benjamin Weger of Switzerland was third, 1.6 seconds back.

LOCH WINS LUGE TITLE The Olympic champion Felix Loch of Germany won the luge title for the third time at the world championships. Loch’s previous world titles were in 2008 and 2009.

Loch, 22, was fastest in both runs in Altenberg, Germany, for a combined time of 1:47.332, which was 0.328 seconds ahead of Albert Demchenko, 40, of Russia. The defending champion, Armin Zoeggeler of Italy, claimed bronze.

CANADA SWEEPS IN SKI CROSS The Canadians Chris Del Bosco (men) and Marielle Thompson (women) won the gold medals at the United States Grand Prix ski cross competition in Park City, Utah. Del Bosco beat out his teammate Brady Leman; Langely McNeal of the United States finished second to Thompson.

A TEAM SKI JUMP UPSET Norway upset Austria in a World Cup ski jumping team event in Willingen, Germany. The team of Anders Fannemel, Rune Velta, Vegard Sklett and Anders Bardal secured the victory with 999.2 points, which was 22.9 ahead of the Austrian team of Martin Koch, Andreas Kofler, Thomas Morgenstern and Gregor Schlierenzauer. Germany was third.
487 2012-02-12 The Rev. Samuel Boykin is not impressed with Mr. Hardy’s claim. Mr. Boykin, who would not give his age, is Judge Phillips’s oldest nephew and the administrator of his estate, which owes more than $3 million to various agencies. For the past two years, Mr. Boykin has been trying to evict Mr. Hardy and another tenant, the Rev. Paul Lewis’s Messengers for Christ World Healing Center, which held twice-weekly services on the second floor.

“These people are squatters,” said Mr. Boykin, who said he was affiliated with the Church of God in Christ. “The court system has allowed these criminals to stay in my building.” With property values in Bedford-Stuyvesant rising, Mr. Boykin said he could sell the theater for $3 million.

And then there is Dr. Lewis, who says Mr. Boykin had agreed to sell him the building for $1.6 million, only to renege when a better offer came along. He says he has put almost $300,000 into the Slave.

“We’re going to fight,” Dr. Lewis said. “Mr. John Phillips came to me with tears in his eyes and said, ‘Doctor, I believe you’re the only one who can save the place.’ We fixed it up. Now it’s a prime area; it’s worth pretty good money.”

On Jan. 26, the three men eyed one another warily in Room 319 of Surrogate’s Court in Brooklyn, where Mr. Boykin has been trying to take possession of the Slave since 2009. Mr. Boykin, weary from a 13-hour bus ride from his home in Akron, , wore his hair shaved close at the sides and rising to a tiered plateau on top. He said he had already spent $90,000 in legal fees on the case, bringing the estate’s cash balance down to $18,000.

“I’ve explained to all the courts that these people are illegally occupying my building,” he said, blaming his former lawyers for the length and expense of the proceedings.

He carried copies of handwritten complaints he said he had sent to at least eight law-enforcement agencies about alleged fraud involving his uncle’s properties and a tale about the lack of response.

“I need to get them out of there,” he said of Mr. Hardy and Dr. Lewis. “No one has a contract. No one is paying rent. The meter is running, eating up the estate.”

THE story of the Slave begins with Judge Phillips, who grew up in Ohio and became, by his own account, the first African-American admitted to the bar. In Brooklyn, he ran for the Civil Court bench as the “kung fu judge” because he had a black belt in martial arts, and he openly feuded with the borough’s political establishment, black and white. He opened a martial-arts dojo to teach a style he called the “Gorilla-Gnat System of Scientific Movements and Defensive Fighting,” and set about buying up property in Bedford-Stuyvesant.

He was nothing if not enterprising. In the early 1980s, he made a movie about an interracial love affair, financing it himself, and when no distributor would take it, he bought the old Regal Theater on Fulton Street in 1984, renaming it Slave #1 to remind himself and his neighbors of their history, he said. That the name offended some residents did not seem to bother him. He filled the Slave with African-American political and murals celebrating the Rev. Dr. , Marcus Garvey and other figures from black history. He renamed a second theater the Black Lady.

The Rev. , who began his preaching career not far from the Slave, said it was a point of local pride that the theater belonged to a black judge. After a deadly attack on black men in Howard Beach, Queens, in 1986, Mr. Sharpton began holding Wednesday night rallies at the theater that galvanized the city and shifted the center of New York’s civil rights movement to Brooklyn from , Mr. Sharpton said.

“I used to say, if you go to the judge’s house, you better not have anything to do for a couple hours, because he would lecture you about black history and martial arts,” Mr. Sharpton, who now hosts a political show on MSNBC, said. “He was very knowledgeable.”

All the while, Judge Phillips was buying up more than a dozen properties in Bedford-Stuyvesant, collecting modest rents of $500 for a storefront, $300 for an apartment, often looking the other way when tenants could not pay, said John Kennedy O’Hara, a lawyer who became an advocate for him in his later years and who now represents Mr. Boykin. The judge stayed in the neighborhood even though he could afford to live elsewhere.

When he had to retire from the bench at age 70, in 1994, he contemplated a run for Brooklyn district attorney against , of whom he was openly critical. In his first attempt, in 1997, he failed to get on the ballot because his petitions were not in order.

What happened next is the subject of debate. According to court records, in May 2000 a man named Louis Endless was arrested in a property-fraud scheme, and as collateral for his bail put up the Black Lady Theater. Prosecutors began investigating whether people around Judge Phillips were stealing his properties. They found a mess: in 1999 and 2000, titles on both of the judge’s theaters had changed hands without his knowledge; three properties were in ; an employee’s sister had gotten title to a four-unit building; and the judge’s own home had been transferred to a man named Franklyn Radix for an unrecorded sum.

In 2001, after testimony by doctors and a court evaluator, a judge ruled Judge Phillips to be mentally incapacitated and placed him under two types of guardianship: one overseeing his property, the other his person. During the proceedings, Judge Phillips several times said that he could take care of himself, and that the proposed guardian — a former prosecutor from — was out to get his property. But in the end he consented without objection. ACCORDING to Article 81 of New York’s Mental Hygiene Law, guardianship is meant to be a last resort, taken only after all less-restrictive options have been eliminated.

“You want to avoid it if at all possible, because it removes a person’s rights,” said Erica Wood, assistant director of the ’s commission on law and aging. “Basically it gives you the status of a child; you’re no longer a person.”

The records of Judge Phillips’s guardianship are sealed, but some have surfaced in a related legal proceeding. At the hearing to determine his capacity, two doctors testified that he showed signs of early but required only partial assistance: a part-time home aide to look after his hygiene and living conditions, and someone to assist with finances and make sure his bills were paid.

Instead, he was placed entirely under a succession of guardians, who decided where he lived, whom he could see and what happened to his property. The guardians moved him from nursing home to nursing home against his wishes, and denied him visits from family members.

“They had him on lockdown,” said his niece, Symphanie . “My uncle would say, they’re lying, they’re stealing. And they’d just say, ‘Oh, he’s crazy, he’s just talking.’ ”

If guardianship was intended to protect Judge Phillips’s assets or his health, it did not. By the time of his death, in 2008, in an assisted-living center in Park Slope, Brooklyn, Judge Phillips had lost all but three of his properties and owed millions in taxes and penalties. In court papers, guardians blamed their predecessors for failing to pay taxes or account for rents and for selling properties to friends at below-market prices. One guardian, Emani P. Taylor, was suspended from practicing law and ordered to repay $403,000 to the estate.

Mr. O’Hara, the lawyer, has never stopped believing the guardianship was instigated to keep Judge Phillips from running against Mr. Hynes for district attorney in 2001.

“It’s crazy what happened to him,” Mr. O’Hara said. “He died homeless and broke, locked in a place with no heat. If that can happen to a judge, imagine what can happen to someone with no power.”

A spokesman for Mr. Hynes denied in a statement any such motive and said Judge Phillips was never an official candidate for district attorney.

Mr. O’Hara, who first met Judge Phillips in 1976 as a teenager, is another unlikely player in the Slave Theater saga. A political gadfly and critic of the Brooklyn Democratic machine, Mr. O’Hara was convicted of seven felonies in 1997 and disbarred for lying about his address on his voter registration form, a violation usually handled with a civil penalty or ignored.

Mr. O’Hara said he believed that the prosecution was Mr. Hynes’s way of protecting his friends in the Democratic clubhouse. Mr. Hynes’s spokesman denied Mr. O’Hara’s charge but said the district attorney had never prosecuted anyone else for registering at a false address. Mr. O’Hara was reinstated as a lawyer in 2009 and is still seeking a pardon for his conviction.

Now he is representing Mr. Boykin in a wrongful-death suit against Prospect Park Residence, where Judge Phillips died. The suit charges that the residence lacked licensing and did not provide proper meals for a diabetic. David Pomerantz, Prospect Park Residence’s executive director, declined to comment, saying only that he was “confident that the facts will prevail in our favor.”

ON an afternoon in late January, a week before the Buildings Department sealed the Slave, Mr. Hardy offered a broken chair in the theater’s front concession area, amid mostly empty shelves.

“This was Mr. Phillips’s vision, and I’m going to do all I can to keep it going,” he said.

Mr. Hardy said he met Judge Phillips in the mid-1990s, while looking for a place to sell books and framed pictures. By his own account, he was “basically a street guy” until the judge gave him a job and turned his life around.

He and his son Omar recently started holding small fund-raising events in the concession area, including boxing lessons and open-mike nights, and soliciting money on the Internet.

“We’re making progress,” Mr. Hardy said, adding that though he had no money, he was on a mission. “The thing is, don’t let the place die,” he said.

So far, the courts have not smiled on Mr. Hardy’s claim, ordering him to vacate the property. But he remained resolute. “The proof is that I’m here,” he said. “If he got the deed, tell the marshals to come on,” Mr. Hardy said, referring to Mr. Boykin. “I’ll leave with a smile on my face.”

The ministry upstairs, similarly, was girded for a long fight. “We’ve been there almost 10 years,” Dr. Lewis said, bridling at Mr. Boykin’s characterization of the church as a squatter. “Mr. Phillips put us there; he wanted us to have a place. We were the only ones who never ripped him off. Mr. Phillips told Mr. Boykin he wanted us to have the property, and he agreed to it until a month ago. Someone offered him more.”

He said his bank would not lend more money for a higher offer on the building. Dr. Lewis, an Evangelical minister who buys time for his sermons at 4:30 a.m. on BET and whose Web site offers an Anointed Prosperity Kit for $24.95 plus shipping and handling, has had other matters competing for his attention. In 2009, he was charged in Jamaica with carnal abuse of two teenage girls. He was acquitted last year, after a public and expensive trial.

Mr. Boykin scoffed at the televangelist’s claim. “I’m in no negotiations with nobody at $1.6 million,” he said. “The only thing I want is my building empty.”

SYMPHANIE MOSS offers another wrinkle on the Slave drama. Ms. Moss, who lives in Akron, briefly became the guardian of the judge’s person, and withstood a suit by Mr. Boykin to take her place. In her memory, she said, “my uncle let it be known that he thought Boykin was just after his money.”

Mr. Hardy, by contrast, was a comfort to her uncle, she said, especially when she could not be in New York. “He would go keep him shaved, or I’d send money for clothes, and he’d buy clothes for him,” she said. “He helped a lot.”

The theater’s future remains in doubt. On Feb. 4, an outdoor smoking area collapsed during a reggae party, injuring four people and bringing in the Buildings Department.

Mr. Boykin celebrated the city’s action. Finally, the unwanted tenants were out. “I get to sell my building in peace,” he said. But to what end? Like other heirs to civil rights legacies, Mr. Boykin finds himself facing expectations he did not seek.

, a councilman from Brooklyn, said the theater should not become just “another commercial entity,” especially as the neighborhood reshaped itself around development dollars.

In the Slave’s heyday, he said, going to the theater was like being in an African marketplace. “They’d have the most profound lectures from scholars and historians, and people would be selling socially conscious books and art, and food from around the world. You’d see the diversity of our culture — and it provided people with an income.”

Mr. Boykin said he hoped to sell the theater to a church or community group.

Mr. Hardy wondered where that left him. Even in Judge Phillips’s last days, Mr. Hardy said, he talked about reopening the theaters.

“They were his pride and joy,” Mr. Hardy said. “What am I supposed to do, run away? Or walk? I’m the chief. I got to keep the doors open.”
488 2012-02-12 David Frei’s priorities skew to dogs even where real estate is concerned: When the building where he lives went condo around five years ago, his purchase agreement stipulated that he be allowed to have three dogs. Mr. Frei, 62, the co-host this week for the 136th Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show at Madison Square Garden, has been the club’s communications director since 2003. He and his wife, Cherilyn, 52, the director of spiritual care and family support at Ronald McDonald House New York, live on the Upper East Side with their two spaniels, Angel, a Cavalier King Charles, and Grace, a Brittany.

EARLY RISER I’m usually up by 7, if not sooner. I can’t blame it on the dogs — they both sleep in the living room, Grace in her crate and Angel in her crate with the door open, which means she sleeps on the couch. First things first: I take the dogs for a walk, and on the way home I’ll pick up an egg-and-turkey-bacon wrap from the corner bodega. Then I’ll read the papers and eat my wrap, and the dogs do their part if anything happens to drop on the floor. My wife, Cheri, is always disciplining all three of us about that.

SHOPPING, NOT COOKING We eat out most weeknights, but my wife likes to cook dinner on Sundays, so I’ll do the shopping at Food Emporium in the morning. I don’t cook. Back when I owned two sports bars in Seattle, they wouldn’t let me in the kitchen; I bused tables, checked IDs and was an emergency bartender.

BRUNCH WITH FRIENDS AND DOGS If the temperature is above 50 degrees, we like to go over to Finnegans Wake at 73rd and First for brunch because we can bring the dogs and sit outside. I’ll get eggs Benedict or maybe a cheeseburger. We usually meet up with friends of ours and their dogs, so it’s a nice social time for us all. Dogs are such a great icebreaker; my wife says we probably wouldn’t know anybody in New York if we didn’t have the dogs.

THE CIRCUIT I used to go to 100 dog shows a year on the weekends. Now I judge maybe four or five times a year, and we’ve been starting Grace’s show career, but we’re doing it slowly. It’s not as important as it used to be. We’ve got so much other stuff going on. If Cheri needs to pop over to the McDonald House to see someone, I’ll come along and bring one of the dogs.

FARM OR FOOTBALL My wife’s parents live on the family farm in Hope, N.J., and sometimes we bring the dogs out for a visit; they get to race around and smell the cattle pastured there. They’re Herefords, so they’re the same color as Grace and Angel. I have this great photo of Grace face to face with the bull — with the fence between them. If we don’t go anyplace on Sunday afternoon, Cheri will take Grace for a run on the East River Esplanade, and Angel helps me go through my e-mail. Or we watch football. I used to work for the 49ers and Broncos, and my father was a football coach at the University of Oregon. My career path is paved with AstroTurf. I root for the Broncos and the Oregon Ducks.

DINNER AND TIVO We have a casual dinner at home and catch up with our shows on TiVo. Cheri has to watch her soap opera, “Days of Our Lives,” and my show is “Frasier.” We also watch Mr. Trump’s shows now that a visit to Donald Trump’s office is part of what we call our World Media Tour the day after Westminster, when I escort the winning dog to the morning TV shows and Sardi’s. We’ll watch the Gordon Ramsay restaurant shows; my wife enjoys them because her family owned a restaurant in Hope called the Big K for 85 years.
489 2012-02-12 In , years of restive debate were mostly quieted in 2007, when the Parks and Recreation Department announced that dogs would be allowed off leash in many large parks 9 p.m. to 9 a.m., making official what had been an accepted practice. , the parks commissioner, said that dog owners made parks safer by their presence “day in and day out, despite the weather.”

Other areas, however, have reined in dog owners. At the Ward Pound Ridge Reservation, a 4,300-acre county park in northern , dogs must be leashed at all times, although enforcement is a challenge. On , all 32 state parks and require that dogs be leashed, much to the frustration of dog advocates. And here in Weston, the bans dogs altogether — leashed or not — at its 1,756-acre Devil’s Den Preserve.

Some parts of the country, like , Colo., have required owners to register their dogs and take a special class in off-leash etiquette before they can let their animals roam free.

At Trout Brook Valley, the question is whether unleashed dogs harm fragile wildlife habitats within the 1,009-acre preserve, which includes vernal pools, stony ridges and an orchard. The trust recently formed a committee to explore the issue. And while the group had already planned to commission a wildlife study, an episode last year, in which a German shepherd ran off the preserve and killed two fox pups on adjacent land, highlighted the need for it.

Those who support the leash-free side haven’t hesitated to make their feelings known. When Mr. Brant put up a sign informing dog walkers that they had to keep their charges on lead, someone tore it down. It is now nailed 10 feet up a tree. An angry off-leash supporter even sent in a copy of his will, with the planned bequest to Aspetuck Land Trust crossed out.

But then there are the leash proponents, like Judith Waters, who said that, because of the moratorium, she could now return safely to the preserve.

“I have been jumped on, had my clothes muddied, torn and slobbered on,” Mrs. Waters, a dog owner herself, wrote to Mr. Brant in an e-mail. “I’ve been intimidated, barked and growled at, and I have been scolded for not understanding that dogs have a right to these trails.”

Linda Giers of Norwalk said she had stopped going to the preserve since she once went around a corner to find two German shepherds off leash. “The owner was nowhere to be seen,” she said. “It was intimidating.”

In New York City, Mr. Benepe subscribes to the theory that dogs are less aggressive when they are allowed to socialize and exercise. Indeed, the number of dog bites reported in the city has plummeted in recent years, as the parks department has built dozens of dog runs and allowed dogs off leash. Still, he said, “the right to have your dog off leash doesn’t confer the right to inconvenience and injure other people.”

Bob Marino, president of the New York Council of Dog Owner Groups, an umbrella organization, praised the city’s decision to formalize the off-leash hours. “Under this administration, the whole idea is ‘Let’s work together and talk,’ ” he said. “Is it perfect? No. But it allows a city with limited land and a lot of people and a lot of dogs to coexist.”

Coexistence at Trout Brook Valley has grown tense. Shortly after the ban went into effect, Frances Phillips let her 3-year-old goldendoodle, Nico, walk free until a woman on horseback confronted her, threatening to shoot her dog if she didn’t leash him.

“She started freaking out and swearing at me,” she said. “She counted to three and started to reach into her pocket. I got Nico and ran. She told the animal-control officer that my dog bit her horse, but my dog didn’t touch her horse.”

Walking alongside one’s dog as it bounds on uneven trails, Ms. Phillips said, is one of the visceral pleasures of owning an animal. A past supporter of the trust, she vowed “not to give a dime” until the moratorium was lifted.

Mr. Brant said that visits to the preserve had fallen since the off-leash moratorium went into effect. And he acknowledges that many of the dog walkers who remain ignore the restriction by unleashing their dogs as soon as they leave the parking areas.

Many dog owners are hoping for a compromise. Mr. Brant said he personally would like to see off-leash privileges restored after the wildlife study concludes, though perhaps with some limits. The trust’s board could decide to ban off-leash dogs from fragile areas, based on the findings of the study.

Don Hyman, a dog owner and member of the trust’s board, favors those kinds of compromises. But he deeply misses the experience of walking his standard poodle, Oscar, off leash and worries that the “blanket restriction” in place will set a “rigid standard that some might want to continue” after the study.

For officials, the issue is often competition for limited space. Dog owners on Long Island mounted a letter-writing and petition drive two years ago to try to create a fenced-in dog park within Hempstead Lake State Park, in West Hempstead, but it ended in defeat.

“That park is very heavily used by the public,” said George Gorman, deputy regional director of Parks on Long Island. “For us to create a dog park would impact other visitors and take space away from them.”

Richard Infield of Valley Stream, a board member of Long Island Dog Owners Group, owns two rescued beagles and would like to be able to walk them lead free. “There are 775 acres in the park, and we’re asking for two of them, which we feel is more than reasonable,” he said.

And while dog runs are nice, he points out that there is not a single park on the island where dogs can truly roam off leash. “Some of the dog runs are literally smaller than my dining room, so they’re not much use,” he said. “But we take what we can.”

In Darien, Conn., the town board last year decreed that dogs could no longer roam free in two preserves where leash laws had long gone unenforced, including the 64-acre Woodland Park, and placed restrictions on off-lead walking in two other town parks. A group calling itself DDOG — Darien Dog Owners Group — fiercely opposed the changes, but lost because the dogs were seen as a threat to nesting wildlife and habitat.

Mr. Hyman says that choosing between dogs and nature is a false dichotomy. “The dog walkers I know are also all conservationists as well, like myself, and are prepared to make changes to preserve Trout Brook Valley,” he said. “Walking your dog off leash and being devoted to conservation are not mutually exclusive.”
490 2012-02-12 Ali Wentworth, 47, an actress who has worked for Oprah Winfrey and hosted a daytime talk show, has written a humorous memoir, “Ali in Wonderland.” She lives in New York City with her husband, George Stephanopoulos, and their two daughters.

Accidentally grabbed my 6-year-old’s Crewcuts miniskirt. That didn’t work. I wanted to look hip enough for a middle-aged mom of two, but elegant enough so the doorman wouldn’t stop me at the Regency, my lunchtime destination. Went with J Brand dark jeans (didn’t have time to shave my legs), a Zadig and Voltaire bohemian top and Rochas brown boots, topped off with an Isabel Marant tweed jacket in cream and light blue and some (fake) diamond studs. Painted on shimmery Stila lipstick. The color was “grapefruit,” so I felt I had had breakfast.

The first week of my new daily Web show, “Daily Shot with Ali Wentworth.” One day our miniature dachshund Daisy wandered in the shot and threw up on me. One thing I learned from working for Oprah was always wear jewel tones on television. It makes you “pop.” I chose a bright Yves Saint Laurent top — the cerulean blue and geometric pattern gave me just the burst, smack, bang I was looking for — with black AG corduroy pants and black suede Jimmy Choo over-the-knee boots.

Later, lunch with a girlfriend. Layered with a beet-red tweed jacket from Topshop. The pièce de résistance was a black quilted Chanel purse, a gift from a friend I did a charitable favor for. I rarely let it out of its box.

I have a big party on Monday for my book launch. My default is black pants or a black suit. It’s like my blankie. For options, I did what any sensible gal would do: I took to the sales. For my hunt, I wore Levis, gray suede Converse sneakers with pink ribbon ties and a white James Perse sweatshirt with a little white tank underneath.

There’s a reason certain things go on sale: smudged lipstick, or the designer was off his or her meds when they contrived it. Suddenly, as I was walking through Barneys, I was struck by a vision in the Marc Jacobs section was a billowy lace, sea-foam-colored gown. Peeled off my sweatshirt and worried the shopping stench under my arms would destroy the ethereal appliqué. Later, my husband escorted me to date night. Exhausted, I swapped the sweatshirt for a black cashmere Inhabit sweater.

My 9-year-old had the flu and spewed all over me. My husband holed up in the study doing research on G.O.P. polls. And my 6-year-old decided to splatter the kitchen in finger paint, which, when the primary colors blended, looked like ... let me just elegantly state: brown. In my pretend life I wore Vionnet flared red trousers, a Lanvin sleeveless fringe top and Nicholas Kirkwood snakeskin sling-back pumps. The truth is, I sported Monrow oregano-green sweat pants, a frayed and shoddy melon-colored Brunello Cucinelli turtleneck sweater and the Lanvin sneakers made famous by the first lady. I didn’t leave the apartment, but to walk the dogs and get DayQuil from Duane Reade.
491 2012-02-12 Mr. Gilles, whose previous job was chief executive of the Dodge brand and who continues as the head of design for the Chrysler Group, said that maintaining a high-performance division with engineers and enthusiasts capable of producing SRT-caliber vehicles helps to prevent a “brain drain” of talented employees who might otherwise be tempted to leave Chrysler.

Mr. Gilles sees SRT as a division comparable to in-house tuner operations like AMG at Mercedes-Benz or the M operation of BMW.

“I think we can compete favorably with the Germans,” he said.

The SRT engineers are problem-solvers who are tackling challenges like fuel economy, Mr. Gilles said, pointing out that the mileage of the latest models has been improved by up to 25 percent, even as horsepower and torque increased compared with previous SRT models.

The gains have been achieved through the use of cylinder deactivation at cruising speeds, improved exhaust systems and reduced aerodynamic drag. Still, the Chrysler and Dodge SRT models incur gas guzzler tax penalties of $1,000 each.

“But,” he added, “fuel efficiency is well down the list of factors influencing purchase decisions for SRT buyers.”

Performance is the top priority of customers, Mr. Gilles said, with ride and handling next on their list.

“Performance, again,” he said, laughing. “Miles per gallon is well down the list of considerations. But I can cruise all day in a vehicle like the 300 SRT8 on the highway and get 23, 24 miles to the gallon.”

Mr. Gilles said he would be content to keep the SRT brand relatively small in terms of total sales. The line has been as large as 10 different models, and it has included pickups, S.U.V.’s and small cars over the years. A new SRT Viper is coming later this year as a 2013 model.

But that could be all the SRT models the brand will field for the immediate future.

“Ten models was too many; four is not enough,” Mr. Gilles said. “But I refuse to chase volume. These are not the kinds of cars that product planners envision. They contain features only an enthusiast can appreciate.”

Some of those features make it possible for the SRT products to run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. in less than five seconds and reach a top speed of up to 180 m.p.h. “This is kind of an unserved market,” he said, “especially with our rear-drive models. There are a lot of advocates of rear-wheel-drive performance.”

He continued: “The Grand Cherokee SRT 8 has no competition outside of Germany, and it’s $20,000 to $30,000 less than German performance S.U.V.’s.”

The Grand Cherokee SRT8 will be sold in Europe. “Jeep has a huge international following,” he said. “That vehicle will do very well overseas.

“I’m open to expanding to the Middle East as well as other regions. This is really a budding segment. We are not going to be hurt by $4 or $5 a gallon gas; these vehicles can easily be sold in markets where gas is already $9 and $10 a gallon.”

He added, “The SRT brand is a gem that is just waiting to be polished.”
492 2012-02-12 A small pond in Kissena Park, a quieter, more tranquil part of Flushing....
493 2012-02-12 BIG HUGS, LITTLE HUGS 

Written and illustrated by Felicia Bond. 

32 pp. Philomel. $16.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 5)

Employing a graphic style and mixed-media approach that’s a real departure from the “If You Give a Mouse a Cookie” enterprise, which she illustrated, and previous books like “Tumble Bumble,” Bond works with white space and dabs of collage to create portraits of animals locked in embrace. Rabbits are calmly intimate; a pride of lions, joyous; and bats serenely hug each other upside down. Minimalist text describes upstairs and downstairs hugs, inside and outside hugs until a “Brown Bear”-like finale displays the whole menagerie embracing at once.

THE BIGGEST KISS 

By Joanna Walsh. Illustrated by Judi Abbot. 

32 pp. Paula Wiseman/Simon & Schuster. $12.99. (Picture book; ages 2 to 5)

“Kisses on noses, kisses on toes-es. Sudden kisses when you least supposes” begins this delicious paean to parental affection. Walsh’s genial rhymes and hypercute drawings by Abbot, a first-time illustrator, make this square-shaped picture book, first published in Britain, stand out from the Valentine pack. Spots of humor amid the syrup also help: “Some kisses are misses, they land on the ear or near” accompanies a frowning monkey speckled with lipstick marks. Some kisses, let’s face it, are too sweet.
494 2012-02-12 My neighbor, a leadership development consultant who regularly helps people improve themselves through personality tests like the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, once told me I was the most introverted person he’d ever met. I took this as a compliment. Who wouldn’t?

The introverts who are the subject of Susan Cain’s new book, “Quiet,” don’t experience their inwardness in quite so self-congratulatory a way.

They and others view their tendency toward solitary activity, quiet reflection and reserve as “a second-class personality trait, somewhere between a disappointment and a pathology,” Cain writes. Too often denigrated and frequently overlooked in a society that’s held in thrall to an “Extrovert Ideal — the omnipresent belief that the ideal self is gregarious, alpha and comfortable in the spotlight,” Cain’s introverts are overwhelmed by the social demands thrust upon them. They’re also underwhelmed by the example set by the voluble, socially successful go-getters in their midst who “speak without thinking,” in the words of a Chinese software engineer whom Cain encounters in Cupertino, Calif., the majority Asian-American enclave that she suggests is the introversion capital of the United States.

Many of the self-avowed introverts she meets in the course of this book, which combines on-the-scenes reporting with a wide range of social science research and a fair bit of “quiet power” cheerleading, ape extroversion. Though some fake it well enough to make it, going along to get along in a country that rewards the out­going, something precious, the author says, is lost in this masquerade. Unchecked extroversion — a personality trait Cain ties to ebullience, excitability, dominance, risk-taking, thick skin, boldness and a tendency toward quick thinking and thoughtless action — has actually, she argues, come to pose a real menace of late. The outsize reward-seeking tendencies of the hopelessly ­outer-directed helped bring us the bank meltdown of 2008 as well as disasters like Enron, she claims. With our economy now in ruins, Cain writes, it’s time to establish “a greater balance of power” between those who rush to speak and do and those who sit back and think. Introverts — who, according to Cain, can count among their many virtues the fact that “they’re relatively immune to the lures of wealth and fame” — must learn to “embrace the power of quiet.” And extroverts should learn to sit down and shut up.

Introverts may be an odd audience for a book about power and leadership — concepts that necessarily involve the tiring and unappealing prospect of having power over, and leadership of, other people. Jonathan Rauch, a contributing editor at National Journal, tapped into the inherent humor of this contradiction some years ago, when he wrote a much-read meditation in The Atlantic on introversion. Rauch dreamed about the dawning of an “Introverts’ Rights movement,” the slogan of which might someday be “Please shush.” He got the tone just right: “Remember, someone you know, respect and interact with every day is an introvert, and you are probably driving this person nuts.”

“Quiet,” a long and ploddingly earnest book, would have greatly benefited from some of this levity. But for Cain, the perils of introversion are no laughing matter. Her interest in writing on the subject, she relates, stemmed from her own agonizing difficulties with public speaking — an aversion to putting herself “out there,” which made Harvard Law School such a trial that she once threw up on the way to class. Her Cupertino “introverts” (who, I think, are probably better understood as sharing a cultural background rather than a near-universal personality trait) feel unappreciated, undervalued, resentful of their extroverted (and non-Asian) fellow students and colleagues who noisily “talk nonsense,” as a Taiwanese-born Cupertino woman puts it, and still get ahead. Her “extroverts” are, often enough, obnoxious fools: Stanford students stripping naked and running down a San Francisco street as part of a freshman “icebreaking” event; a charismatic self-help guru, raking in the dough as he flashes his too-white teeth and sells the secrets of his success to the constitutionally less exuberant. It would be easy to blame people like this for the decline of our civilization if they were, in fact, typical. But, of course, they aren’t.
495 2012-02-12 Anthony Giardina’s new novel begins on a country road in Massachusetts in 1969, with 39-year-old Richie Palumbo and his family — his son, daughter and wife — out for a drive near their home in Waltham. At twilight, they happen upon the seemingly idyllic WASPy town of Norumbega. Slowing down, Richie spots a house that he’s instantly drawn to, one he decides is meant to be his home.

“He had come to believe in ascent as a male obligation,” Giardina explains, setting up the conceit that will prompt the novel’s central inquiry: Can the Italian-American Palumbos rise above their social station? In other words, can Richie achieve “his own dream of elevation”? As he watches children playing at the town pond, he envies their privilege and covets that kind of leisure for his own children. In buying the house, which he eventually wrests from an elderly woman for an amount far exceeding its actual worth (her son refers to him as “Mr. Want”), will Richie gain access to the entitlement of Norumbega’s longtime residents?

As Giardina’s novel sorts this out, it delves into what is hidden — the dreams, the shame, the faith — in the complex folds of one family’s life. Richie’s son, Jack (whose smile will soon make him “catnip to women”), grows up with a lot of interest in sex and little in school, while his skittish younger sister, Joan, becomes a nun. Richie’s wife, Stella, doesn’t share her husband’s desire for social striving and never feels she belongs, while Richie opens a pizza parlor, hardly an assurance he’ll be welcome among the elite.

“Norumbega Park,” which moves from the late 1960s to the early 21st century, contains a good deal of graceful writing, especially in its initial sections. The subtle nuances of class; the charged eroticism between siblings, between husband and wife, between parents and children; the examination of faith and its loss — all are explored in rich, believable ways.

While each character is given equal time, Giardina seems most at ease with his novel’s males, Jack in particular. “It is a feeling he has about women,” Jack thinks at one point, considering his mother, “that they must be saved.” And Richie has similar notions, seeing his young daughter as “a baked thing still soft enough that pressing your thumb into it could change its shape.” We have access to his psychological underpinnings, and Richie’s as well, yet Joan’s and Stella’s decisions — Joan’s to enter a nunnery, for example, and the route her life takes from there — are not as convincingly inspected.

Throughout, the small events that can determine the course of a life become touchstones. There’s a sexually loaded childhood scene between Jack and his sister that casts a shadow over their adult lives. On another occasion, Stella comes upon her son in a naked embrace with his girlfriend, a moment they are unaware she has witnessed, and it too is obsessively, albeit privately, recalled. The past — which both invigorates and haunts us — is so strong here that the book, like its characters, never succeeds in leaving it behind. The result is a narrative pulled backward, impeding its action. Important dramatic developments tend to occur off the page; in the aftermath, we are merely offered secondhand accounts.
496 2012-02-12 Right now, for example, a $5,000 credit toward closing costs — or a gift card for that amount — is being offered by the seller of a four-bedroom colonial in Wall Township that has been for sale for 16 months. The offer is being advertised as part of the independent broker Robert Bruno’s listing on Zillow.

Built five years ago, the house then cost $565,000, according to public records. It was offered for resale at $499,000; the price was reduced several times, and is now $459,900.

Four months ago, when Zillow began offering, for a fee, to highlight seller concessions on listings, Mr. Bruno opted in. The $5,000 concession offer appears in yellow highlighting under the price on the listing.

Mr. Bruno described the seller concession as a way of minimizing the amount of cash the buyer must take to the closing, which might be crucial to some. (F.H.A. and V.A. mortgages require only 3.5 percent down, and conventional mortgage down payments can be as low as 5 percent.)

“For lower-end buyers,” Mr. Bruno said, “that might be all the cash they can put together, right there.”

At the higher end of the market, Ms. Bigos said, concessions can be useful in achieving a timelier sale. In Short Hills, her client Tim Craighead wants to sell his family’s painstakingly renovated 1850 house as quickly as possible, since his employer, Bloomberg Industries, has relocated his position to Hong Kong. Mr. Craighead said he bought the house at 15 Wells Lane seven years ago for $2.085 million, then invested “a lot” in improvements.

Ms. Bigos listed the house on 0.75 acres, a block from the Short Hills train station, for $1.75 million. It quickly garnered an offer, but the possible buyer, nervous about the property taxes of $35,579 a year, bid low, she said.

Mr. Craighead has filed an appeal of his assessment, but a hearing is not scheduled for several months, and it’s not clear how long afterward a ruling will come. So Ms. Bigos suggested to Mr. Craighead that he offer a concession: $1,000 a month, to be paid directly to the township assessor until the matter is decided.

“It makes sense to me,” said Mr. Craighead, an investment analyst. “It would make a pretty significant difference on the monthly outlay for the buyer.”

A $10,000 price cut, by contrast, would mean $50 to $60 less a month for a buyer with a 30-year mortgage, given today’s lending rules of thumb, said Roberta Plutzik Baldwin, a broker with the Keller Williams NJ Metro Group in Montclair.

“Is it more attractive to save money over the life of the mortgage, or to bring less money to closing and have some cash available at the time of move-in?” Ms. Baldwin asked. “Generally, I would say nothing beats a price cut to make a sale. On the other hand, some people have to scrape just to come up with the higher down payments required now, and need some cash.”

In southern New Jersey, Christopher McKenty, a broker at Re/Max Connection, has a West Collingswood house listed on Zillow with a $2,500 “special offer.” But he says price cuts are “the name of the game.”

A price reduction still gets more attention, he said, adding that he probably won’t use the concession gambit in the future.

Colin Dibley of Jordan Baris said he had represented both a buyer and a seller in concession deals in the last few weeks. One involved a Maplewood house priced in the mid-$400,000s with a $15,000 seller’s concession. The other was a contract signed on a West Orange condominium that included a 3 percent concession.

The key issue in such deals is whether the property will be appraised for the full sales price by the lender, Mr. Dibley said. “If a house sells with a $15,000 concession, the seller gets $15,000 less at the closing. The lender agreement is still based on the contract sales price, however. If the house does not appraise for that amount, then the deal is off.”
497 2012-02-12 Yosemite National Park plans to reduce the number of permits it issues to hikers seeking to climb Half Dome peak (above), one of its most popular destinations, because of safety concerns. The move comes as a result of the park's own environmental ...
498 2012-02-12 KABUL, Afghanistan -- Even dying is being outsourced here.     This is a war where traditional military jobs, from mess hall cooks to base guards and convoy drivers, have increasingly been shifted to the private sector. Many American generals and ...
499 2012-02-12 FOR all the icy demeanors on the front row and the oft-repeated rumors of rivalries among editors, fashion insiders are for the most part a tight-knit bunch.     ''It's love-hate, it's like a family,'' said Carole Sabas, the New York correspondent...
500 2012-02-13 Credit: Julie Glassberg for The New York Times
501 2012-02-13 Representations of Buddha's head destroyed, recalling Taliban destruction of giant Buddhas in Afghanistan....
502 2012-02-13 On the Road With the Butler Bulldogs
503 2012-02-13 A dive that's one of the hottest restaurants in San Francisco....
504 2012-02-13 How a mobile phone can add some intensity to Valentine's Day celebrations....
505 2012-02-13 Martha Stewart attended the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show to watch her dog, G.K., contend for top honors in the chow chow competition, and to film an episode of her show on the Hallmark Channel....
506 2012-02-13 On Monday, Apple reached new heights with its shares closing at $502.60, up $9.18, or 1.86 percent. It was the first time Apple's share price had passed $500....
507 2012-02-13 Mark Bittman on food and all things related.
508 2012-02-13 The Federal Reserve has again declined to announce a decision on the fate of Capital One's $9 billion takeover of ING Direct USA, the second delay in the last week....
509 2012-02-13 Conference USA and the Mountain West have announced they are joining forces with the schools remaining in their midst, creating a conference that will span from Hawaii to the Carolinas....
510 2012-02-13 Q. and A. with John Jeremiah Sullivan on Irish-American pretension to Irishness, the draw of the Aran Islands, and why the Celtic Tiger is not the whole story....
511 2012-02-13 The condition, linked to sedentary behavior, can be fatal if the clot reaches the lungs, causing a blockage known as a pulmonary embolism....
512 2012-02-13 A report finds that citizens of several countries share a meager understanding of basic financial concepts that underpin decisions about mortgages, saving for retirement, credit card borrowing and other economic needs....
513 2012-02-13 The State Senate has passed a bill to allow same-sex marriage, despite Gov. Chris Christie’s veto threat....
514 2012-02-13 On Monday, after nearly 200 performances, the monologuist Mike Daisey was to release a theatrical transcript of his latest one-man show, "The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs," through his Web site....
515 2012-02-13 The duck's greatest asset - its copious amount of delicious fat - ends up seeping right into the veggies, making them the best part....
516 2012-02-13 The duck's greatest asset - its copious amount of delicious fat - ends up seeping right into the veggies, making them the best part....
517 2012-02-13 The Brooklyn favorite moves downtown....
518 2012-02-13 The Brooklyn favorite moves downtown....
519 2012-02-13 Mark Scott on skepticism in Europe over Greece's austerity package; Lawrence Ulrich on Fisker Automotive and the rocky road to market for makers of new hybrid vehicles.
520 2012-02-13 Apple said the audit would look at conditions at Chinese sites where iPhones and other products are made. Some labor groups lauded the move, but others were skeptical....
521 2012-02-13 President Obama proposed in his new budget blueprint to tax dividends of the wealthiest taxpayers as ordinary income subject to their top income-tax rate....
522 2012-02-13 Assuming Bush-era tax cuts expire at the end of the year, dividends for the top 2 percent of income-earners would be taxed at 39.6 percent....
523 2012-02-13 Diana DiGuido joined PM Digital, New York, in a new post, senior director for client services. She had most recently been an account director at Zeta Interactive.

Rick Doerr joined the New York office of T3 as senior vice president and managing director, succeeding Jane Crisan, who left to join the Garage Team Mazda, Irvine, Calif., part of WPP. Mr. Doerr had been managing director at BBDO Hong Kong, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, and also served as regional business development director for Asia.

Good Housekeeping, New York, part of the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation, made two appointments. Sara Rad, director for brand development, was promoted to director for advertising and brand development. And Christine Rannazzisi-Gerstein, associate publisher for marketing at another Hearst magazine, Country Living, will also serve as associate publisher for marketing at Good Housekeeping; that post had been vacant since last summer, when Renée Lewin became associate publisher for marketing at Harper’s Bazaar, also a Hearst magazine.

Horizon Media, New York, promoted two executives in its Los Angeles office. Zach Rosenberg, general manager, becomes executive vice president and chief growth officer, a new post. Serena Duff, executive vice president and managing partner, becomes executive vice president and general manager for the Western region.

Ryan Ku joined Dojo, San Francisco, in a new post, planning director. He had most recently been a brand strategist at Eleven, San Francisco.

Gustavo Lauria joined the Vidal Partnership, New York, as managing partner and chief creative officer, succeeding Mauricio Galván, who left to become chief creative officer at Totality. Mr. Lauria had most recently been creative director at La Comunidad, Miami.

Ron Levy joined the New York office of Broadway Systems as senior vice president, overseeing client services and account management. He had most recently been senior vice president at MediaBank, which merged with Donovan Data Systems to form MediaOcean.

Peter A. Mayer Advertising, New Orleans, hired five employees. They are Erin Durbin, a digital account executive; Emily Edison, a junior account executive; Valerie Galati, an associate project manager for the CenturyLink account; Brian Oberkirch, director for interactive strategy; and Danielle Russo, a graphic designer.

Jim Moise joined Good Technology, Sunnyvale, Calif., in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had most recently been senior vice president for sales and operations at SupportSpace.

Tim Morral, who had been a freelance copywriter for Walker Sands Communications, Chicago, was promoted to senior copywriter.

Burns Patterson, executive vice president at Middleton & Gendron Brand Communications, New York, was promoted to a new post, chief operating officer. Also, two vice presidents, Jay Austin and Patricia Nugent, were promoted to senior vice presidents. The changes are part of a reorganization of the agency.

Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, Vienna, Va., part of Feld Entertainment, chose the Geppetto Group, New York, part of WPP, as agency of record for the its 142nd show. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had previously been handled internally.

Xiaoming Shao joined Maxifier, New York, in a new post, managing director for the Asia-Pacific region. He had held a similar post at AudienceScience, New York.

Ellen Sluder joined CoreBrand, New York, in a new post, director for business development. She had been director for marketing and business development at Fleet Aviation.

Subway, Milford, Conn., consolidated its United States media services account by naming MediaCom, New York, part of the GroupM division of WPP, which already handles planning and buying for traditional media, to also handle planning and buying for digital media. The digital assignment, with spending estimated at $25 million to $30 million, had been handled by Publicis Modem, part of the Publicis Groupe. Spending in traditional media was estimated at more than $400 million.

Tillamook County Creamery Association, Tillamook, Ore., selected Vendor, Austin, Tex., to create two campaigns, one for the Texas market and one for several Western markets. Spending was not disclosed. The association, which makes cheeses, yogurts and other dairy products, had previously worked with Mono, Minneapolis, part of MDC Partners, for creative duties.

U.S. Cotton, Gastonia, N.C., named Marcus Thomas, Cleveland, as agency of record for the Swisspers line of cotton-based health and beauty aids. Spending for the assignment, which had been handled by Breehl, Traynor & Zehe, Cleveland, was not disclosed.

Jeff Voigt joined Doner, Southfield, Mich., in a new post, senior vice president for media insights. He had been senior partner and group communications research director at Team Detroit, part of WPP.

Jim Wayand joined the San Francisco office of MRM Worldwide as global business leader for Team Intel, which is dedicated to the Intel account. He succeeds Marylee George, who will lead the digital marketing group relationship with Intel. Mr. Wayand had been at Microsoft, leading assignments for the Microsoft Store and the Bing Marketing Engagement Team.

Colby Wilson joined Parliament, Portland, Ore., in a new post, director for client services. He had been director for operations at the Opus Creative Group, Portland.
524 2012-02-13 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
525 2012-02-13 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
526 2012-02-13 Britain's biggest banks fell short of the 2011 targets for lending to smaller businesses that they had agreed upon with the government, according to figures released on Monday by the Bank of England....
527 2012-02-13 Britain's biggest banks fell short of the 2011 targets for lending to smaller businesses that they had agreed upon with the government, according to figures released on Monday by the Bank of England....
528 2012-02-13 Plus: Do you know who invented the digital camera?...
529 2012-02-13 Plus: Do you know who invented the digital camera?...
530 2012-02-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
531 2012-02-13 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
532 2012-02-13 State and local restrictions on abortion have made it harder for women, especially among the poor, to obtain abortions, an economist writes....
533 2012-02-13 State and local restrictions on abortion have made it harder for women, especially among the poor, to obtain abortions, an economist writes....
534 2012-02-13 Home-grown brands like Taj, Oberoi and Leela have dominated India's luxury hotel market, but that's about to change, writes Shivani Vora over at India Ink. High-end international hoteliers including Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts, Shangri-La Hotels...
535 2012-02-13 Home-grown brands like Taj, Oberoi and Leela have dominated India's luxury hotel market, but that's about to change, writes Shivani Vora over at India Ink. High-end international hoteliers including Four Seasons Hotels & Resorts, Shangri-La Hotels...
536 2012-02-13 High-end business travelers fuel the latest hotel boom....
537 2012-02-13 High-end business travelers fuel the latest hotel boom....
538 2012-02-13 “We made this one in my garage with some microphones and a tape machine,” Mr. Grohl said as the group accepted the Grammy for best rock performance. “It shows the human element of making music is what’s most important.”

In a surprise, Skrillex, the 24-year-old dubstep producer whose “Scary Monsters and Nice Sprites” record was an unexpected hit, won three awards during the prebroadcast ceremony: for best dance recording, best dance-electronica album and best remixed recording.

“I can’t take this anymore,” Skrillex said as he accepted his third award. “I don’t know what else to say anymore. This is the most surreal day of my life.”

was also a top winner, taking home four Grammys for “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,” which won best rap album, and its lead single, “All of the Lights,” honored for best rap song and best rap-sung collaboration. Mr. West also took best rap performance for a duet with off “Watch the Throne” that samples an hit.

The awards for best alternative album and for best new artist went to Bon Iver, the indie band specializing in artsy choir-sounding songs that is the brainchild of the songwriter Justin Vernon. Mr. Vernon, who declined to perform, said, “When I started to make songs I did it for the inherent reward of making songs, so I’m a little bit uncomfortable up here.”

Some major pop stars walked away emptyhanded as the music industry seemed to reward back-to-basics artists. Bruno Mars had six nominations and gave a performance, but won nothing. also failed to win.

Ms. Houston’s death — she was found dead in a bathtub at a hotel where a pre-Grammy party was held — cast a shadow over music’s biggest night.

“Tonight we ask ourselves how do we speak to this time, to this day?” the host LL Cool J said at the show’s start. “There is no way around this: We have had a death in our family.”

Then a video of Ms. Houston in her prime, singing her hit “I Will Always Love You,” played on a giant screen. The audience rose to applaud afterward.

The 54th annual Grammy Awards ceremony opened with a politically charged rock anthem from and an upbeat pop hit from Bruno Mars, showing two poles of today’s music: the older uncompromising rocker delivering an uncomfortable truth and the flashy young pop star getting people to dance.

As the scrim went up, Mr. Springsteen’s unmistakable profile, backlighted by stark spotlights that stabbed downward, became visible. He ripped through his new song “We Take Care of Our Own,” which decries what he sees as a lack of compassion for the poor. Then Bruno Mars, dressed in a gold jacket and bowtie, channeled as he served up a funky rendition of his “Runaway Baby.”

, the bluegrass singer, made history when she took the trophy for the best bluegrass album with “Paper Airplane.” It was her 27th Grammy, giving her the most of any female artist and tying .

In the country field, took two awards for her song “Mean,” and the Civil Wars, a new folk duo, took best country duo performance for the Appalachian sounding single “Barton Hollow.” They also won best folk album for their debut album with the same title. “I just lost a bet,” joked John Paul White, as he and his Civil Wars partner, Joy Williams, accepted an award.

There was a bittersweet moment when , the veteran jazz singer, won a Grammy for his duet with , the British singer who died of alcohol poisoning last summer. Mr. Bennett’s album “Duets II” also won best traditional pop vocal album.

Standing beside Mr. Bennett, Ms. Winehouse’s parents accepted the award on her behalf.

“We shouldn’t be here,” her father, Mitch Winehouse, said. “Our darling daughter should be here. Those are the cards we are dealt.”

He added: “Long live Whitney Houston. Long live Amy Winehouse. Long live . There is a beautiful girl band up there in heaven.”

In jazz, won two Grammys for his album with the bassist Stanley Clarke, taking best instrumental jazz album and best improved jazz solo for the track “500 Miles High.” took a Grammy for best historical album for a deluxe edition of

completed a remarkable comeback just three years after his arrest on assault charges during Grammy week nearly derailed his career. He took best R&B album for his CD “F.A.M.E.”

The ceremony this year was marred by a controversy over the recording academy’s decision to cut or consolidate 31 categories, bringing the number of awards down to 78, from 109.

Contending that the Grammys had become bloated and too easy to win in some categories, the trustees, led by the recording academy’s president, Neil R. Portnow, eliminated separate awards for male and female singers and did away with individual awards for genres like Latin jazz, Hawaiian music, zydeco and American Indian music. The board also combined contemporary and traditional awards for blues, folk and world music.

Critics have charged the cutbacks hurt musicians working in less lucrative genres and had the effect of discriminating against some ethnic minorities. Latin Jazz musicians have led the protests, filing a suit in New York, submitting a petition to the academy with 23,000 names and organizing a rally on Sunday outside the Staples Center.

In the end, only a handful of musicians showed up to protest the cuts, gathering about three blocks north of the Staples Center and chanting “Que viva la diversidad,” or “Up with diversity.” Bobby Sanabria, a Latin percussionist said: “The Grammy Awards are not what it used to be. Now it’s a dog and pony show for the mega stars. It used to be about excellence in music."

Mr. Springsteen’s “We Take Care of Our Own” was one of the few nods in the show to politics. Most of the more than a dozen acts, many of them performing in -style productions, were chosen by producers to paint a broad and exuberant picture of today’s popular music, giving time to its many strains and trying to draw links between its past with its present.

and Foster the People, both nominated in the pop group performance category, joined the surviving members of the to sing It was the first time in decades that the founding members of the seminal group — Mike Love and — performed together. (The 50-year-old band has said it will release a new album and go on tour this year.)

On the country side, the Band Perry and Blake Shelton sang a tribute to Glen Campbell, then joined Mr. Campbell on “Rhinestone Cowboy.” Mr. Campbell has and has said he will retire from touring this year.

The recording academy has labored in recent years to make the Grammy Awards show more entertaining, pushing for elaborate performances, like Nicki Minaj’s that evoked . Only 10 of the 78 awards are presented on television, speeches are kept short and the show’s longtime producer, Ken Ehrlich, has made it a point to do unusual collaborations, throwing together artists from different generations and genres.

The strategy has worked. Ratings have shot up for the last three ceremonies, and last year more than 26.5 million viewers tuned in, giving the awards ceremony its best night in a decade.

About 12,000 members of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences vote to determine the winners among the nominees, who are chosen in an early round of voting from among 17,000 entries. All the voting members have roots on the creative side of the business, as musicians, producers, songwriters and engineers. They must have at least six creative or technical credits on commercially released tracks. As a group, they are unpredictable, and they have often chosen albums perceived by industry insiders as high-quality recordings over popular albums that sell well.
539 2012-02-13 But the village elders fought back, saying they wanted the government to rebuild their ancestral villages so that they could spend their last years there. Younger residents, many of whom supported consolidation but were vastly outnumbered, were left grumbling among themselves.

After the mayor persisted, he was pushed out of office by Mr. Suda, who was backed by opponents of consolidation. Mr. Suda now says that all the villages will be rebuilt, including a hamlet with just 22 inhabitants and an island village whose residents are on average 74 years old.

“There were 15 locations, so there will be 15 locations,” Mr. Suda said. “We’re moving forward under the premise that there will be no centralization, though I’m thinking of asking them one last time if this is really O.K., whether their young relatives are in agreement.”

In Tokyo, reconstruction officials say they are aware that the voices of young people are not being heard on the ground.

“It’s an extremely difficult problem,” said Yoshio , an official at Reconstruction Headquarters.

But the governing Democratic Party — as sensitive to the power of aging rural voters as its predecessor, the Liberal Democratic Party — contributed to the problem. National ministries are overseeing most of the tsunami-hit area’s large reconstruction projects out of a recently approved $120 billion budget.

But Tokyo is handing $25 billion directly to regional and local governments to refashion their communities, a boon to politically connected construction companies. The thinking is that local officials understand their communities best, but local politicians and bureaucrats are also less likely to make tough decisions like sacrificing some villages to make others stronger — and to lower the reconstruction costs that are likely to sap already strained financial resources.

Mr. Ando said that Tokyo was counting on local governments to come up with plans that were in keeping with the affected zone’s demographic realities.

“Local governments may be unable to persuade their residents, but the national government is not considering going in and doing so forcibly,” Mr. Ando said. “To put it negatively, we’re passing the buck. To put it positively, it’s not for the national government to judge.”

After the disaster, even as debris from the tsunami was still being cleared, Onagawa’s officials addressed head-on what other local governments barely whispered: rebuilding communities that had been dying before the tsunami made no sense.

“I understand that you want to remain in your villages, but what will happen in 10 years?” Mr. Azumi, the former mayor, asked in May, according to the minutes of a meeting.

In several meetings Mr. Azumi pleaded, unsuccessfully, with villagers to consider moving to consolidated towns on higher ground.

All the district and fishing union leaders of the 15 villages — mostly men around 60 years old — opposed consolidation. Though several villages were within walking distance of one another, some leaders said consolidation would create emotional stress and complicate the management of fishing rights.

“Each village has its own way of doing things,” Kiichiro Abe, 59, the leader of the fishing union in Oura, population 217, said in an interview by the sea. “The people in this village want to live with their own people, and so do the people in the next village.”

Hisashi Kimura, 57, the leader of Tsukahama, a village of 156 people, had a different explanation for people’s reluctance to move: “They want to die in the villages where they were born.”

But the younger people in the villages, who were in the minority and who, as Confucian culture dictates, tend to defer to their elders, quietly started telling town officials that they favored centralization, said Toshiaki Yaginuma, the leader of the local government’s reconstruction team. Larger towns, they said, would mean livelier communities and more classmates for their children.

A resident of Oura, Katsuyuki Suzuki, 33, said he wanted to move to a bigger community for his 3-year-old daughter. He did not see how each village’s customs were so different that residents could not live together, especially if it meant reconstruction would be faster and cheaper.

“I mean, we wouldn’t be sleeping in the same place — we would have our own houses,” Mr. Suzuki said.

Still, he had not yet shared his thoughts with his parents, who are against centralization. “I try to avoid saying unnecessary things,” he said.

Indeed, just as the young residents deferred to older ones at public meetings, they did the same inside their homes, where three or four generations typically live together.

The youngest fisherman in Oura, Hiroaki Suzuki, 21, who is not related to Katsuyuki Suzuki, said that he wanted to live in a centralized community away from the sea. Rebuilding in Oura, he believed, would make it harder for him to find a wife, a widespread problem in fishing villages.

“If we build a home in a place where a tsunami could come again, there’s no way that someone would come here to be my wife,” he said.

His parents believed that centralization would brighten their son’s future. But they found it difficult to express their support at public meetings or to their own parents.

Hiroaki’s father, Katsuhiro, said: “I want to tell our grandpas and grandmas, This is hard to say, but after 10 years, I’m afraid that there will be no one left in all the villages that will be rebuilt.”
540 2012-02-13 “It’s still very much in the mind of mushers,” said Bob Thomas, a Siberian musher and a historian for the International Siberian Husky Club.

In January 1925, an outbreak of diphtheria had killed two children and was spreading quickly in Nome, a town of about 1,400 that was icebound seven months a year.

A local doctor telegraphed Washington, urgently requesting serum to treat the diphtheria, and public health officials found a supply in , according to Gay and Laney Salisbury’s riveting book, Officials determined that dog sleds were the best way to transport the serum from Nenana, a northern railroad stop, to Nome, 674 miles west. A group of top mushers and sled-dog racers would hand off the serum at roadhouses along the route. That distance usually took a few weeks to cover. By then, public health officials feared, much of Nome would be dead.

As the dog-sled teams raced west, roadhouse owners provided near-real-time updates over telephone and telegraph lines. Front-page headlines from included “Nome Relief Dogs Speed 192 Miles,” “Serum Relief Near for Stricken Nome,” and “Blizzard Delays Nome Relief Dogs in the Final Dash.”

“It came right down to just the spirit of men and dogs against nature,” Gay Salisbury said.

A noted racer and mining-company dog driver named Leonhard Seppala was originally assigned half of the Nenana-Nome distance. Seppala’s lead dog, a gray and brown Siberian husky named Togo, had covered 4,000 miles in one year alone, guided a famed polar explorer around Alaska, and won major races. Togo had been Seppala’s lead dog since he was 8 months old; now, at age 12, Togo would have one of his final Alaska outings with his driver.

Seppala, Togo and the team set out at high speeds, running a total of 261 miles — they carried the serum for almost double the length any other team did. Twice, to save time, they violated warnings to avoid Norton Sound, a dangerous inlet of the Bering Sea, and instead went straight over the frozen sea, where ice often separated from shore, stranding travelers on floes. In the dark, in 85-below temperatures with wind chill, Seppala could not see or hear the cracking ice, and was dependent on Togo, the Salisburys wrote.

Meanwhile, worried that Seppala’s dogs would get too tired, Alaska’s governor called in additional drivers for the final portion. Just five and a half days after the serum left Nenana, a driver named Gunnar Kaasen and a lead dog named Balto pulled into Nome, serum in hand.

“It was Balto who led the way,” Kaasen told a reporter. “The is his.”

Kaasen and Balto, a handsome black Siberian with white paws, became instant heroes. There were front-page articles; commendations from the president; tributes from the Senate; newspapers (including The Times) printing a report that Balto had died from frozen lungs, then quickly rescinding it; wishful editorials proposing that Balto appear at Westminster; a national tour; a Hollywood contract.

But as Kaasen, Balto and that team of dogs were becoming celebrities, the other mushers from the relay straggled into Nome with a different story. Kaasen was assigned the next-to-last leg. But, in an account that some mushers still doubt, Kaasen said the lights were off in the cabin where he was to hand off the serum, so he headed for Nome himself.

Seppala was already broken when he arrived — he had lost Togo when the dog ran off after a reindeer. Then he found that not only were Kaasen and Balto on their way to Hollywood, but the newspapers had attributed Togo’s lifetime feats to Balto, a dog he had not considered decent enough to put on his 20-dog team.

“The story had already heralded a winner by the time Seppala made the 100 miles home,” Gay Salisbury said. “It was too complicated to showcase 20 drivers and 150 dogs. The relay as a concept was not as exciting as ‘Balto crossed the finish line.’ ”

Sol Lesser, a Hollywood producer, shot Balto and Kaasen for a short film, and Balto made joint appearances with and other celebrities, Salisbury wrote. In December 1925, Balto was immortalized with a Central Park statue; news coverage by then was giving Balto credit for taking the serum all 600-plus miles.

Togo limped back into Nome about a week after the serum run ended. Later, wanting the acclaim due his dogs, Seppala embarked on his own tour of the States in 1926. It culminated with a Madison Square Garden ice-rink appearance, where the explorer awarded Togo a medal of honor.

In , Seppala bred Togo and other serum-run dogs he had taken East, essentially introducing the Siberian breed to the States.

“That was the foundation kennel, pretty much — all the mushers in the Northeast at that point, most had never seen a Siberian when he showed up,” Thomas, the Siberian historian, said. In 1930, the American Kennel Club admitted Siberian huskies.

Seppala sold some dogs, and a few had strange fates — Fritz, Togo’s half-brother and a serum run veteran, died at Gimbels in , where he was part of a holiday exhibit — but he protected Togo, who lived his final years in Maine, dying in 1929.

Togo’s body was initially displayed in a Yale exhibit about notable dogs. Later, his mount was transferred to another museum and forgotten in storage; an employee and sled-dog enthusiast stumbled across it in the early 1980s. When Alaskans found out it was Togo, they demanded his repatriation, and the dog’s body is now on display at the Iditarod Trail Headquarters in Wasilla.

Balto’s life was sadder in many ways. He and his teammates were bought and sold, to the vaudeville circuit, then down another notch. In early 1927, just two years after the run, a Cleveland businessman stumbled upon the team in . “A guy who ran a dime museum, Sam Houston, had the team chained to a sled on a stage, in this dingy tent,” said Harvey Webster, the director of the wildlife resource center at the .

The businessman announced he would raise $2,000 within two weeks to buy Balto and the team. He turned to The Cleveland Plain Dealer, which exhorted citizens to help save Balto. “It’s schoolkids giving their lunch money; kennel clubs that are making contributions in the name of champions,” Webster said. Cleveland succeeded, and Balto and his teammates became popular fixtures at the Cleveland Zoo.

Balto was aging. Neutered as a puppy because Seppala did not think he showed much promise, he never had offspring and he died in 1933. His body was transferred to the Cleveland Museum of Natural History, where he is on permanent display next to an exhibit about Inuits.

Seppala and Kaasen, who were good friends — their brothers died in a fire together and are buried side by side, Salisbury said — never spoke again, as far as Salisbury found.

As for the dogs, in 1998, an Alaska legislator proposed a bill that would return Balto to stand alongside Togo at Iditarod headquarters. “They were imploring the museum to send our doggie home,” Webster, of the Cleveland museum, said. “And we said: ‘Wait a minute. He spent a majority of his life, actually, in Cleveland, and it was the community of Cleveland that saved him from a pretty despicable fate.’ ”

A museum in Anchorage suggested a compromise — it would borrow Balto for an exhibition — and after two rounds of failed negotiations, Cleveland agreed, conditionally. “We made them insure the dog for some huge amount of money, and created this custom-made crate for Balto and the cabinet in which he’s displayed, with his plexiglass top,” Webster said. “He and a museum representative went up to Anchorage, and on the side of the box was ‘Contents: One Hero Dog.’ ”

In 1997, Togo finally got his statue, at the Cleveland Metroparks Zoo, sitting alongside a statue of Balto. A couple of years later, Togo got a standalone statue, though in a small playground in New York’s Lower East Side that is hardly a tourist destination.

The overlooking of Togo still infuriates mushers. “It rankles a lot,” said Jonathan Nathaniel Hayes, who breeds and mushes Siberians based on Seppala’s stock, who says he winces when his kids watch “Balto,” an animated 1995 movie.

The Iditarod, which starts this year in March, will commemorate the 1925 event, meeting up with the serum-run route along the Yukon, “except for the portion where Seppala went across the sea ice,” said Erin McLarnon, an Iditarod spokeswoman; that section is still considered too dangerous. Each year, the Iditarod gives a prestigious award named after Seppala to the musher who treats his or her dogs with extraordinary care.

Seppala, according to “The Cruelest Miles,” wrote a journal entry when he was 81, about 30 years after his lead dog’s death:

“When I come to the end of the trail, I feel that along with my many friends, Togo will be waiting and I know that everything will be all right.”

Back in Massena, Frank Wright ruffled the fur on Winnie’s head and bent down to whisper, “Gonna be good today.” As Wright and Baskin-Wright attached the dogs to the line, Winnie started howling. She wanted to race.

Wright was not expecting the fastest time in the six-dog category. Siberians that compete in shows, like Winnie and her crew, are too stocky to beat Siberians bred for racing and the mixed-breed hounds that are even speedier.

But at the starting line, as the timer started counting back from 10, Baskin-Wright could barely hold back Winnie, as the dog was tugging so hard. Balto may live on in the movies, but Togo’s descendant is still running.
541 2012-02-13 New York is an expensive place to live, and unaffordable for workers struggling on $7.25 an hour, the federal minimum wage. Nineteen other states, recognizing that the federal minimum is too low for survival, even with food stamps or other government assistance, have increased their minimum above that level. Lawmakers in Massachusetts raised it to $8 an hour. Connecticut’s is $8.25, and it is $9.04 an hour in Washington State.

It is time for New York to raise its minimum wage enough to help more than 600,000 struggling workers. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver is vigorously pushing a bill to raise the minimum to $8.50 an hour immediately and to adjust it each year for inflation. This should not be a controversial measure.

Gov. Andrew Cuomo supports an increase, as does Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Only Republican state senators are resisting, using the same stale argument that a minimum wage increase is bad for business. The Senate Republican leader, Dean Skelos, argues that the measure “could be a job killer rather than a job promoter.” That contention has been proved wrong time and again.

There is plenty of evidence showing than an increase can actually help the economy, because people with lower incomes spend a larger share of their paycheck immediately on clothes, food and other goods and services. That money often goes right back into the local economy.

Mr. Silver said he also plans to expand tax reductions for married couples earning less than $30,000 a year as another way to give incomes a boost. But he is starting with a minimum wage increase because, as he puts it, “People who work full time should not be poor.” That makes good sense for working families and their communities.
542 2012-02-13 ¶Buffalo Wild Wings, Minneapolis, the chain of restaurants-sports bars, is making changes to its agency roster for 2012. Fallon, Minneapolis, part of the Publicis Groupe, was named lead creative agency for the chain, which spends more than $60 million a year on advertising. The assignment had been handled by 22squared, Atlanta, which will continue to handle media planning and create promotional materials to be used in the restaurants. Another agency joining the roster, in addition to Fallon, is Space150, for social media. Horizon Media will continue to handle media buying and Fleishman-Hillard will remain the agency for public relations.

¶Atlantic City Alliance chose two Havas agencies, Euro RSCG New York and MPG, for a new assignment, promoting Atlantic City to potential visitors. The budget for the first year of a television, print and online campaign is estimated at $20 million. The alliance is composed of casino owners and the State of New Jersey; the money for the campaign will come from the casino owners. Euro RSCG New York is part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide division of Havas Worldwide, owned by Havas, and MPG is part of the Havas Media division of Havas.

¶Extended Stay Hotels, Charlotte, N.C., named Zimmerman Advertising, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., as agency of record on its account, which had no recent previous agency. Spending was estimated at $17 million to $20 million.

¶Carter Murray, chief executive at Y&R North America, part of the Y&R division of the Young & Rubicam Group, was also named chief executive of the Y&R New York operation, assuming duties from Tom Sebok, president and chief executive of Y&R New York, who is leaving, the agency said, “to pursue other opportunities.” (Mr. Murray had replaced Mr. Sebok as chief executive at Y&R North America last year.) The change was part of a reorganization that included naming Sean Howard, global client services director at the Seattle office of Wunderman, also part of the Young & Rubicam Group, to the new post of general manager of Y&R New York, and merging the BrandBuzz unit of Y&R into Y&R New York. The Young & Rubicam Group is owned by WPP.

¶Goodby, Silverstein & Partners, San Francisco, part of the Omnicom Group, laid off employees after the departures of two large clients, Hewlett-Packard and Sprint. The agency did not disclose the number of layoffs or what percentage of its total staff would be dismissed. Adweek.com estimated that at least 100 people were being let go, or about 14 percent of a staff of more than 700. Other agencies that recently laid off employees include Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners; Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP; and Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe.

¶Anomaly, New York, part of MDC Partners, will open an office in Toronto, becoming the third MDC American agency with an office there; the others are Crispin Porter & Bogusky and Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners. Anomaly also has offices in Amsterdam and London.
543 2012-02-13 Hasbro has long been known for making toys and games based on movies and TV shows. Lately, the multinational toy company has been making movies and TV shows based on its toys and games.

After becoming an entertainment powerhouse with its Transformers movie franchise, which grossed $2.6 billion worldwide, and a G.I. Joe movie ($302 million worldwide gross), Hasbro has big plans this summer for a G.I. Joe sequel and a new movie based on its Battleship board game.

The company also recently announced plans for a live-action movie based on Stretch Armstrong, a toy that gained popularity in the 1970s, and it is in talks to develop a movie based on the board game Candy Land starring Adam Sandler.

To expand into television, Hasbro formed a production company, Hasbro Studios, and joined with Discovery Communications in 2010 to create the Hub, a

 TV channel with programming based on Hasbro toys and games. Ratings have been steadily

 increasing; the number of viewers grew 16 percent in January over the same period the year before.

The idea was to expand on Hasbro’s most popular properties.

“It’s a core-brand strategy,” said Brian Goldner, Hasbro’s chief executive. “We asked which brands have the potential to be reinvented and reignited.”
544 2012-02-13 Many of the new ideas center on a concept known as the personal data locker. People keep a single account with information about themselves. Businesses would pay for this data because it allows them to offer personalized products and advertising. And because people retain control over the data in their lockers, they can demand something of value in return. Maybe a discounted vacation, or a cash payment.

Proponents of personal data lockers do not see them simply as a solution to privacy concerns. Rather, they hope that people will share even more data if there is a market for them to benefit from it.

The first step seems to be establishing trust. Reputation.com monitors the Internet for potentially harmful information and tries to remove it, while the Locker Project looks to create a single place where users can find what they see and do online. On Connect.me, which is in a private testing period, users vouch for one another, confirming that, for instance, someone is indeed a basketball player or a bookworm in an attempt to create a credible online reputation.

To popularize the concept of the data locker, Personal wants to create a market for exchanging access to data. Mr. Green says users will reap either cash or other benefits, like heavy discounts on certain products. In January the White House announced that it would work with Personal and several other companies to allow students to download their academic data from federal databases and store it in a data locker. Personal says it is also working on partnerships with businesses.

A challenge for the company will be whether it can offer enough money to persuade people to use the system. Consumer information is worth billions in aggregate, but individually, the bits of data are worth practically nothing. A study by JPMorgan Chase last year showed that a unique user was worth $4 to Facebook and $24 to Google. Others looked at Facebook’s recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and placed the value of a user as high as $120.

Singly, a similar service that is still in a testing period, feels that developers can create better personalized services for people if all of the personal data can be accessed from a single location. With a person’s permission, Singly draws data about them from around the Web, and allows them to share it with developers.

Jason Cavnar, a founder of Singly, is skeptical that personal data will be exchanged in the straightforward transactions that other data locker companies propose. While people may be willing to share their lists of Facebook friends, the bar is set higher for, say, the specifics of their financial history. Developers can build dozens of apps based on what one’s friends on social media like to eat, but they are not churning out nearly so many that rely on, say, private financial data.

Instead, he says people will create data lockers and share their contents because they will receive compelling services by doing so. This idea has already been successful with Mint.com, which has shown that people will share confidential financial information in exchange for money-management advice.

People will not share information without a level of trust, and that is what the personal data management companies are trying to sell. The final barrier is that people may find creating detailed databases about themselves too onerous to justify the potential rewards. In order to create a real market for data, enough people need to see an immediate, tangible benefit in filling up their lockers, said Mr. Green of Personal.

He said he took note of this while presenting his product to groups of potential users. They nodded along with him as he told them about privacy and control. But when he showed his audience how entering their data into Personal allowed them to fill out online forms with a single click, something snapped for them.

“I don’t think we quite realized how much of an emotional vein that tapped into,” he said, “It’s not easy to make data sexy or fun. It’s not sharing photos with your friends on Facebook.”
545 2012-02-13 Last week, Arun Thampi, a programmer in Singapore, discovered that the mobile social network Path was surreptitiously copying  address book information from users' iPhones without notifying them.     David Morin, Path's voluble chief executive, qu...
546 2012-02-13 On Monday, after close to 200 performances, the monologuist Mike Daisey, above, will release a theatrical transcript of his latest one-man show, ''The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs,'' through his Web site, mikedaisey.blogspot.com. It will be...
547 2012-02-13 Last week, Arun Thampi, a programmer in Singapore, discovered that the mobile social network Path was surreptitiously copying address book information from users' iPhones without notifying them.     David Morin, Path's voluble chief executive, qui...
548 2012-02-14 Credit: Marcus Yam for The New York Times
549 2012-02-14 Behind the scenes at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show....
550 2012-02-14 After shedding shares in banks and financial firms, John Paulson is now building a stake in Hartford Financial and calling for a breakup of the insurance company....
551 2012-02-14 Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, spoke at a Goldman Sachs conference on a wide range of topics, including conditions in Apple suppliers' factories, the company's growing cash hoard and how it viewed the television market....
552 2012-02-14 Jeff Goldblum will take over the lead role in Theresa Rebeck's play about a caustic writing teacher and his students....
553 2012-02-14 Shortly after the singer's death, the cost of two collections jumped on iTunes in Britain, prompting outrage online. Sony, her record label, says the increase was made by mistake....
554 2012-02-14 New plays by Annie Baker and Amy Herzog will join the new musical "Far Fom Heaven" at Playwrights Horizons in its 2012-13 season....
555 2012-02-14 "How hard can a boot camp called L Boogie Fitness be?" you might wonder. Very, it turns out....
556 2012-02-14 A 25-year-old tale about Mitt Romney's treatment of Seamus the dog still reverberates....
557 2012-02-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
558 2012-02-14 Seth Casteel's photos of goofy, gangly and bug-eyed pups - teeth bared in dogged pursuit of plastic ball or some phantom prey - are quickly gaining the Internet's stamp of approval....
559 2012-02-14 Hackers attacked Combined Systems, a company based in Jamestown, Pa., saying that the attack was in retaliation for the company’s sale of chemical weapons....
560 2012-02-14 A garlicky sauce of hot and sweet peppers and tomatoes infuses the chicken in this fragrant dish....
561 2012-02-14 Some 125 bands on 13 stages will perform at the festival on a farm in Tennessee starting on June 7....
562 2012-02-14 Mitt Romney, in an Op-Ed in The Detroit News, seeks to explain why he supported managed bankruptcy for American automakers....
563 2012-02-14 Joseph Kahn on the visit of China's vice president; Portugal pays its bills but gets further in debt, Landon Thomas Jr. reports; Evelyn M. Rusli previews earnings for the Internet bellwether Zynga....
564 2012-02-14 Joseph Kahn on the visit of China's vice president; Portugal pays its bills but gets further in debt, Landon Thomas Jr. reports; Evelyn M. Rusli previews earnings for the Internet bellwether Zynga.
565 2012-02-14 A popular Japanese restaurant on Long Island plans to open a branch this summer in Manhattan....
566 2012-02-14 Responding to a growing outcry over conditions at its overseas factories, Apple has asked an outside group to publicly identify specific plants where abuses are discovered, report Charles Duhigg and Nick Wingfield in Tuesday's New York Times. The ...
567 2012-02-14 Also, the academic boycott of the publisher Elsevier grows and how a model vaulted herself onto the cover of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue....
568 2012-02-14 Nearly 90 years after Marc Chagall's first retrospective at the Galerie Barbazanges-Hodebert in Paris, 150 of his works will appear in "Chagall," his first-ever retrospective in Spain, on view Tuesday through May 20 at the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museu...
569 2012-02-14 A kiss is just a kiss - and yet so much more, as James Friedman learned over seven years asking friends, family, and strangers to kiss for him....
570 2012-02-14 Although Mr. Ge was released and promptly deported on Feb. 2, the incident highlights the risks faced by foreign passport holders of Chinese origin when ensnared by China’s nebulous, omnipotent public security apparatus.

A number of American citizens remain in Chinese prisons on questionable charges, including Xue Feng, a geologist serving eight years for industrial espionage. Another naturalized American, Hu Zhicheng, has been blocked from leaving the country while he battles accusations of commercial espionage lodged by a former business associate. Mr. Hu spent a year and a half in jail but was released after Chinese prosecutors acknowledged that the case had no merit.

“Having an American or an Australian passport and having Chinese blood puts you at a disadvantage to those who are white,” said Wang Songlian, a researcher at Chinese Human Rights Defenders.

A State Department official declined to comment on Mr. Ge’s detention but said the plights of Mr. Xue and Mr. Hu would be raised during the visit to the United States by Vice President Xi Jinping, who arrived in Washington from Beijing on Monday afternoon.

The incident involving Mr. Ge was unusual because many native Chinese who hold foreign passports and publicly criticize the Communist Party are denied visas to return home. Mr. Ge, who applied and received an emergency visa to attend the funeral of his mother, said he had returned to China numerous times over the years. During a visit in 1997, he said, public security agents briefly and politely questioned him about his lapsed membership in an organization of Chinese students seeking leniency for those arrested during the 1989 crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests.

“The thing I really care about is basic human rights,” said Mr. Ge, who studied experimental physics at Texas A&M University and works as a technician for Mercedes-Benz. “I’ve never called for the overthrow of the government, and I don’t advocate violence.”

Mr. Ge was shocked, he said, when three plainclothes officers accosted him outside the home of Ding Zilin, a retired philosophy professor who has spent two decades seeking justice for those killed during the violent suppression of Tiananmen protesters. Ms. Ding’s 17-year-old son was killed by a bullet to his heart that June.

The officers not only knew Mr. Ge’s name but also had a photograph of him that they had downloaded from the Internet. After dragging him into a waiting Honda Accord, they refused to explain what they were after and then confiscated his cellphone, he said. Once inside a guesthouse called “The Old Cadres Activity Center,” he said, they stripped him of his other possessions, including a camera, money and a hand-held recorder.

Then they began questioning him about his activities in the United States and suggested that he had come to China to make trouble on behalf of antigovernment forces abroad. He said they simply could not believe that the Web site advocating freedom for the blind lawyer, Chen Guangcheng, was run by volunteers. “That’s not possible,” Mr. Ge quoted one of the them as saying. “How can a Web site not belong to an organization, have no leader and not spend any money?”

It was when Mr. Ge explained the role of Twitter in spreading word about the site that they demanded his password, he said.

Not long after his pummeling, Mr. Ge said, they gave him a sheet of paper and dictated demands that he wrote down with his bruised and wobbly hand. They included a promise not to meet with “sensitive people,” not to speak to the news media and not to do anything to harm China’s image. He stuck his finger into a jar of red ink and left an imprint signifying his assent.

A few hours later, en route to the airport, he said, he endured another brief beating after refusing to hand over his laptop for one final inspection. Once at the terminal, they returned his camera and recording device, although the contents had been erased. They also handed back the bouquet of flowers he had planned to give to Ms. Ding.

As Mr. Ge limped away in pain, he said, the lead interrogator, Wang Jie, reminded him that the entire episode was a “national secret.” The agent also scribbled down an e-mail address and told him to send a note the next time he came to town. (An e-mail sent to the address seeking comment was not answered on Monday.)

Mr. Ge laughed when asked if he might return to China in the near future. “Sure, why not?” he said. “My visa is good for a full year.”
571 2012-02-14 Although Mr. Ge was released and promptly deported on Feb. 2, the incident highlights the risks faced by foreign passport holders of Chinese origin when ensnared by China’s nebulous, omnipotent public security apparatus.

A number of American citizens remain in Chinese prisons on questionable charges, including Xue Feng, a geologist serving eight years for industrial espionage. Another naturalized American, Hu Zhicheng, has been blocked from leaving the country while he battles accusations of commercial espionage lodged by a former business associate. Mr. Hu spent a year and a half in jail but was released after Chinese prosecutors acknowledged that the case had no merit.

“Having an American or an Australian passport and having Chinese blood puts you at a disadvantage to those who are white,” said Wang Songlian, a researcher at Chinese Human Rights Defenders.

A State Department official declined to comment on Mr. Ge’s detention but said the plights of Mr. Xue and Mr. Hu would be raised during the visit to the United States by Vice President Xi Jinping, who arrived in Washington from Beijing on Monday afternoon.

The incident involving Mr. Ge was unusual because many native Chinese who hold foreign passports and publicly criticize the Communist Party are denied visas to return home. Mr. Ge, who applied and received an emergency visa to attend the funeral of his mother, said he had returned to China numerous times over the years. During a visit in 1997, he said, public security agents briefly and politely questioned him about his lapsed membership in an organization of Chinese students seeking leniency for those arrested during the 1989 crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests.

“The thing I really care about is basic human rights,” said Mr. Ge, who studied experimental physics at Texas A&M University and works as a technician for Mercedes-Benz. “I’ve never called for the overthrow of the government, and I don’t advocate violence.”

Mr. Ge was shocked, he said, when three plainclothes officers accosted him outside the home of Ding Zilin, a retired philosophy professor who has spent two decades seeking justice for those killed during the violent suppression of Tiananmen protesters. Ms. Ding’s 17-year-old son was killed by a bullet to his heart that June.

The officers not only knew Mr. Ge’s name but also had a photograph of him that they had downloaded from the Internet. After dragging him into a waiting Honda Accord, they refused to explain what they were after and then confiscated his cellphone, he said. Once inside a guesthouse called “The Old Cadres Activity Center,” he said, they stripped him of his other possessions, including a camera, money and a hand-held recorder.

Then they began questioning him about his activities in the United States and suggested that he had come to China to make trouble on behalf of antigovernment forces abroad. He said they simply could not believe that the Web site advocating freedom for the blind lawyer, Chen Guangcheng, was run by volunteers. “That’s not possible,” Mr. Ge quoted one of the them as saying. “How can a Web site not belong to an organization, have no leader and not spend any money?”

It was when Mr. Ge explained the role of Twitter in spreading word about the site that they demanded his password, he said.

Not long after his pummeling, Mr. Ge said, they gave him a sheet of paper and dictated demands that he wrote down with his bruised and wobbly hand. They included a promise not to meet with “sensitive people,” not to speak to the news media and not to do anything to harm China’s image. He stuck his finger into a jar of red ink and left an imprint signifying his assent.

A few hours later, en route to the airport, he said, he endured another brief beating after refusing to hand over his laptop for one final inspection. Once at the terminal, they returned his camera and recording device, although the contents had been erased. They also handed back the bouquet of flowers he had planned to give to Ms. Ding.

As Mr. Ge limped away in pain, he said, the lead interrogator, Wang Jie, reminded him that the entire episode was a “national secret.” The agent also scribbled down an e-mail address and told him to send a note the next time he came to town. (An e-mail sent to the address seeking comment was not answered on Monday.)

Mr. Ge laughed when asked if he might return to China in the near future. “Sure, why not?” he said. “My visa is good for a full year.”
572 2012-02-14 The outcry against Apple, especially about working conditions at some of its suppliers' factories in China, finally became too much to ignore: Apple said Monday that an independent organization, the Fair Labor Association, had begun to audit condi...
573 2012-02-14 The outcry against Apple, especially about working conditions at some of its suppliers' factories in China, finally became too much to ignore: Apple said Monday that an independent organization, the Fair Labor Association, had begun to audit condi...
574 2012-02-14 Small companies’ stocks, like those in the

big companies’ stocks so far this year.
575 2012-02-14 Spain’s Supreme Court on Monday threw out a bribery case against Judge Baltasar Garzón because the statute of limitations had expired. Judge Garzón, a judge famous for taking on international human rights cases, was suspended from his duties last week after he was convicted of illegally ordering a wiretapping in a corruption case. The bribery case involved financing by a Spanish bank, Banco Santander, for a course Judge Garzón taught at New York University while on leave from the bench. Mr. Garzón denies wrongdoing in the case. He is still awaiting a verdict in a third case, on charges that he knowingly violated an amnesty law when he opened an investigation in 2008 into atrocities committed during the Spanish Civil War. His defenders have described the cases as a political witch hunt.
576 2012-02-14 Ten years ago, Cardinal Edward Egan, then the leader of the New York archdiocese, famously apologized to his parishioners for the church’s failure to deal with priests who abused children. Now, three years after his retirement, he suddenly feels moved to renounce that courageous move.

“I never should have said that,” Cardinal Egan said in a combative interview with Connecticut magazine in which he offered a heartless and bewildering defense of his time as bishop in Bridgeport, Conn. Court records and the church’s lay investigation showed him at fault in covering up the scandal and protecting rogue priests accused of abusing children.

“I don’t think we did anything wrong,” Cardinal Egan declared. He accused the news media of exaggerating the scandal, despite the American church’s admission of culpability in having to dismiss 700 suspect priests across a three-year period. “The fact that sex abuse becomes overpowering in people’s eyes, that’s a part of life,” said the cardinal. He maintained there was no obligation to report abusive priests, although the American hierarchy promised to do so and Connecticut law has long required it.

Court records that the church fought to keep secret revealed cases in which then-Bishop Egan did not alert secular authorities in Bridgeport, failed to aggressively investigate allegations, moved offending priests to other parishes and authorized hush-money payments.

In one case, Bishop Egan kept an accused abuser working for five years after receiving a warning and did not suspend him until after a lawsuit was filed. In another, the diocese did not report potential allegations of statutory rape of a teenager impregnated by a priest.

This month, the Vatican held a summit meeting on the global sexual abuse scandal. Officials vowed that bishops must be held accountable — a recommendation of the American review board that has gone unheeded. Cardinal Egan’s feckless ruminations are Exhibit A on the problem of shepherds hiding from their responsibilities.
577 2012-02-14 The goal is to compete with Mr. Romney on the issue that Michigan voters, and others, say matters to them the most. Mr. Romney, a former governor of and a executive at , has based his campaign on his economic know-how and business acumen.

“The economy and jobs and unemployment are all that anybody talks about in Michigan, and Santorum needs to talk about them, too,” said Bill Ballenger, editor of a political newsletter called Inside Michigan Politics.

Mr. Santorum has been able to advance this far in part because of voter dissatisfaction with other candidates but also because the other candidates have not attacked him with the full force of their resources.

That is starting to change, and the media, too, is examining him with more scrutiny as he moves to the head of the pack. On Sunday, for example, he faced questions about statements in a book he wrote in 2005 saying that “radical feminists” had devalued women who chose motherhood over going into the work force. He also had to clarify remarks he made Thursday about his opposition to women serving in combat.

As he campaigned in previous states, Mr. Santorum addressed various aspects of the economy. But his overriding message has been that the nation cannot have a strong economy without strong families, and he has focused on the social and cultural challenges that families face. For example, Mr. Santorum, a father of seven, has proposed tripling the income deduction for children (a move that critics say could cost the Treasury billions of dollars a year).

He has also emphasized his blue-collar roots and refers frequently to his grandfather, who came from to work in the mines of Pennsylvania. Those roots, he says, will help him win blue-collar votes in Rust Belt states like Michigan, , Pennsylvania and , all of which are likely to be major swing state battlegrounds in the fall.

The heart of Mr. Santorum’s economic plan is to revive the nation’s manufacturing base. He would do that by eliminating taxes on American-based manufacturers and on profits gained from overseas if they are reinvested on plants and equipment in the . He would also do away with a of regulations.

“We’re not conceding anything to Romney on the economic front,” said John Brabender, a senior Santorum adviser.

Michigan was expected to be a relatively straightforward victory for Mr. Romney, who was born and raised in the state. His father, George, became chief executive of and later governor of the state. Mr. Romney, in his unsuccessful first run for president in 2008, won the Michigan primary.

But in that race, Mr. Romney was perceived as the conservative, compared with Senator of , and this time, he is perceived as the moderate, compared with Mr. Santorum. Surveys of voters leaving polling places in 2008 showed that 39 percent of those voting in the Republican primary described themselves as evangelical or born-again Christians.

“Michigan has this reputation of being moderate, with Republicans like George Romney,” Mr. Ballenger said. “But it is one of the strongest right-to-life states in the country.”

Mr. Santorum continues to face questions about whether he will have the money to answer the expected attacks from his opponents; Mr. Romney has already accused him of being a big spender and a insider.

The Santorum campaign plans to start advertising on Michigan television this week. The “super PAC” that backs him, the Red, White and Blue Fund, is polling in the state now to determine whether and how much to invest there, said Stuart Roy, a spokesman for the fund.

“Michigan is very enticing,” Mr. Roy said, not only because it allocates its delegates proportionally, so even coming in second ensures delegates, but because it is Mr. Romney’s home state.

Still, he said, the fund did not want to spend all of its resources in Michigan and not have enough for Super Tuesday, March 6, when 10 states vote. Moreover, he said, it had to consider that going negative against Mr. Romney would undoubtedly start to erode Mr. Santorum’s own high favorability ratings.

Mr. Brabender from the Santorum campaign said that Mr. Santorum’s recent success had raised the stakes and that Michigan would give him a platform unlike anything he had experienced so far.

“Having the megaphone means everything we say is more amplified,” Mr. Brabender said, “but also, everything is more amplified.”
578 2012-02-14 Sales of all merchandise at the Knicks’ official online store and Facebook page have risen more than 3,000 percent in the past week, said Delivery Agent, which runs the online store. Some items, like the Jeremy Lin replica home jersey, are sold out.

There is nothing new about teams, networks or merchandise makers cashing in on a player’s success. Detroit went crazy over the Tigers’ Mark Fidrych in 1976, and the Los Angeles Dodgers experienced Fernando-mania over Fernando Valenzuela in 1981. Ditto when Ichiro Suzuki made his debut in Seattle with the Mariners in 2001. Ricky Rubio is making a splash with the Minnesota Timberwolves this season.

But Lin is unique because of how quickly he has turned into a star on the court and a moneymaking machine off it.

Lin’s emergence has created a frenzy for Knicks tickets, even in other cities. The average price for tickets to games in New York has risen to more than $100 a ticket, from $85, according to Jason Berger, who runs the ticket broker AllShows.com.

“We had sold more front-row seats in the last month than we had for the entire season last year,” Berger said. “There are still some good deals out there for future games, but we expect those deals to be harder to find as the excitement grows.”

Plenty of fans are tuning in. MSG Network had its highest-rated Knicks broadcast Saturday, when the team played in Minneapolis. In the four games Lin has started, the average household rating on MSG Network has increased 70 percent compared with the previous 20 games.

Despite the hype, Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG, said the Knicks would have to have a lot more success before he is convinced Madison Square Garden will benefit over all.

“Lin has helped the stock price, but the underlying business has not changed,” he said. “No one knew him a week ago, so let’s not get ahead of ourselves.”
579 2012-02-14 Jorge Perez-Lopez, the association’s executive director, said it had made major strides, largely eliminating child labor at factories in China and Latin America and mostly ending an improper discriminatory practice at Latin American factories in which female applicants systematically underwent pregnancy tests and were not hired if they were pregnant.

At its founding, the idea was that the group, which had the enthusiastic backing and blessing of President Bill Clinton, would set a floor to what many said was an unpleasant race to the bottom in which many American companies rushed to find low-cost suppliers in China, Bangladesh and other countries.

But in those early days, it was criticized by numerous labor unions and anti-sweatshop advocates as toothless and too cozy with its corporate members. Many of the objections made then were repeated Monday after Apple’s announcement.

In announcing that the association had begun inspecting Foxconn factories in Shenzhen and Chengdu, Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said, “We believe that workers everywhere have the right to a safe and fair work environment, which is why we’ve asked the F.L.A. to independently assess the performance of our largest suppliers.”

Critics argue, however, that the association and its corporate members should not suggest that its inspections are independent.

“The F.L.A. does some good work, but we don’t think it’s appropriate for them to call themselves independent investigators because they’re in part funded by companies,” said Scott Nova, executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium, a university-backed factory monitoring group. “Independent monitoring means you’re generally independent of the companies.”

Mr. Perez-Lopez, though, said the inspections were independent, adding that the companies on the group’s board had no say in what factories were inspected or when. He said the association’s staff made those decisions fully independent of the board.

The association’s monitors inspected 190 factories in 2010, out of the 4,703 supplier factories that its member companies use. While that represents 4 percent of the factories, each company is required to do an annual assessment of each factory.

Mr. Perez-Lopez said his association had had many notable successes. He pointed, for instance, to the Ocean Sky Apparel factory in El Salvador, where after receiving complaints from a women’s rights organization, his association carried out inspections and ordered a corrective plan that sought to address verbal abuse of workers, forced overtime, contaminated drinking water and failure to record some working hours.

But Teresa Cheng, international campaigns coordinator at United Students Against Sweatshops, pointed to some problems. She noted that a Nike supplier in Indonesia, PT Nikomas, agreed to pay $950,000 in back wages for 600,000 hours of unpaid overtime that 4,500 workers accumulated over the last two years. “If they were doing thorough investigations, they would have uncovered such a serious problem,” she said.

Asked why the association had not uncovered such an illegality, Mr. Perez-Lopez said that the group did not inspect every factory, and that Nike had systems in place to identify and correct issues throughout its supply chain.

A Nike spokeswoman, Erin Dobson, said: “The F.L.A. has had significant influence on Nike as we’ve evolved our approach to working conditions in our contract factories. They have played a very important role not only in pushing for transparency into members’ supply chains but also in leading multistakeholder innovation and engagement on core labor standards.”

To Mr. Nova, the association has not done enough. “The only way at the end of the day to measure the success of monitoring efforts is whether things are getting better for workers, and we’re not seeing this in the supply chain of the major brands,” he said. “We do not see improvements in workers’ wages or in the disrespectful treatment by supervisors or in the right to organize or in forced overtime.”
580 2012-02-14 Although Mr. Ge was released and promptly deported on Feb. 2, the incident highlights the risks faced by foreign passport holders of Chinese origin when ensnared by China’s nebulous, omnipotent public security apparatus.

A number of American citizens remain in Chinese prisons on questionable charges, including Xue Feng, a geologist serving eight years for industrial espionage. Another naturalized American, Hu Zhicheng, has been blocked from leaving the country while he battles accusations of commercial espionage lodged by a former business associate. Mr. Hu spent a year and a half in jail but was released after Chinese prosecutors acknowledged that the case had no merit.

“Having an American or an Australian passport and having Chinese blood puts you at a disadvantage to those who are white,” said Wang Songlian, a researcher at Chinese Human Rights Defenders.

A State Department official declined to comment on Mr. Ge’s detention but said the plights of Mr. Xue and Mr. Hu would be raised during the visit to the United States by Vice President Xi Jinping, who arrived in Washington from Beijing on Monday afternoon.

The incident involving Mr. Ge was unusual because many native Chinese who hold foreign passports and publicly criticize the Communist Party are denied visas to return home. Mr. Ge, who applied and received an emergency visa to attend the funeral of his mother, said he had returned to China numerous times over the years. During a visit in 1997, he said, public security agents briefly and politely questioned him about his lapsed membership in an organization of Chinese students seeking leniency for those arrested during the 1989 crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests.

“The thing I really care about is basic human rights,” said Mr. Ge, who studied experimental physics at Texas A&M University and works as a technician for Mercedes-Benz. “I’ve never called for the overthrow of the government, and I don’t advocate violence.”

Mr. Ge was shocked, he said, when three plainclothes officers accosted him outside the home of Ding Zilin, a retired philosophy professor who has spent two decades seeking justice for those killed during the violent suppression of Tiananmen protesters. Ms. Ding’s 17-year-old son was killed by a bullet to his heart that June.

The officers not only knew Mr. Ge’s name but also had a photograph of him that they had downloaded from the Internet. After dragging him into a waiting Honda Accord, they refused to explain what they were after and then confiscated his cellphone, he said. Once inside a guesthouse called “The Old Cadres Activity Center,” he said, they stripped him of his other possessions, including a camera, money and a hand-held recorder.

Then they began questioning him about his activities in the United States and suggested that he had come to China to make trouble on behalf of antigovernment forces abroad. He said they simply could not believe that the Web site advocating freedom for the blind lawyer, Chen Guangcheng, was run by volunteers. “That’s not possible,” Mr. Ge quoted one of the them as saying. “How can a Web site not belong to an organization, have no leader and not spend any money?”

It was when Mr. Ge explained the role of Twitter in spreading word about the site that they demanded his password, he said.

Not long after his pummeling, Mr. Ge said, they gave him a sheet of paper and dictated demands that he wrote down with his bruised and wobbly hand. They included a promise not to meet with “sensitive people,” not to speak to the news media and not to do anything to harm China’s image. He stuck his finger into a jar of red ink and left an imprint signifying his assent.

A few hours later, en route to the airport, he said, he endured another brief beating after refusing to hand over his laptop for one final inspection. Once at the terminal, they returned his camera and recording device, although the contents had been erased. They also handed back the bouquet of flowers he had planned to give to Ms. Ding.

As Mr. Ge limped away in pain, he said, the lead interrogator, Wang Jie, reminded him that the entire episode was a “national secret.” The agent also scribbled down an e-mail address and told him to send a note the next time he came to town. (An e-mail sent to the address seeking comment was not answered on Monday.)

Mr. Ge laughed when asked if he might return to China in the near future. “Sure, why not?” he said. “My visa is good for a full year.”
581 2012-02-14 Most of that money poured into the small-cap stocks in the seven days that ended Feb. 8, the last tally by Lipper. During that time, the Labor Department reported a gain of 243,000 jobs in January and the lowest unemployment rate since early 2009, while another report, from the Institute for Supply Management, showed that economic activity in the nonmanufacturing sector grew in January for the 25th consecutive month.

Tom Roseen, a senior analyst at Lipper, said there was a similar inflow into small caps in the beginning of 2011, but this year’s inflows were notable because they were a turnaround from a full year in which investors focused on dividend-paying and large-capitalization stocks.

But analysts were also cautious in ascribing too much staying power in the risk trade. Volatility could return to equities because of the entrenched euro zone debt problems, the potential for a recession in Europe and concerns about economic growth in the United States.

Steven G. DeSanctis, a small-cap strategist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, noted that a lot of the inflows so far this year were by exchange-traded funds, which are highly liquid, and thus could just as easily flow out.

Pharmaceuticals, materials and technology companies are showing particularly robust returns among small caps so far this year. Inhibitex, FriendFinder Networks and Georgia Gulf are among the best small-cap performers in terms of returns, according to data tracked by the Russell index.

The stock price of Inhibitex, a biopharmaceutical company, is up more than 130 percent, mostly because it was acquired. Georgia Gulf, which makes chemical and plastic products, is up 74 percent, and FriendFinder, an Internet networking company, is up more than 200 percent.

The rebound in small-cap stocks is a sign for some analysts of a broader recovery in the financial markets. In the second half of last year, the markets were buffeted by a period of volatility from the European crisis and the credit rating downgrade of long-term United States debt, contributing to a fall in the Russell 2000 for the year of about 4 percent.

But so far this year, the broader market as measured by the Standard & Poor’s 500 has had its best start since 1987. As of Monday it was up 7.5 percent for the year to date. Small-cap companies are not traded as frequently, and therefore their stock prices can be choppy. And there are fewer analysts researching these companies for investors, unlike with big names like Apple. They also are more likely to be the object of takeovers, like Inhibitex, which Bristol-Myers Squibb said in January it would acquire for $2.5 billion.

Mergers and acquisitions, which are expected to push ahead as companies come off a period of hoarding cash, usually involve small-cap companies.

“This year we are expecting an acceleration of M.& A. activity,” said Christopher J. Colarik, small-cap portfolio manager for Glenmede Investment Management. “Larger companies look for growth, and there are a lot of clean balance sheets.”

This was especially true in the pharmaceutical field, said Jon Eggins, portfolio manager at Russell Investments.

Since 2008, drug companies have been cautious about large investments in new research, but they are also faced with the expirations of profitable drug patents and looking for ways to bridge the potential shortfall in earnings, he said in an e-mail reply to questions.

And their revenue is mostly generated inside the United States, which means they are less influenced by turmoil in Europe.

“They are more of a niche market, and they may have a lot of room to expand geographically and internationally,” Mr. Wren said. “Their earnings growth rates are far in excess of what a large company might be.”

In the last 10 years, the Russell 2000 index has returned 5.6 percent, compared with 3.3 percent for the Russell 1000. “That added return premium hasn’t been for free, though, as there has been higher risk associated with this return,” Mr. Eggins said.

Mr. DeSanctis, the strategist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said his firm’s forecasts included an 11 percent return for small-cap stocks in 2012, in line with the historical annualized average.

“We have already achieved that in the first six weeks of the year,” he said.
582 2012-02-14 The Islanders led the N.H.L. in blocked shots last season with 1,387. This year, they are on a pace to block 1,423. (In 1997-98, the Rangers led the N.H.L. with 871 blocked shots.)

“Obviously, it’s part of our strategy,” Islanders Coach Jack Capuano said. “Blocking shots comes from sacrificing yourself and putting yourself in the right position in the defensive zone, being in shooting lanes.”

Capuano added: “It’s a read-and-react game. Players go by instinct. The rules are a lot different. Now the way to defend is a little different, too. Sometimes, a blocked shot is as big as scoring a game-winning goal when you see desperation on a six-on-five situation later in games, or the other team is on the power play.”

Among those who have noticed that blocked shots are more important is a 37-year-old former right wing named Ken Belanger, who played for four teams including the Islanders, scoring 11 goals in a 248-game N.H.L. career that ended in 2005.

Although hockey players are certainly not impervious to injuries, Belanger said they were better protected than when he played: helmets have led to helmets with visors and players wearing mouth guards.

But the feet have been covered for years simply by the materials of an ice skate boot, first leather and now plastic. The boot is only a little sturdier than a hunting boot. So Belanger and the inventors Larry Jensen and Bruce Booth developed skate attachments called Shot Blockers, which are made of Kevlar and designed to be molded to the shape of the foot. Chara was among their first customers, two years ago.

According to the Shot Blockers Web site, 14 N.H.L. teams, including the Bruins and the Detroit Red Wings, have purchased the equipment for their players. Retail prices range from $40 to $50 for tongue pieces for the skates and from $109 to $189 for pieces that cover the sides of the feet.

“They’re paying a penalty killer $2 million, and he takes a slap shot and he’s out for eight weeks,” Belanger said in a phone interview from his office in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario.

Belanger says he has found buyers for Shot Blockers in Europe and among amateur hockey players.

“You’ve got these business guys who are playing hockey on the weekends,” he said. “The last thing they need is a broken foot.”

He said his product was part of the game’s evolution, noting that visors (and helmets, for that matter) were not immediately adopted by hockey players.

To block a shot on purpose is a recent development. Craig Ludwig, a defenseman who played with the same pair of battered, flattened, duct-taped shin pads during a 17-year career that ended in 1999, was famous for blocking shots — because he was the only player who tried.

What most players did when slap shots came their way was assume a position called the flamingo: stand on one leg and raise the other so a shot could zip past. Paul Coffey, a Hall of Fame defenseman, has said he was proud of the fact that he never tried to block shots.

Some teams still do not make a concerted effort to block shots. The Devils are last in the league partly because the assistant in charge of their defensemen, the Hall of Famer Larry Robinson, wants his players to stay on their feet.

“Larry doesn’t like the guys to leave their skates and go down, like other teams do,” goaltender Martin Brodeur said. “He just has them doing some things that he went through when he played. It’s based on your reaction, if you’re able to do it with your stick instead of your body, how you recover. But we’ve never been a shot-blocking team. Since I’ve been here, we haven’t been a team that’s put an emphasis on it.”The Rangers are fourth in the N.H.L. with 907 blocked shots, and their players talk all the time about how much their coach, John Tortorella, emphasizes that strategy, no matter how much peril his players might be facing.

“We’re a hard-nosed team,” defenseman Michael Del Zotto said. “We finish checks. Blocking shots is something we live and die by. Torts always encourages us to block shots. We know it could deflect off us and go in, but that’s something we have to deal with. We have a pretty good reputation at being one of the better teams in the league.”

Callahan wears extra padding in his gloves and an extension on his shin pads. Girardi wears extra padding in his gloves, but no extra foot protection. He said he tried not to think too much about occupational hazards.

“If you’re thinking about that, you’re not going to block any shots, because that’s always going to be in the back of your head,” Girardi said. “You just got to react to the play. There are always risks with anything. Anything can happen on that ice.”

Asked if he wore extra protection on his feet, Rangers center Brian Boyle sheepishly replied, “No, I don’t, but it might be something I go ahead and do in the summertime.”

After a pause, he said, “I probably should, to be honest with you.”
583 2012-02-14 It was a sleepless night for Laura Liebenow.

A late evening, fueled by nervous excitement, bled into a 5 a.m. wake-up and hair call. Not for Liebenow, but for Alex, her Australian shepherd competing Monday in the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.

“It’s his first time here,” Liebenow, of Greenfield, Mass., said of the 5 ½-year-old dog backstage as she made final trims of Alex’s black, white and brown-speckled fur. Alex, unlike some of his neighbors getting ready, did not need mousse or product because he naturally has so much volume, Liebenow said. “From the day we entered the competition, we started counting down the days until it was time to get here. Now, we’re here. I can’t believe it. We were too excited to go to bed.”

By 8 a.m., backstage at Madison Square Garden was a maze of hair-straightening irons, leashes, coffee cups, mousse, dog bones, and canines in booties and overcoats. Most dogs perched on tables as their owners rushed to prepare them for the first rounds of judging Monday morning. Others lazed in kennels or in corners. Owners and handlers fluttered around the stage, swapping combs, overcoats and shears as security guards dealt with an influx of fans into the Garden.

For some, Monday morning was far from the kickoff for the dog show, as competitors arrived from across the country late last week and stayed throughout the weekend. A fashion show was held Friday evening for dogs in town for the show, and many competitors spent their weekend in New York sightseeing.

Rick and Lorie Douglas of Sayre, Pa., drove in Saturday and split their hair-brushing duties Monday morning, combing out snarls from their 80-pound Old English Sheepdog, Jazz.
584 2012-02-14 Canadian researchers have found compelling evidence that closing schools is an effective way to control flu epidemics.

Scientists at McMaster University in Ontario and elsewhere compared patterns of flu transmission with weather and school calendars in Alberta from April to December 2009. The study, published in Annals of Internal Medicine, found that transmission rates were linked to weather, but even more strongly to the closing of schools in the spring and their reopening in the fall.

“The effect of school closings was huge,” said David J. D. Earn, lead author of the study and a professor of mathematics at McMaster. “This is important because school closings, unlike weather, is something we can control.”

The researchers acknowledge that their model cannot include all possibly relevant factors, but the significant effect of school closings persisted even when their analyses included weather, geographical factors and variations in consistency of reporting.

Pupils are important drivers of flu transmission, they conclude. In addition to closing schools, targeting children for vaccination and hygiene could substantially reduce an epidemic’s severity, Dr. Earn said. Flu’s spread may seem simple, he added, but “it’s not easy to see what will work to reduce epidemics without precise mathematical modeling.”
585 2012-02-14 Then again, perhaps not.

“My neighbor on 4 almost wishes she hadn’t experienced” the change, Ms. Vance noted in an e-mail. “It’s so great that now she will miss the light and openness.”

The Hunter College building, which will be replaced by a 20-story condo building being developed by the Brodsky Organization, was a gray behemoth that bore a remarkable resemblance to a cinder block. Asked to characterize the old structure, some neighbors responded with declarations like “hideous,” “strange” and “there really wasn’t much to describe.” And, like any large building, it was a light hog.

“All of a sudden, my staff who have offices on that side of the building came to me and said, ‘I can’t see my computer screen,’ ” said Susanne Kuligowski, the chief operating officer of the New York Junior League, which has its headquarters in a grand town house on 80th Street between Park and Lexington that is now flooded with southern light. “It is nice, even though it’s temporary.”

More than 1,800 demolition permits were issued in 2011, according to the New York City Buildings Department, so these respites are happening all over town.

When a parking garage on West 58th Street was demolished to make room for a development called One57 — which is to become the city’s tallest residential building, and one of its most expensive — Veronica and Peter Goodrich decided to move their grand piano to their home in Charleston, S.C., because they thought their living room was actually getting too much light.

“It got hotter in here, and we had to tune it more,” Mrs. Goodrich said of their mahogany Steinway. “We’re very, very protective of it.”

Nonetheless, they were happy to see their former neighbor meet a wrecking ball. Each floor of that old garage had been painted a different color — an unsightly orange here, a little chipped blue there — and none of those floors had solid walls, which gave the Goodrichs a clear view of dilapidated cars, piles of discarded junk and rats. And it could rattle their guests.

“They’d come into the apartment and they’d see headlights coming toward them,” Mr. Goodrich said.

When the garage came down, the Goodrichs said, they could see clear down 58th Street and across to 57th. But a temporary view, however glorious, does have one serious drawback: It spooks apartment buyers.

The Goodrichs have been trying to sell their one-bedroom on and off for over three years. And while their building, the Alwyn Court, can be a draw — it is a distinctive landmark with an ornately carved facade that includes cherubs and salamanders — the question marks about what is coming in have scared buyers away. (For example, will the completed building be ugly?)

“People get nervous about unfinished things,” said Brian Lewis of Halstead Property, the Goodrichs’ real estate broker.

So Mr. and Mrs. Goodrich will stay put until One57 is finished, and they hope that some of its glamour proves contagious.

Though the light, for some, can be lovely, there is a darker (and louder and dustier) side to all of that construction.

“Men peering into your bedroom window at 7 o’clock in the morning,” said Jared Goss, who lives in a garden apartment on 80th Street between Park and Lexington, near the social work building’s site. “That always comes as a surprise.”

Mr. Goss, a curator for modern art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said he recently stepped out into his garden to find he could see all the way to First Avenue

“I snapped a picture on my cellphone because I thought, ‘I’m never going to see this view again!’ ” he said. “But I would have to say, if given the option of a tall building there or construction, I would pick the tall building.”

His downstairs neighbor, however, only shrugged when asked what changes the construction on 79th Street had brought to his apartment.

“For me, it is the same,” said the man, Kemal Bektesevic, the building superintendent, as he nodded his head toward a stairwell under the front steps. He offered up a patient smile, and added, “Basement is basement.”
586 2012-02-14 Stocks rose on Monday, with the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index near seven-month highs, after the Greek Parliament approved measures needed to qualify for a bailout and avoid a default.

Apple shares closed above $500 for the first time after a gain of 1.9 percent, leading the Nasdaq composite index to close at its highest level in more than 11 years. Greek lawmakers backed large cuts in wages, pensions and jobs Sunday as the price of a 130 billion euro, or $171 billion, bailout by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.

But unrest in the streets and a voting rebellion by lawmakers of the ruling coalition suggested Greece may be on the brink of major social unrest, which would make it difficult for the government to follow the rescue terms.

Douglas S, Roberts, the chief investment strategist at ChannelCapitalResearch.com and managing principal of the Channel Capital Research Institute, cited skepticism about whether the Greek public would accept the measures. But market conditions make it hard for money managers to avoid stocks.

“Mutual fund managers have a herd instinct, and if everyone else is playing the game, with cash yielding zero, they have to participate,” Mr. Roberts said.
587 2012-02-14 MALE, Maldives — The broken glass from an attack by vandals on the National Museum here has been swept away, and the remnants of the Buddhist statues they destroyed — nearly 30 of them, some dating to the sixth century — have been locked away. But officials say the loss to this island nation’s archaeological legacy can never be recouped.

In the midst of the political turmoil racking this tiny Indian Ocean nation of 1,200 islands, a half-dozen men stormed into the museum last Tuesday and ransacked a collection of coral and lime figures, including a six-faced coral statue and a 1 1/2-foot-wide representation of the Buddha’s head. Officials said the men attacked the figures because they believed they were idols and therefore illegal under Islamic and national laws.

The vandalism was reminiscent of the Taliban’s demolition of the great carved Buddhas of Bamiyan in Afghanistan in early 2001, and it has raised fears here that extremists are gaining ground in the Maldives, a Sunni Muslim country that historians say converted from Buddhism to Islam in the 12th century. The country has incorporated elements of Islamic law into its jurisprudence for years. Idols cannot be brought into the country, for example, and alcohol and pork products are allowed only at resorts that cater to foreigners.

The statues were destroyed on the same day that Mohamed Nasheed, who won the presidency in 2008 in the country’s first democratic election, resigned his office. Mr. Nasheed said he was forced to do so in what amounted to a coup; his opponents say he went voluntarily. For nearly a month leading up to his resignation, Islamic and other opposition political parties staged protests. Some of them criticized Mr. Nasheed for not cracking down on brothels that masquerade as massage parlors and for proposing that hotels be allowed to serve alcohol on islands where Maldivians live; under current law, alcohol can be served only at the airport or on resort islands with no native population.

Ali Waheed, the director of the National Museum, which was built by China as a gift to the country, said on Monday that officials might be able to restore two or three of the damaged statues, but that the rest were beyond repair. “The collection was totally, totally smashed,” Mr. Waheed said. “The whole pre-Islamic history is gone.”
588 2012-02-14 McCORMICK--Patrick J.,of New York and East Hampton, New York, died peacefully on February 8, 2012 at his home in East Hampton. Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina on May 21, 1921. He came to the U.S. in the 1950s and founded McCormick Trading Co. in 1...
589 2012-02-14 THE FACTS     Flying in economy class may be easier on your wallet. But can it put a greater strain on your legs, raising risks of blood clots?...
590 2012-02-14 9:10 p.m. | Updated to add more details throughout.     Responding to a growing outcry over conditions at its overseas factories, Apple said Monday that an outside organization had begun to audit working conditions at the plants where the bulk of ...
591 2012-02-14 The show's most famous competitor arrived long after the canine masses had begun their procession across Seventh Avenue - some carried in crates or cradled between biceps, others trudging delicately in bejeweled coats and miniature boots to protec...
592 2012-02-14 NISSENSON--Gloria. Love you and miss you always. Merrill...
593 2012-02-15 Credit: Raymond McCrea Jones for The New York Times
594 2012-02-15 February 13, 2012 - Fisker Automotive and other companies designing electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles face challenges bringing the new cars to market.
595 2012-02-15 Several large hedge funds took or increased their stakes in bank stocks during the fourth quarter of 2011, betting the industry would recover and send stock prices upward....
596 2012-02-15 A newly formed coalition attracted attention at the Capitol on Wednesday because of its unusual roster of supporters, who include deep-pocketed business leaders to whom lawmakers typically turn for high-dollar donations....
597 2012-02-15 How to subscribe to a new weekly newsletter on small business....
598 2012-02-15 Doug Liman, the director of "The Bourne Identity" and "Mr. & Mrs. Smith," is working with the American Civil Liberties Union and the PEN American Center to create a user-generated film of people reading documents on prisoner abuse and torture....
599 2012-02-15 Prabal Gurung showed his new collection for ICB today, not at Lincoln Center or some far-flung warehouse in Chelsea, but on my computer....
600 2012-02-15 Federal prosecutors are investigating whether a senior technology industry analyst for Goldman Sachs provided confidential information to the bank's hedge fund clients....
601 2012-02-15 Now a public works garage, the Broadway Auditorium in Buffalo may be the world's oldest standing building to have hosted hockey. The Majors played in the auditorium in the 1930s....
602 2012-02-15 Record sales of the iPhone last year made Apple the biggest smartphone manufacturer in the world, according to Gartner, a research company. That makes Apple the third biggest vendor of cellphones over all, behind Nokia and Samsung....
603 2012-02-15 Mineral riches beneath the arid soil of Mongolia could soon make the sparsely populated country the world’s fastest-growing economy.

There are different ways of looking at this. The video above focuses on ruined landscapes and displaced herders. The one below emphasizes the economic benefit of exporting mineral riches to China.
604 2012-02-15 Europe’s Economy Contracts | Johnson & Johnson’s trouble with artificial hips | Why broadband matters more than television at Comcast.
605 2012-02-15 Three studies published this week found that people exposed to pollutants have a higher risk of stroke, heart attacks and cognitive deterioration....
606 2012-02-15 A new ad escalates the already intense ad wars two weeks before the Michigan primary....
607 2012-02-15 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
608 2012-02-15 The address book in your smartphone — arguably the most personal data you carry — is free for app developers to take at will without your knowledge....
609 2012-02-15 Can soccer in Scotland survive if bankrupt Rangers disappear, ending the Old Firm rivalry with Glasgow Celtic?...
610 2012-02-15 The brand's campaign has as its centerpiece the song "Anywhere in the World," written by Mark Ronson and Katy B. The song incorporates the sounds of athletes who hope to compete in the Games....
611 2012-02-15 Procter & Gamble has agreed to sell the chip brand for $2.695 billion to Kellogg, after its deal with Diamond Foods fell apart....
612 2012-02-15 The struggles of a business trying to survive.
613 2012-02-15 An early look at three probable first-round fantasy picks whose 2012 seasons are unlikely to match their 2011 campaigns....
614 2012-02-15 Nepalese designer and former Manish Arora apprentice is inspired by "intelligent, beautiful, aware" women....
615 2012-02-15 The man in a tan vest on his knees at Madison Square Garden was John Ashbey.

He had three squeaky toys shaped like carrots peeking out of his left pocket. He had a noisy Nemo pull toy in another. These are the props of his craft, one that often finds his subjects’ attention drifting slightly but who need to be posed just so for just a few moments.

Ashbey is a dog photographer. He shoots formal pictures, while cushioned by kneepads, of the most successful dogs at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.

Sometimes the dogs do not want to cooperate. It is not as if they are bolting away, fearful of a camera flash or the crush of paparazzi. These are show dogs. But there are subtleties about the way a dog must look — how he stands and where he is gazing — in which Ashbey is attuned.

So his carrots, however silly, are attention-getters. They tell the dog, “Look that way!” But sometimes the dogs do not care. Veteran dogs know human tricks. So Ashbey augments his carrot tosses with instructions shouted at the handler to pull the dog’s head up with the leash or move the front legs an inch forward or two inches back.

And sometimes the dogs just need Ashbey to wind up Nemo and let it clatter.

In each breed ring, Ashbey photographs three dogs: the best of breed winner, the winner of the best of opposite sex, and the one who receives the award of merit.

The dog poses with its hander and the judge, kind of a canine grip-and-grin.

On Tuesday, one of the breeds photographed was the Newfoundlands. As he looked at the first Newfie, Ashbey reached into his pocket and flung one carrot, then another. It is a practiced fling, executed in a single motion. He got the shot.
616 2012-02-15 MetLife, the nation’s biggest life insurer, said fourth-quarter profit surged on earnings from derivatives.

Net income advanced to $1.16 billion, or $1.06 a share, from $82 million, or 5 cents a share, a year earlier, the company said Tuesday. Excluding some investment results, profit was $1.31 a share, beating the $1.24 average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.

MetLife expanded in Asia, Europe and South America with the $16 billion acquisition of the American Life Insurance Company in November 2010. The company’s derivatives, used to generate income and guard against interest-rate declines, produce losses when bond yields rise, as they did in the last quarter of 2010.

MetLife is integrating Alico and spending on advertising. The company put the name MetLife Stadium on the home of the National Football League’s New York Jets and Giants last year. The company’s blimps, with depictions of the cartoon dog Snoopy, fly over sporting events in the United States and Japan.

MetLife is leaving banking to reduce federal oversight and scaling back variable-annuity sales to ease liabilities on the equity-based products. MetLife agreed in December to sell about $7.5 billion of bank deposits to the General Electric Company after the insurer’s plan for a dividend increase was rejected by the Federal Reserve. MetLife is shutting a mortgage origination business and eliminating most of that unit’s 4,300 jobs.

MetLife, which had more than $270 billion of derivative contracts at the end of September, guards against interest rate declines because the company depends on bond coupons to help finance customer obligations and record profits. MetLife held more than $350 billion of fixed-maturity securities as of Sept. 30.
617 2012-02-15 Standards for commercial egg production vary greatly around the country. In most states, the egg-laying hens are crowded together tightly in “battery cages.” Each wire cage is about the size of a microwave oven, though slightly taller, and crammed with anywhere from four to 11 hens. But some states — including California, Ohio, and Michigan — have banned the use or new construction of battery cages. California’s Proposition 2, passed in 2008, requires that commercial laying hens be kept in spaces with enough room to stretch their wings.

It’s well past time to create a national standard that promotes more humane conditions everywhere. House Republicans and Democrats have introduced a sensible bill that would require labeling on all egg cartons to specify whether the eggs are from caged, cage-free or free-range hens. It would phase in over the next 15 years to 18 years requirements for larger cages (nearly doubling the space each chicken is provided), perches, scratching areas and nesting boxes. And farmers would be allowed to depreciate fully the equipment they already own before being obliged to buy new equipment.

The bill, amending the Egg Products Inspection Act, enjoys the support of the Humane Society of the United States, which has been a force behind improved conditions in the egg industry, and the United Egg Producers, which represents the farmers who raise nearly 90 percent of the eggs sold in America.

Yet the American Farm Bureau Federation, a trade group for farmers, the National Pork Producers Council, and the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association oppose the bill. They seem to fear that common sense and a humane regard for the well-being of farm animals will spread to their own industries.
618 2012-02-15 The State Senate on Tuesday rejected a bill to privatize 27 prisons, a measure that divided Republican senators and handed Republican leaders a rare defeat. Backers of the bill, including Gov. Rick Scott, said prison privatization would save taxpayers $16.5 million a year. Opponents questioned that estimate, worried about job losses among corrections officers and said the shift could jeopardize public safety. They argued that the Legislature had failed to properly analyze the impact that privatizing so many prisons would have on the state. The bill, one of the most contentious of the legislative session, prompted the Senate president to remove one Republican, Mike Fasano, an outspoken opponent of privatization, as chairman of the Senate budget subcommittee on public safety earlier this year. The vote was 19 for the bill and 21 against.
619 2012-02-15 Since 1991, she and other family members have been giving several thousand dollars a year to Jiaxing High School, according to the school’s Web site. Her nephew Yu Guohua is Lin’s closest relative still living in northern Zhejiang.

Yu, a 56-year-old former plastics factory worker who retired early on disability after sustaining injuries in a car crash, said in a telephone interview Tuesday night that Lin had come to play basketball with the Jiaxing High School team last May and been mobbed by admirers.

Yu said he did not have a chance to meet Lin in the throng, but spoke with his family. “His father was very supportive of Lin’s playing basketball, but his grandmother was not, for fear he would be injured,” Yu said.

Lin may owe his height, 6 feet 3 inches, to his maternal grandmother’s family, Yu said. Chen Weiji, the father of Lin’s grandmother, was well over 6 feet and all of Chen’s children were tall as well, he said.

Chen was a senior municipal civil servant in Jiaxing in the early 1900s. American Protestant missionaries converted him to Christianity, and he imparted his strong spiritual interests to his children, who liked to discuss religious subjects in depth and read books on religion, Yu said.

Lin’s combination of success in the and strong Christian faith — he has spoken in the past of becoming a pastor someday — has fired the imagination of many Asian-American Christians. There are some early signs that he may also be catching the attention of Christians in China, who continue to face varying levels of persecution.

Only 1,500 of the initial 1.4 million microblogging messages on mainland Chinese Web sites that mentioned Lin also mentioned Christianity.

But those messages tended to be fervently enthusiastic.

“Your physical agility has shown me the glory and omnipotence of God,” one Internet user wrote.

“How should young Christians live the life of the Lord?” another blogger wrote. “We have a good example in Lin Shuhao’s miraculous performance and we should cheer him on.”

At the Zhejiang Theological Seminary here in Hangzhou, Professor Yan Ronghui said she was planning to use Lin’s religious faith and basketball successes as a model for students in her course in “theological English” this semester.

Hu Shubang, a 25-year-old student at the seminary, said Lin would become a natural symbol for Christians in China to use in seeking converts.

“Just by his being a Christian, it is a fantastic way to broadcast the ways of Christ,” he said.

But awareness of Lin’s faith is only starting to spread in China. State news media have covered Lin’s basketball exploits heavily but avoided mentioning his faith, part of a broader pattern of omitting or censoring religious subjects.

Hu guessed that maybe one in five of the men at the 180-student seminary knew about Lin’s faith, and almost none of the women.

Chinese authorities allow one Protestant seminary per province, as a way to limit the number of pastors and slow the spread of Christianity, which by some estimates may have more than 100 million adherents among China’s 1.3 billion people.

Mao ordered the merger of Protestant denominations in China in 1958; while different strands of Protestantism have informally re-emerged since Mao’s death in 1976, they must share a small supply of seminary graduates and other pastors trained at Bible schools operating informally.

The N.B.A. has estimated that 300 million people in China play basketball. The last year of , a basketball star from mainland China, deprived the N.B.A. of its main Asian draw. But Lin’s emergence has at least temporarily strengthened the league as a centerpiece of Chinese online chatter.

The highest-level fan may be Vice President , the heir apparent to become China’s top leader for the next decade. He flew to Washington on Monday to meet on Tuesday, and told The in a written response to questions, “I do watch N.B.A. games on television when I have time.”
620 2012-02-15 The goal is to “disrupt the ‘sleep-washing’ ” among consumers, he added, who “automatically pick up the product they usually pick up” when shopping for detergent.

Tide Pods will be priced between regular Tide liquid and a more expensive variety known as Tide Total Care. The cost of Tide Pods is important because Procter has been struggling in categories like detergent to woo back budget-conscious shoppers who have been switching to cheaper alternatives, like Arm & Hammer, Purex and Xtra.

In a research note last week, Caroline Levy of Crédit Agricole Securities (USA) wrote that Arm & Hammer and Xtra, sold by Church & Dwight, “are beneficiaries of the consumer trade-down that is hurting Procter & Gamble (Tide).”

Executives at Procter are confident that the benefits offered by Tide Pods, like convenience, will outweigh qualms about cost.

“There has definitely been a value commentary from consumers,” Mr. Raman said, who, before buying a product, now ask “Is it worth it?” and “Is this going to deliver the results it promises?”

Tide Pods is “designed to succeed, even in a tough economy, if it delivers value,” he added.

The campaign has an upbeat, youthful attitude that is meant to underline the differences between Tide Pods and conventional detergents. There are no piles of laundry compared side by side, or didactic demonstrations of the performance of Tide Pods versus Brand X.

Instead, attractive models — hunky men along with stylish women — are shown popping out of washers in fashionable outfits after joining the pod squad.

The look of the campaign is inspired by the work of four pop artists: Miles Donovan, I Love Dust, Kari Moden and Steve Wilson. Fast-paced commercials feature a remixed version of “Pop Goes the World,” a 1987 song by Men Without Hats.

The “pop” motif is repeated in phrases that appear in the ads, among them “Get ready to pop your laundry,” “Pop of fresh,” “Pop of clean” and “Pop of hello gorgeous.”

The last remark may be appropriate because Barbra Streisand — who said, “Hello, gorgeous” in “Funny Girl,” and repeated it when she accepted her Oscar for Best Actress for “Funny Girl” — also appeared in “The Prince of Tides.”

The campaign also has a microsite, or special Web site, at tidepods.com, along with content on the regular Tide Web site, at tide.com; a presence on the Tide fan page on Facebook, at facebook.com/Tide; messages on the Tide feed on Twitter, at twitter.com/Tide, with suggestions to use the hashtag #TidePods; and video clips on YouTube.

And print ads will include QR (quick response) codes that can be scanned to produce information about Tide Pods.

The goal is to make the campaign “look and seem like nothing you’ve seen in laundry,” said Maru Kopelowicz, senior vice president and global creative director for Tide at Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, and the cheeky tone is intended to echo “the playfulness of popping” a pod into a washer.

The high-tech approach is intended to signal that Tide Pods are “the future of laundry,” she added, and each pod is presented as if it were “this precious little gadget, almost.”

The campaign is the most recent initiative by Procter, once known for being a staid, even stodgy, marketer, to make it ads more contemporary.

For instance, Procter began running ads last year for two other laundry brands, Downy and Era, with Amy Sedaris and Chuck Norris.

Among the agencies working on the Tide Pods campaign are others that, like Saatchi & Saatchi, are owned by the Publicis Groupe, including Digitas and the Starcom MediaVest Group.

Procter spent $176.5 million to advertise Tide in major media in 2010, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP, compared with $133.8 million in 2009 and $103.3 million in 2008.

In the first nine months of 2011, Kantar Media reported, spending totaled $74.7 million, compared with $135.9 million in the same period in 2010.
621 2012-02-15 The F.C.C., which had granted a conditional approval to LightSquared to go ahead with its network pending the results of more testing, will now propose barring near-term deployment of the LightSquared system, the F.C.C. said. The commission will issue a request for public comment on the proposed action on Wednesday.

LightSquared has argued that its network would have relieved a potential “spectrum crunch” and created billions of dollars of investment and thousands of jobs in support of President Obama’s push to expand wireless Internet access around the country.

The network has been opposed by organizations and industries that make heavy use of GPS systems, including the military, aviation, construction and agriculture.

After earlier negative test results, LightSquared had proposed using only land-based transmitters and receivers, rather than satellites, to transmit broadband signals over a narrow slice of the satellite airwaves. The company intended to build a wholesale network, selling access to other companies that provide broadband service directly to consumers.

The telecommunications and information agency said tests showed that even a scaled-back version of the company’s wireless network would interfere with GPS signals and systems.

Interference of LightSquared’s signals with GPS systems is a tricky issue for the F.C.C., telecommunications experts say, because the interference appears not to be the fault of LightSquared. The most commonly used GPS receivers tend to pick up signals from outside of the segment of spectrum designated for GPS.

Because the satellite-telephone segment of airwaves, used by LightSquared, is next to the GPS band on the electromagnetic spectrum, GPS devices will frequently hear those extraneous transmissions.

The F.C.C. could have told GPS users and systems manufacturers that they were at fault for letting their devices stray into nearby airwaves, but that would mean overhauling an industry now in widespread use.

Jeff Carlisle, LightSquared’s executive vice president for regulatory affairs and public policy, wrote on the company’s blog this week that the GPS industry had apparently become “too big to fail,” seeking protection from the federal government for its own mistakes.

“GPS manufacturers have been selling devices that listen into frequencies outside of their assigned spectrum band — namely into LightSquared’s licensed band,” Mr. Carlisle wrote. “The GPS industry has leveraged years of insider relationships and massive lobbying dollars to make sure that they don’t have to fix the problem they created.”

Opposition to LightSquared’s network has come from the Pentagon and military industries, as well as from commercial companies like John Deere, whose advanced farm equipment uses GPS systems.

Last July, the Federal Aviation Administration issued a report saying that it would take 10 years for the civil aviation industry to design, develop, certify and install modified GPS equipment in the nation’s fleet of commercial and private jets.

But in January, after initial results of the latest round of testing began to appear in the media, LightSquared conducted a conference call with reporters in which the company’s executives said the testing requirements were aimed at producing a failing result and that members of the advisory board overseeing the testing “have deep ties with the same GPS manufacturers who have sold poorly designed equipment to America’s farmers, public safety officials, military and government agencies.”

Mr. Falcone’s hedge fund, Harbinger Capital Partners, lost more than 46 percent of its value last year because of declines in the value of LightSquared, a private company whose shares do not actively trade.

Harbinger marked down the value of its LightSquared investment by 50 percent in December, a move that came after a 9 percent markdown earlier in the year. The New York Times reported earlier this month that LightSquared accounted for an estimated 60 percent of Mr. Falcone’s fund.

Late last year, Mr. Falcone received a Wells Notice from the Securities and Exchange Commission, an action the agency typically takes when it is planning enforcement proceedings against a firm or individual. The Times reported in December that the S.E.C was investigating whether Harbinger agreed in 2009 to allow Goldman Sachs to withdraw up to $50 million from the firm’s hedge funds, while not striking similar deals with other clients.

In a federal filing disclosing the issue, Harbinger said that it was “disappointed” about the notices, and that it would “vigorously defend against” any formal charges.

Mr. Falcone was part of an investment group that bought 19 percent of the common stock of The New York Times Company and in 2008 reached a deal to award the group two new seats on the company’s board. The group urged the company to begin selling assets to help increase the stock price. One of the two directors has since left the board.
622 2012-02-15 In “The Zuckerberg Tax” (Op-Ed, Feb. 8), David S. Miller advocates a system of taxation in which unrealized appreciation (or depreciation) in an individual’s holdings of publicly traded securities would be “marked to market” and taxed (or refunded) annually as if they had sold their position at year’s end. He writes that this system of taxation “would not affect the middle class” and “would affect only individuals who were undeniably, extraordinarily rich.”

In my opinion, his line of thinking is terribly flawed. Many, many ordinary people invest in publicly traded securities throughout their working lives, seeking to build capital for their retirement. Taxing (or refunding) the ebb and flow of their investment assets annually would create enormous financial difficulties for them, likely requiring that they sell off assets in order to pay the tax.

A second issue is that of complexity. Marking-to-market would just add another layer of paperwork to an already overly complex, indeed ridiculous, tax code. We need to go the other way. Please.

It is unfair that the shareholder’s heirs do not owe taxes on stock gains that occurred before his death. This law should be changed. However, mark-to-market taxation of investments is a flawed idea for numerous reasons.

First, it creates perverse incentives. Had this rule been in place in 2008, the Treasury would have paid billion-dollar refunds to the executives at failed institutions like American International Group and Lehman Brothers. The public would have been understandably outraged.
623 2012-02-15 Mr. Alléno has long had a special relationship with tête de veau.

When he was a chef’s apprentice at 15, one of his jobs was to go shopping at the vast Rungis food hall every Sunday morning at 1:30. His last stop was the butcher selling organ meats. The butcher would boil 20-pound têtes de veau in huge iron caldrons and serve his clients big, messy sandwiches filled with bits of cheek, skin, fat, gristle, tongue and brains covered in a white vinaigrette gribiche sauce.

“We worked in the restaurant Saturday night and then went to Rungis as soon as it opened to buy for the next week,” Mr. Alléno recalled in the kitchen of his restaurant. “The triperie was the last stop, and the tête de veau was the way we could finally unwind, rest and talk.”

He considers tête de veau a symbol of his success. In 2007, when he was awarded his third Michelin star, his mentor, Paul Bocuse, honored him with a lunch at his restaurant outside Lyon that started with a classic tête de veau that he had prepared.

Even now, on Mr. Alléno’s menu at his marquee restaurant at the luxurious Meurice is a delicate first course of tête de veau made with cheek and tongue with a gribiche-like sabayon sauce.

Diners who like tête de veau will likely take to the hot-dog version. The taste is more refined than classic tête de veau, the texture softer and more gelatinous than a classic sausage, and without an outer casing, it lacks crunch. It’s probably best for the uninitiated to forget that it started as an animal’s head.

Trying one with a glass of chilled 2009 Chassagne-Montrachet, Jean-Pierre Ribaut, the food critic for Le Monde and Mr. Alléno’s co-author of a two-volume work of classic French recipes, had two words: “Wow! Tasty!”

The nine-euro veau chaud (about $12) will be the star at Terroir Parisien, Mr. Alléno’s informal bistro set to open March 10 at 20 rue Saint Victor, an Art Deco building near the Sorbonne in the Fifth Arrondissement. Designed by the architect Jean-Michel Wilmotte, it needs a lot more work. The gray stone floor and white wall tiles are in place, but the kitchen is not installed, the walls not painted, the wood-slat central vault unfinished. It will seat 60 at zinc-covered tables and 14 at a center counter, and will be open daily from 8 a.m. until an undetermined time at night.

Mr. Alléno will also serve classic bistro fare: hard-boiled eggs and langoustines (both in a gelatin base), veal en croûte, boudin noir, mackerel in white wine, navarin of lamb with asparagus, croque-monsieurs, chicken liver pâté, head cheese and an assortment of terrines and charcuterie.

Wine from his private stock will be available in pitchers. For dessert there will be traditional cream-filled pastries known as niflettes.

Asked how he will persuade American visitors to try a tête de veau sandwich, he said, “This is something you should try once in your life.”

If anyone can charm conservative diners into eating offal, Mr. Alléno can.

In May 2008 he was voted the “sexiest chef” in France in a poll by the Internet site L’Internaute. (One of his black-and-white publicity photos shows him buttoned-up in his chef’s whites, tying — or perhaps untying — his apron.)

“It made my mother so happy,” Mr. Alléno said. “She is very restrained, not very emotional. But she called me and said, ‘I’m very proud of you!’ She didn’t say that even when I got my third star.”
624 2012-02-15 Radiohead, Red Hot Chili Peppers and the reunited Beach Boys will headline this year's Bonnaroo Music and Arts Festival, organizers said Tuesday.  The sprawling four-day festival that starts on June 7 will have 125 bands on 13 stages, covering a w...
625 2012-02-15 The new musical ''Far From Heaven,'' based on the 2002 film starring Julianne Moore and Dennis Quaid as a 1950s housewife and her sexually conflicted husband, will be among the six productions that Playwrights Horizons will mount during its 2012-1...
626 2012-02-16 John Kinnucan, a technology analyst who gained notoriety last year for openly challenging federal authorities, was arrested on Thursday night....
627 2012-02-16 In separate statements, Moody's Investor Service indicated it was reviewing its ratings for scores of banks with concerns over the prolonged debt crisis in Europe and new regulation....
628 2012-02-16 He has not appeared on the channel since October, when he began promoting a book called "Suicide of a Superpower: Will America Survive to 2025?"...
629 2012-02-16 Excerpts from interviews with officials from Babson College and Bentley University, as well as the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, who answer questions about studying business as an undergraduate in the United States....
630 2012-02-16 Maine has decided to include in the vote total results from Washington County, which votes on Saturday....
631 2012-02-16 After a federal jury said last month that Donald Drapkin was entitled to $16 million in pay from the holding company of Ronald O. Perelman, the two financiers have reached a settlement....
632 2012-02-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
633 2012-02-16 Venezuela's national music program aimed at young people, put on a major show of orchestra playing and singing for the visiting Los Angeles Philharmonic, its staff and patrons....
634 2012-02-16 At the midpoint of the price range, Yelp would be valued at about $778 million, a relatively lower valuation by some accounts that could reflect the company’s warnings of slowing growth....
635 2012-02-16 Set in the fictional town of Dirt, with a cast of mangy, hard-to-identify animals, “Rango” is a good example of imperfection: the look is all dusty and sweaty, with stray grit and hair. Mr. Verbinski, who made his animation debut with the film, called it fuzz, and he was constantly asking his animators to add it into shots.

“What he meant was, find some imperfections, put a little hitch in it or a little twitch under the character’s eye or just some little idiosyncrasy,” Mr. Hickel said. “Gore would say we were always having to fabricate anomaly.”

In his office, beneath a sign reading “No Right Angles,” John Bell, the supervising art director of “Rango,” pulled out a sheaf of his drawings to demonstrate. Yes, paper sketches: Mr. Bell, a longtime animator who has worked on films from “Back to the Future” (he helped design the hoverboard) to Steven Spielberg’s “A.I.,” begins his work with a notepad and a fat carpenter pencil. “I’m a 20th-century holdover,” he said, laughing. For “Rango” he drafted the flophouse and the mayor’s mansion, considering details like whether the doorknobs would be shiny or rusted, and what oil paintings the mayor might have of himself.

“Everything has to be thought of, everything has to be designed — the path of the sun, what’s the dirt look like,” he said.

For inspiration animators and effects experts look to art, books, movies and, naturally, YouTube. “I was just looking at something this morning, it was a crow snowboarding down a snowy roof in a little piece of plastic,” said Mr. Hickel, who began his career at Industrial Light with “The Lost World,” the sequel to “Jurassic Park.” “You look at that, and you think: ‘Someday I’m going to have to animate a snowboarding bird. I better hold onto that.’ ”

Of course at Industrial Light, there are also high-tech resources. The image-capture studio, ringed with 45 high-fidelity cameras, employs technology used in the military and medical fields, as well as proprietary software. James Cameron and Michael Bay have come through, for “Titanic” and “Transformers.” In a corner, near a beat-up mannequin, hung a motion-capture suit. “Almost every movie we have has some form of what we would call a digital double or a humanoid performance,” said Mike Sanders, a digital supervisor at Industrial Light.

For “Rango” the studio was used as a stand-in soundstage; monitors showed different views of the townscape of Dirt. “The camera system in this room is triangulating where these points are in space,” Mr. Sanders said, handing me an iPad-like device that functioned as a joystick.  “Computers back there tell us: ‘I know where you are in the room. I’m going to put you in the same spot inside the town of Dirt.’ ” As I walked around the room with the joystick, angling it, I moved through Dirt, getting a new perspective on the scene — a real-life way to navigate through digital space. It’s a tool, Mr. Sanders said, to tell animators where a camera should go or how to set up a shot, and it felt like being inside a very cool video game.

Coolness is definitely a factor at Industrial Light & Magic. “What’s next?” Mr. Sanders said. “How can we outdo ourselves? That’s a big part of storytelling.”

Sometimes, though, all they need is a body. Faced with a tight deadline on “Titanic” and a scene on the deck that wasn’t really working, Mr. Sanders pulled an all-nighter. “I got the deck chair, and I just shot in the motion-capture library, doing different things in a deck chair,” he said. He altered his image digitally later, but he is literally every body on the deck of the “Titanic.” Mr. Bay too has appeared in some scenes in “Transformers,” only to be digitally scrubbed later.

For “Rango” Mr. Verbinski videotaped his cast members as they did their voice-overs and gave the footage to the animators as a template. Speaking of Isla Fisher, who voiced the love interest, Beans, Mr. Hickel said, “Gore would go through it with us and say: ‘I love what Isla’s doing here with her eyes. It’s very funny. And Johnny’s got a great hand gesture here on this line.”

It’s a technique that animators use themselves, in much more DIY fashion. In a corner of the compound there is a little room lined with mirrors, where they go and tape themselves performing scenes. “We go a lot into our acting room,” said Maia Kayser, who animated Beans. “It’s a fun part of the process, because it’s a good way to explore ideas.”

That these multimillion-dollar blockbusters are made in the same way many of the creators first approached them — acting out their favorite scenes privately — is not lost on the people here. How many people at Industrial Light are “Star Wars” nerds?  “Pretty much all of them,” Mr. Hickel said cheerfully. “You’ve always got some people who try to be cool about it.  They’d be like: ‘Who was that snow creature that attacks? I can’t think of what the name is,’ and you know full well that they know it’s a Wampa.”
636 2012-02-16 Women may be making a trade-off between pay and other aspects of work that make them happy....
637 2012-02-16 With Mountain Lion, the next operating system for its Mac computers, Apple has one clear message: If you're going to buy one Apple product, you might as well keep buying more. Apple's sneak peek at Mountain Lion reveals its intent to make the Mac ...
638 2012-02-16 Rick Santorum highlighted a difference with Mitt Romney on government financial intervention during a speech at the Detroit Economic Club....
639 2012-02-16 The new operating system software for the Mac brings even more of the iPhone/iPad features to the Mac. The juiciest payoff here is the suite of Mac apps that now mimic what’s on the iPhone/iPad....
640 2012-02-16 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
641 2012-02-16 The three ski areas run by New York State are suffering through the largely snowless winter....
642 2012-02-16 The celebratory meal enjoyed by the winners of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show will go on after the city finds a way around its Health Department rules....
643 2012-02-16 Guillermo del Toro got into animation in a big way this season, helping to produce "Puss in Boots" and "Kung Fu Panda 2." That's why he probably wouldn't agree with a blogger's argument that the Oscar for animated feature is redundant....
644 2012-02-16 Gretchen Morgenson on questionable legal practices with foreclosures | Unemployed youth in Britain | How hedge funds run afoul of politics....
645 2012-02-16 Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn has gained a reputation as one of the sharpest hedge fund investors around. Thanks to the British financial services regulator, we have some new examples of his mind at work....
646 2012-02-16 Gretchen Morgenson on questionable legal practices with foreclosures | Unemployed youth in Britain | How hedge funds run afoul of politics.
647 2012-02-16 Amnesty International on Thursday accused Libya's militia groups of broad human rights abuses, including war crimes, against those who are suspected of being loyalists of the deposed leader....
648 2012-02-16 Apple has been bringing features of iOS, the software that powers its iPad and iPhone, to its Mac operating system, OS X. Now it is pushing further down that path with a preview of the next version of OS X, dubbed Mountain Lion....
649 2012-02-16 Most small businesses have little value beyond their balance sheet or profit-and-loss statement and cannot be sold as going, operating businesses....
650 2012-02-16 Bhibu Mohapatra says he has made clothes since he was 13....
651 2012-02-16 TOKYO — In surprisingly frank public testimony on Wednesday, Japan’s nuclear safety chief said the country’s regulations were fundamentally flawed and laid out a somber picture of a nuclear industry shaped by freewheeling power companies, toothless regulators and a government more interested in promoting nuclear energy than in safeguarding the health of its citizens.

The disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, stricken by an earthquake and a tsunami last March, has led to widespread criticism of nuclear officials for their lax approach to safety, as well as for a bungled response that allowed meltdowns to occur at three of the plant’s six reactors.

The scale of the accident, which forced almost 100,000 people from their homes and contaminated a wide area of northeastern Japan, has put pressure on the government to explain why warnings about the plant’s safety went unheeded and global safety standards were ignored, even as officials promoted nuclear power as the country’s most reliable source of electricity.

Haruki Madarame, head of a panel of nuclear safety experts who provide technical advice to the government, told a Parliament-sponsored inquiry on Wednesday that Japanese officials had succumbed to a blind belief in the country’s technical prowess and failed to thoroughly assess the risks of building nuclear reactors in an earthquake-prone country.

For example, officials did not give serious consideration to what would happen if electric power were lost at a nuclear station, because they believed that Japan’s power grid was far more reliable than those in other countries, he said. The March earthquake and tsunami cut off the Fukushima plant from the grid, leaving operators unable to keep the reactor cores from overheating.

“Though global safety standards kept on improving, we wasted our time coming up with excuses for why Japan didn’t need to bother meeting them,” Mr. Madarame said.
652 2012-02-16 TOKYO — In surprisingly frank public testimony on Wednesday, Japan’s nuclear safety chief said the country’s regulations were fundamentally flawed and laid out a somber picture of a nuclear industry shaped by freewheeling power companies, toothless regulators and a government more interested in promoting nuclear energy than in safeguarding the health of its citizens.

The disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, stricken by an earthquake and a tsunami last March, has led to widespread criticism of nuclear officials for their lax approach to safety, as well as for a bungled response that allowed meltdowns to occur at three of the plant’s six reactors.

The scale of the accident, which forced almost 100,000 people from their homes and contaminated a wide area of northeastern Japan, has put pressure on the government to explain why warnings about the plant’s safety went unheeded and global safety standards were ignored, even as officials promoted nuclear power as the country’s most reliable source of electricity.

Haruki Madarame, head of a panel of nuclear safety experts who provide technical advice to the government, told a Parliament-sponsored inquiry on Wednesday that Japanese officials had succumbed to a blind belief in the country’s technical prowess and failed to thoroughly assess the risks of building nuclear reactors in an earthquake-prone country.

For example, officials did not give serious consideration to what would happen if electric power were lost at a nuclear station, because they believed that Japan’s power grid was far more reliable than those in other countries, he said. The March earthquake and tsunami cut off the Fukushima plant from the grid, leaving operators unable to keep the reactor cores from overheating.

“Though global safety standards kept on improving, we wasted our time coming up with excuses for why Japan didn’t need to bother meeting them,” Mr. Madarame said.
653 2012-02-16 “The United States is more than 51 percent women, and I can say that we will mobilize our base and we will outnumber the other side,” said Stephanie Schriock, the president of Emily’s List, which works to elect women who support abortion rights to Congress.

Her organization is one of more than 40 — including the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Naral Pro-Choice America, MoveOn.org and the Service Employees International Union — that formed a Coalition to Protect Women’s Health Care and are asking millions of supporters to get involved.

On Friday, Mr. Obama sought to defuse the conflict by saying insurance companies, rather than religious employers themselves, would pay the costs of birth control.

But the Catholic bishops said their basic objection remained. “We will therefore continue — with no less vigor, no less sense of urgency — our efforts to correct this problem through the other two branches of government,” they declared. Other “preventive services” mandated by the health law are aimed at disease, the bishops wrote, “and pregnancy is not a disease,” an implicit rejection of the administration’s characterization of this as a health issue.

The bishops and others are pushing for a reversal in Congress, which some say could happen in the Republican-controlled House. But with the Senate in Democratic hands, a legislative resolution is unlikely, so both sides are pressing their cases more widely, with an eye to November’s battle for control of Congress as well as the presidency.

To that end, bishops around the country are planning media campaigns, including radio and television advertisements, to denounce what they call a violation of conscience and the First Amendment. At the same time, they are asking parish priests to raise the matter with congregations and to circulate petitions.

Conservative evangelical groups, even though most do not oppose contraception on theological grounds, have taken up the cause with equal force. Their leaders argue that a government mandate forcing any religious group to act against its beliefs is a threat to all religions. Major evangelical groups that openly opposed Mr. Obama and his health care plan in the past see this as a new affront and a new opportunity for attack.

The National Association of Evangelicals, which represents thousands of churches in 40 denominations, “will be working vigorously” against the mandate, said Galen Carey, the association’s vice president for government relations — lending substance to the statement last week by Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor and a Baptist minister, that “we are all Catholics now.”

Evangelical leaders say they would be outraged by the mandate in any case, but many also believe that it will bring them political gains. Mr. Reed, the conservative strategist, said that even if a majority of Americans expressed general support for requiring contraceptive coverage — and even if, as he believes, the economy remained the primary issue — getting conservative and religious voters more fired up could make a difference.

“Among key voter groups in key battleground states, this issue in combination with others is not going to be helpful to Obama,” he said.

Women’s health advocates, though, insist that they will win this fight.

“Women are coming out of the woodwork, saying, ‘They’re attacking birth control? You’ve got to be kidding!’ ” said Dawn Laguens, executive vice president for policy and communications of Planned Parenthood. “The people who vote against birth control and vote against health care — they are going to have boxed themselves into a very small corner.”
654 2012-02-16 Before becoming an F.B.I. agent for a decade, Mr. Grimm worked for a year for a small firm on Wall Street that frequently ran into problems with regulators and customers, regulatory filings show. But his official biographies do not mention the firm, Whale Securities.

After he left the bureau, he opened a restaurant in that has been accused in a lawsuit of cheating its workers and fined by the state for failing to carry workers’ compensation.

Mr. Grimm, who represents and part of , is facing scrutiny after reported last month that the F.B.I. was investigating his main fund-raiser in the 2010 race.

The fund-raiser, Ofer Biton, helped Mr. Grimm collect more than $500,000 in campaign donations from the followers of an Israeli rabbi and mystic, a vast majority of whom do not live in the Congressional district.

Followers of the rabbi have told The Times that Mr. Grimm or Mr. Biton informed them the campaign would find ways to accept illegal donations, including those that exceeded limits, were paid in cash or came from foreigners without green cards.

The F.B.I. is examining allegations that Mr. Biton embezzled millions of dollars from the rabbi’s congregation.

Mr. Grimm has said he never violated the law, but declined to answer questions about his fund-raising.

The Times sent Mr. Grimm questions last week about his business activities and associates. Mr. Grimm responded with an official statement.

“Like many small-business owners, I have experienced successes as well as setbacks,” he said. “But I have tried to face adversity the same way that I have met every challenge in my life: ethically and lawfully.”

He added: “I have relied as a businessman on the same principles of honesty that have guided my service as a Marine, an F.B.I. special agent and as a congressman. This attack is politically motivated, as my record as an effective congressman, fighting for Staten Island and Brooklyn, cannot be denied.”

Friends and political allies described Mr. Grimm as honest and patriotic.

Jack Garcia, a retired F.B.I. agent who is well regarded for putting organized-crime figures behind bars, said he worked with Mr. Grimm on undercover operations. Mr. Garcia said Mr. Grimm was a master of playing the roles of criminals — money launderer, corrupt stock broker — and would “never in a million years” commit an impropriety.

Mr. Grimm’s political ascent has been based on that reputation.

But along the way, Mr. Grimm met friction from some fellow Republicans on Staten Island. In 2010, the borough’s party committee took an unusual step: endorsing a Brooklynite for the House seat. (Mr. Grimm nonetheless won the primary and defeated the Democratic incumbent.)

Two people familiar with the committee’s deliberations said in interviews that it did not endorse Mr. Grimm partly because he gave vague answers when asked why he left the F.B.I. after a decade — and what he did afterward.

Mr. Grimm and Mr. Luquis, the former F.B.I. agent convicted in Texas, were colleagues in the bureau for five years, from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Luquis then left for a job at the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, a publicly subsidized nonprofit group that helps to manage the electrical grid.

In 2005, Mr. Luquis and five accomplices were charged with stealing $2 million from electricity customers.

In May 2006, days after Mr. Grimm left the F.B.I., he and a partner, Harold Rosenbaum, borrowed $1.34 million from a bank and agreed to pay $965,000 to Mr. Luquis’s company, Hill Castle Homes, to build a house near , Tex., according to property and court records.

The records show that they agreed to work with Mr. Luquis’s company even earlier, in March 2006, when Mr. Grimm was an F.B.I. agent.

By May 25, 2006, when Mr. Luquis signed a contract on the deal, he was weeks away from trial, at which he was convicted and sentenced to 12 years in prison. F.B.I. officials flew in and testified during the sentencing phase that Mr. Luquis had also exaggerated his role in investigating the Sept. 11 attacks.

Three years later, the land deal had soured, and Mr. Grimm sought to be released from a debt to a craftsman who worked on the house.

In May 2009, court records show, a lawyer representing Mr. Grimm advised the craftsman’s lawyer that “the builder” had “misappropriated a large portion of the construction and subsequently filed for bankruptcy and disappeared.”

In fact, Mr. Grimm had remained in contact with Mr. Luquis.

In 2007, when Mr. Luquis was in prison, Mr. Grimm founded a company with Mr. Luquis’s wife, Monica, and Mr. Luquis’s partner from Hill Castle, Michael Kloc.

And in 2008, shortly after Mr. Luquis was paroled, Mr. Grimm formed another Texas company, Austin Refuel, to turn grease into fuel.

Mr. Luquis, who declined to comment, was Austin Refuel’s director of logistics.

Mr. Grimm acknowledged last year that he helped Mr. Luquis get the job, calling him “a friend that needed a hand.”

But he had never disclosed before that the two men were in business together far earlier, when Mr. Luquis was under indictment.

Mr. Grimm has also provided an incomplete picture of his time on Wall Street.

In 1994, he spent a year at Whale Securities, a firm that was sanctioned repeatedly by regulators for gouging customers.

There is no evidence that Mr. Grimm engaged in wrongdoing there. But in his official biographies, which emphasize that his Wall Street experience prepared him to fight white-collar crime, he says he worked at a firm called Harmonic Research.

Several of Whale’s former managers said in interviews that Harmonic Research was not a licensed brokerage at the time, but merely the name of a newsletter that a small group of brokers at Whale produced.

Mr. Grimm was paid by Whale and obtained his broker’s license as a Whale employee, according to interviews and regulatory records.

Twelve years later, Mr. Grimm was back in business in New York, where he formed a company called Granny Sayz, L.L.C., which operated Healthalicious, a restaurant on Second Avenue near 83rd Street in Manhattan. The company was affiliated with a company now connected to Mr. Biton, the Grimm fund-raiser who is under investigation.

The Workers’ Compensation Board last month ordered Healthalicious to pay $88,000 for not carrying workers’ compensation . And in 2011, two former deliverymen retained a lawyer, Dan Knauth, asserting that the restaurant had paid them less than minimum wage, did not pay for work beyond 40 hours per week and paid cash to evade scrutiny.

Mr. Knauth said he contacted Mr. Grimm’s office about the complaints. Shortly afterward, Mr. Grimm filed papers with the state to dissolve his company, Granny Sayz.

On Dec. 1, the deliverymen sued the restaurant, Mr. Grimm and others.

The defendants have not responded in court. But the restaurant has engaged in maneuvers that make it more difficult to sue.

The restaurant’s legal name originally contained the word Healthalicious, with a C. Then in 2010, it was changed to Healthalitious NYC (with a T).

Finally, right after the lawsuit was filed, the restaurant changed its legal name again, to Healthalicious Upper East Side — with a C.
655 2012-02-16 Other experts agreed, saying Sunni extremists — some of whom have returned from Iraq to fight in Syria — also have the expertise to carry out large-scale bombings.

“There are plenty of people with that kind of know-how in Syria,” said Andrew Tabler, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and the author of a recent book on Syrian-American relations. “The Assad regime helped invent the car bomb, and they have used it brilliantly to pursue their foreign policy goals. It could be Al Qaeda or simply those with a similar background carrying it out.”

Or as Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, put it during Senate testimony on Tuesday, “Those who would like to foment a Sunni-Shia standoff — and you know who they are — are all weighing in in Syria.”

The Syrian government has always argued that it was fighting foreign terrorists, including some from Al Qaeda, a charge dismissed as propaganda by the Syrian activists leading the uprising.

But some American officials now say Al Qaeda in Iraq, whose membership has declined substantially in recent years, is trying to take advantage of the violence in Syria and perhaps even hijack the popular uprising against the Syrian government.

Al Qaeda was caught off guard by the Arab Spring’s largely nonviolent, secular revolutions fueled by social media. The death of Osama bin Laden in May dealt the organization another major blow, and it has been seeking a foothold ever since.

“It comes as no surprise that Al Qaeda’s Iraq affiliate, through its networks in Syria, might attempt to seem relevant by going after the Assad regime,” said an American official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the assessment contained classified information. “It is opportunism, plain and simple.”

Indeed, Ayman al-Zawahri, who succeeded Bin Laden as the leader of Al Qaeda worldwide, issued a statement on Saturday urging Muslims in the region — he specifically mentioned Iraq — to support the uprising, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadist communications.

The debate over Al Qaeda’s role in Syria came as the United States government on Wednesday offered to help any post-Assad government secure Syria’s stockpiles of chemical weapons and portable antiaircraft missiles.

With violence rising and the political outcome wholly uncertain, American officials acknowledged that the effort to secure Syria’s unconventional weapons remained speculative.

But the high-level comments underscored concerns that the chaotic situation in Syria may offer opportunities for terrorist organizations to acquire chemical weapons or a type of shoulder-launched missile sought by militants to shoot down commercial airliners.

The American intelligence community is monitoring Syria’s weapons stockpiles, officials said, even as it attempts to increase its efforts to gather information about and assessments of the opposition militia leadership.

“We would certainly be prepared to work with any successor government to help them secure control of those weapons with a goal to destroying them,” said Thomas Countryman, the assistant secretary of state for international security and nonproliferation.

“First priority: to secure. Second priority: to destroy,” he said during a breakfast meeting with reporters. “How exactly you do that in a situation in which the new government has not firmly established its authority or its security control over the country is only speculative at this point.”

A similar American effort is securing and destroying the Qaddafi government’s stockpile of chemical weapons in Libya.

But there is a significant difference: Libya had signed an international chemical weapons treaty, and thus had declared the location and size of its stockpiles. Syria has not signed the convention, although American officials said they had a fairly clear idea of where the Assad government stored its chemical weapons.

The United States also hopes to replicate in Syria its efforts to help the new Libyan government account for an estimated 20,000 shoulder-launched antiaircraft missiles held by the Qaddafi government before it fell, a project in which the United States is enlisting the assistance of Libya’s neighbors. A significant number of those Libyan missiles were destroyed, and an additional 5,000 have been tallied, Mr. Countryman said.

Syria’s stockpile of shoulder-launched, antiaircraft missiles is believed to number in the tens of thousands, an arsenal that “we don’t wish to see to fall into terrorist hands,” Mr. Countryman said.

He also said Iran and Russia were continuing to supply Syria with conventional armaments that could be used against militia forces and civilians opposing the Assad government. He did not provide details on the types of weapons.
656 2012-02-16 Officials in other European capitals fear that if Greece is given the entire bailout at once, politicians in Athens will ease up on the politically unpopular measures, yielding to the pressure of a people who are fed up with austerity. The officials remained skeptical despite receiving written pledges on Wednesday from Greek leaders, who said they would adhere to the terms of the bailout agreement even after parliamentary elections.

“Who will ensure afterward that Greece continues to stand by what Greece is agreeing to now?” Germany’s finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, said in a radio interview. He said he “had doubts” that Greece would fulfill all of the requirements.

The tougher stance reflects a growing belief that Europe could weather a default by Greece and its subsequent departure from the euro zone, and that such a move would not destabilize financially shaky countries like Portugal, Spain and even Italy. In a sign of the poisonous atmosphere that is coloring the discussions, the Greek president, Karolos Papoulias, accused Mr. Schäuble of insulting his country.

“We all have the obligation to make the effort to get through this crisis. I will not accept Mr. Schäuble reviling my country. I don’t accept this as a Greek,” Mr. Papoulias told members of the Greek armed forces during a visit to the Defense Ministry. “Who is Mr. Schäuble to revile Greece? Who are the Dutch? Who are the Finns? We always had the pride to defend not only our own country but the freedom of Europe.”

Further eroding support for Greece is the rising concern that even if the nation’s politicians follow through on the required overhaul, it will not be enough to put the country back on a sustainable track. Greece’s economy shrank 7 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, even faster than projected, making its fiscal goals that much harder to achieve.

“Austerity is like every potent medicine; an overdose of it can kill the patient,” said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “The tragedy of Greece is that they overdelivered on the austerity and underdelivered on the structural reforms; as a result, Greece is in a big mess.”

Though Germany is by no means alone in its skepticism, the conflict has increasingly become a two-nation affair. Protesters in Greece have burned German flags, and a rising chorus in Germany has called for the Greeks to be kicked out of the euro zone. The chief executive of the powerful industrial company Bosch on Wednesday became the latest high-profile figure to call for a Greek exit.

The conference call on Wednesday came after Mr. Juncker canceled a meeting of euro zone finance ministers in Brussels. Greece’s international lenders have demanded details on how Athens plans to make up a shortfall of $430 million in required budget savings after Greek political leaders insisted on limiting cuts to pensions. Mr. Juncker said those measures had now been identified.

But officials in Brussels cautioned that big doubts remained. “We’ve seen things moving in the last few days,” said one euro zone official who was not authorized to speak publicly, “but not quickly enough. The Greeks have to help us to help them.” Another official said that there were still not enough details about the additional savings.
657 2012-02-16 “What Wikipedia Won’t Tell You,” by Cary H. Sherman (Op-Ed, Feb. 8), underscores the reality that his organization, the Recording Industry Association of America, and other old-school content groups don’t understand the Internet.

What Mr. Sherman accurately calls a “digital tsunami” was the voice of millions of ordinary Americans expressing their displeasure with extremist copyright bills — the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and Protect IP Act (PIPA) — favored by the association. These citizens were legitimately concerned that these overly broad bills would have gone beyond pirates and harmed legitimate Web sites, innovation and the Internet economy.

In response to this overwhelming public opposition, one would expect the R.I.A.A. to reconsider and moderate its approach. Instead, Mr. Sherman chooses to accuse his opponents of bad faith, while repeating his same failed arguments.

The R.I.A.A. and its colleagues have long used the back rooms of Congress to formulate unbalanced and anti-consumer copyright laws. As we have learned, back rooms do not exist on the Internet.

PIPA and SOPA are now dead. I encourage Mr. Sherman to learn from his experience, jettison his love for these extremist bills and work with us on reasonable approaches to the very real problem of Internet piracy.
658 2012-02-16 “It’s not a negotiation over who takes what targets,” he said, “but a voluntary partnership aimed at producing tangible results in a relatively short period of time.”

The United States intends to contribute $12 million and Canada $3 million over two years to get the program off the ground and to help recruit other countries to participate. The United Nations Environment Program will run the project.

Officials hope that by tackling these fast-acting, climate-changing agents they can get results quicker than through the laborious and highly political negotiations conducted under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or U.N.F.C.C.C. That process, involving more than 190 nations, grinds on year after year with incremental political progress but little real impact on the climate.

At the most recent United Nations climate summit meeting, in Durban, South Africa, negotiators agreed to try to produce a binding global climate change treaty by 2015, to take effect after 2020. Many scientists say that irreversible damage to the atmosphere will be done before then.

Soot, methane and hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in foam and refrigerants, have a short life span in the atmosphere, measured in weeks or years. By contrast, carbon dioxide, the primary cause of climate disruption, persists in the atmosphere for thousands of years — and its effects are much more difficult to mitigate.

Researchers have identified about a dozen ways to significantly control black carbon and methane emissions. Soot can be reduced by installing filters on diesel engines, replacing traditional cookstoves with more efficient models, modernizing brick kilns and banning the open burning of agricultural waste. Methane can be captured from oil and gas wells, leaky pipelines, coal mines, municipal landfills, wastewater treatment plants, manure piles and rice paddies.

The new initiative will provide money for developing countries to reduce short-acting pollutants and will try to raise additional public and private funds for new mitigation projects. Drew T. Shindell, a senior climate scientist at NASA’s Goddard Institute on Space Studies, said that attacking short-lived climate agents could have immediate impacts.

“From a political point of view,” he said, “what’s really appealing about these measures is that a lot of the benefits are realized by those that take the action. If you reduce these emissions in the developing world, it’s the developing world that gets most of the benefits, by stabilizing rainfall and improving public health.”

Durwood Zaelke, president of the Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development, said that the initiative, if expanded and adequately financed, would have more impact on the climate than the United Nations climate change negotiations, at least in the near term.

“This is a formal declaration that we’re opening a second front in the climate war,” said Mr. Zaelke, who has been agitating for action on fast-acting climate change agents for years.

“We’d be fools to count on the U.N.F.C.C.C. for our salvation, though I wish it well,” he said. “This is a complement, not a substitute.”
659 2012-02-16 IF your dog turns up his nose at high-end prepared dog food — perhaps too effete for its taste — another foodie trend might be an option: raw food.

It’s not that pets are dining on hamburger meat straight from the package, but rather on specially prepared foods like uncooked lamb livers and bison, and alfalfa sprouts and kale.

Teresa Logan, a fashion stylist and doting owner of a 2 ½-year-old Chihuahua-Pomeranian mix named Penny, recently switched her dog to a raw diet (chicken, rabbit or venison with mixed vegetables; carrot medallions and red peppers for snacks) after some digestive issues. Ms. Logan said she’s been happy with the results. “Her coat looks good, her stomach is good, and she’s even slimmed down,” she said. “It’s like the difference between eating junk food and eating health food.”

At dog runs around New York, many pet owners shared stories about how they’ve put their dogs on the Diet. They include Sonya Wilcox, who switched Petey, her Boston terrier, to raw turkey and vegetables a year and a half ago to treat his “terrible dry, brittle coat” and severe allergies. Dréa Peters, the founder of Curly Tail Pug Rescue, credits a diet of raw elk meat with saving the life of Chloe, her pug, who was suffering from seemingly untreatable allergies, lesions and tumors.

Raw dog diets aren’t a new concept (many dogs were fed uncooked meat before kibble was introduced in the 1950s), but the raw foodist niche in the pet-care industry is a relatively recent development. And some veterinarians are skeptical.
660 2012-02-16 Three dogs and three cats tasted gourmet pet foods on the market....
661 2012-02-16 TOKYO — In surprisingly frank public testimony on Wednesday, Japan’s nuclear safety chief said the country’s regulations were fundamentally flawed and laid out a somber picture of a nuclear industry shaped by freewheeling power companies, toothless regulators and a government more interested in promoting nuclear energy than in safeguarding the health of its citizens.

The disaster at the Fukushima Daiichi plant, stricken by an earthquake and a tsunami last March, has led to widespread criticism of nuclear officials for their lax approach to safety, as well as for a bungled response that allowed meltdowns to occur at three of the plant’s six reactors.

The scale of the accident, which forced almost 100,000 people from their homes and contaminated a wide area of northeastern Japan, has put pressure on the government to explain why warnings about the plant’s safety went unheeded and global safety standards were ignored, even as officials promoted nuclear power as the country’s most reliable source of electricity.

Haruki Madarame, head of a panel of nuclear safety experts who provide technical advice to the government, told a Parliament-sponsored inquiry on Wednesday that Japanese officials had succumbed to a blind belief in the country’s technical prowess and failed to thoroughly assess the risks of building nuclear reactors in an earthquake-prone country.

For example, officials did not give serious consideration to what would happen if electric power were lost at a nuclear station, because they believed that Japan’s power grid was far more reliable than those in other countries, he said. The March earthquake and tsunami cut off the Fukushima plant from the grid, leaving operators unable to keep the reactor cores from overheating.

“Though global safety standards kept on improving, we wasted our time coming up with excuses for why Japan didn’t need to bother meeting them,” Mr. Madarame said.
662 2012-02-16 The report comes just days after the $26 billion settlement over foreclosure improprieties between five major and 49 state attorneys general, including ’s. Among other things, that settlement requires participating banks to reduce mortgage amounts outstanding on a wide array of loans and provide $1.5 billion in reparations for borrowers who were improperly removed from their homes.

But the precise terms of the states’ deal have not yet been disclosed. As the San Francisco analysis points out, “the settlement does not resolve most of the issues this report identifies nor immunizes lenders and servicers from a host of potential liabilities.” For example, it is a felony to knowingly file false documents with any public office in California.

In an interview late Tuesday, Mr. Ting said he would forward his findings and foreclosure files to the attorney general’s office and to local law enforcement officials. Kamala D. Harris, the California attorney general, announced a joint investigation into foreclosure abuses last December with the attorney general, Catherine Cortez Masto. The joint investigation spans both civil and criminal matters.

The depth of the problem raises questions about whether at least some foreclosures should be considered void, Mr. Ting said. “We’re not saying that every consumer should not have been foreclosed on or every lender is a bad actor, but there are significant and troubling issues,” he said.

California has been among the states hurt the most by the mortgage crisis. Because its laws, like those of 29 other states, do not require a judge to oversee foreclosures, the conduct of banks in the process is rarely scrutinized. Mr. Ting said his report was the first rigorous analysis of foreclosure improprieties in California and that it cast doubt on the validity of almost every foreclosure it examined.

“Clearly, we need to set up a process where lenders are following every part of the law,” Mr. Ting said in the interview. “It is very apparent that the system is broken from many different vantage points.”

The report, which was compiled by Aequitas Compliance Solutions, a mortgage regulatory compliance firm, did not identify specific banks involved in the irregularities. But among the legal violations uncovered in the analysis were cases where the loan servicer did not provide borrowers with a notice of default before beginning the eviction process; 8 percent of the audited foreclosures had that basic defect.

In a significant number of cases — 85 percent — documents recording the transfer of a defaulted property to a new trustee were not filed properly or on time, the report found. And in 45 percent of the foreclosures, properties were sold at auction to entities improperly claiming to be the beneficiary of the deeds of trust. In other words, the report said, “a ‘stranger’ to the deed of trust,” gained ownership of the property; as a result, the sale may be invalid, it said.

In 6 percent of cases, the same deed of trust to a property was assigned to two or more different entities, raising questions about which of them actually had the right to foreclose. Many of the foreclosures that were scrutinized showed gaps in the chain of title, the report said, indicating that written transfers from the original owner to the entity currently claiming to own the deed of trust have disappeared.

Banks involved in buying and selling foreclosed properties appear to be aware of potential problems if gaps in the chain of title cloud a subsequent buyer’s ownership of the home. Lou Pizante, a partner at Aequitas who worked on the audit, pointed to documents that banks now require buyers to sign holding the institution harmless if questions arise about the validity of the foreclosure sale.

The audit also raises serious questions about the accuracy of information recorded in the Mortgage Electronic Registry System, or , which was set up in 1995 by and and major lenders. The report found that 58 percent of loans listed in the MERS database showed different owners than were reflected in other public documents like those filed with the county recorder’s office.

The report contradicted the contentions of many banks that foreclosure improprieties did little harm because the borrowers were behind on their mortgages and should have been evicted anyway. “We can deduce from the public evidence,” the report noted, “that there are indeed legitimate victims in the mortgage crisis. Whether these homeowners are systematically being deprived of legal safeguards and due process rights is an important question.”
663 2012-02-16 “The thing about us in general is that we’re not super fashiony,” she said. This is a point she and her husband emphasized several times that day, and it was a strange sentiment to hear from people who sell and design clothes, much like meeting pastry chefs who say they are not really into cake.

The first stop was a tenement building on St. Marks Place where Siki Im, a provocative German-Korean designer, has his showroom on the second floor. Mr. Im was hosting a preview for select buyers and reporters ahead of his runway show on Feb. 11 that was in a packed high school auditorium in the West Village. (Ms. Beer and Mr. Janusiak will sometimes attend fashion shows, but they place orders only after seeing and touching the line.)

Mr. Im arrived a few minutes after the couple. He appeared sleepy-eyed and wore a tunic that extended down to his knees. He gave Ms. Beer a warm hug. Project No. 8 has been buying (“supporting” is the preferred term) Siki Im since the first collection in 2010.

The couple dug into his new clothes, saying “Love that” and “Beautiful” with various degrees of emphasis. Ms. Beer palmed through the racks and set aside a half-dozen styles: a suit jacket with a burgundy swoosh on the back, a heavy coat made of Austrian felt. She photographed each for consideration; Project No. 8 usually buys 10 of Mr. Im’s styles each season.

Mr. Janusiak, meanwhile, examined the price list. A pair of selvage jeans that run $95 to $140 wholesale, depending on the wash; Project No. 8 will sell them for around $225, a relatively modest markup, but the owners do not try to negotiate. “We never haggle,” Ms. Beer said later. “I don’t even know if you can do that.”

The next appointment, at noon, was at Adam Kimmel’s light-filled showroom in Chelsea that overlooks the Hudson River. His recent runway show in Paris, which was inspired by Area 51 and U.F.O. lore, was projected in a loop on the wall. The couple passed on a gray windbreaker made of a waxy NASA-designed material ($1,700 retail) in favor of a white cotton-cashmere pocket T-shirt ($45 wholesale). It seemed indistinguishable from something you might tear out of a Hanes package.

“Those sell for about 120 bucks,” Mr. Janusiak said. “And they sell really well. The more you wash it, the more incredible it feels.”

Because there was a sliver of time before the next appointment, the couple stopped for lunch on 10th Avenue at Bottino, a favorite among the gallery crowd. The couple, who are in their 40s, talked about how they met. Ms. Beer was a graduate student in sculpture at the School of Visual Arts in New York; Mr. Janusiak, also a trained artist, received his M.F.A from Yale. They are part owners of a gallery in Berlin called Arratia, Beer.

About 30 minutes later, with his cheeseburger mostly eaten and her smoked salmon salade Niçoise mostly not, they were off again. Next was Tovi Tovi Primo Coat, a garment factory in Long Island City, Queens. It was a world away from the rarefied Manhattan showrooms. Old-world tailors marked suit patterns in chalk, guided by the dut-dut-dut of ancient Singer sewing machines. They signed off on suit samples for two stores opening inside Barneys locations in Tokyo, before heading back to Manhattan.

By 4 p.m., they were huddled inside the small office that is attached to their men’s store on Orchard Street. More meetings, but this time the designers would come to them. The last was Tom Scott, a knitwear designer who had his own line before going on hiatus to freelance. He was open to collaborating with Project No. 8’s in-house label, Various Projects, and brandished a spool of expensive-looking gray cotton tubing. “Wow,” Ms. Beer said. “Can you make us a sweater with that?” Mr. Scott promised to send along sketches, but money or specifics weren’t discussed.

The streets were dark when they set off for their final appointment, a presentation by the buzzed-about Belgian designer Tim Coppens, which was at the bunkerlike Exit Art near the Lincoln Tunnel. Mr. Coppens, who is something of a technical wizard, showed high-tech bomber jackets and striped trousers that GQ.com later said were “perfect for any student headed back to Starfleet Academy.”

Mr. Janusiak and Ms. Beer stood on the sidelines, surrounded by the editors, bloggers and hangers-on who flock to shows for the scene as much as the clothes, and looked a bit pained. None of the clipboard-carriers fawned over them, even though they were among the few people there who might actually buy something from the collection.

“Sometimes we feel like we’re undercover at these things,” Mr. Janusiak said. Ms. Beer added, “We find ourselves sort of in the middle of fashion, but we’re not really fashion people.”
664 2012-02-16 WASHINGTON (Reuters) — Manufacturing output rose in January and a gauge of factory activity in New York state hit an 18-month high in February, showing a solid underpinning for the economic recovery.

Another report on Wednesday that showed optimism among home builders approached a five-year high this month, a good omen for the struggling housing market.

The reports added to a run of fairly upbeat data, even though overall industrial production was flat last month as unusually mild winter weather weighed on utility output.

“What we are seeing here is confirmation of the positive momentum we have seen in the economy over the past few months,” said Millan Mulraine, senior macro strategist at TD Securities in New York.

Factory production increased 0.7 percent, the Federal Reserve said, after an upwardly revised 1.5 percent rise in December. The December increase was previously reported as a 0.9 percent gain.

Manufacturing was buoyed by a 6.8 percent jump in motor vehicle output. But production at utilities plunged 2.5 percent, the second straight month of big declines.
665 2012-02-16 Jeff Goldblum will replace Alan Rickman in the Broadway play ''Seminar'' on April 3, taking over the lead role of the caustic fiction-writing teacher Leonard in the comedy by Theresa Rebeck.      Mr. Goldblum, who is scheduled to appear in ''Semin...
666 2012-02-17 Tim Wakefield's career had plenty of ups and downs, but his unique nature will make him hard to forget....
667 2012-02-17 Some 50 theater companies plan to contribute five cents from every ticket sale to help bolster Off-Off-Broadway....
668 2012-02-17 The companies will use $330 million to create Oriental DreamWorks, which will produce family entertainment....
669 2012-02-17 Credit: Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times
670 2012-02-17 Among the new details in the latest indictment is a description of VV, a user of the service who is said to have uploaded 16,950 files in five years, yielding 34 million views....
671 2012-02-17 A Dutch television program scored a surprisingly detailed 37-minute telephone interview with Lucas van Praag, who is retiring as Goldman's P.R. chief at the end of March....
672 2012-02-17 Duke's women's basketball team is down to eight scholarship players after its latest injury to guard Richa Jackson....
673 2012-02-17 The House and Senate are working to reconcile differences in their versions of the STOCK Act, which is intended to prevent members of Congress and their staff from buying and selling securities based on confidential information....
674 2012-02-17 Timothy M. Dolan becomes the eighth cardinal-archbishop of New York.
675 2012-02-17 Viola Davis, Octavia Spencer and Jonah Hill sit down with Oprah Winfrey for a little heartfelt talk....
676 2012-02-17 John Kinnucan, an Oregon-based research analyst, is accused of swapping corporate secrets with hedge funds for cash....
677 2012-02-17 Advice on studying business as an undergraduate in the United States, for the benefit of readers in India, and elsewhere....
678 2012-02-17 Mountain Lion, Apple's latest version of its Mac operating system, will embrace the company's behind-the-scenes security approach....
679 2012-02-17 An interview with Shaun Donovan, secretary of housing and urban development | James B. Stewart discusses his column about inequities in the tax code.
680 2012-02-17 Fill in the blanks in this blog post from City Room, "For Champion Dogs, the Traditional Sardi's Feast Will Continue." Use your own words and phrases, or choose from a scrambled list of the words or phrases that were removed....
681 2012-02-17 But that increase in spending will not come close to matching the total number of advertisements supporting Mr. Romney. His campaign has reserved more than $800,000 in airtime, and the pro-Romney super PAC has spent more than $650,000 on television commercials in the state.

Both candidates, recognizing the political power of labor unions here, sought on Thursday to tone down some of their anti-union comments. Mr. Romney said during a visit to Monroe that unions play an “important role,” but defended so-called right-to-work laws. Mr. Santorum said during his address here that private-sector unions were a “legitimate” part of the economy.

But Mr. Santorum drew a distinction with public-employee unions, which he said had an unfair advantage because they bargain not with business owners representing shareholder interests, but with politicians trawling for votes and handling taxpayer money. “I have no problem with private-sector unions,” he said, adding, “I don’t feel quite as warm and fuzzy about public-sector unions.”

If either man wins the Republican nomination, his opposition to the auto industry bailout will be seen as a hurdle to winning Michigan, a critical swing state, in the general election. The auto bailout, which was begun during the Bush administration and continued by President Obama, is now widely seen as successful, and as if to emphasize that point to the candidates, General Motors on Thursday reported a quarterly profit of $472 million.

Mr. Santorum and Mr. Romney both say they favored a managed bankruptcy — which ultimately happened — but without the government loans. They argue that such a process would have allowed the companies to emerge at least as healthy, if not healthier, as they did from the bailout.

But many industry analysts say that the huge amounts of money required to save the companies was available only through the government; banks and other private sources of capital were too weakened by the economic crisis to provide loans on anywhere near the scale needed.

“These companies were hemorrhaging cash on a daily basis into the millions and millions of dollars; credit was not easily accessible from almost any of the markets, and so I don’t know that they would have survived,” said Gary Corbin, managing director of business development in Michigan for Accenture, the consulting firm. For every job lost at one of the big car companies, he said, 6 to 10 other jobs would have also been lost across the United States in a ripple effect.

“It was a huge catastrophe just about to happen,” he said.

In his speech, Mr. Santorum laid most of the blame for the bailouts not with Mr. Obama but with George W. Bush, a rare departure from the Republican candidates’ nonstop assault on Mr. Obama’s policies.

“President Obama was just following suit,” he said. “President Bush set the precedent, and it was the wrong precedent.”

Mr. Santorum also said that he favored income inequality because some people contribute more to society than others. While also emphasizing that he favors “equality of opportunity,” he added: “There is income inequality in America. There always has been and hopefully, and I do say that, there always will be. Why? Because people rise to different levels of success based on what they contribute to society and to the marketplace, and that’s as it should be.”

He also made light of the release on Wednesday night of his recent income tax returns, noting that he had paid roughly double the effective tax rate of Mr. Romney, who made far more money.

“Look, I do my own taxes,” Mr. Santorum said. “Heck, Romney paid half the tax rate I did, so obviously he doesn’t do his own taxes. Maybe I should hire an accountant in the future.”
682 2012-02-17 If you look hard enough on the Internet, you can find blogs predicting breakouts for more players than you can possibly remember. But it was the specificity of Weiland’s argument for Lin that set his analysis apart.

In it, Weiland equated the chances of finding a star point guard in the 2010 draft to winning the lottery.

“The best candidate to pull off such a surprise might be Harvard’s Jeremy Lin,” Weiland wrote. “The reason is two numbers Lin posted: 2-point FG pct and RSB40.”

While 2-point field-goal percentage is easy enough for a casual fan to figure out, RSB40 is not. It is a combination statistic for a player’s rebounds, steals and blocks per 40 minutes.

“These numbers show N.B.A. athleticism better than any other,” Weiland said. “Because a high score in both shows dominance at the college level on both ends of the court.”

That is not to say that Weiland saw all of this coming.

“Gosh no, he’s been incredible,” Weiland said in a telephone interview when asked if he expected Lin to be this good. “I compared him to George Hill, who was with the Spurs at the time, another guy from a small college who showed useful ability. But what he’s done has been crazy.”

Weiland and James are hardly alone when it comes to seemingly ordinary citizens outdoing the work of people who are paid to analyze players. From Ron Shandler, who turned his ability in fantasy sports into a brief stint in the front office of the St. Louis Cardinals, to Lindy Hinkelman, a pig farmer from Idaho who has won more than $300,000 playing fantasy baseball, there continue to be outsiders who have used statistics to force their way into the national conversation.

One example is Rany Jazayerli, a dermatologist and Kansas City Royals fan who in his spare time helped start Baseball Prospectus, a popular Web site for statistics and analysis. Jazayerli also managed a Royals blog for a number of years before becoming a columnist for Bill Simmons’s Grantland Web site, which operates as part of ESPN.

Weiland and Jazayerli both cited the lack of a direct relationship to the game as one of the reasons for their success.

“I think the lack of access is a factor, sure,” Jazayerli said. “There are many, many, many things that an outsider isn’t in a position to write about. But I think for insiders, it’s hard to be objective, and even harder to write objectively when you have to deal with the people you’re writing about.

“The other thing to consider, though, is that there are only a finite number of journalists covering the sport.” Meanwhile, the pool of outsiders tracking a sport is endless. And out of such a pool, Jazayerli said, some bright people are likely to emerge.

With all the attention now focused on Weiland, it would stand to reason that news media outlets, and maybe some front offices, will come calling for his help. But even if they do not, Jazayerli is already declaring victory.

“When everyone says, ‘Who could have predicted Jeremy Lin?’ Ed Weiland can raise his hand,” Jazayerli said. “I’m happy for him, and thrilled he’s getting the attention he deserves.”

The attention has somewhat overwhelmed Weiland, but he has yet to decide if he wants to pursue a more formal job as an analyst and the larger workload it would entail. For now, he said, he enjoys having plenty of time to enjoy Oregon summers.

“I really don’t know where to go from here,” Weiland said. “I’m pretty happy as it is.”
683 2012-02-17 WASHINGTON — Mired in red ink, the United States Postal Service is warning it will lose as much as $18.2 billion a year by 2015 unless Congress grants it leeway to eliminate Saturday delivery, slow first-class mail by one day and raise the price of a postage stamp by as much as 5 cents.

In a letter to Congress, Patrick Donahoe, the postmaster general, described an updated five-year cost-cutting plan put together in coordination with a Wall Street adviser, Evercore Partners. It reiterates many of the mail agency’s proposals to switch to a five-day delivery schedule, raise stamp prices and close about 252 mail-processing centers and 3,700 local post offices.

The Postal Service has already asked Congress for permission to make service cuts and reduce annual payments of about $5.5 billion in funding retiree health benefits. But in recent weeks, the Senate and House have stalled as lawmakers differ widely on costs, the level of financial oversight and the prospect of widespread postal closures.

On Thursday, Mr. Donahoe said the mail agency’s proposals would enable it to save $20 billion a year by 2015, repay its $12.9 billion debt to the Treasury and return to profitability. The plan, for instance, notes that if the post office could raise stamp prices from 45 cents to 50 cents, either in a single year or over a multiyear period, it could bring in new revenue of about $1 billion.

In contrast, Congressional inaction would result in significant annual losses and a “long-term burden to the American taxpayer.”
684 2012-02-17 You write that “the Swiss government has been dragging its feet” in the negotiations with United States authorities regarding the exchange of bank information. This is not the case. Considerable progress toward a settlement, including a substantial transfer of client data, has been made. True, the negotiations are complex, as both governments recognize that a resolution must be found within the framework of existing bilateral agreements and legal procedures.

Surely, your call for “pressure on the Swiss” cannot be intended as an encouragement to United States authorities to violate treaty obligations in the interest of time and expediency. The Swiss government remains firmly committed to a timely solution that respects the United States’ legitimate interest in taxing its citizens.

Switzerland represents American interests in Iran, and the United States was the leading destination for Swiss foreign investment in 2010. We take both our relationship with America and our strategy of financial integrity seriously.
685 2012-02-17 The cat-and-mouse game with Iran depicted in “Iran Is Ready to Talk,” by Dennis B. Ross (Op-Ed, Feb. 15), is becoming more dangerous every day. Most people are hoping that “crippling sanctions” against Iran will force its supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to give up his nuclear ambitions. Others believe that sanctions may inspire desperate acts by Iran.

Iran has been a catalyst of instability in the Middle East for years. It hates America. It hates Israel. It hates non-Shiites. So much hate breeds contempt.

The United States and Israel must stand ready to act militarily if the pressure drives Iran to lash out against any other nation. Desperation may ultimately rule the day for all the interested parties in this terrible situation.

Iran is ready to engage in nuclear talks, but it is doubtful that the United States is, since obviously it is better to avoid addressing Iran’s right under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.

Sadly, the United States and its allies have used the ruse of war to mask the blatant economic warfare waged against Iran on flimsy grounds in light of the absence of any smoking gun corroborating the allegations of Iranian nuclear proliferation.
686 2012-02-17 Apple is thinking about “a world where the personal cloud is rapidly displacing the personal computer as the center of the consumer’s digital life,” said Michael Gartenberg, an industry analyst with Gartner.

With the Mountain Lion update, Apple is calling the overall operating system OS X, instead of Mac OS X. This move and the continuing convergence between Macs and iOS devices raises questions about whether one day, the two products will run the same operating system. Mr. Gartenberg said he did not think that would be the case.

“When you try to unify those devices, you end up with weird devices,” he said. Apple is creating a similar look and feel for the two operating systems to create a sense of familiarity among its different computing platforms, which could make customers more loyal to the brand, Mr. Gartenberg said.

In other words, the similarities and new features mean that if you own an iPhone, it makes more sense to buy a Mac as opposed to a Windows PC. Or if you own a Mac, you might as well get an iPhone or iPad, as opposed to an Android device.

“Consumers don’t like change and they don’t like uncertainty,” said Stephen Baker, vice president for industry analysis at the NPD Group. “When I, as the consumer, know that I can get a consistent experience across all my devices, it makes it much easier for me to buy products from that company since I know the learning curve will be short.”

Apple released the early version of Mountain Lion on Thursday for software makers to get a head start on making apps for the operating system. The official Mountain Lion upgrade is due for release this summer, one year after the release of Mac OS X Lion, Apple’s current Mac operating system.

An Apple spokesman said no executives were available to comment.

The annual release schedule for OS X upgrades shows that Apple is still pushing Mac products, even though the iPad and iPhone account for 72 percent of the company’s total revenue. But many features in Mountain Lion are already in iOS, so it appears that the Mac is still in the back seat.

“Apple’s future is iOS,” said Phillip Ryu, chief executive of Impending, a company that makes iPhone apps. “It’s obvious OS X is playing catch-up and second fiddle. The Mac is in Apple’s future, but it’s not the destination.”
687 2012-02-17 The civil rights activists Juanita Jackson Mitchell; her husband, Clarence Mitchell Jr.; and her mother, Lillie Jackson, filed away evidence of their legal and political battles for eight decades, starting in the 1910s. On March 1 Swann Auction Galleries in New York is selling documents from the family that reveal small and large victories under often heinous conditions.

A folder with 200 documents and album pages (the lot is estimated at $6,000 to $8,000) is devoted to the “Red Summer” of 1919, in which murderous riots broke out when blacks were accused of crimes. Protest and legal defense groups, including the Joint Committee to Secure Equal Justice for Colored Riot Defendants and the National Conference on Lynching, issued news releases that the Jackson and Mitchell family kept.

On brittle aged paper in the family album a tiny article clipped from The New York Sun bears the unemotional headline “Another Negro to Die.” It refers to Ed Ware, an Arkansas farmer and union organizer who was convicted of murdering a white railroad worker and sentenced to electrocution; he was eventually exonerated, after years of appeals.

Swann is also offering wall decorations from Clarence Mitchell’s office at the N.A.A.C.P., where he was chief lobbyist. A collage of paper strips cut from a copy of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is estimated at $10,000 to $15,000. Mitchell also framed and laminated the Senate voting record for the act ($15,000 to $25,000). “I thought you might like as a souvenir this dated tally score,” Senator Claiborne Pell wrote in a note upon giving the sheets to Mitchell.

Senator Strom Thurmond’s name is in the “nays” column on the document. Two decades later he sent a condolence letter to Juanita Mitchell upon the death of her husband. Swann estimates the senator’s note will bring up to $600.

Geraldine Rockefeller Dodge spent part of her oil and gun fortune on images of dogs. She filled her 1910s estate in Madison, N.J., with canine bronze statues, paintings, sketches and photos. A few dated back to the early 19th century, and hundreds more depicted dogs that she owned.
688 2012-02-17 A week ago the Miser waxed nostalgic for Parisian cafés and then, curiously, took a break from her assignment, leaving behind only a few words: “Le Poisson Rouge.”

Fortunately, the phrase signifies not only a red fish but also a Bleecker Street club where coming events include the Soundtrack Series, a free monthly entertainment that features a lineup of performers telling personal stories they associate with specific songs. Recent examples include a guy who linked Scott Joplin’s rag “The Entertainer” to the storyteller’s experience driving an Italian ice truck, and a woman who tied “You Are the Sunshine of My Life” to her mother’s — and her own — battles with cancer.

“It keeps showing me how many different ways music factors into our life,” said Dana Rossi, the creator and host. “I had gotten the idea for this in the spring of 2009. A month later Michael Jackson died, and everyone on Facebook was going on and on about Michael Jackson and they were remembering, you know, ‘I sang “Man in the Mirror” in the school talent show and forgot the words,’ or whatever.” Her comments seemed cosmically corroborated since she spoke the day after Whitney Houston died.

Guests at this month’s Soundtrack Series include Blaise Allysen Kearsley, who runs another monthly storytelling event, How I Learned. For each installment of that series Ms. Kearsley adopts a theme. Topics have included “How I Learned to Say I’m Sorry” and “How I Learned to Fight Loneliness.” The next is “How I Learned to Chill the ____ Out About a Lot of Things.”

For the Soundtrack Series Ms. Kearsley is likely to recount the end of a seventh-grade romance. “Even though I was crazy about him,” she said, “I broke up with him because I thought, ‘What if I never have the chance to break up with someone?’ It was a really horrible idea.” Their split’s soundtrack: Chicago’s “Hard to Say I’m Sorry,” which played again and again as a young Ms. Kearsley sobbed in her room.

New York Classical Theater, which last summer ferried audience members from Battery Park to Governors Island and back for an outdoor production of Shakespeare’s “Henry V,” is at work again, though without the travel. Previews begin on Tuesday for “Playing Molière,” three intertwining one-act comedies by Molière that will have cuckolded husbands, wily servants and others scurrying about the World Financial Center’s Winter Garden.
689 2012-02-17 Despite being denounced by the as a “harmful traditional practice,” baad is pervasive in rural southern and eastern Afghanistan, areas that are heavily Pashtun, according to human rights workers, women’s advocates and aid experts. Baad involves giving away a young woman, often a child, into slavery and forced marriage. It is largely hidden because the girls are given to compensate for “shameful” crimes like murder and adultery and acts forbidden by custom, like elopement, say elders and women’s rights advocates.

The strength of the traditional justice system and the continuing use of baad is a sign both of Afghans’ lack of faith in the government’s justice system, which they say is corrupt, and their extreme sense of insecurity. Baad is most common in areas where it is dangerous for people to seek out government institutions. Instead of turning to the courts, they go to jirgas, assemblies of tribal elders, that use tribal law, which allows the exchange of women.

“There are two reasons people refuse the courts — first, the corrupt administration, which openly demands money for every single case, and second, instability,” said Hajji Mohammed Nader Khan, an elder from Helmand Province who often participates in judging cases that involve baad. “Also, in places where there are , they won’t allow people to go to courts and solve their problems.”

Advocates for women fear that progress made recently against baad will fade as troops pull out and money for public awareness programs dwindles.

“Baad has decreased in Oruzgan over the last two years due to a strong public relations campaign that we conducted throughout the province,” said Marjana Kochai, the only woman on Oruzgan’s provincial council. “And we have been holding meetings with elders and strictly alerting them not to make such illegal and un-Islamic rulings.”

The practice of trading women dates to before Islam, when nomadic tribes traveled Afghanistan’s mountains and deserts. Even today, outside Afghanistan’s few urban areas, many of these traditions have deep roots, experts on tribal justice systems said.

“For the nomads, there were no police, there was no court of law, no judge to organize the affairs of humans, so they resorted to the only things they had, which were violence and killing,” said Nasrine Gross, an Afghan-American sociologist who has studied the status of Afghan women.

“Then when a problem doesn’t get resolved,” Ms. Gross said, “you offer the only things you have: livestock is more precious than a girl because the livestock you can sell, so you give two rifles, one camel, five sheep and then the girls they can sell this way.”

The idea is that the giving of a girl to the aggrieved family as a de facto slave and having her marry a member of that family ties the two warring families together, so they are less likely to continue a blood feud. The practice also helps compensate the family for the labor of a lost relative.

And when the girl gives birth to children, the offspring are at least a symbolic replacement for the relative who has been lost.

However, that is little comfort for the girl, who symbolizes the family’s enemy and is completely unprepared both for the brutality she will encounter because of it and for the sexual relations often demanded of her at a young age.

“The problem with baad is it doesn’t normally appease the people,” Ms Gross said. “It appeases them to the extent that they don’t kill someone from the other side, but not enough to treat the girl right.”

There is no official count of the number of girls given each year in baad, but in Kunar Province, where Shakila’s case took place, the director of the women’s office and a female member of Kunar’s provincial council said that they were aware of one or two cases every month from the province and that many cases never came to light. They had not heard of Shakila’s situation.

A 2010 United Nations report on harmful traditional practices described baad as “still pervasive” in rural areas.

Interviews in nine Pashtun-majority provinces with government representatives, women on provincial councils, male elders and other prominent women produced a stream of stories of abuse, suicide and . They found that virtually everyone knew about the practice, many were ashamed of it and most people knew someone personally who had been affected by it. Afghanistan outlawed baad in 2009 when it enacted the Elimination of Violence Against Women Act, but enforcement has been spotty, especially in southern and eastern Afghanistan, according to the United Nations.

Shakila’s family, like many in rural Kunar Province, did not oppose baad, but objected that the jirga adjudicating her case had not yet issued its ruling and that Shakila had been betrothed as an infant to a cousin in . Under the Pashtun code, the family said, she was not available to be given because she was the property of another man. (Such betrothals are illegal but common in rural Pashtun areas.)

“We did not mind giving girls,” said her father, Gul Zareen. “But she was not mine to give.”

Views of baad differ sharply between men and women, with more men seeing it as a way of preserving families and stopping blood feuds, and women seeing it in terms of the suffering of the young girl asked to pay for another’s wrongs.

“Giving baad has good and bad aspects,” said Fraidoon Mohmand, a member of Parliament from Nangarhar Province, who has led a number of jirgas. “The bad aspect is that you punish an innocent human for someone else’s wrongdoings, and the good aspect is that you rescue two families, two clans, from more bloodshed, death and misery.”

He also said he believed that a woman given in baad suffered only briefly.

“When you give a girl in baad, they are beaten maybe, maybe she will be in trouble for a year or two, but when she brings one or two babies into the world, everything will be forgotten and she will live as a normal member of the family,” he said.

Not so, said the Afghan women interviewed, especially if she is unlucky enough to give birth to a girl.

“The woman given to a family in baad will always be the miserable one,” said Nasima Shafiqzada, who is in charge of women’s affairs for Kunar Province. “She has to work a lot. She will be beaten. She has to listen to lots of bad language from the other females in the family.”

Shakila’s relatives were poor laborers who lived in the rural Naray district in Kunar Province near a small river not far from the border with Pakistan.

Shakila went to school and played with her brothers and was a healthy child, her relatives said. That changed after she was taken by Fazal ’s family, part of the Gujar clan, a tribe in Kunar with a larger presence in Naray than the tribe Shakila was from.

During her de facto imprisonment, Shakila and her cousin were allowed out of their dark room after three months and then only so that they could haul firewood from the mountains and lug pails of water from the river.

For the entire year or so that they were kept, neither girl was given a fresh set of clothes. For the first six months they were not even allowed to wash the ones they arrived in, turning the children into dirty-looking urchins who were that much easier for the family to hate. They were fed bread and water every other day.

“They tortured us in a way that no human being would treat another,” Shakila said.

She spoke softly and hid her face when a reporter asked her about the white scars on her forehead. “When they threw me against the stone wall,” she explained.

Her cousin escaped first, resulting in even more brutal treatment for Shakila, who was tethered inside again and beaten.

Allowed out only for her prayers, she managed to slip through the gate one day. To avoid detection, she made her way through underbrush to the village where her sister lived. When Shakila appeared at her sister’s door, she was so emaciated and dirty that her sister barely recognized her.

“She was almost finished,” Gul Zareen, her father, said. “She was so thin, she was like this,” he said, holding up an index finger and shaking his head. “She cried all the time, and now we are trying to feed her and she is slowly getting better.”

Within hours, the strongman and his guards began looking for Shakila. They searched her father’s compound, accused him of organizing her escape and threatened to kill every man in the family.

Terrified, Shakila’s father and the other relatives said they waited until dusk and then, taking almost nothing but the clothes on their backs, escaped over the mountains, walking by night along footpaths because the strongman’s guards were watching the only road.

Now living in Asadabad, the provincial capital, because they feel safer here, Shakila’s relatives said they were struggling. They left behind their few possessions, including their only cow and two goats.

Shakila’s father and uncle work as daily laborers, earning $4 a day when there is a job. The family’s small mud house has neither heat nor electricity, and cooking is done in a single stew pot over coals in the yard.

Longing to return to their village in Naray, the family members went to the courts to see if the prosecutor or judge could protect them from the Gujar clan if they returned. But the order they received from the police chief instructed them to turn to the local police in Naray for help.

Gul Zareen shook his head. The police chief is a kinsman of Fazal Nabi, the strongman who took Shakila, he said. “We cannot go back,” he said.

Shakila looked out the window into the squalid yard. “I don’t know about my future,” she said. “Whether it will be good or bad.”
690 2012-02-17 At least one agent from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency is dead and another is injured after a shooting at the federal building in Long Beach on Thursday. The agency confirmed in a statement that one agent had been killed at the sce...
691 2012-02-17 8:20 p.m. | Updated      Yelp set a price range on Thursday of $12 to $14 a share for its initial public offering, potentially raising as much as $100 million in its debut on the market....
692 2012-02-17 Updated, 9:41 p.m. |   It had become a tradition: Every year, the winner of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show had lunch at Sardi's, the theater district restaurant where the walls are lined with portraits of celebrities.     And every year, the...
693 2012-02-18 The Federal Trade Commission told a consumer watchdog group that it was the government’s job to decide whether to investigate Google’s data privacy changes....
694 2012-02-18 LONG BEACH, Calif. — The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent who was fatally shot at the federal building here on Thursday night had been receiving counseling about his job performance before he opened fire on a superior officer, the Federal Bureau of Investigation said Friday.

Supervisory Special Agent Ezequiel Garcia had been speaking with the officer, Kevin Kozak, a deputy special agent in charge of I.C.E.’s Los Angeles area, when Mr. Garcia began shooting at around 5:30 p.m. Thursday, the F.B.I. said.

“We believe there was an escalation in the discussion, which likely led Mr. Garcia to fire several rounds from his service weapon, hitting Mr. Kozak,” said Steven Martinez, the special agent in charge for the F.B.I. in Los Angeles.

Another agent working nearby then shot and killed Mr. Garcia, 45, “to prevent any additional rounds being fired by Mr. Garcia,” Mr. Martinez said. That agent’s name was not released.

Mr. Kozak, 51, was shot six times. He was taken to a local hospital where he is listed in stable condition, awake and alert.

The authorities would not release any other details about the shooting or Mr. Garcia’s potential motive.
695 2012-02-18 The maps show locations where Mr. Shermantine and Mr. Herzog, allegedly hid bodies. The maps were turned over to law enforcement officials who have so far searched three sites, including an old well identified on the map as “Herzog’s Bone Yard,” which has yielded more than 1,000 bones, plus clothing, beer bottles, a purse, shoes, car parts and a woman’s ring.

The San Joaquin County Sheriff’s Department will bring in cadaver dogs to search for a second well, which Mr. Shermantine has said could contain more than a dozen additional bodies.

Nearly everyone in this town of fewer than 2,000 people some 95-miles east of San Francisco has a story about the two men, who were known as wild partiers and methamphetamine users.

“It’s freaky when you realize you knew someone like that,” said Jennifer Brown, 57, a bartender from nearby Clements.

Mr. Shermantine and Mr. Herzog were regulars at several of the local bars, including the Linden Inn, owned by John Vanderheiden.

“I heard him boasting about how he killed a guy just to kill him,” said Mr. Vanderheiden, who said he shrugged off Mr. Herzog’s stories as barroom bragging until 1998, when his 25-year-old daughter, Cyndi, disappeared after a night out with the men.

Mr. Herzog and Mr. Shermantine were arrested in 1999 after investigators identified Cyndi Vanderheiden’s blood in Mr. Shermantine’s car. In 2001, a jury found Mr. Shermantine guilty of four murders, including those of Ms. Vanderheiden, two men shot to death in their car on a remote stretch of highway in 1984 and 16-year-old Chevelle Wheeler, who disappeared in 1985.

Two skulls that were found in recent weeks using Mr. Shermantine’s maps have been preliminarily identified by forensics experts as belonging to Ms. Wheeler and Ms. Vanderheiden. The bones have been turned over to the state’s justice department for DNA analysis.

Sentenced to death, Mr. Shermantine is now in San Quentin State Prison. Mr. Herzog was found guilty of three murders in 2001, but was paroled in 2010 after an appeals court threw out his earlier conviction, saying investigators coerced his confession. Both men have long maintained that the other did the killing.

On Jan. 16, Mr. Herzog, 46, was found dead near a trailer on the grounds of the High Desert State Prison, near Susanville, Calif. He is believed to have hanged himself hours after receiving a phone call from Mr. Padilla, the bounty hunter, alerting him that Mr. Shermantine intended to reveal where the two had hidden the bodies of their victims.

“He hyperventilated when I told him,” Mr. Padilla said. “He knew he would also end up on death row.”

In the 14 years since his daughter disappeared, Mr. Vanderheiden has searched hundreds of sites for her remains. In the early years, he rallied local residents for extensive search parties of nearby walnut orchards, vineyards and cattle pastures. Often together with Mr. Padilla, he scoured the Central Valley, digging holes, crawling down abandoned mine shafts and into old wells.

On the barn next to the doublewide trailer where Mr. Vanderheiden lives with his wife, Terri, hangs a faded sign that reads “Cyndi Search Headquarters.”

“I’ll leave it up until we get her home, bury her and put her to rest,” Mr. Vanderheiden said. “After that, I’ll take the sign down, because the search will finally be over.”
696 2012-02-18 About 7,000 Tibetans attended teaching lessons under the guidance of the Dalai Lama in Bihar....
697 2012-02-18 For Mr. Obama, export growth is one area where he can point to success. Two years ago, he said in his State of the Union speech that he would work to double United States exports in five years, an announcement that sparked incredulity among trade economists. At the time, Mr. Obama had yet to articulate a trade policy.

Since then, the president’s goal seems less pie-in-the-sky, thanks in part to, of all countries, China. While China still serves as a foil for American politicians who want to talk about unfair trade practices and to score points with labor unions and manufacturing companies simultaneously, the reality is that China’s economic growth — and the ascendance of its middle class — have enlarged the market there for American goods. United States exports last year hit record levels, buoyed by export growth to China, the Commerce Department reported.

The Obama administration has had some success in its efforts to pressure the Chinese government to allow its currency to appreciate; administration officials took up the issue again this week, when China’s presumed next leader, Vice President Xi Jinping, was in Washington.

The president lavished praise on Boeing during his visit for helping to lead American export growth. But the White House also carefully calibrated the optics of the trip, choosing to visit a unionized Boeing plant in Washington State just a few months after the National Labor Relations Board dropped a lawsuit against Boeing over complaints that it built a nonunion plant in South Carolina to retaliate against the union in Washington State for strikes.

The case was dropped after the machinists’ union approved a contract extension with Boeing, but the issue has been trumpeted on the Republican presidential campaign trail as an example of the government — and Mr. Obama — trying to beat up Boeing.

A spokesman for Boeing said there was no connection between the dropped labor complaint and Friday’s visit by the president.

Labor leaders were buoyed by Mr. Obama’s visit, interpreting it as a sign of presidential support. During his remarks, the president steered clear of the labor-management fight, filling his visit with oratory about Boeing, and its new 787, as the perfect example of American ingenuity. But he also managed to entwine his remarks with homages to American workers.

“In December 2009, the first Dreamliner took off on its maiden flight right here in Everett,” Mr. Obama said. “It was a cold and windy day, but that didn’t stop more than 13,000 employees from coming out to see the product of all their hard work finally take to the skies.”

He spoke of one Boeing worker, Sharon O’Hara, who was there, and who was in the audience on Friday, and quoted her as saying: “I had goose bumps and tears. We said we would do it and we did.”

Mr. Obama concluded: “You said you would do it, and you did. That’s what we do as Americans.”
698 2012-02-18 Club officials in Mexico have threatened their unproductive players with punitive measures, including withholding wages....
699 2012-02-18 BEIJING (Reuters) — The Chinese government has detained several hundred Tibetans who returned from India after attending teaching sessions overseen by the Dalai Lama, and is forcing them to undergo political re-education, a human rights group said Friday.

The New York-based group, Human Rights Watch, said it believed that it was the first time since the late 1970s that authorities had detained Tibetan laypeople in such large numbers, and comes as China is worried about unrest in Tibetan parts of the country.

Also Friday, a Tibetan monk burned himself to death in China’s western Qinghai Province, the 22nd confirmed self-immolation by Tibetans protesting Chinese rule since February 2009, Radio Free Asia reported.

China allowed about 7,000 Tibetans to attend teaching sessions with the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, in the Indian state of Bihar from Dec. 31 to Jan. 10. Human Rights Watch said the move appeared to be a sign of a relaxation of policy toward Tibetans.

“However, that changed against a backdrop of unrest in the eastern Tibetan areas and apparent fears it might spread to Lhasa,” Tibet’s capital, the organization said in an e-mailed statement distributed Friday.
700 2012-02-18 What truly fills the sick and twisted niche is the late-night animated block Adult Swim, on the Cartoon Network, which presents “China, IL” on Sundays at midnight. Mr. Neely, who, like Mr. Judge, spent formative artistic years in Austin, Tex., established his bona fides right away in the debut episode in the fall, which included a rabbi performing Hitler’s bris and Ronald Reagan sodomizing a horse.

In the history of outrageous animation, authority figures are usually marginalized or foils, while kids run wild. In “China, IL,” though, the teachers are the irresponsible ones. Shallow and juvenile, they bicker over tenure and maneuver to sleep with students. There’s a stripper pole in the faculty lounge, and the dean, voiced by Hulk Hogan in full-tilt wrestling monologue mode, hosts an office party attended by what looks to be a Saudi prince. The intro kicks off with professors on campus drinking and littering while a guitar riff blares.

“Well, there’s something I’ve been meaning to tell you about the college at the end of the town,” a gravelly voiced Mr. Neely sings. “No one should ever go there. You know it’s bad, bad, bad.”

While the show balances cameos by seasoned pros (Jeffrey Tambor, Jason Alexander) with regulars who have distinctive cadences (Greta Gerwig, Mr. Hogan), “China, IL,” which returns from hiatus on Sunday, is clearly an auteur effort.

Until now Mr. Neely’s best-known work was an underground comedy in which he substituted his own dialogue and sounds for those of the first “Harry Potter” movie. (Warner Brothers was not pleased.) Now he writes each episode of “China, IL” and does the voices for the hipster teacher-brothers Frank and Steve Smith and for Baby Cakes, the slow man-child who is a student about 30.

Those characters made their first appearances in a Web series that displayed the oddball sense of humor of a boy who cracked jokes in the back of the classroom but still did his homework. “China, IL” not only has a more fleshed-out world, but it’s also much more plugged into pop-cultural styles. The new episode stitches together the horror of “Frankenstein” and “The Human Centipede” (“They’re alive!” the doctor exclaims this time) with some freakishly odd romantic comedy to create the bloodiest uplifting sports story ever.

In these quicksilver pivots, you can see the influence of “The Simpsons.” Mr. Neely also fires allusions that require multiple viewings, a pause button and a geeky obsessiveness to appreciate fully.

Don’t those decorations from the faculty-only prom look suspiciously like those from — uh-oh — “Carrie”? The most family-unfriendly jokes are often easily missed: the TV news ticker zipping by reads, “Semen rated top condiment among gorillas.”

The frenetic jokes loosely hang on ludicrous plotlines that are rooted in a sharp satire of small-town academia, where maximum comedy is wrung out of the saying that college politics are the most vicious because the stakes are so low. One of the best episodes revolves around a teacher who blackmails her way to tenure and discovers that professors who belong to that secret society (the dean knights you with a sword) drink magic elixirs turning them into Dionysian animals. It’s ridiculous, sure, but does anyone doubt that desperate young academics have had similar thoughts?

“China, IL” threatens to but never quite tips over into the overwritten cleverness of so much television comedy these days. Mr. Neely holds onto a crude animation style, more lifelike than “South Park,” but not by much. And the beating heart of the show is the dim Baby Cakes, who is a reminder of why “Beavis and Butt-Head” ages so well, even better than the still solid “Simpsons.”

No one is better at making dumb comments come off as accidentally clever than Mike Judge. It’s a difficult trick, but Mr. Neely pulls off something similar with Baby Cakes. You see it in his early Web video “Baby Cakes Sees a Play,” a fool’s take on “King Lear” (how’s that for meta?) that is actually not a bad primer on the tragedy.

Baby Cakes, whose laid-back drawl expresses pure id, is far gentler and more endearing than Beavis, Butt-Head or Bart. Unexpectedly wise, Baby Cakes is actually a sentimental figure, but amid all the obscenity and meanness of this show, that comes as a relief.

In the last episode it was revealed that he was actually the child of a hippie student, who, over two decades, has devolved into a chimpanzee that goes on a violent rampage. Just goes to show: Animated hippies have come a long way.
701 2012-02-18 Both the tiny MinIon and the larger GridIon look likely to be the first sequencers to use nanopore sequencing, in which a strand of DNA is read as it is pulled through a microscopic hole, sort of like a noodle being slurped through rounded lips.

Outsiders have not tried the machines, and there can be a big difference between rosy specifications and how well a machine works when it finally reaches the market. Some other sequencers that initially dazzled the field have faltered in the marketplace.

Still, many experts at the conference were dazzled anew.

“If it does work, it will be a game-changer,” said Elaine Mardis, co-director of The Genome Institute at Washington University in St. Louis. Chad Nusbaum of the Broad Institute in Cambridge, Mass., called it “impressive, credible, possibly amazing.”

Isaac Ro, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, said in a note Friday that the Oxford technology had “impressive performance specs” that suggested it would be a “significant competitor” to Illumina and Life Technologies, the leaders in the sequencing business.

Illumina has a bit of a hedge. In 2009, it invested $18 million in Oxford Nanopore, and owns a 15 percent share. But Illumina does not have the marketing rights to the machines unveiled Friday. Rather, it has the rights to an alternative Oxford technology that is further back in development.

Illumina shares fell nearly 4 percent Friday to $51.82, while Life shares dropped nearly 8 percent to $45.92.

Sequencing involves determining the order of the chemical units of DNA, which are known as bases and are usually represented by the letters A, C, G and T. The order of these bases helps determine inherited traits, like susceptibility to some diseases.

As the cost plummets, sequencing is moving from research laboratories into patient care. Some cancer centers, for instance, sequence genes to determine the best drugs to use.

The growing importance of sequencing in medical care is what motivated Roche to make its current $5.7 billion hostile bid to acquire Illumina. Known mostly for pharmaceuticals, Roche also has a large diagnostics business.

Nanopore sequencing is easy to envision but has been deceptively difficult to carry out, despite two decades of research by universities and companies.

Oxford, which is privately held and based on technology developed by a professor at Oxford University, uses pores made from bacterial proteins. An electric current flows through the pore. The bases interrupt the current in different ways as they go through.

The initial GridIon machines will have 2,000 pores. A machine due in 2013 will have 8,000 pores.

One big advantage of the nanopore sequencing, Dr. Mardis of Washington University said, is that preparing the sample is quick and easy. The technology also offers the promise of being able to read tens of thousands of bases in a stretch. Most sequencers read from around 30 to a few thousand bases at a stretch, and these small fragments then have to be pieced together.

A drawback is that the Oxford machine has a 4 percent error rate, too high for many applications, including diagnosis.

The MinIon, while entailing no capital cost for a machine, can be used only once and will sequence up to one billion bases. That is a cost of up to $1,000 per billion bases.

A GridIon might cost around $30,000, Oxford executives said. The company said that if 20 of the second-generation GridIons were used together, a human genome could be sequenced in 15 minutes at a cost of around $1,500.

By then, however, rival machines might be able to do genomes for that cost or even less. Ion Torrent, a subsidiary of Life Technologies, last month announced it was developing a machine that could do a human genome in a day for $1,000.

“We’re not losing sleep,” Jonathan M. Rothberg, chief executive of Ion Torrent, said Friday. “But they definitely have the Twitter airwaves today.”
702 2012-02-18 Consumer prices rose in January for only the second time in four months, pushed up by higher costs for food, gas, rent and clothes. In addition, a gauge of future economic activity rose in January for the fourth-straight month, providing evidence that the economy is strengthening.

Economists played down the increase in prices, saying inflation is likely to ease in the coming months as prices for raw materials level off.

The Labor Department said the Consumer Price Index increased 0.2 percent last month, after a flat reading in December. Figures for November were revised slightly higher to show an increase of 0.1 percent and no change in October.

Excluding volatile food and energy prices, so-called core prices ticked up 0.2 percent. Medical care and tobacco prices also increased. Car prices were unchanged, and airfares fell.

Prices rose 2.9 percent for the 12 months ending in January. That is down slightly from December’s year-over-year change of 3 percent. Core prices moved up 2.3 percent, the largest 12-month increase in more than three years.
703 2012-02-18 Stocks edged higher on Friday, but investors stayed cautious before a long holiday weekend when hopes are set for the approval of Greece’s bailout plan.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended its sixth positive week out of seven so far in 2012, lifting it near a level not seen in nearly a year. The index has risen 8.2 percent this year.

Friday’s modest advance has pushed the benchmark index up nearly 24 percent from its October low. European shares ended the week higher ahead of the deal, with the FTSEurofirst 300 index up 0.6 percent.

Euro zone finance ministers are expected to approve a rescue package of 130 billion euros for Greece on Monday when the market in the United States will be closed for Presidents’ Day.

“The fact the European market is up the Friday before, knowing the U.S. market is off on Monday, is really a sign that the Greece situation is priced into the market,” said Andrew Slimmon, managing director of Global Investment Solutions at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney in Chicago.
704 2012-02-18 Recent calculations suggest that, instead of reducing Greece’s debt to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, the efforts — which include losses imposed on private creditors holding Greek bonds, in addition to new austerity measures — will bring the level down to about 129 percent, said an official briefed on the discussions who spoke on the condition of anonymity. It remains unclear how that gap would be closed.

The ministers were expected to press on Monday for the bailout money to be paid into a special fund that would make servicing Greece’s debt its first priority.

The euro zone ministers are also looking for tough oversight measures to ensure that Greece sticks to any bailout conditions negotiated. That will probably mean that officials from the European Commission, the central bank and the International Monetary Fund will maintain a presence in Athens.

One idea discussed during a teleconference among euro zone ministers on Wednesday — splitting the bailout package and delaying part of it until after Greece holds elections in April — has foundered, said officials who were briefed on the discussion but were not authorized to speak publicly.

The central bank’s decision to exchange its holdings of Greek bonds for new debt foreshadows a possible deal. A person with direct knowledge of the decision confirmed on Friday the bank’s plans to exchange the debt and said the decision was part of a maneuver to avoid having to share in losses absorbed by private investors.

The plan to trade bonds with an estimated face value of 50 billion euros is being carried out over the objections of the Bundesbank, the German central bank, the person said. The Bundesbank fears that giving the E.C.B. preferential treatment could further undermine investors’ willingness to buy the debt of other weakened euro zone countries, like Portugal.

Investors would worry that their losses would be greater if Portugal or another country also restructured its debt, said the person, who confirmed reports in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, a German newspaper, and other media outlets but was not authorized to speak publicly.

Greece is nearing agreement with its creditors to reduce its debt load by about 100 billion euros, resulting in losses of nearly 70 percent to bondholders. The plan is designed to be voluntary, but the Greek Parliament is expected to pass a law to prevent a minority of investors from holding up the deal.

There is also concern that any move to give the central bank preference over other bondholders could draw legal challenges, especially from hedge funds that bought Greek bonds at steep discounts. Some funds have gambled that the final agreement with creditors will still allow them to make a profit on the bonds.

It is unclear whether the swap will protect national central banks, like those in Greece, Cyprus or France, that own Greek bonds separately from the European Central Bank.

By issuing new bonds to the E.C.B., Greece exempts the bank from the law being discussed and from sharing in the losses, meeting the demands of Mario Draghi, the bank’s president, who insisted that the bank not be included.

Despite the Bundesbank’s stance on the swaps, Jens Weidmann, the bank’s president, has also forcefully ruled out any European Central Bank participation in the debt write-down, saying that would amount to the financing of governments, a violation of the bank’s charter. The Bundesbank does not own any Greek bonds.

Mr. Draghi has said the European Central Bank will pass on any future profits from its bond holdings, most of which were bought at a discount, to countries in the euro zone. But the Bundesbank, the largest and most powerful central bank in the euro zone, opposes passing on any profits before they are realized, which would take place over the next several years.

The European Central Bank started buying bonds from Greece, Portugal and other troubled countries in May 2010 to help stop a slide in prices. But the intervention, totaling almost 220 billion euros so far, did not prevent effective interest rates on Greek bonds from soaring, and the bank has recently dialed back the program.

During the last week, the bank spent 59 million euros in bond markets, a relatively small amount compared with spending in other weeks.

The plan for the central bank to swap bonds is likely to come as a disappointment to the private holders of Greek bonds, who hoped the bank would contribute. It also raises the question of whether, without help from the central bank, Greece’s debt can be reduced to a level that the country has a realistic chance of repaying.

In what was apparently a bit of unintentional irony, the Greek central bank issued a reminder to citizens on Friday that they had only until March 1 to trade in any old drachmas they might have for euros. The 10-year exchange period for the old notes expires on that day, the Bank of Greece said.
705 2012-02-18 Shares of Demand Media, which runs eHow.com and LiveStrong.com, rose the most in more than a year after fourth-quarter adjusted profit topped analysts' estimates. Demand Media, based in Santa Monica, Calif., rose $1.82, or 31 percent, to $7.76 a s...
706 2012-02-18 8:48 p.m. | Updated      Federal authorities on Friday charged one of the most vocal and vehement critics of their campaign to root out insider trading on Wall Street, accusing John Kinnucan, an Oregon-based research analyst, of swapping corporate...
707 2012-02-19 When Rick Santorum's name is mentioned in news coverage, it tends to be associated with social issues more often than economic ones. The opposite is true for Mitt Romney....
708 2012-02-19 The poorly reviewed “This Means War” arrived in fifth place with about $17.6 million in ticket sales over the weekend....
709 2012-02-19 The now departed Times foreign correspondent reminded the world that the only way to get a story straight was to be close enough to look it in the eye....
710 2012-02-19 The now departed Times foreign correspondent reminded the world that the only way to get a story straight was to be close enough to look it in the eye....
711 2012-02-19 Unlike the founders of many consumer-oriented companies that are ready for initial public offerings — Facebook is a prominent current example — Mr. Koch decided that his I.P.O. would be consumer-oriented. A graduate of Harvard and of the Boston Consulting Group — and of a joint Harvard business-law graduate program in which Mitt Romney was a classmate — he examined how traditional I.P.O.’s actually worked. He concluded that he could do better if he harnessed the same innovative energy that he used to build his business.

As Mr. Koch saw it, when an I.P.O. is controlled by investment banks, it is structured “to reward the banks and their favored institutional investors” and not the fledgling business or its customers. He realized that he “wasn’t comfortable letting Wall Street underwriters control the process, set the price and allocate the shares to their favored clients at a favorable price.”

Instead, he said: “I wanted to take care of my Sam Adams drinkers. They were the people who were really important to me and who were going to continue to be.”

So he improvised, hanging fliers on six-packs of beer that very carefully informed customers that they might be able to buy $500 worth of shares in an eventual public offering. “We were limited to what you could manage to say on a six-pack, and also by what the lawyers would let us say,” he recalls.

“The laws and regulations were set up to make this kind of thing very difficult,” he says. “But I had a strong feeling that we should do this.”

He sold shares at two prices. Some went to his customers, who, in a startling reversal, got a better deal than Wall Street insiders: $15 a share for the customers, versus $20 for those who bought at the opening price in a public offering run by Goldman Sachs.

Mr. Koch recalls the horrified reaction of one irate fund manager. “So I’m going to buy shares for $20 while you’re selling them to these cat-and-dog investors for $15?”, the man sputtered. “I always get the lower price. You’ve turned things upside down.”

Mr. Koch says that when he asked the manager whether he drank much beer, the man replied: “Not really, I’m mostly a wine drinker.” To which Mr. Koch responded: “That proves my point. I care about beer drinkers, not wine-drinking fund managers. You don’t really matter to me.”

Securities and Exchange Commission rules required Mr. Koch to indicate in advance how many shares he would sell directly to customers, he says. He came up with an estimate of 30,000 buyers — but it was only a guess, and it turned out to be way too low. Instead, he says, more than 100,000 would-be shareholders sent in checks. He used a lottery to select 30,000, sending the rest of the checks back. “If I’d had any idea how much interest there would be, I could have sold all the shares directly to customers,” he says now. “But I just didn’t know. Nobody had done this before.”

To help sell stock directly to customers, Mr. Koch brought in a like-minded banker, William R. Hambrecht, a prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalist who was determined to improve the I.P.O. process. “I thought Jim was really onto something,” Mr. Hambrecht recalled in a telephone interview. “It got me thinking that we ought to be able to come up with a better way to do this.”

Based on that experience, Mr. Hambrecht says, he went on to develop the model for modified Dutch auction I.P.O.’s. These were made famous by Google in 2004 and adapted by Morningstar in 2005 and later by other companies. In structure, they are descending price auctions, aimed at determining the highest bid that would clear a market open to all investors and not just insiders.

Eric Schmidt, executive chairman of Google, declined to comment for this column, but he has written that despite some problems, its auction was an essential part of Google’s stated goal to “do no evil.”

In a phone interview, Joe Mansueto, founder of Morningstar, called his company’s auction-based I.P.O. “a terrific success.” He pursued it, he said, because “it just squared very nicely with the ethos of Morningstar to help investors of all stripes and not just institutional investors.”

He added that “it seemed funny to use the traditional book-building process that lets the underwriter,” who is “biased” toward its best customers, decide who gets the inside price. “Making sure that all investors have equal access to shares was the better method, the right method for us,” he said.

While there have been some ups and downs, shares in all three of these companies have proved excellent long-term investments, and their I.P.O.’s helped to reinforce the companies’ image as unusually consumer-friendly.

Most of those customer-shareholders have retained their investments in the beer company, Mr. Koch says. “It’s helped to give us stability and a lot of support,” he said. Those $15 shares are now worth more than $100 each.

Both Mr. Koch and Mr. Mansueto say they are surprised that Facebook hasn’t indicated that it will embrace a more democratic public offering, though it could still do so.

“It’s not easy to go up against Wall Street,” said Mr. Mansueto, who said his own background, as a graduate of the University of Chicago business school and founder of an investor services company, gave him the ability to do it. “Most people have I.P.O.’s only once in their life, and they tend to trust the professionals, the Wall Street bankers, the way they’d instinctively trust a dentist or a doctor,” he said. “You have to have a lot of self-confidence and a lot of expertise to go against that advice.”

Matthew Rhodes-Kropf, a professor at Harvard Business School, says I.P.O. auctions are still relatively rare because of those factors, and because they are not in the fundamental interest of most banks. “Wall Street will always hate I.P.O. auctions,” he says, “because Wall Street is all about insider access, and these auctions take it away.”

Mr. Hambrecht is still running I.P.O. auctions, even though, he says, “it’s a little like tilting at windmills.” It doesn’t matter, he says: “I believe it’s the right thing to do.”
712 2012-02-19 If you want to take a broad view, the trouble really began with the Constitutional Convention of the State of Alabama in 1901. The document that emerged there — written to empower business interests and disenfranchise African-Americans and poor whites — gives towns and counties little authority over local issues. Local taxing power rests with the state, though state lawmakers are loath to wield it today, in an age of anti-tax populism. Last summer, the Supreme Court of Alabama struck down a tax that was a crucial source of revenue for Jefferson County, finally pushing the county over the brink.

Officials here have only begun to grapple with the implications of life under Chapter 9 of the federal bankruptcy code, a municipal form of debt adjustment, rather than reorganization or liquidation. Until now, the most famous example was Orange County, Calif., which filed for Chapter 9 in 1994, after risky went horribly wrong. Many local governments are struggling to pay their bills these days, but hardly any have filed for bankruptcy. Notable exceptions include Harrisburg, the capital of Pennsylvania, Vallejo, Calif., and Central Falls, R.I.

“This is really a journey without a road map,” said John S. Young, the civil engineer who was appointed by an Alabama court to figure out how to fix Jefferson County’s sewer system. Today he is that project’s official receiver in name only: a federal bankruptcy court has suspended his powers, ruling that the federal bankruptcy law trumps state laws that protect bondholders.

Ordinary citizens can’t do much at this point. Jefferson County has even canceled municipal elections scheduled for this August. It seems that there’s no money for voting booths, either.

IN late 2010, a Wall Street analyst, Meredith Whitney, caused a stir during an appearance on “60 Minutes.” The $4 trillion market for , Ms. Whitney said, was headed for trouble. Within 12 months, 50 to 100 sizable defaults, possibly more, would rattle the market, she predicted.

The reaction was stunning. In a blink, billions of dollars flew out of the muni market. that specialized in such were hit especially hard.

Ms. Whitney’s prediction hasn’t come to pass, and the muni market — usually a dull-as-dishwater corner of Wall Street — has since recovered.

Many muni experts called Ms. Whitney an alarmist, but she clearly touched a nerve. States, counties, cities and towns issue many billions of dollars worth of new munis every year, and those bonds pay for all sorts of things. Government bodies nationwide can borrow those billions at a low cost because munis are traditionally considered among the most conservative of investments. Without quick and easy access to this market, local government as we know it would fall apart.

That’s why the developments in Jefferson County are so unnerving. About 300 municipalities nationwide are in default on their debt, but most of them are so tiny that they draw little attention. What is more, after ran into financial trouble in the ’70s, and Cleveland fell into a hole in the ’80s, the federal bankruptcy code was changed to ensure that certain types of muni bonds would keep paying interest and principal even if the issuing government authority sought bankruptcy.

Yet Chapter 9 bankruptcies have been so rare, and Chapter 9’s involving lots of bonded debt rarer still, that there is almost no legal precedent for what is happening in Jefferson County. Its lawyers are negotiating with roughly 4,000 creditors, from suppliers to hedge funds. The federal bankruptcy judge in the case is exerting enormous influence. By the time this is over, the lines between state and federal power may be redrawn when it comes to who, if anyone, can force a community to make good on its promises.

“It could set a precedent for the whole market,” said Matt Fabian, a managing director at Municipal Market Advisors, a research firm.

One possibility is that bonds backed by revenue from a particular public works project — fees from a sewer system like Jefferson County’s, for instance — will come to be viewed as riskier investments in general. Until now, many municipal bond investors assumed that they would be paid back almost entirely in the event of a bankruptcy. Orange County ultimately set a reassuring example; although it postponed a debt repayment, it made up for the delay by paying a higher rate of interest.

Now, who knows? Officials in places like Harrisburg are watching the developments in Alabama closely. Harrisburg’s Chapter 9 filing was rejected by a federal bankruptcy court, but officials in that city still hope to wrest some concessions from creditors. Pennsylvania has passed a law that prevents Harrisburg from filing for Chapter 9 again, but that law expires on July 1.

NOT long after Jefferson County went bust, John S. Young was sitting under the arched windows of the Yale Club in Midtown , trying to explain how all this started. Mr. Young, 58, had been brought to New York City by the Municipal Analysts Group of New York, a professional society, to give a briefing on the developments down south.

Mr. Young quickly recapped what just about everyone here knew: in 1996, the accused the county of dumping raw sewage into the Black Warrior and Cahaba rivers. Elected officials had to figure out what to do, and to figure it out fast.

Birmingham, which had thrived from Reconstruction to the mid-1960s as an iron and steel town, had been declining for years. Why not embark on a giant public works project, a Taj Mahal of sewage systems, to foster jobs and development?

Jefferson County began to borrow vast sums of money, but that money, it turned out, was a perfect medium for graft and contract-padding. Rather than replacing more than 2,000 miles of decrepit sewer pipes, the county dispensed contracts to build water treatment plants, pumping stations and administrative buildings, some on slag heaps left behind by closed steel mills.

All this debt was supposed to be paid off with revenue from the new sewer system — in other words, by fees the county would charge residents whose homes were hooked up to the system. As the debt grew, so did those fees — and the public outcry. By 2002, the average sewer bill in the county had doubled, to $18 a month.

One thing led to another. In an attempt to expand the system and add new ratepayers, the county tried to bore a giant tunnel beneath the Cahaba River, Birmingham’s main source of drinking water. But the tunnel was so unstable that the endeavor was abandoned. The county spent millions just to extract the boring machine, which had become entombed underground.

Despite all this, the county still hadn’t fixed its sewers, as the E.P.A. had required. It needed more money, but people were so angry that officials were afraid to raise rates further.

Desperate, Jefferson County turned to Wall Street, particularly to . The bank was able to persuade the county to agree to a bond deal with terms that included complicated interest-rate swaps. Those swaps blew up during the financial crisis of 2008, leaving the county with even more debt than it had started with.

In addition, the project and its financing led to a variety of criminal and civil charges, with several officials and others receiving prison time. In one case, Larry Langford, a former president of the Jefferson County Commission and former mayor of Birmingham, was sentenced to 15 years in prison.

In another case, J.P. Morgan Securities dropped claims to $647 million in termination fees it had tried to make the county pay on the swaps, as part of a settlement that also called for J.P. Morgan to make payments of $25 million to the and $50 million to the county.

As residents of the county saw more officials go to prison, public opinion hardened against paying the debt.

“I don’t accept the legitimacy of this debt,” said Allyn Hudson, 32, an Occupy Birmingham organizer camping near the bankruptcy court. “It shouldn’t ever have been issued, and therefore it shouldn’t exist. It shouldn’t have been spent. Since it shouldn’t have existed, we’re not going to pay it.”

Although JPMorgan, in its settlement, let the county out of its swaps deal, the county’s underlying debt remains outstanding. Today, the county is effectively shut out of the muni bond market and is coasting on reserves, further delaying work on sewers that don’t function properly. “I’ve never seen a utility that had such big financial needs, and no access to the financial markets,” Mr. Young said.

EVEN before the bankruptcy, the old industrial core of metropolitan Birmingham looked like a monument to urban blight. About a quarter of the people in Birmingham live below the poverty line. It’s different in the suburbs, where the money is, and where many homes have private wells and septic systems.

Downtown, at the courthouse, the line for car license tags snakes down a corridor. The county has shut its satellite courthouses, so everything now gets done here. Every department is short-staffed. The sheriff, Mike Hale, can’t afford to pay overtime. There is also outrage that the county paid Mr. Young, the court-ordered receiver, a little more than $1 million for 14 months’ work.

The county’s road crews are patching only big potholes; resurfacing can wait. The tax collector has laid off four agents, at a savings of $180,000. But the math of bankruptcy doesn’t always work well. Last year, those four agents collected $2.7 million from delinquent taxpayers, so it’s possible the county is losing money in this arrangement.

Down U.S. 11 from Birmingham is the city of Bessemer, where the second county jail, refurbished a few years ago at a cost of $11 million, sits empty and unused. The county can’t afford to pay for the guards. At the county jail in Birmingham, meanwhile, a 20-year-old program under which certain inmates were released pending trial, provided they wore electronic monitors and underwent drug tests, has been cut. That saved $2 million, but now the jail is overcrowded.

David Carrington, the president of the Jefferson County Commission, has floated the idea of freeing several hundred inmates. “We can’t be in contempt of court,” Mr. Carrington said.

Sheriff Hale refuses to consider that. The county, he said, has a duty to protect its citizens.

Here and there, new projects have sprouted up as if nothing has happened. The Logan family just broke ground on a $64 million ballpark for the Birmingham Barons, the minor league baseball team. Over in Hoover, a bedroom community that stretches over parts of Jefferson and Shelby counties, the police department bought 30 new Chevy Tahoes last year and sold a few of its old ones to Sheriff Hale.

And yet David Sher, a local businessman, said everyone wonders how the county will ever get out of this financial mess.

“People are desperate to think of anything they can to get the money,” he said.

The federal bankruptcy judge overseeing the case, Thomas B. Bennett, has already rendered a sobering appraisal. It is “highly unlikely,” he wrote in a decision in January, that “what was loaned can ever be repaid.”
713 2012-02-19 It is Howson’s demand of a contributor from the lineup that has many Rangers fans and N.H.L. analysts concerned.

“If they can get Nash or another star for draft picks and prospects, then fine,” said Pierre McGuire, a color commentator for NBC. “But if the asking price includes players from a lineup that’s been carrying them to win after win since October, I don’t like it. I wouldn’t recommend it.”

Although they admire Nash, Rangers players appreciate McGuire’s assessment. After practice Saturday, none wanted to discuss the potential effect of hypothetical trades. They were consistent in saying it is Sather’s call, but hoping any deal would improve the team without hurting its chemistry.

“This is the best locker room I’ve ever been in,” goaltender Martin Biron, a 13-year veteran, said of the Rangers’ camaraderie. “All I can point out is, we’re in a good situation and we’ve got a great thing going here.”

But that will not stop Sather from shopping, and it will not stop the rumors. Among the regulars in Coach John Tortorella’s lineup, forward Brandon Dubinsky is mentioned the most on Twitter and on Canadian sports networks like TSN, which will begin 10 hours of live coverage at 8 a.m. on deadline day. After practice Saturday, Dubinsky made his case to stay but said he also understood Sather’s responsibility to improve the Rangers.

“If I’m traded for Rick Nash, he’s a great player; what can I do?” Dubinsky said. “Management is going to do everything they feel they can to bring a Cup here. This organization has always been in my corner. It’s not like I feel unwanted or I’m being run out of town.”

Dubinsky said his name had been in the trade rumor mill every season of his career except last year. His struggles on offense this season make him an obvious candidate for a move.

“But if I finish the season in a great way, all of this will be forgotten,” he said.

Tortorella claimed not to know the date of the trade deadline and said he was focused only on preparing for Columbus.

“I really like our hockey club,” was all he would say about possible changes.

Ryan Callahan, the Rangers’ captain, said he saw no need for a meeting to alleviate any concerns about trades that could alter the team’s close-knit core.

“The guys should not be nervous at all,” Callahan said. “Our record shows what we are. Our ability to play as a true team, along with our chemistry on and off the ice, is the biggest reason we have been in first place. No matter what happens, I don’t expect anything will disrupt that.”

A trade for a second-line scorer or a steady defenseman would most please Rangers players because it would probably involve only draft picks or teenage prospects. Last year’s Stanley Cup finalists, Boston and Vancouver, made deadline deals that bolstered their depth without taking players off the roster.

Vancouver traded two third-round draft picks to acquire two grinding forwards: Chris Higgins from Florida and Maxim Lapierre from Anaheim. The Bruins made a bigger splash by acquiring defenseman Tomas Kaberle from Toronto, but no one left Boston. General Manager Peter Chiarelli traded the minor league forward Joe Colborne and first- and second-round picks to the Leafs.

As a member of the Devils, Rangers forward Mike Rupp saw how a minor transaction helped win the Stanley Cup in 2003.

“We got Grant Marshall from Columbus for a draft pick,” Rupp said. “He gave us more toughness and experience, and no one came off our roster. That deal maybe didn’t get a lot of attention, but it was perfect for our team.”

Marshall, who never scored more than 15 goals in a season of his 700-game N.H.L. career, scored six in the 2003 playoffs for the Devils.

“Deals like that give a good team even more confidence,” Rupp said. “I can understand why Glen is always going to investigate moves. He built us into the team we are, so no one will second-guess whatever he decides to do next.”

As the captain, Callahan is the players’ link to management. But he says he will not lobby Sather.

“If I’m asked, I would tell them what I think,” Callahan said. “But that’s not my responsibility.”

Lundqvist said: “You’re always wondering what’s going to happen at the deadline, but it’s mostly out of our control. The one thing we can do is keep winning games and show everybody we don’t need anything.”

On Sunday, they get to make their case against Nash and the Blue Jackets.
714 2012-02-19 Economists say the current price of oil is only a modest drag on the economy. But a big jump — combined with tensions over Iran and continuing European debt worries — could present a more significant challenge to America’s recovery, they say.

For the president’s economic team, the specter of such increases in oil prices comes on the heels of positive economic news that has lifted Mr. Obama’s approval rating, including better-than-expected job growth, a surging stock market and a deal that will put more money in the pockets of millions of Americans.

But Mr. Boehner’s message to his members echoes the aggressive talk coming from the Republican campaign trail, where the men vying for the right to challenge Mr. Obama are increasingly blaming Mr. Obama’s administration for rising gas prices. A gallon of gas had dropped to $1.89 when Mr. Obama took office in 2009, in large part because of the fall in oil demand caused by the financial crisis, and has almost doubled since.

“They want higher energy prices. They want to push their radical agenda on the public,” said at a campaign event last week, accusing Democrats of pushing alternatives to oil. “We need a president who is on the side of affordable energy.”

wrote on on Friday that “gasoline prices are unacceptable. We can do better!” He urged his supporters to sign a petition on his Web site calling for a return to $2.50-a-gallon gas. “Drill here. Drill now. Pay less,” the petition says.

And talking points from the that go out to conservative commentators every Friday often include rising gas prices among the “Top Line Messaging” for the week. A recent “Pundit Prep” document cited the , unemployment and the price of gas as the three best ways to define the “Obama economy.”

The president’s political advisers are bracing for battle as they envision the price of gas rising steadily through the summer, as it usually does. As the president’s motorcade whisked him through scenic Orange County on Thursday on the way to a fund-raiser, one sign held by a protester read, “Gas prices up 91 percent under Obama.”

Aides say they know the attacks are inevitable. But they also say they are prepared to respond forcefully with a defense of the president’s energy policies and a critique of the Republican line.

“The president is keenly aware of the impact that higher gas prices have on families trying to make ends meet,” , the White House press secretary, said last week.

For Mr. Obama’s economic team, the increase in oil prices is an unwelcome reminder of how global events largely outside their control can hamper a recovery. For the third year in a row, a modest recovery faces head winds as winter turns to spring.

In the spring of 2010, debt crises in , slowing stimulus spending and weakness in the housing market brought an abrupt halt to a brief turnaround in the United States economy. A year later, turmoil in the , the earthquake and tsunami in and more debt problems in Europe did the same. Now, rising gasoline prices, concern over tensions with Iran and, once again, European debt are causing worries.

On a call with reporters on Friday, , the chairman of the president’s , said rising oil prices threatened to into household budgets and sap confidence — as they did last year. But he said the agreement to extend last year’s payroll tax cut would help.

“The payroll tax cut provides some cushion for families in case they see their costs go up, possibly because of gasoline prices or for other reasons over the course of the year,” Mr. Krueger said.

In speeches this spring, aides said, the president will increasingly focus on his administration’s actions to raise the of cars and to open new areas to oil and natural gas development. They said they hoped the moves would counter the accusation that he has stifled oil production. On Friday, the announced an expansion of oil exploration in waters.

Mr. Obama has also begun once again to express his personal concern for the impact of gas prices on pocketbooks, as he did last week while pressing Congress to extend the cut, which is about $40 per paycheck for a family making $50,000 a year.

“If we start seeing significant increases in gas prices, losing that $40 could not come at a worse time,” the president said Tuesday.

A counterattack being planned by the Obama re-election team in is expected to point out, among other things, ’s actions to raise gas taxes when he was governor of . And Mr. Obama’s Democratic allies on Capitol Hill are eager to renew a nationwide discussion about tax subsidies to oil companies.

“House Republicans are very good at using every argument they can to shield oil companies from paying their fair share,” said Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “They have been relentless and fearless protectors of oil company profits.”

Republicans on Capitol Hill say they are eager to criticize the president as gas prices rise, in part with a flurry of legislation aimed at increasing domestic production.

They also plan to use Mr. Obama’s decision to block the immediate construction of , a 1,700-mile pipeline that would stretch from to the Gulf Coast. A Republican bill was passed by the House on Thursday to expand and force a permit to be approved for the pipeline.

In an interview, Representative of California, the House whip, mocked Mr. Obama’s claim to want an “all of the above” energy policy.

“He says it in his State of the Union, and then a week later he kills Keystone,” Mr. McCarthy said. “I think energy is going to be one of the major issues in this election, and it’s going to peak in two months.”
715 2012-02-19 As recently as Feb. 11, North Dakota fans visiting the university’s athletics Web site found their browsers redirected from fightingsioux.com to a new domain name, UNDsports.com. By last Monday, fightingsioux.com had been restored, and announcers resumed calling teams the Fighting Sioux. Under the legislation passed in November, the team had three years to come up with a new nickname.

Until this is resolved, either by referendum in June or by a state Supreme Court decision before that, the university finds itself in a costly pickle. Faison said the athletic department spent $750,000 on the original transition. He declined to predict the cost of changing back.

“To do it twice, it’s hard to estimate, but it’s going to be costly, no question,” Faison said in a telephone interview from Grand Forks. “And we may be turning around and doing it again.”

Meanwhile, Faison and other university officials are trying to convince voters that retaining the nickname would do irreparable harm to North Dakota’s athletic teams. Faison fears it will jeopardize the university’s move from the Great West to the Big Sky Conference on July 1 in all sports but men’s hockey. Faison said he had that impression from a conference call with Big Sky athletic directors last week.

“The reality is, our ability to be in a Division I conference is definitely at risk here,” Faison said, adding, “We cannot survive as a Division I independent in this area.”

Persuading teams to play nonconference games in Grand Forks can be difficult because of its remote location, Faison said. Filling a basketball or football schedule without a conference affiliation would be impossible, he said, especially because many institutions refuse to play anyone using an Indian nickname.

Faison said the reversal caused Iowa to cancel a home-and-home women’s basketball series beginning next season in Grand Forks. “As you can imagine, the opportunity for North Dakota to host a Big Ten school, that’s a big deal,” Faison said.

The university also lost a swim meet with the Hawkeyes and a softball series with Wisconsin, he said.

And future series with North Dakota’s biggest rivals in hockey remain in peril. Minnesota and Wisconsin generally do not schedule games against programs that use Indian nicknames but made an exception for North Dakota, a fellow member of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. All three leave the W.C.H.A. for other conferences in 2013.

“By institution policy, if we continue to be the Fighting Sioux, they can’t play us,” Faison said. “So you’ve lost the ability to play your two top rivals. How important is that? It’s important.”

The Big Sky commissioner, Doug Fullerton, said the conference still planned to add North Dakota. But, he added, that may change if more nonconference universities objecting to the nickname refuse to play North Dakota. “I know, because I know coaches, that it’s already being used against them in recruiting,” Fullerton said in a telephone interview.

Even the men’s hockey coach Dave Hakstol, a former Sioux defenseman and a vehement supporter of the nickname, said last week that the time had come to let it go. Hakstol believes the Big Sky will not admit North Dakota as the Fighting Sioux, and that will cost all teams top recruits.

“It’s no longer a debate on the use of the Fighting Sioux name,” he said during his weekly news conference. “It’s becoming more of a straight-up decision based on cold, hard facts.”

Carlson is not sure how to proceed. He said the university told him to stop ordering Sioux items after June 30. Several times, he has asked the university’s licensing agency whether the referendum call negates that deadline. “There’s still no change,” he said in a telephone interview.

Sioux fans are not storming the store to stock up, Carlson said, though a few are thinking ahead.

“We had one gentleman say he was going to buy six hats so he could break out a new one every year,” he said.
716 2012-02-19 YOU sense an odd disconnect as soon as you enter Robongi, a small and bustling Japanese restaurant on Hoboken’s main drag, especially early in the evening. For one thing, the cheesy nautical décor — marine buoys, fish netting and wooden signs festooned with “Capt. Charlie’s hot fat crabs” and the like — is hard to square with the Japanese menu.

Then there’s the name, which conjures Roppongi, the Tokyo neighborhood famous for its nightlife and throngs of young pleasure-seekers. But “it’s purposely misspelled,” according to David Huang, the affable owner, in an effort to be catchy and “just a little different.” In fact, that seems to be a mantra for Mr. Huang, who is Chinese and opened Robongi, his first restaurant, 10 years ago (he added another outpost in Weehawken in 2008) — he’s trying to mix things up.

And somehow it all starts to make sense once the place fills and the soundtrack shifts from pop to blaring, thumping club music. You look around in the dim light and notice that the place is suddenly packed, that virtually everyone is under 30, and that no one seems to care that the noise is essentially drowning out meaningful conversation. They’re too busy bopping along while devouring huge amounts of sushi.

Did that table really just order a Sex on the Beach roll? I believe it did. Another couple went right for the Love Boat, a $56 platter of 18 pieces of sashimi, 10 pieces of sushi and a couple of maki rolls. It was humongous, and they ate it all.

There’s actually a full array of tempura, teriyaki and noodle dishes on the large and fairly priced menu. But given that the fish seems to be where the action is, that’s where my dining companions and I concentrated our efforts on a couple of recent visits.

But first we sampled a few appetizers, including the hijiki (seaweed), which was pungent and free of the aftertaste that often plagues it, and pleasantly salty edamame. The vegetable tempura was O.K., if a bit soggy, as was the chicken negimaki, which was a tad overpowered by too much teriyaki sauce. We did much better with the Robongi crab cake, more American than Japanese in preparation but fresh and flavorful nonetheless.
717 2012-02-19 ALTHOUGH many residents of Beirut were strolling along the newly opened waterfront promenade, Zaitunay Bay, on a mild January morning, it was almost eerily quiet. The Lebanese capital is not exactly known for tranquillity  —  a cacophony of car horns provides the soundtrack for nearly all strolls here  — but on this attractive marina nestled below street level, you could hear the water lapping against the hulls of docked pleasure craft.

Six years in the making, the elegant pedestrian esplanade, which opened in December and will soon have 17 restaurants and 7 retail shops is a sign of the downtown coastline’s revival.

“Ten years ago, this area of Beirut was dead,” said Raphael Sabbagha, co-chairman of Zaitunay Bay’s development company.

Indeed, during the 15-year Lebanese civil war, a nearby section of Mediterranean coastline served as a notorious dumping ground. Where there was once an open sewer outlet bordering a mountain of garbage there’s now a stunning teak boardwalk, ample terrace seating and gray basalt walkways.

The ambitious 215,000-square-foot development, designed by the architect Steven Holl, literally grew out of the stabilized landfill. “All of this was reclaimed and rebuilt after the 1975 civil war,” said Farouk Kamal, the other chairman of the development company. Pointing about 2,000 feet inland, he added, “The seafront used to be in front of that church.”
718 2012-02-19 Co-op prices in the fourth quarter fell sharply: the median was down by 15 percent, to $146,000, from the fourth quarter of 2010. That fact in turn contributed to the other fourth-quarter phenomenon: the number of sales climbed more than 20 percent from the same period in 2010.

In contrast, fourth-quarter sales of single-family houses fell by 5 percent, in response to an almost 9 percent decline in prices; for condos, sales were down 2 percent, prices almost 6 percent.

The co-op sector, Mr. Haggerty said, may be the first to have finally “found the price points that generate traffic.”

As for the slight overhang of inventory, he suggested the excess reflected co-op owners’ optimism that their properties would sell: “Typically in this region,” he said, “an improving market encourages potential sellers to list their properties, and thus, contrary to classic supply-and-demand theory, inventory actually increases even as sales volume increases.”

If Ms. Spinelli’s application is approved by the building’s board, she will move into one of 1,800 similar units in a leafy landscaped area along Garth Road on the Scarsdale-Eastchester border, said Barry Kramer, a broker-owner of Westchester Choice Realty in Eastchester.

It was in the 1970s and 1980s that many apartment buildings were converted to co-ops and new co-ops were built. They supplemented an inventory dating as far back as 1928, when the oldest co-op building in Westchester, the elegant brick Cragswold on Garth Road, was built.

Prices range from under $50,000, for studio to one-bedroom apartments in Peekskill, to $1.275 million for a two-bedroom two-bath unit in Rye at Milton Harbor House. They are most common in areas like Eastchester, Larchmont, White Plains, Bronxville and Yonkers, which have a stock of older apartment houses, many with spacious layouts and high ceilings, that have been converted to ownership units.

In Larchmont, Mark Nadler, the principal broker of Prudential Centennial Realty, which also has offices in Scarsdale, said 43 co-ops had sold in 2011, versus 29 the year before. Reflecting the countywide trend, co-op prices in Larchmont dropped to a median of $205,000 from $215,000 the previous year.

In Bronxville, condos have traditionally attracted empty nesters because of the large down payments the co-op boards required. But that is changing, said Joseph Houlihan, a managing partner of Houlihan & O’Malley. Because Bronxville is one of the most expensive villages in Westchester, he said, many of the larger co-ops offer a viable alternative to single-family homes, which are not available in the $500,000-to-$600,000 range.

But co-ops, for all their current affordability, have deterred buyers for other reasons — among them restrictive subletting policies and boards that can reject an applicant without giving a reason.

The negatives notwithstanding, empty nesters like Gloria and John Mezzacappa, who had previously lived in large colonials when their four children were growing up, opted this time for a two-bedroom two-bath 1960s co-op in Eastchester, close to the train station and a 35-minute ride for Mr. Mezzacappa, a lawyer, to Grand Central Terminal. Because of the drop in prices — they paid in the low $300,000s — they are free to enjoy what they describe as the best of all possible worlds: a country setting with many of the conveniences of city living.

Among these they cited were upscale shopping, nearby restaurants, and little need to take the car of the garage. “Or the snowblower,” Ms. Mezzacappa added.
719 2012-02-19 2 1/2 pounds apples, peeled and cored, then cut into wedges (5 large honeycrisps will do it)

1. Melt butter in a large sauté pan set over medium-high heat and add apples to the pan. Stir to coat fruit with butter and cook, stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, whisk together the spices, salt and 2/3 cup sugar, and sprinkle this over the pan, stirring to combine. Lower heat and cook until apples have started to soften, approximately 5 to 7 minutes. Sprinkle the flour and cornstarch over the apples and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, another 3 to 5 minutes. Remove pan from heat, add cider vinegar, stir and scrape fruit mixture into a bowl and allow to cool completely. (The fruit mixture will cool faster if spread out on a rimmed baking sheet.)

2. Place a large baking sheet on the middle rack of oven and preheat to 425. Remove one disc of dough from the refrigerator and, using a pin, roll it out on a lightly floured surface until it is roughly 12 inches in diameter. Fit this crust into a 9-inch pie plate, trimming it to leave a 1/2-inch overhang. Place this plate, with the dough, in the freezer.

3. Roll out the remaining dough on a lightly floured surface until it is roughly 10 or 11 inches in diameter.

4. Remove pie crust from freezer and put the cooled pie filling into it. Cover with remaining dough. Press the edges together, trim the excess, then crimp the edges with the tines of a fork. Using a sharp knife, cut three or four steam vents in the top of the crust. Lightly brush the top of the pie with egg wash and sprinkle with remaining tablespoon of sugar.
720 2012-02-19 The Trend     Get Shorty. This season, the suit that holds all the power comes in a shorts and blazer combo, thanks to Balmain, Proenza Schouler and Ralph Lauren. See our slide show >>...
721 2012-02-19 In ''A Yearning for Dogs to Roam Free,'' on the cover of last Sunday's Metropolitan section, Lisa W. Foderaro examined the controversy over a Connecticut nature preserve that, like other parks in the region, had banned off-leash dogs. Readers resp...
722 2012-02-19 EINHORN--Rosalyn We miss you so much. Your Loving Family...
723 2012-02-19 WEISSBART--Mildred Weaver, died on February 14, 2012. Her funeral was private. Services by Walter B. Cooke Funeral Home....
724 2012-02-19 Hearts have broken across New York this week, and not by Valentine's Day dates gone bust. New York City private schools have been sending out notifications -- yes, no and the dreaded wait list -- and by many accounts, it has been a tough year to w...
725 2012-02-19 The Trend     From the Hip. Spring's hearty embrace of the peplum - flounced at Celine, frilly at Thakoon, flared at Vera Wang - means full curves ahead.  See our slide show >>...
726 2012-02-19 LEMBO--John Philip, 65, of New York City, passed away February 10, 2012 in Tucson, Arizona surrounded by his family. John was an Academic Services Manager for World Education Services. He is preceded in death by his parents, Philip N. Lembo and Ma...
727 2012-02-20 Cormac McCarthy has won some of the most coveted honors in literature, from the Pulitzer Prize to a spot on Oprah's Book Club, but now it may be time for Mr. McCarthy to add another laurel to his resume: genius copy editor....
728 2012-02-20 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
729 2012-02-20 A new e-tailer lets you crib the style of fashion plates like Daphne Guinness and Margherita Missoni with just a click....
730 2012-02-20 The rich are different from you and me....
731 2012-02-20 Plus: Do you think the president's budget would help your business?...
732 2012-02-20 Assessing tax paid and benefits derived across the span of people's lives provides a more accurate picture than here-and-there snapshots, an economist writes....
733 2012-02-20 The young officer saw me looking her way and said to me, “She’s my mom.”

I said, “I know,” as I boarded my train.

Thirty-five years ago I was admitted to Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn with a fractured skull from being hit by a bicycle in Prospect Park. This was back in the days when a patient was not sent home immediately with a lollipop and a couple of aspirin.

I was there for more than three weeks while tests were performed and evaluated. I had a private room at first, just by luck, and spent my days immersed in one classic novel after another. By the time I had gotten halfway through “The Return of the Native,” I was told that I would now be sharing the room.

My roommate was an 81-year-old Irishman, William Murphy, friendly and cheerful despite the various insults to his body that time and illness had brought. He told me about the rural Ireland he had known and was able to clarify some puzzling references in the Hardy novel.

William Murphy had also served in the British cavalry in the Great War, as he called it, and had been among the units that first charged German machine guns in 1914. Tears came to his eyes when he described how “we were cut to ribbons — the beautiful grays, all cut to ribbons.” He sang me songs they’d sing for their fallen comrades: “You can get another soldier for a tuppence a day.”

I consider myself privileged to have known, albeit briefly, such a brave and gentle soul, and have been reminded of him by the play and the Spielberg movie “War Horse.”

A large double-parked van on a Queens residential street stopped the Q33 bus to La Guardia Airport the other day.

The bus driver honked and honked to no response. Then he left us for a couple of minutes.

When he got back on the bus, he addressed our small group of suitcase-laden, time-pressured passengers:

“If I clip his mirror, nobody says nothin’ to nobody. O.K.?”

We said, “Go for it,” and he inched through, without incident.

Last month, in the face of a marimba-ringing iPhone, Alan Gilbert, conducting the New York Philharmonic, stopped the performance of Mahler until the phone was turned off.

Some of us remember outdoor concerts years ago by members of the Philharmonic, performing as the Stadium Symphony, at Lewisohn Stadium of City College. The stadium was on the La Guardia flight path.

Concerts didn’t stop for the planes. Concerto for piano and orchestra simply became concerto for piano, orchestra and DC-7.
734 2012-02-20 “They’re not going to want to absorb it,” Mr. Cestaro, 54, said. “They’ll say, ‘Let’s do it ourselves. We can save a bundle of money.’ ”

Mr. Cestaro, who employs 250 workers, argues that he provides jobs that are in precious demand in a lagging economy. “There’s a need to fill positions that don’t require a specific skill,” he said. “When the labor rate moves up, what happens to those people who don’t have a skill? When the day comes when the labor rate is $11, where I can buy a more skilled labor force because I was forced to pay that wage, what’s going to happen to those people who don’t have a skill set?”

As he sees it, the 60 to 75 people — most Latino immigrants — who every week apply for a job at his company are evidence of the demand for jobs paying $7.25 an hour.

One of Mr. Cestaro’s workers, Rosa Castillo, 39, works from 10 p.m. to 7 a.m. at a Kmart in the Bronx, swabbing restrooms, vacuuming floors, emptying trash containers. She works seven days a week so she can earn overtime. She took the job after moving to the city six weeks ago from Mission, Texas, where her mother and six siblings live, and failing to find work as a waitress. She can afford New York, she said, because she lives rent-free at her uncle’s apartment. Except for necessities like subway fare, she sends almost all her earnings to her husband, who lives in Honduras with their stepdaughter.

She would like the minimum wage raised but has qualms.

“I think it’s good because I’d be able to make more money,” she said. But she fears that her hours could be cut and that she would earn even less.

Mr. Cestaro, a trimly built, amiable man who favors designer jeans and leather boots, has had his share of lucky breaks, but his business story is mostly one of hard work. He is a workaholic who has not taken a vacation in five years. His major indulgences are his red Ferrari 360 Spider convertible, which costs $240,000, his collection of guitars and the time he spends with his 7-year-old daughter, Giselle.

When rock ’n’ roll gigs were not earning him a living at 20, he trimmed his shaggy hair, pulled out his single earring and, in 1979, with his father’s financial help, started a door-to-door cleaning company out of his parents’ home. Within four years, he was renting a $300-a-month storefront and employing two workers. His first boldface-name client was Giorgio Armani in Manhattan.

He learned how risky the business could be when one of his cleaners accidentally sprayed bleach on a $16,000 Armani dress. Mr. Cestaro, with some proceeds from his insurance company, bought the blemished dress, and his sister altered it into a skirt for his niece.

“It’s a nonrespected industry because people can buy the service at the same price you’re charging,” he said. “People don’t look at cleaning bathrooms or carpets as a skilled trade.”

He says that in 1996 he was charging clients $15.50 per worker per hour and that he is probably charging $15.50 to $17.50 today. His profit margin, he said, has declined to 9 percent from about 15 percent a decade ago.

His argument that raising the minimum wage might frighten clients is not uncommon in low-wage industries. Jamie Richardson, vice president of the 415-branch White Castle hamburger chain, said that if New York raised its wage, he might trim staff members or choose new locations in states like Indiana and Tennessee with lower minimums.

“Adding costs is a job killer,” Mr. Richardson said. “Our customers are real resistant to paying more.”

However, a champion of raising the minimum wage, David Bolotsky, the chief executive of Uncommon Goods, a Brooklyn-based firm that sells designer gift items and pays its entry-level workers $10 an hour, said, “I could not look at myself in the mirror and pay somebody $7.25 an hour — you can’t live on it.”

For Mr. Cestaro, figuring out his price point can involve higher mathematics. He charges by floor space and what he calls density; an office floor that has 10,000 square feet with five desks is less costly than one with 80 desks. Apparel stores are a special category; clothing and sales tags have to be picked off the floor before mopping and waxing can begin. Restaurants are also a challenge because of the meticulous detail work required by health department letter grades.

Particularly skilled cleaners will receive up to $11 an hour. Cleaners in buildings that require unionized workers start at $9.20 an hour. Even a $7.25 worker costs an extra $1.74 for every hour worked because of liability and disability insurance, Social Security and other costs. Equipment can also be expensive; drivable scrubbing machines cost up to $12,000 each.

Should the minimum wage be raised this year, Mr. Cestaro cannot charge a store like Sears any more because he is under a long-term contract.

“Sears could care less what the minimum wage is,” he said, “because I’m obligated to them until 2015.”
735 2012-02-20 The return of the male shopper could have broad consequences for the economy. Retail sales plummeted during the recession, with men’s apparel sales dropping almost twice as fast as women’s in 2009, according to an I.B.M. Global Business Services analysis of retail data.

Women started buying again, and that helped push the recovery along. But men held off on buying apparel and accessories until last year, when estimated men’s sales rose more than 8 percent, outpacing the growth in women’s sales.

Spending on accessories is driving the men’s category: those sales grew 14 percent in the last half of 2011, to about $6 billion, according to the market research firm NPD Group.

“Men were the last to start spending coming out of the recession,” said Eric Jennings, fashion director for men’s wear at Saks Fifth Avenue. “If they learned one thing through the recession, it’s that looking schlumpy is not going to help you keep your job, get promoted or get a new job. I think they’re taking their appearance more seriously.”

The rebound in shopping may also reflect an improved jobs picture for men, who were hit disproportionately over the recession. The gap between men’s and women’s employment rates was about as high as it had ever been as the recovery started in June 2009. Only last month did the men’s and women’s unemployment rates reach the same level.

The male models walking the runway at New York Fashion Week shows this month wore, among other adornments, scarves that could double as blankets; belts, pocket squares and fur neckwear; caps and handbags; feather necklaces; and metal cuffs.

Jewelry designers and fashion executives say the trend comes largely from Italy and Japan, where men throw on silky scarves or pile on bracelets and berets with nonchalance. Given the proliferation of street-style blogs, young men, in particular, can quickly adopt trends from overseas. Mr. Jennings, of Saks, also points to TV shows like “Boardwalk Empire,” where the cool characters dress with panache, as a big influence.

“Where before wearing a leather jacket and jeans was a way to rebel,” he said, “now you see guys on the fringe, edgier characters, wearing suits and pocket squares and tie bars.”

He added, “Men are feeling more confident to experiment and realizing that they do have more options, and it’s showing in the numbers — it’s showing in sales.”

At Burberry stores, for instance, men’s accessory sales increased about 50 percent in the six months through September 2011 compared with the same period a year ago. Coach, which makes items like briefcases and tote bags for men, says global sales of men’s goods doubled, to $200 million, for the fiscal year ending in June 2011, and it expects sales to double again, to $400 million, for its current fiscal year.

The bracelet is perhaps the most striking example of the accessory craze.

It is hard to imagine the archetypal businessmen of recent decades — the power-suited broker of the 1980s, the khakis-and-blue-oxford-shirt-wearer of the ’90s, or the hoodie-clad tech titans of the 2000s — selecting a piece of jewelry each morning as they dressed for work. But now, fashion executives say, sales of men’s bracelets, especially thin versions in leather or metal, are increasing at a rapid pace.

“Bracelets are on fire right now,” said Tim Bess, who analyzes men’s fashions for the Doneger Group, a trend forecaster. “I’d say it’s the No. 1 look for the young man.”

Tateossian, a London-based jewelry designer, says sales of its men’s bracelets rose 30 percent in 2011.

“On a global basis we’re known as a cufflink brand, but in the past year our sales have shifted in a way that we’re selling, now, more bracelets than we are selling cufflinks” online and in Tateossian’s own stores, said Robert Tateossian, the company’s chief executive.

When he saw the sales start to tick up, Mr. Tateossian said, he began pushing American retailers to increase their inventories. Saks, after testing his men’s bracelets at a few locations, is now carrying them more broadly, while Neiman Marcus has agreed to carry the bracelets this spring.

“You can go to a meeting, and it will be discreetly hidden under your sleeve with just a piece showing,” he said. “You will look sharp, you will look professional, and you will have that complete look. In a way, it’s how to look polished without looking like a banker.”

The designers are keeping the accessories as far away from the feminine as possible, for the most part.

“It’s not necessarily a big statement saying, ‘I wear men’s jewelry,’ ” Evan Yurman, director of design, men’s and timepieces, at David Yurman, said of the company’s bracelets that can be hidden under a sleeve.

Miansai makes its men’s bracelets out of thin rope, similar to what a rock climber would use, and uses a metal anchor as a clasp. David Yurman sells one made from braided brown rubber, and Diesel is producing leather cuffs studded with metal.

“It’s leather; it’s hardware; it’s a military aesthetic,” said Theresa Palermo, marketing director for Fossil Inc., which has the license for Diesel accessories.

Mr. Tateossian said his brightly colored bracelets, in shades of orange and red, had nowhere near the sales that more subdued versions did. Men, after all, can be pushed only so far.

“The colors that have sold out? Take a guess,” he said. “The black, the blue and the brown.”
736 2012-02-20 Whether his opposition to the bailout plays as the kind of principled stand that voters find reassuring or as an example of the cold, ruthless brand of capitalism that his opponents charge is responsible for his fortune will help determine how Mr. Romney fares in Michigan’s primary on Feb. 28 and likely beyond.

The Michigan Republican primary electorate is expected to be very conservative, defined at least as much by the kinds of conservatives who recoil at government bailouts and are suspicious of union power as it is by those with a more direct stake in the auto industry’s rebound.

“He gets attacked and mischaracterized for wanting to let Detroit die, and that’s not the case,” said Speaker Jase Bolger of the Michigan House, a Republican who represents a district near Battle Creek on the state’s conservative western side. He said Mr. Romney’s opposition to the auto rescue on principle could do the candidate more good than harm among primary voters.

“Autos are such an important part of Michigan’s heritage, but many people saw this as a government intervention that wasn’t going to cure the problem,” Mr. Bolger added.

The politics of the bailout and the industry’s comeback remain complex and not limited to Detroit. After the Michigan primary, the nominating contest moves into states where the automotive industry also has a significant presence: , , , and .

Some Republicans have criticized Mr. Romney’s insistence that federal intervention was wrongheaded as an example of what they see as his willingness to say anything to win over skeptical conservatives.

“He’s playing the same song as and ,” said Bob Lutz, a former vice chairman for General Motors who said he was still so upset with Mr. Romney that he had cast his absentee ballot in Michigan for .

“I think all of us in the auto industry who knew what the situation was were profoundly disappointed and, I would say, angry,” Mr. Lutz said. “We all saw it for what it was, which was a political ploy to the right.”

The Obama campaign sees a potential advantage and is moving to seize it. An Obama campaign official said allies will be dispatched across Michigan this week to hold news conferences raising Mr. Romney’s opposition to the auto company and attacking his economic policies as beneficial to the wealthy at the expense of the middle class.

Mr. Romney has defended his 2008 plan, most prominently in an opinion article last week for The Detroit News, as essentially a blueprint for the path that Detroit ended up taking. “The course I recommended was eventually followed,” he wrote.

His 2008 opinion article advocated a managed bankruptcy process, one that would help General Motors and Chrysler shed excess labor, pension and real estate costs. He also called for profit-sharing with the unions and for the federal government to invest in new fuel economy technology.

All of those things eventually happened, as Mr. Romney said. Chrysler went into Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in April 2009. General Motors’ filing followed in June. But Mr. Romney’s detractors say his defense falls apart at “eventually.”

To go through the bankruptcy process, both companies needed billions of dollars in financing, money that auto executives and government officials who were involved with Mr. Obama’s auto task force say was not available at a time when the markets had dried up. The only entity that could provide the $80 billion needed, they say, was the federal government. No private companies would come to the industry’s aid, and the only path through bankruptcy would have been Chapter 7 liquidation, not the more orderly Chapter 11 reorganization, these people said.

In fact, the task force asked , the private equity company that Mr. Romney helped found, if it was interested in investing in General Motors’ European operations, according to one person with direct knowledge of the discussions.

Bain declined, this person said, speaking anonymously to discuss private negotiations.

Mr. Romney’s Republican allies in Michigan are seeking to shift attention to other topics.

“I think too much time has been spent on this issue,” said Gov. Rick Snyder, who has endorsed Mr. Romney but differs with him on the bailout.

Mr. Romney’s position that General Motors and Chrysler should have immediately filed for bankruptcy without receiving federal assistance, Mr. Snyder said in an interview, was an option that some Republicans found more palatable than providing billions in loans.

“I wouldn’t judge either one as a wrong answer,” Mr. Snyder added. “One got done. And it’s behind us.”

But while Mr. Romney’s position could resonate among grass-roots conservatives, it continues to rankle Republicans in the auto industry.

“I fully support an entrepreneurial, free-enterprise capitalist system that must include failure and the consequences of failure,” said Mike Jackson, chief executive and chairman of , the largest auto retailer in the country. “I think the American people in principle agree with Mitt Romney. Unfortunately, we were in the midst of a historic, catastrophic, financial meltdown. And it was one of those moments where the reality trumped your principles. You had to hold your nose.”

Mr. , who said he had voted for Mr. Romney in the primary last month, called the candidate’s position on the bailout “a circle that can’t be squared.”

Mr. Romney’s position is fraught on other levels. As an example of how many different constituencies it touches in sometimes awkward ways, one of his major campaign donors, , benefited from the bailout. Mr. Feinberg’s firm, , owned Chrysler when the government stepped in.

Mr. Romney’s campaign sees some potential advantages beyond a resonance with small-government conservatives in his continuing insistence that the federal government should have stayed out of the car business. They say it demonstrates consistency, a trait Mr. Romney’s critics often say he lacks because of reversals on issues like .
737 2012-02-20 “It’s probably the most irritating thing I experience in the neighborhood,” Mr. Hardin said. “I can’t walk without noticing poop on the sidewalk.”

While stepping in what a dog has left behind has long been an inherent peril of life in New York City, it is far less likely to happen than it was decades ago before the so-called pooper-scooper law was introduced. But like many changes in Harlem, which has been undergoing a radical transformation in recent years, the instances of unlucky steps have assumed larger significance.

Longtime residents, looking for a theory, point out that affluent newcomers are bringing more dogs into the neighborhood. And they are suggesting, sometimes subtly and sometimes not, that the recently arrived dog owners are not as vigilant about cleaning up after their pets as they should be.

“I guess it’s the new thing,” said Eutha Prince, the community board’s district manager. “More and more you see expensive dogs walking around where you used to see mutts.”

Ms. Morgan-Thomas said the problem began gathering steam in the last four years, when more people began arriving in the neighborhood, bringing increased gentrification.

“I think it has a lot to do with the fact that they’ve come to a new community in Harlem,” she said, “and because people throw paper on the ground or whatever, and people are not so protective and invested in the community, new citizens feel like, ‘Oh well, so what, let my dog poop.’ ”

Some people blame the winter, and dog walkers not wanting to expose fingers to the cold. Others see waste begetting waste; people see it on the sidewalk and figure they might as well leave their dog’s waste, too.

Any discussion of newcomers to Harlem has, by its very nature, a racial underpinning, given that most longtime residents are black and many newcomers are white. But dog owners said that race played no role when it came to untended waste.

“I don’t think it’s a racial issue,” said David Hazen, a dog owner and avowed poop-picker-upper who moved to the neighborhood two years ago. “It’s a laziness issue.”

Not picking up after one’s dog carries a $250 fine in New York, thanks to the pooper-scooper law, which was enacted in 1978. Yet although the Sanitation Department has a canine unit of about 20 people, who comb the streets and sidewalks for violators, a person has to be caught in the act of not picking up waste to be issued a summons.

And so, in Central Harlem, stories circulate about people taking matters into their own hands. One building superintendent was said to have gotten into a shoving match with a man who refused to pick up his dog’s waste. Another superintendent bragged about sprinkling cayenne pepper around a triangular green space at Edgecombe Avenue and 142nd Street that has a sign that says “No Dogs.”

On a recent day, the triangular space and the sidewalk around it was indeed spotless.

But a block away stood a man holding a leash, and attached to that leash was a red-nose pit bull.

And in front of that pit bull, whose name is Chico, sat a pile of doggy-do, which the man made no move to pick up.

Asked about the situation, the man, Mike Madden, 28, said the dog belonged to his girlfriend.

“She’s going to pick it up, because this is her dog,” he said. Then his girlfriend came into view, her son in one hand, a plastic bag in another, crossed the street, and did just that.
738 2012-02-20 Until the deal was official, Cashman was not in a position to make a formal offer to the left-handed-hitting Ibanez, or to the backup third baseman Eric Chavez, whom he is also pursuing.

Earlier in the day, Cashman discussed a wide range of topics concerning the team, mostly regarding the pitching, including C. C. Sabathia’s weight, Michael Pineda’s status and the whereabouts of Mariano Rivera.

Sabathia, who agreed to a five-year, $122 million extension Oct. 31, arrived in camp Sunday looking noticeably slimmer. In November, a few days after the contract extension was finished, Cashman called Sabathia into Yankee Stadium for a meeting along with Manager Joe Girardi and the trainer Steve Donohue to discuss Sabathia’s weight, which had ballooned in the second half of the season.

The idea, Cashman said, was to come up with ideas to help him remain as toned as possible — at least for a player listed at 6 feet 7 inches and 290 pounds. Cashman said he did not know if the added weight contributed to Sabathia’s second-half decline, in which his earned run average was 3.44, compared with 2.72 in the first half of the season.

“I just know I obviously thought it was important enough to have the conversation because in the second half, he got bigger after the All-Star break, ” Cashman said.

Sabathia remains the ace of a staff that Cashman fortified this off-season with the free agent Hiroki Kuroda and one more hefty starter, Pineda, the 6-7, 280-pound right-hander whom Cashman acquired in the deal that sent Jesus Montero to the Seattle Mariners.

While expectations are high for Pineda, 23, who went 9-10 with a 3.74 E.R.A. as a rookie with Seattle, Cashman said Pineda was not yet a major league No. 2 starter and needed to work on expanding his repertory of pitches.

“He’s got to develop his changeup,” Cashman said. “It’s a below-average pitch for him right now. I don’t think there’s a No. 1 or 2 starter in the big leagues with two pitches. I don’t think you can pitch like that for an extended period of time. I made the trade for a reason. I’m dreaming on the guy, and we’re dreaming on the guy, but there’s work to do.”

With that, the Yankees have six viable starters in camp, and Cashman did not deny that if he had known that he would be adding Kuroda and Pineda, he might not have signed Freddy Garcia, as he did in November.

“I can’t turn the clock back now,” he said. “I am happy that we have Freddy. Freddy was awesome for us last year.”

As for the position players, Cashman laid out his requirements for a second designated hitter to join Andruw Jones. He said he wanted a left-handed hitter who can also play in the field, and Ibanez certainly fits that description, with Chavez providing depth at third for Alex Rodriguez.

Ibanez started 131 games in left field for the Philadelphia Phillies last year. Chavez, 34, started 33 games at third base for the Yankees last year. Cashman also said that the former Yankee Johnny Damon had called him to ask if he could be the D.H., but Cashman indicated that he did not fit what he was looking for.

Fittingly, Cashman closed with a discussion of Rivera, the career saves leader, who was not yet in camp. Cashman could not say when he would arrive, which is not unexpected. Rivera told Cashman in January that he might be a little late to camp.

“What am I going to do?” Cashman said. “It’s Mariano Rivera. He knows what he needs to do. He gets his eight innings in the spring, and he’s just amazing.”
739 2012-02-20 Late last month, the firm announced that it had raised its third fund in three years, $1.5 billion in fresh capital, a large amount even in Silicon Valley. The two men previously started Opsware, a data center software company, and sold it to Hewlett-Packard in 2007.

Mr. Horowitz uses rap as an introduction as he philosophizes about business challenges like how to fire executives, why founders run their companies better than outside chief executives and how to stand up to difficult board members.

“All the management books are like, ‘This is how you set objectives, this is how you set up an org chart,’ but that’s all the easy part of management,” Mr. Horowitz said in an interview in his spacious office here on Sand Hill Road, the epicenter of tech investing.

“The hard part is how you feel. Rap helps me connect emotionally.”

How to deal, for instance, with the stress of the 11th-hour, late-night auditing mishap that almost stymied the $1.6 billion sale of Opsware?

Listen to the Kanye West song “Stronger”: “Now that that don’t kill me/Can only make me stronger/I need you to hurry up now/’Cause I can’t wait much longer/I know I got to be right now/’Cause I can’t get much wronger.”

Much of rap is about business, whether the drug business, the music industry or work ethic, said Adam Bradley, an associate professor specializing in African-American literature at the University of Colorado at Boulder who wrote “Book of Rhymes: The Poetics of Hip Hop” and co-edited “The Anthology of Rap.”

“It comes out of the fact that rap is such a direct mode of expression, maybe more so than any other music lyric, because of the emphasis on language, of words above melody or harmony,” Mr. Bradley said.

People think of rap lyrics as being only about money, women, status and cocaine, he said, but more pervasive themes are leadership, collaboration and the vulnerability beneath the swagger — all relevant in business.

Mr. Horowitz said he made that discovery in the early 1980s, when he was introduced to rap as one of few white players on the Berkeley High School football team.

He began using lyrics to make his points when he became a chief executive.

Recently, for instance, one of the entrepreneurs that Andreessen Horowitz financed clashed with a disparaging board member. Mr. Horowitz advised the executive that he was being too deferential and needed to show his strength.

He said he sent the executive “Scream on Em,” a rap song by The Game, because its “superaggressive” lyrics — so aggressive that none can be printed in a family newspaper.

“I couldn’t have explained what I was talking about quite right, but he called and said, ‘I’ve been listening to that song every day, and everything is better,’ ” Mr. Horowitz said.

When he explained on his blog why his venture firm favored founding chief executives, as opposed to those hired to run companies, he had trouble explaining one of the more subtle reasons — people care more about something they started, while outsiders care more about money.

Then he remembered a lyric by Rakim from the song “Follow the Leader:” “You’re just a rent-a-rapper, your rhymes are minute-maid/I’ll be here when it fade to watch you flip like a renegade.”

Mr. Horowitz said, “Because it’s Rakim, and he’s like the greatest rapper of all time, he could fit into two sentences what it took me three pages to explain.”

He has a simple response to those who say Silicon Valley is in the midst of another bubble, including those who have criticized his firm’s large investments as having played a role in inflating the bubble. It’s LL Cool J’s song “Going Back to Cali:” “I’m going back to Cali ... hmm, I don’t think so.”

“It’s totally about the way he said it — ‘Hmm, I don’t think so’ — which is how I was feeling about the bubble talk,” Mr. Horowitz said.

Mr. Horowitz’s use of rap connects two cultures that are rarely linked. African-Americans hold only 6.7 percent of computer jobs, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and their representation among Silicon Valley entrepreneurs is even smaller.

Last fall, Mr. Horowitz’s posts led to an appearance before the Congressional Black Caucus. He talked to the group about how the Internet brings different cultures together and about the role African-Americans have played in social media and mobile technologies.

Silicon Valley “can leave a lot of people on the outside looking in,” said Jason Lee, a follower of the blog who helped organize the panel and is the son of Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Texas Democrat and a caucus member.

“The fact that he begins with a relevant hip hop lyric immediately contextualizes the narrative into something familiar and accessible to people from a wide variety of experiences,” Mr. Lee said. “To the extent that more people read his blog, relate to his posts and can place themselves in the situations he describes, I think more people will feel like Silicon Valley has room for them as well.”
740 2012-02-20 In a statement on Friday, Universal said it would “work closely with the commission and remain confident of securing clearance.”

Critics of the deals point to the imbalance in market share that would result among the remaining major companies. Universal would control about 40 percent of the global market for recordings, and Sony about 32 percent for music publishing. (Warner has about 15 percent of the global recordings market, according to the British trade publication Music & Copyright.)

Edgar M. Bronfman Jr., a former chief executive for Warner who remains a board member, said at a recent media conference that a combined Universal-EMI would be a dangerous “supermajor.” He added that Warner, which has already hired firms in Washington like Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck to lobby the F.T.C., would fight the deal “tooth and nail.”

In some European countries, Universal would control half the market, a level sure to prompt close scrutiny. Yet regulators may be sympathetic toward a beleaguered, and drastically changed, business, with sales plunging and new entrants like Apple gaining powerful positions.

“Yes, it’s a different market, but 50 percent of a shrinking market is still 50 percent of a market,” said Emmanuel Legrand, a London-based consultant and former international editor of Billboard magazine.

The F.T.C.’s investigation, already in its so-called second request stage, will probably stretch into the summer, while the process in Europe could take six months or more. Media analysts expect a greater challenge for Universal because Sony’s power would be diluted: it owns half its current music publishing venture, Sony/ATV (Michael Jackson’s estate owns the other half), and would have only a 38 percent stake in EMI’s publishing.

Universal is expected to argue that a larger company would be better able to keep prices down to combat piracy, according to three executives briefed on its plans. But Universal may encounter a precedent set in its earlier takeover of BMG Music Publishing, when the European Commission found that big labels “have succeeded in imposing higher licensing rates for recording rights” than smaller ones.

Ms. Smith said she hoped the commission would block the deals “outright,” but most music executives and analysts expect the review process to result in a negotiation over divestments, with Universal required to sell chunks of its holdings, especially in overseas markets. The company has already said it would sell $680 million in “noncore assets” to help finance the deal.

Smaller labels are especially worried about the leverage Universal may gain in negotiations with online music services, which generally need licenses from labels and publishers to distribute music. With such a large market position, the critics say, Universal could effectively dictate terms to technology companies — even big ones like Apple — and stunt development.

“This is a tremendously large thumb on the scale of a developing digital music ecosystem,” said Casey Rae-Hunter, deputy director of the Future of Music Coalition, an artists’ advocacy group, which last week wrote to the F.T.C. outlining its objections.

A smooth takeover of EMI is essential for Universal, which assumed all the regulatory risk from Citigroup and agreed to pay the bulk of the $1.9 billion purchase price within 10 months, whether it was approved by European regulators or not.
741 2012-02-20 Like many of the new museums, the Atlanta center aims higher than the first wave of monuments to the period. It will link the civil rights movement to global human rights, exploring how, for example, Dr. King’s speeches helped fuel the Arab Spring.

Although the momentum for the new museums is strong, the has shaved the size and shape of some projects, and raising money can be a challenge.

John Fleming, the director of International African American Museum planned for Charleston and a former president of the Association of African American Museums, points to the United States National Slavery Museum in , Va. That project, led by former Gov. L. Douglas Wilder, was supposed to open on 38 acres in 2004. It recently went into bankruptcy, and people who donated money and artifacts are upset.

Although exactly what went wrong is still being debated, Mr. Fleming said that in part the project aimed too high and did not adjust as the economy softened. Mr. Fleming’s own project began as an $80 million, 70,000-square-foot museum. Now, it is smaller by $30 million and 20,000 square feet.

“Most black museums have difficulty raising funds,” Mr. Fleming said. “Being truthful, I don’t think people in the African-American community have stepped up to the plate in terms of making significant donations to these projects.”

Other directors disagree, saying a generation whose parents or grandparents lived through the 1950s and 1960s are now elected officials and on boards, where they have influence over where cultural dollars are spent.

“The folks who actually participated in the civil rights movement are getting to an age where legacy is important,” said Lonnie G. Bunch III, director of the Smithsonian’s African-American museum.

The election of , Mr. Shipman said, “caps the civil rights era and opens up the next chapter. There is a distance that allows new questions to be asked.”

As with the Holocaust and other historical events that eventually moved from painful reality to memorials and then to museums and academic scholarship, the importance of the civil rights movement gets heightened as the last of the participants begin to die.

“In some ways, it’s very much like the old Civil War veterans passing from the scene. Suddenly, the Civil War became more important,” said Philip G. Freelon, the architect who has designed most of the major civil rights museums in the country, including the projects at the Smithsonian and in Atlanta and the Civil Rights Museum, a long-stalled project that finally secured $20 million from the State Legislature last April after Gov. spoke in its favor.

The package comes with an additional $18 million to build an adjacent state history museum.

“These museums throughout the South are really a sea change,” said William Ferris, a folklorist who edited the Encyclopedia of Southern Culture. “In Mississippi, to see a major civil rights museum is heartening in every sense.”

For some, however, there is concern that the movement to isolate the era in bigger and better museums helps people avoid meaningful conversations about racism that still expresses itself in everything from interactions at a grocery store to the presidential election.

“All of these efforts are important, but we still have not addressed the issue of race in America, and until we do, that hydra is going to keep raising its ugly head,” said Ayisha Cisse-Jeffries, vice president for global affairs and international policy at the African American Islamic Institute.

And then there is the question of attendance. With so many museums with similar themes, are there enough interested visitors?

Directors say the idea is to create a network of institutions that enhance one another rather than detract. And each place intends to have a specific focus. In Charleston, where fund-raising is beginning for a museum dedicated to slavery, visitors will be able to walk the ground where 40 percent of the Africans who would be sold as slaves arrived. The museum in Washington will be the most prominent. An estimated four million visitors are expected each year.

Its vast collection will be more archival, and will include the original sign, the dress that wore the day she refused to give up her seat on the bus and the gospel hymn book that belonged to .

As with many museums and collections dedicated to African-American history — there are more than 200 — the goal is to use black history as a lens on America.

“It is a new day, and the new day means this isn’t a time to remedy prior omissions,” Mr. Bunch said. “It really is a time to say this is how to understand who we are as Americans.”
742 2012-02-20 The pianist Bruce Levingston maintains a high quotient of contemporary music in his repertory, and though a growing number of pianists can say that these days, Mr. Levingston has taken his love of the new further than most. In 2001 he started Premiere Commission, a foundation that underwrites the creation and performance of new works not only for Mr. Levingston but for other performers and ensembles as well.

He showed how that works last Monday evening, when he celebrated the foundation’s 10th anniversary with a concert at Le Poisson Rouge. He performed two short solo works and joined in three chamber pieces but otherwise ceded the stage to Brooklyn Rider, the adventurous young string quartet, and Kimball Gallagher and Lisa Bielawa, who appeared as both composers and performers.

Ms. Bielawa and Mr. Gallagher joined forces for the only pre-20th-century score on the program, Purcell’s “Blessed Virgin’s Expostulation.” It did not seem quite the right piece, either for the program or for the room, but Ms. Bielawa used her nearly vibrato-free soprano to give it a plaintive reading, with nicely turned trills, and Mr. Gallagher proved a graceful piano accompanist.

Earlier, Mr. Gallagher played his Four Preludes, a gentle, introspective set in an accessible, eclectic style that draws on Minimalism — the repeating left-hand staccato figure in the second piece and the ostinato that accompanies the lyrical melody in the third — as well as hints of a Romantic salon style and ruminative jazz.

As a composer Ms. Bielawa was represented by two works for Brooklyn Rider. She was the soloist with the quartet in her “Graffiti Dell’Amante,” a vibrant set with a vocal line that moves freely through the soprano range (sometimes lower than suits her voice), with invitingly atmospheric string writing. Mr. Levingston was the agile soloist in Ms. Bielawa’s “Rondolette,” a quintet for piano and strings that begins with a Mozartean flourish but is quickly transformed into a more modern essay in texture and interplay, with strikingly assertive solo writing for each instrument amid tightly woven ensemble passages.

Mr. Levingston also played Christopher Tignor’s “South by Southwest,” a work with a sparkling, high-flying piano line set against an oscillating haze of computer and electronic keyboard sound, overseen with calm detachment by Mr. Tignor.

On his own Mr. Levingston played William Bolcom’s attractive “New York Lights,” a song reconfigured, at Mr. Levingston’s suggestion, as a solo piano work, and Augusta Gross’s “Toward Night,” a jazz-tinged work in which bluesy figures lurk beneath chromatic surfaces.
743 2012-02-20 The progressive contemporary dance scene in New York can be an intensely hermetic world. This is sometimes for good, creating a certain freedom to push into the unknown. But often (and as is the case in many other art world pockets) it is for ill. Sealed off from outside influences, an echo chamber effect takes hold.

So it has been heartening in recent months to see Danspace Project becoming something of a melting pot, with guest curators in the Platform series mashing together different traditions and generations and audiences in thoughtful and surprising ways.

A framework like Parallels, a program designed by the choreographer and guest curator Ishmael Houston-Jones to interrogate the notion of black dance, could lend itself to another form of hermeticism. But Thursday night, when Jawole Willa Jo Zollar presented her “Black Jam” at the invitation of Mr. Houston-Jones, a deliciously open spirit suffused St. Mark’s Church.

In introducing the evening Ms. Zollar spoke of the ways in which improvisation has undergirded the black dance vernacular and of her early personal history with it. (Her mother, a jazz singer and pianist, took her to jam sessions as a child in Kansas City, Mo.) She wanted, she said, to create, with “Black Jam,” a house party, in which the artists’ “process was not hidden,” and the audience feels involved.

And so, the house party began with a house band of sorts: the dancers Hunter Carter, Samantha Speis and Marya Wethers , their finely tuned bodies moving throughout the space in a hinging, buckling fluid scrum. (This followed a brief video prelude featuring Mr. Houston-Jones and Fred Holland performing in much the same way at Danspace in 1983).

It’s no easy thing to protect yourself and your partners in unpredictable contact improvisations like this, while also building something that people will want to watch. These three were bewitching, especially Ms. Wethers, an eloquent dancer whose fierce intelligence is cut by a quiet humor.
744 2012-02-20 Radio advertising, badly hit by the recession, is bouncing back.     According to a report released Friday by the Radio Advertising Bureau, revenue from radio advertising last year was $17.4 billion, up 1 percent from the year before. Automotive c...
745 2012-02-20 Starting on Aug. 1, some 50 theater companies will begin contributing five cents from every ticket sale to help bolster Off-Off-Broadway, the League of Independent Theater has announced.     The newly formed Independent Theater Fund will help supp...
746 2012-02-20 Hollywood keeps trying to turn Reese Witherspoon into a Sandra Bullock or Julia Roberts for a new generation. A new generation keeps refusing to take the memo.      Over the weekend, Ms. Witherspoon's poorly reviewed ''This Means War'' (20th Centu...
747 2012-02-20 Starting on Aug. 1, some 50 theater companies will begin contributing five cents from every ticket sale to help bolster Off-Off-Broadway, the League of Independent Theater has announced.     The newly formed Independent Theater Fund will help supp...
748 2012-02-21 Jack B. Weinstein said Kosher Sports' contract did not give it the right to sell its hot dogs at every Mets game, and thus the team could ban such sales during the Jewish Sabbath....
749 2012-02-21 Jumping to an early lead against No. 1 Kentucky, it seems hard to believe that the Bulldogs could not beat a number of fellow SEC teams....
750 2012-02-21 The $172 billion bailout of Greece may set off the credit-default swaps on Greek debt, even though Europe is trying to avoid activating them....
751 2012-02-21 Would it be feasible to replace a business Web site with a Google+ page?...
752 2012-02-21 With the deadline for Oscar ballots nigh, it's worth noting that under the rules this year, passion picks are unlikely to make it to the finish line. Go with the consensus....
753 2012-02-21 A prominent Florida investor has sued Paulson & Company, alleging that the hedge fund did not conduct the proper due diligence when evaluating an investment in the Sino-Forest Corporation....
754 2012-02-21 The casino magnate told Forbes magazine that he's against very wealthy people influencing elections....
755 2012-02-21 It's a pity to lose Buchanan's insider perspective on national elections....
756 2012-02-21 Could the U.S. Shoot Down a Missile?
757 2012-02-21 A rumor that Microsoft is releasing an iPad version of its Office software was all over the Web on Tuesday. But Microsoft says it's just not true. A Microsoft spokeswoman said: "The Daily story is based on inaccurate rumors and speculation."...
758 2012-02-21 Luissandro Del Gobbo and Giovanni Settesoldi, a creative team, joined Energy BBDO as senior vice presidents and creative directors. They had been creative directors at the Paris office of Grey, part of the Grey Group unit of WPP. Energy BBDO is the Chicago office of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

Maria Laino DeLuca, senior director for ad sales marketing at Bravo Media, New York, was promoted to vice president for trade marketing. Bravo Media is part of the NBCUniversal Cable Entertainment division of NBCUniversal, which is owned by Comcast.

Itai Elizur joined the Forward, New York, in a new post, audience development associate. He has worked in online media and journalism for Israeli media.

Eric Eve joined RLM Finsbury, New York, part of WPP, as a partner. He had been first deputy comptroller for the City of New York.

Fly Communications, New York, opened its first international offices, in Helsinki, Finland, and Tallinn, Estonia, under the name Fly Nordic. The new Fly Nordic will be led by Scott Diel and Heikki Ylönen.

Jenny Gadd joined Johannes Leonardo, New York, part of WPP, in a new post, head of integrated production. She had been executive producer at North Kingdom.

Jamia Gaffney joined NorBella, Boston, in a new post, director for business development. She had most recently been a marketing specialist at Living Social.

Matthew J. Harrington, United States president and chief executive at Edelman, New York, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc., was named to a new post, chief operating officer, effective on July 1, overseeing operations in several regions — Asia-Pacific; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and Canada and Latin America — in addition to the United States operations. Mark Hass, president of Edelman China, will move to the United States and succeed Mr. Harrington. Thomas Mattia will join Edelman to assume the duties of Mr. Hass, with the title of chairman of Edelman China; Mr. Mattia had most recently been chief communications officer at Yale University.

Lucy Jacobs joined Spruce Media, San Francisco, in a new post, chief operating officer. She had been vice president for sales, marketing and business development at adBrite.

Jim Joseph joined Cohn & Wolfe, part of WPP, in a new post, president for North America. His duties will include leading the agency’s New York office; the president of the office, Mark Cater, left last fall to join MHP Communications, London, as a managing director. Mr. Joseph had been president and partner at Lippe Taylor, New York.

Hans Kurdi joined Sharethrough, San Francisco, in a new post, senior director for publisher strategy and operations. He had most recently been vice president for business development at Apture, San Francisco, which was acquired by Google.

Luke Lambert, president at Gibbs & Soell, New York, was promoted to president and chief executive, effective on March 1. Mr. Lambert will assume the post of chief executive from Cos Mallozzi, chairman and chief executive, who is retiring, the agency said, after more than 35 years there. Also, Jeff Altheide, senior vice president, was promoted to executive vice president.

Rich Lefkowitz joined Gyro, New York, in a new post, connections planning director for North America. He had been serving as a media consultant to DiMassimo Goldstein, New York, and before that was a managing partner at Cossette Post Communications.

Erin Matts joined Glam Media, Brisbane, Calif., in a new post, senior vice president and chief digital marketing officer. She had been global director for digital connections at the New York office of Anheuser-Busch InBev, and before that was chief digital officer at OMD, part of the Omnicom Media Group unit of the Omnicom Group.

Ari Merkin and Dave Rolfe, senior executives at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, are leaving the agency, the most recent in a spate of top managers who have departed. Mr. Merkin, an executive creative director in the Miami office, will become a consultant with MDC, which employs as senior executives his former co-partners at a New York agency named Toy, Anne Bologna and David Dabill. Mr. Rolfe, director for integrated production at Crispin Porter, based in the Boulder, Colo., office is leaving to join BBDO New York in the same post; BBDO New York is part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicom Group. Crispin Porter said it did not plan to fill Mr. Rolfe’s post but would instead hire someone as director for video production.

Bill Morgan joined McGarrah Jessee, Austin, Tex., in a new post, director for media engagement. He had been group media director at Wieden & Kennedy, Portland, Ore.

Lee Newman joined the Chicago office of Ogilvy & Mather North America as president. He succeeds Jack Rooney, who becomes chairman and chief executive of the office, which was recently awarded a major account by S. C. Johnson & Son. Mr. Newman had been managing director at the Amsterdam office of Wieden & Kennedy. Ogilvy & Mather North America is part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of WPP.

Margaret Shubny joined GolinHarris, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, executive director. She had most recently been managing director at the health care practice at the Chicago office of Burson-Marsteller, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP.

StrawberryFrog, New York, sold a majority stake to APCO Worldwide, a Washington agency that specializes in public relations and public affairs. Financial terms were not disclosed. StrawberryFrog will operate as an autonomous unit under its current managers.

Rose Tilson joined Cooking Light and MyRecipes, New York, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, in a new post, executive director for integrated marketing. She had been director of integrated ad sales marketing for the food category at Scripps Networks Digital, part of Scripps Networks Interactive.
759 2012-02-21 The filmmakers of "Undefeated" were pleased that their film was picked up by the Weinstein Company but even more thrilled that Diddy signed as a producer....
760 2012-02-21 Opponents saw an opportunity to strike a decisive blow on an issue that had partly faded from view. “Any form of discrimination, whether it’s for or against, is wrong,” said Hans von Spakovsky, a legal fellow at the , who added that his daughter was applying to college. “The idea that she might be discriminated against and not be admitted because of her race is incredible to me.”

Arguments in the new case are likely to be heard just before the presidential election in November, and they may force the candidates to weigh in on a long dormant and combustible issue that has divided the electorate. There was little immediate reaction from the campaign trail and in official Washington on Tuesday, which may be attributable to the political risks the issue presents to both Democrats and Republicans.

Some polls show that a narrow majority of Americans support some forms of affirmative action, though much depends on how the question is framed, and many people have at least some reservations.

The new case, Fisher v. University of Texas, No. 11-345, was brought by Abigail Fisher, a white student who says the University of Texas denied her admission because of her race. The case has idiosyncrasies that may limit its reach, but it also has the potential to eliminate diversity as a rationale sufficient to justify any use of race in admission decisions — the rationale the court endorsed in the Grutter decision. Diversity, Justice wrote, encourages lively classroom discussions, fosters cross-racial harmony and cultivates leaders seen as legitimate. But critics say there is only a weak link between racial and academic diversity.

The Grutter decision allowed but did not require states to take account of race in admissions. Several states, including and , forbid the practice, and public universities in those states have seen a drop in minority admissions. In other states and at private institutions, officials generally look to race and ethnicity as one factor among many, leading to the admission of significantly more black and Hispanic students than basing the decisions strictly on test scores and grades would.

A Supreme Court decision forbidding the use of race in admission at public universities would almost certainly mean that it would be barred at most private ones as well under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which forbids racial discrimination in programs that receive federal money. In her majority opinion in Grutter, Justice O’Connor said the day would come when “the use of racial preferences will no longer be necessary” in admission decisions to foster educational diversity. She said she expected that day to arrive in 25 years, or in 2028. Tuesday’s decision to revisit the issue suggests the deadline may arrive just a decade after Grutter.

The court’s membership has changed since 2003, most notably with the appointment of Justice , who replaced Justice O’Connor in 2006. Justice Alito has voted with the court’s more conservative justices in decisions hostile to government use of racial classification.

Chief Justice has been particularly skeptical of government programs that take account of race. “Racial balancing is not transformed from ‘patently unconstitutional’ to a compelling state interest simply by relabeling it ‘racial diversity,’ ” he wrote in a 2007 decision limiting the use of race to achieve integration in public school districts.

Justices Alito, and agreed. Justice , the court’s swing justice, also voted to invalidate the programs. But he was less categorical, sharply limiting the role race could play in children’s school assignments but stopping short of forbidding school districts from ever taking account of race. Still, Justice Kennedy has never voted to uphold an affirmative action program.

In , students in the top 10 percent of high schools are automatically admitted to the public university system, a policy that does not consider race but increases racial diversity in part because so many high schools are racially homogenous. Ms. Fisher just missed that cutoff at her high school in Sugar Land, Tex., and then entered a separate pool of applicants who can be admitted through a complicated system in which race plays an unquantified but significant role. She sued in 2008.

Ms. Fisher is soon to graduate from . Lawyers for the University of Texas said that meant she had not suffered an injury that a court decision could address, meaning she does not have standing to sue.

Ms. Fisher’s argument is that Texas cannot have it both ways. Having implemented a race-neutral program to increase minority admissions, she says, Texas may not supplement it with a race-conscious one. Texas officials said the additional effort was needed to make sure that individual classrooms contained a “critical mass” of minority students.

The lower federal courts ruled for the state. Chief Judge Edith Jones of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, dissenting from the full appeals court’s decision not to rehear Ms. Fisher’s case, was skeptical of state officials’ rationale. “Will classroom diversity ‘suffer’ in areas like applied math, kinesiology, chemistry, Farsi or hundreds of other subjects if, by chance, few or no students of a certain race are enrolled?” she asked.

Justice disqualified herself from hearing the case, presumably because she had worked on it as solicitor general.
761 2012-02-21 The commercial real estate company Grubb & Ellis agrees to sell nearly all of its assets to BGC Partners, a firm run by Howard W. Lutnick, who is also the chief executive of Cantor Fitzgerald....
762 2012-02-21 Europe agrees to a $173 billion aid package for Greece. Banks offer mortgage help, but there may not be anyone to explain how it works....
763 2012-02-21 Europe agrees to a $173 billion aid package for Greece; Banks offer mortgage help, but there may not be anyone to explain how it works.
764 2012-02-21 The aid package for Greece prevents it from cashing out of the euro zone for now. But what it means as a precedent for other heavily indebted euro zone members is another matter....
765 2012-02-21 The CME Group announced on Tuesday that it would increase its holdings in the Dubai Mercantile Exchange, delving deeper into a Middle Eastern oil trading business it helped create....
766 2012-02-21 Kingfisher Airlines struggles to overcome mounting financial problems....
767 2012-02-21 Rising tensions over Iran's nuclear ambitions - and the possibility of an Israeli-led strike on Iran's facilities - has brought the issue of Israel to the forefront of the presidential campaign....
768 2012-02-21 Greece and its European partners finally reached agreement on a new bailout package after marathon talks in Brussels. But, as politicians await the reaction of the Greek public, there are no illusions that the deal alone will resolve the country's...
769 2012-02-21 Greece and its European partners finally reached agreement on a new bailout package after marathon talks in Brussels. But, as politicians await the reaction of the Greek public, there are no illusions that the deal alone will resolve the country's...
770 2012-02-21 Catholic hospital systems are the largest in the country and handle a large share of admissions in many states.
771 2012-02-21 Under the bailout terms, which were not finalized until after 5 a.m. Tuesday, Greece will reduce its debt to about 120.5  percent of its gross domestic product by 2020, from about 160 percent now. Achieving a deal with that goal proved difficult because the steady deterioration of public finances in Athens have left the country’s creditors with problems in making the figures for the new bailout add up.

After several rounds of tough talks, representatives of banks that hold Greek bonds, who had agreed in October to take a 50 percent loss on the face value of their bonds, agreed to take a 53.5 percent loss on the face value, the equivalent to an overall loss of around 75 percent.

Meanwhile Greece will pay lower interest rates on its bailout loans, and the European Central Bank agreed to give up profits from Greek bonds bought at a discount,  and to pass those gains back to the government in Athens. This will be done via euro zone  member countries because of the Central Bank’s regulations.

Stricter rules on euro zone debt and budget deficits are already in place, and next week European leaders are expected to agree on a new, higher firewall for euro bloc countries that get into financial trouble, a step that policy makers hope will signal the beginning of the end of the crisis.

The talks on Monday addressed the firewall issue, though only briefly. A new, permanent fund of 500 billion euros, or $660 billion, called the European Stability Mechanism, is due to come into existence in July, and one way of bolstering its power would be to run it alongside the current, temporary, rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility.

The bailout, with a stronger firewall, could provide the euro zone with some much-needed momentum. The injection of liquidity into the banking sector by the European Central Bank late last year — with the tacit support of Germany — had started to convince critics that there was a determination to save the currency.

Yet only last week the Greek bailout appeared to hang in the balance when rumors circulated that Germany’s finance minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, was willing to contemplate a Greek default. As tempers flared, the Greek finance minister, Evangelos Venizelos, suggested that some people were trying to drive his country out of the euro zone, and the Greek president, Karolos Papoulias, accused Mr. Schäuble of insulting the country.

It remains unclear whether a default was contemplated seriously or merely floated as a means of pressuring Athens.

Nevertheless, the episode underlines the extent to which Greece remains a weak spot for the 17 European Union countries that use the euro. This would be the second major bailout for Greece in two years. In May 2010, European governments and the International Monetary Fund put together the first three-year bailout package of 110 billion euros, then worth about $146 billion, not all of which has been used.

Doubts persist about Greece’s ability to carry out the tough austerity measures pushed through Parliament or to manage the weakened economy.

Those long-term fears deepened with the leak of an official report from the European Commission, European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund that said that if changes were not made, Greek debt could remain at 160 percent of G.D.P. in 2020. It also suggested that more help would be needed after the period covered by the bailout being negotiated. That could amount to $66 billion more from 2015 to 2020.

Under the new bailout deal there will be permanent European team monitoring of Greece’s implementation of the austerity measures. Money paid to the government in Athens will be directed into a special “segregated” account that will prioritize debt repayment.

“We expect that this unprecedented solidarity of Greece’s euro area partners is matched by a strong commitment by Greece’s political leaders to truly implement the program,” said Olli Rehn, European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs.

Asked about the I.M.F’s contribution to the bailout, its chief, Christine Lagarde, said that a decision on this would be made by its board and would depend in part on how much progress the euro zone makes in building up its new firewall.

Meanwhile in a statement the Institute of International Finance, which represents many of the banks holding Greek bonds  said that the agreement “would contribute to the broader efforts of the Euro Area to resolve sovereign debt problems while supporting global growth and financial stability.”

According to a detailed agreement for the bailout, Greece will make big spending cuts, including reducing pharmaceutical expenditures by more than $1.3 billion in 2012 through increased use of generic medicine, cutting overtime pay for hospital doctors by at least $66 million, saving $396 million in military procurement and saving nearly $40 million by reducing the number of deputy mayors and their staffs.

The 50-page agreement also lays out in detail the changes to be made to Greece’s notoriously weak tax collection system.

The second bailout was first promised in October, but agreement has been delayed as international creditors have pressed for more concessions and stricter controls on Greece’s government.

Critics, who suspected that Greece was banking on the euro zone’s desire to avert a default, accused the government of stalling on essential economic measures.

Meanwhile, the government in Athens, led by Prime Minister Lucas D. Papademos, has had to cope with mounting opposition to austerity measures. Mr. Papademos, who attended Monday’s meeting, told ministers that there was enough political backing in Greece to allow the fulfillment of new austerity measures accompanying a second loan deal, an official in his office said.

Mr. Papademos noted that the measures had been voted into law by two-thirds of the country’s Parliament and that the government’s two coalition parties had backed the changes. He added that the majority of Greeks wanted the country to remain in the euro zone.

Even politicians from the triple-A rated countries in Europe seemed ready on Monday to give Greek politicians some credit. In Helsinki, the Finnish finance minister, Jutta Urpilainen, said that Greece had done what had been asked of it, Reuters reported.
772 2012-02-21 European shares closed near a seven-month high on Monday as finance ministers in the euro zone edged closer to a long-awaited agreement on a rescue package for Greece.

The pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of top shares rose 0.7 percent, to 1,090.95 points. Volume was low, at 69.5 percent of the 90-day average, with Wall Street closed for Presidents’ Day.

“We have had quite a good run year-to-date and a lot of it is premised on Greece getting its bailout,” said Michael McNaught-Davis, head of international equities at Scottish Widows, a money management firm. “There may be another day of euphoria, but then we will get back to normal and could sell off a bit.”

On Monday, finance ministers inched toward approving a second bailout for debt-laden Greece that would resolve the Greek government’s immediate repayment needs. The agreement was nearly complete early Tuesday in Europe.

On Monday, stocks rose almost across the board. Banks, many of which have significant exposure to Greece and other peripheral euro zone countries and have taken a hit on their balance sheets, were among the biggest gainers.
773 2012-02-21 A look at the Oscar nominees for best foreign language film....
774 2012-02-21 A new study has found that consumption of omega-3 fatty acids from fish is associated with a reduced risk for one kind of colon polyp, but only in women.

Animal studies have suggested that omega-3 fatty acids may have anti-cancer effects, but the results from human epidemiological studies have been inconclusive. For this case-control study, researchers recruited 5,307 colonoscopy patients, 60 percent of them men, at two Tennessee hospitals over a seven-year period ending in April 2010. The analysis appears online in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.

They found 2,141 people with polyps, leaving 3,166 polyp-free controls. All patients were interviewed about diet, health habits and medical history.

After controlling for age, race, body mass index, smoking and other factors, the researchers found that women in the highest fifth for omega-3 consumption — those who consumed three or more servings of fish a week — were 33 percent less likely than women in the lowest fifth to have adenomatous polyps, a type likely to become cancerous.

The researchers found no effect in men, and no effect of omega-3 consumption on hyperplastic polyps, which are more likely to be benign.

“This is more evidence to suggest that omega-3s are beneficial and may have anti-inflammatory action helpful in reducing cancer risk,” said the lead author, Dr. Harvey J. Murff, an associate professor of medicine at Vanderbilt.
775 2012-02-21 Cormac McCarthy has won some of the most coveted honors in literature, from the Pulitzer Prize to a spot on Oprah's Book Club. But now it may be time for Mr. McCarthy to add another laurel to his resume: genius copy editor.     The paperback of La...
776 2012-02-22 The candidates debate the consequences and fallout from the bailout of the auto industry in 2009.
777 2012-02-22 A bipartisan group of auto industry executives, government officials and financial experts have said that if General Motors and Chrysler had followed Mitt Romney's advice in 2008, implosion is exactly what would have happened....
778 2012-02-22 Several Republican candidates, especially Newt Gingrich, charged that President Obama gave in to the autoworkers' unions when his administration rescued the auto industry in early 2009....
779 2012-02-22 The debate is in Arizona, but the Republican candidates are trading barbs about who supported which bailout for what reason -- a nod to the upcoming primary in Michigan....
780 2012-02-22 In the Arizona face-off, Rick Santorum refused to back down or apologize for his commentary on social issues like birth control....
781 2012-02-22 Apple must be thrilled to be selling millions of iPhones and iPads, but the company has to handle every new device pulling data from its cloud service. So it's not surprising that it has plans to build another data center....
782 2012-02-22 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar news. Wednesday's selections include a call for making a museum in Washington to showcase American ingenuity and an analysis of the new information...
783 2012-02-22 Kamala D. Harris said the agreement will strengthen privacy protections for smartphone owners who download mobile applications by forcing developers to post conspicuous privacy policies....
784 2012-02-22 The Trump Hotel SoHo will get a new, Japanese restaurant this summer....
785 2012-02-22 As the board of the world's largest metal futures exchange prepares to meet on Thursday about eight offers, the chief executive, Martin Abbott, continues to plot the company's international expansion....
786 2012-02-22 Even after getting burned by bad bets on Greek debt, some hedge funds are considering buying more of the country's bonds, which have continued to fall in value....
787 2012-02-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
788 2012-02-22 Those in banking tend to take any criticism of orderly liquidation authority as an insult, while many in the bankruptcy world draw unrealistic analogies between manufacturing plants and repos....
789 2012-02-22 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
790 2012-02-22 President Obama to ask for corporate tax cut. Inquiry focuses on bank overdraft fees. Greek crisis puts a feared financial instrument back in the spotlight....
791 2012-02-22 President Obama to ask for corporate tax cut; Inquiry focuses on bank overdraft fees; Greek crisis puts a feared financial instrument back in the spotlight.
792 2012-02-22 The ad is being broadcast just as Mitt Romney is battling Rick Santorum in the Michigan primary....
793 2012-02-22 Stella McCartney is an exception to the typical bipolar fashion thinking, one of the few designers who makes clothes for all hours of the day....
794 2012-02-22 The studio says that it authorized a 2004 novel, "The Godfather Returns," but not a 2006 follow-up, "The Godfather's Revenge," nor a new book, "The Family Corleone," that is planned for a May release....
795 2012-02-22 Last weekend the center staged the premiere of a commissioned work by the Hong Kong composer Aenon Loo, accompanied by a video by Silas Fong, a local artist.

The opening exhibition is “Transforming Minds: Buddhism in Art,” a modest but well-curated show tracing the religion’s past and present. It matches 13 artifacts from the Rockefeller Collection of Asian Art with six contemporary works.

The pieces, which range from a pair of marble Chinese bodhisattvas from 570 A.D. to an 18th-century Korean scroll, were chosen to track the evolution of Buddhism and, in particular, how its symbols and beliefs crossed cultural and national boundaries.

One gem is a deceptively simple 8th-century Thai bronze sculpture of Maitreya, a young bodhisattva chosen to become a future Buddha. It shows a boyish, almost pre-adolescent slender figure with the elegance of a young David.

“This work is of perfect proportions,” said Alice Wong, a gallery official. “It strikes the perfect balance of showing a body that is both in action and at rest.”

The most beautiful face in the exhibition is carved of volcanic rock and belongs, unfortunately, to one of the many Buddhist sculptures that had their heads or hands hacked off long ago, probably by invaders or looters. What is left of this 9th-century Indonesian work reflects an Asian ideal — a serene round face, closed lotus-petal-shaped eyes, voluptuous nose and lips, and long earlobes.

A favorite among visitors was “Amida Nyorai,” a delicate Japanese cypress wood carving from the 13th century with a hint of gold plating on the draped robes and light-colored crystals decorating Buddha’s head. Most arresting were the black crystals beneath his heavy lids. They were hard to see clearly at first, but when they caught the light, they gave off the liquid luminosity of real eyes.

“This is the first time that this very rare work has traveled outside New York since it became part of the collection,” Ms. Wong said. “It is also very fragile because it is hollow, and might have once been full of relics. The staff holding it broke out in a sweat, literally, when they unpacked it and set it down here.”

The Buddha’s relative small size and light weight meant it was probably moved from place to place. “War was raging through Japan at the time,” Ms. Wong said. “Perhaps this Buddha was the last thing shoguns saw as they awaited death.”

“Transforming Minds” is unusual in its mix of old and new religious works.

The contemporary installations, though set off at a respectful distance, were shown in the same spaces as the artifacts.

The Chinese artist Zhang Huan created two rather eerie Buddha heads from ashes left over from the burning of incense at a Shanghai temple. The former New York resident also made the “Long Island Buddha,” looking much like a giant copper head that had fallen from the sky and sunk halfway into the ground, that is displayed in an outdoor courtyard.

“Lotus Sound,” by the Thai artist Montien Boonma (1953-2000), casts back to early Buddhism, when Buddha was often represented by a simple symbol, like a hand or a tree, instead of a human figure.

Here, he used everyday objects: lotus petals covered in gold leaf float above 473 black terra cotta bells arranged in a semicircular wall. The bells were glued together for this show, but they were not for the original installations in the 1990s, when they were stacked precariously to symbolize man’s fragility.

“When it was shown in Brisbane, someone really did touch it and made it topple over,” said Dominique Chan, the assistant gallery manager. “Boonma, a former Thai monk, was not bothered. His view was, ‘if it falls over, we’ll rebuild it.”’

The strongest contemporary work was the only one to use an ancient artifact. For “Bodhi Obfuscatus (Space Baby),” the Korean-American artist Michael Joo took a regal 2nd- or 3rd-century Gandharan Buddha from the Rockefeller collection and surrounded its head with a halo of 50 surveillance cameras. The sculpture, from what is now a region of the India-Pakistan border, is set in a large, dark room lined with more than 90 mirrors and 10 TV screens. The Buddha’s handsome face, clouded by wires, lenses and cables, is only clearly seen when it flashes on the monitors. Visitors are confronted with endless reflections of themselves juxtaposed with images of the Buddha, breaking down the barrier between the worshiper and the worshiped.

“On one hand, we focus on new scholarship in the traditional arts. On the other hand, we’re seeking cutting-edge ideas about the contemporary arts. And sometimes, we do that in the same show,” said Ms. Chiu, who curated the exhibition. “Some may see contemporary art as a disruption from the past; but it can also have a connection to the past.”

Wong Chiu-chan, a Hong Kong resident, attended one of the first public tours of the galleries and seemed to prefer the historic artifacts. “It’s not often that you see such a collection of fine pieces here in Hong Kong,” he said.

Images of Buddha are not often controversial, but there are sensitivities about whether he is portrayed respectfully.

Although he said he was not particularly religious, Mr. Wong was unsettled by Mr. Joo’s digitized work.

“It makes me feel uncomfortable to see the Buddha’s face obstructed by wires and television cameras,” he said.

Asia Society in New York is not known for backing away from debate, and its Web site includes criticism on topics like Liu Xiaobo, the Nobel laureate who is currently jailed in China.

“I curated a show on the Cultural Revolution in 2008, and we recently showed 200 photos by Ai Weiwei,” Ms. Chiu said, referring to the Chinese artist who was detained for more than two months last year. “We’ve never shied away from topical subjects. But I do believe that, while operating in different environments, you have to be culturally sensitive.”

“So far,” she said, “we haven’t had any issues in Hong Kong. It’s a very open community.”

“Transforming Minds: Buddhism in Art.” Asia Society Hong Kong Center, 9 Justice Dr., Admiralty, www.asiasociety.org.hk. Until May 20.
796 2012-02-22 Last weekend the center staged the premiere of a commissioned work by the Hong Kong composer Aenon Loo, accompanied by a video by Silas Fong, a local artist.

The opening exhibition is “Transforming Minds: Buddhism in Art,” a modest but well-curated show tracing the religion’s past and present. It matches 13 artifacts from the Rockefeller Collection of Asian Art with six contemporary works.

The pieces, which range from a pair of marble Chinese bodhisattvas from 570 A.D. to an 18th-century Korean scroll, were chosen to track the evolution of Buddhism and, in particular, how its symbols and beliefs crossed cultural and national boundaries.

One gem is a deceptively simple 8th-century Thai bronze sculpture of Maitreya, a young bodhisattva chosen to become a future Buddha. It shows a boyish, almost pre-adolescent slender figure with the elegance of a young David.

“This work is of perfect proportions,” said Alice Wong, a gallery official. “It strikes the perfect balance of showing a body that is both in action and at rest.”

The most beautiful face in the exhibition is carved of volcanic rock and belongs, unfortunately, to one of the many Buddhist sculptures that had their heads or hands hacked off long ago, probably by invaders or looters. What is left of this 9th-century Indonesian work reflects an Asian ideal — a serene round face, closed lotus-petal-shaped eyes, voluptuous nose and lips, and long earlobes.

A favorite among visitors was “Amida Nyorai,” a delicate Japanese cypress wood carving from the 13th century with a hint of gold plating on the draped robes and light-colored crystals decorating Buddha’s head. Most arresting were the black crystals beneath his heavy lids. They were hard to see clearly at first, but when they caught the light, they gave off the liquid luminosity of real eyes.

“This is the first time that this very rare work has traveled outside New York since it became part of the collection,” Ms. Wong said. “It is also very fragile because it is hollow, and might have once been full of relics. The staff holding it broke out in a sweat, literally, when they unpacked it and set it down here.”

The Buddha’s relative small size and light weight meant it was probably moved from place to place. “War was raging through Japan at the time,” Ms. Wong said. “Perhaps this Buddha was the last thing shoguns saw as they awaited death.”

“Transforming Minds” is unusual in its mix of old and new religious works.

The contemporary installations, though set off at a respectful distance, were shown in the same spaces as the artifacts.

The Chinese artist Zhang Huan created two rather eerie Buddha heads from ashes left over from the burning of incense at a Shanghai temple. The former New York resident also made the “Long Island Buddha,” looking much like a giant copper head that had fallen from the sky and sunk halfway into the ground, that is displayed in an outdoor courtyard.

“Lotus Sound,” by the Thai artist Montien Boonma (1953-2000), casts back to early Buddhism, when Buddha was often represented by a simple symbol, like a hand or a tree, instead of a human figure.

Here, he used everyday objects: lotus petals covered in gold leaf float above 473 black terra cotta bells arranged in a semicircular wall. The bells were glued together for this show, but they were not for the original installations in the 1990s, when they were stacked precariously to symbolize man’s fragility.

“When it was shown in Brisbane, someone really did touch it and made it topple over,” said Dominique Chan, the assistant gallery manager. “Boonma, a former Thai monk, was not bothered. His view was, ‘if it falls over, we’ll rebuild it.”’

The strongest contemporary work was the only one to use an ancient artifact. For “Bodhi Obfuscatus (Space Baby),” the Korean-American artist Michael Joo took a regal 2nd- or 3rd-century Gandharan Buddha from the Rockefeller collection and surrounded its head with a halo of 50 surveillance cameras. The sculpture, from what is now a region of the India-Pakistan border, is set in a large, dark room lined with more than 90 mirrors and 10 TV screens. The Buddha’s handsome face, clouded by wires, lenses and cables, is only clearly seen when it flashes on the monitors. Visitors are confronted with endless reflections of themselves juxtaposed with images of the Buddha, breaking down the barrier between the worshiper and the worshiped.

“On one hand, we focus on new scholarship in the traditional arts. On the other hand, we’re seeking cutting-edge ideas about the contemporary arts. And sometimes, we do that in the same show,” said Ms. Chiu, who curated the exhibition. “Some may see contemporary art as a disruption from the past; but it can also have a connection to the past.”

Wong Chiu-chan, a Hong Kong resident, attended one of the first public tours of the galleries and seemed to prefer the historic artifacts. “It’s not often that you see such a collection of fine pieces here in Hong Kong,” he said.

Images of Buddha are not often controversial, but there are sensitivities about whether he is portrayed respectfully.

Although he said he was not particularly religious, Mr. Wong was unsettled by Mr. Joo’s digitized work.

“It makes me feel uncomfortable to see the Buddha’s face obstructed by wires and television cameras,” he said.

Asia Society in New York is not known for backing away from debate, and its Web site includes criticism on topics like Liu Xiaobo, the Nobel laureate who is currently jailed in China.

“I curated a show on the Cultural Revolution in 2008, and we recently showed 200 photos by Ai Weiwei,” Ms. Chiu said, referring to the Chinese artist who was detained for more than two months last year. “We’ve never shied away from topical subjects. But I do believe that, while operating in different environments, you have to be culturally sensitive.”

“So far,” she said, “we haven’t had any issues in Hong Kong. It’s a very open community.”

“Transforming Minds: Buddhism in Art.” Asia Society Hong Kong Center, 9 Justice Dr., Admiralty, www.asiasociety.org.hk. Until May 20.
797 2012-02-22 Apple came to a local court in Shanghai to fight allegations that it did not own rights to the iPad trademark in China, David Barboza reports. The legal challenge threatens to prevent the company from selling one of its most popular products in on...
798 2012-02-22 An arbitration panel has ruled in favor of the former sports agent Kyle Rote Jr. in his dispute over a $954,000 investment loss at two funds run by his former employer, the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan....
799 2012-02-22 How small-business issues are shaping politics and policy.
800 2012-02-22 Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington....
801 2012-02-22 Even when financial institutions spell out terms for consumers, the objective can be obscured by the wording, a study finds....
802 2012-02-22 As one of its first steps, the coalition is supporting legislation, set to be introduced in the City Council as early as next week, that would strengthen the Police Department’s prohibition against profiling. Other bills set to be introduced soon would create an inspector general’s office in the department and require the police to notify people of their right, in many instances, to refuse to be searched.

Mr. Ofer said the coalition was not necessarily seeking to end stop-and-frisk, but rather to halt what he called its discriminatory use and its “exponential increase.”

The Police Department’s use of stop-and-frisks has increased significantly under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Figures released last week showed that police officers stopped and questioned people 684,330 times in 2011, a 14 percent increase over 2010 and a roughly 600 percent increase from a decade ago. As in previous years, the vast majority of those stopped — 87 percent — were black or Latino.

Mr. Bloomberg has defended the practice, calling it an effective crime-fighting tool and rejecting assertions that police officers target minorities.

In an e-mail, Paul J. Browne, a spokesman for the Police Department, said that curtailing what he called effective police practices like stop-and-frisk “could have unintended consequences, since they now save lives, particularly among young men of color, who are disproportionately the victims of gun violence.”

“In the last decade, since the current administration took office,” he added, “there have been 5,430 murders, compared to 11,058 the decade before, because of stops and other policies of police engagement.”

But several of the expected candidates for mayor in 2013 have been critical of the practice.

The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, has described its use as “riddled with racial profiling” and has proposed several changes to police guidelines, including establishing clear behavioral triggers to justify a stop-and-frisk.

William C. Thompson Jr., the former comptroller and 2009 Democratic candidate for mayor, said during that campaign that he thought stop-and-frisk was a valuable policing tool but that it was being overused — a position he affirmed in an interview on Tuesday.

The public advocate, Bill de Blasio, has said that he believed the Police Department should be making only 100,000 to 200,000 street stops per year, far below the current number.

And the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, expressed concerns about the practice in a recent letter to the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly. She described stop-and-frisk as “a viable and effective crime-fighting tool” but said the department should more closely monitor the use of the tactic and discipline officers who misuse it.

Jumaane D. Williams, a city councilman from Brooklyn who is working with the new coalition, said he hoped to introduce the legislation on profiling and searches at the Council meeting next Wednesday. The Police Department has a ban on profiling, but the proposed law would strengthen it, prohibiting practices that may not be intentionally discriminatory but which have the effect of being so.

“I think these bills go a long way to start making the N.Y.P.D. accountable to the community that they serve,” Mr. Williams said.

The coalition also plans to go after other police practices that have a disproportionate effect on minority and low-income people, including arrests for marijuana possession, and patrols in which officers go up and down the stairwells of public housing projects, arresting people or giving them tickets for trespassing if they cannot produce proof of residence.
803 2012-02-22 And Collins knows this, too. He has watched carefully in the past week as Santana has begun throwing off the mound for the first time since last fall and said Tuesday that all the parties would proceed “very slowly, very cautiously.”

Yet he would not muffle his optimism.

“This guy has worked so hard in the last 18 months to get ready,” Collins said. “I think he’s going to be ready. I really do.”

Santana, as he did Friday, threw a few dozen pitches during a bullpen session Tuesday. It was observed by a crowd of reporters and a similarly large contingent of Mets coaches and medical staff members.

Afterward, Santana said that he felt “really good,” but he was a bit more circumspect than his manager about whether he would be ready by April 5.

“To have an opportunity to be out there on opening day is always good, but again, I’m approaching everything one day at a time,” said Santana, who compared the ups and downs of his recovery to a roller coaster. “So far, I’m feeling good, and hopefully toward the end of spring training, we’ll have a better idea of where we’re at and see if we can be ready for opening day.”

Having Santana from the start of the season would be a huge lift for the Mets, who, as Collins acknowledged Tuesday, will enter the 2012 season with a roster lacking big-league experience.

Some growing pains, he said, will have to be accepted by the Mets and their fans.

“Patience is a tough word in New York City, but we’ve got to have it,” Collins said. “It’s not a perfect world, and we know there are going to be mistakes.”

But Collins was characteristically bullish, too, about the Mets’ prospects this year, and he said the postseason should nevertheless be the team’s goal.

“I don’t want these guys to think for one second there are no expectations,” he said. “There are expectations. This is the major leagues. We’ve got a good team.”

Collins provided a more definitive picture Tuesday about how that team could line up in April.

Andres Torres, who came to the Mets in the trade that sent Angel Pagan to the San Francisco Giants, will start the preseason as the team’s center fielder and be tentatively placed at the top of the batting order.

Daniel Murphy, who Collins said was an outside alternative for the leadoff spot, will begin the year as the team’s second baseman, assuming he stays healthy.

The main battles this spring, Collins said, will involve the backup catcher position and the left-handed reliever role.

“Hopefully, we can shorten the learning curve as much as we can,” Murphy said of the Mets’ lack of experience. “The biggest thing, I know, is that all of us have something to prove.”

That includes Collins, who has been showing up to the complex this week at 4:30 a.m. to ensure he can work out and be ready to go before the first players arrive. Collins, whose contract was extended last year, said he would still approach the game with the intensity of a first-year manager.

“It’s still a challenge for me, and it’s still a lot of fun,” he said. “But I think the fact that I’ve been around a year around the league and the team should help.”

He may be a year older, a bit wiser — but it is clear he is no less outspoken.
804 2012-02-22 Saying New York City had failed to follow its own procedure for making rules, a State Supreme Court judge ruled on Tuesday that the Bloomberg administration could not impose a new, much tighter set of regulations on homeless people seeking shelter.

In November, the city’s Department of Homeless Services announced plans for the new rules, which would include investigation of claims by single adults that they had nowhere else to go. In public statements at the time, Seth Diamond, the department’s commissioner, said the new policy would most likely reduce the shelter population by about 10 percent and save the city $4 million a year. In the fall, the shelter population reached a record high of 40,000 people.

The Legal Aid Society, and eventually the City Council, sued, saying the policy was “mean-spirited” and violated a 1981 consent decree that required the city to provide shelter to anyone who sought it. They also argued that because the city tried to impose the rules quickly — in only days — it did not comply with the City Administrative Procedure Act, which requires a process of public vetting. As a result of the litigation, the city did not begin carrying out the rules.

On Tuesday, Justice Judith J. Gische of the Supreme Court ruled that the department had ignored the law by trying to rush the rules onto the books. The rules, which are similar to those that have controlled the admission of families to the shelter system for nearly 15 years, would have forced single shelter applicants to prove, among other things, that they could not stay with a relative.

Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker, praised Justice Gische’s ruling, saying the policy would have “needlessly put thousands of homeless New Yorkers on the streets by requiring them to provide proof they have nowhere else to stay.” Calling the policy a “shelter denial plan,” Steven Banks, the chief lawyer for Legal Aid, said, “It should not have required litigation to stop this plan that would have resulted in women and men in need of shelter being turned away.”
805 2012-02-22 1. Make the filling: In a bowl, combine the beef, onion, cilantro, ginger, oil, garlic, salt and 2 tablespoons of water. Using your hands or a spoon, mix lightly but well. Set aside, from 30 minutes to 2 hours, to develop the flavors.

2. Make the dumplings: Lay 6 wrappers out on a work surface. Spoon about 2 teaspoons of filling onto the upper half of each wrapper. With a damp cloth, lightly moisten the edges of each wrapper and fold up and over the filling into a half-moon, gently pressing the edges to seal. To pleat the sealed edges, start at one tip of the half-moon and make small folds in the dough, pressing them flat as you work your way along the edge. There should be space for about 7 folds. Place finished dumplings on a nonstick surface and cover lightly with damp paper towels. Refrigerate if not cooking immediately.

3. When ready to cook, boil water in the bottom of a large steamer. Spray the steamer tray lightly with nonstick spray and gently add the dumplings, making sure they do not touch. Steam in batches for 10 minutes, until the wrappers are slightly translucent, and serve immediately.

4. To eat, spoon a dab of sauce onto a small plate. Pick up a dumpling and bite off one end; do not let the juice spill out. Carefully suck out the juice, then eat the rest in bites, dipping it into the sauce.
806 2012-02-22 1. If possible, soak chiles overnight in plenty of cold water. If time is short, cover chiles with boiling water and soak for 20 minutes. Drain and discard soaking liquid.

2. If using peppercorns, coarsely grind in a mortar or spice grinder.

3. In a blender or mortar, combine all the ingredients with 2 tablespoons of water and grind until smooth (the seeds of the chiles will remain whole). The finished sauce should be as thick as ketchup; thin with water as needed.
807 2012-02-22 The tradition of meat-eating is strong because without meat as a source of fat and protein, Tibetans simply could not have survived on their high, cold plateau for centuries, said Ganden Thurman, the executive director of Tibet House, a cultural center in New York City. Also, Mr. Thurman said, there is a practical, Buddhist reason for eating yak instead of, say, rabbit or fish.

“The karmic load of killing one rabbit and one yak are the same: one life,” he said. “But you can feed a lot more people with a yak.”

Yak meat can be lean and tough; wise Tibetan cooks made their sha momos juicier by adding a bit of oil and water to the filling. The trick works in America, too, with chopped beef; yak meat is raised in Colorado and Wyoming and now served at some restaurants in New York, but most places use beef. As steam penetrates the dumplings, the juices, perfumed with onion, cilantro and ginger, liquefy into a hot, savory broth.

Momo skins are not very thin, the better to contain that  liquid, which surges out on first bite. (Momos can also be fried, but they are not as juicy and satisfying that way.) After sucking out the broth, Tibetans dab sepen, a brick-red chile paste, on a plate, and dip the momos in, holding them with fingertips. Momos can be the prelude to a meal, or the meal itself.

“Momos are one of the dishes that taste almost the same in exile as they did in Tibet,” said Tsering Dolma, a restaurant worker in the San Francisco Bay area.

Since 1959, when the Dalai Lama fled to India after a catastrophic uprising against the Chinese government that had incorporated Tibet a decade earlier, many Tibetans have lived — and many have been born — in exile.

At first, most remained in India, but the draw of the United States is powerful, especially for women. “Life here is hard, but in India the competition for jobs is impossible,” said Norbu L. Lama, a community leader who lives in Woodside, Queens. “One woman can support a whole family here,” she added.

Traditionally, Tibetan women fed their families while the men tended the animals, but in just a few generations, that has changed. “Tibetan men here are doing a lot of cooking,” said Lobsang Wangdu, who lives in the Bay Area and writes a blog about Tibetan food and culture at www.yowangdu.com. Mr. Wangdu said that in his family, momos are not eaten on the first day of Losar, because they look like purses for holding money — and the mind is supposed to focus on purification and family rather than work and financial worries.

Fifteen days ago, preparations began for the arrival of the year 2139 (a male water dragon year in Tibetan astrology). In Lhasa and in Delhi, in Minneapolis and in Brooklyn, Tibetans planted barley seeds so that the green shoots would be strong and bright by Wednesday. In Queens, the women began buying up canola oil, used for making deep-fried dough twists called khapse, and brewing beer from rice and barley.

“You can have sweet khapse or salty ones — the important thing is to pile them up high to make a magnificent offering,” Mrs. Lama said. Khapse are stacked on special altars for the holiday, along with shiny sweets and dried fruit, candles made of butter, and the green barley shoots that represent both new life and the staple grain of Tibet.

When they lived as nomads on the high Tibetan plateau, almost one million square miles rimmed by the Himalaya, Kunlun and Qilian mountains, most Tibetans ate a sparse diet: grains and beans; cold-weather vegetables like onions, potatoes and turnips; and meat, butter and cheese from their yak herds. At the eastern border, where Tibet adjoins the Sichuan province of China, chiles and Sichuan peppercorns flavor the dishes; in the West, near India and Nepal, cumin and garam masala.

Butter, though, is Tibetans’ favorite food, Mrs. Dolma said: “As long as there is butter and tea we can live anywhere.” Po cha, a filling and stimulating brew of strong tea, rich butter, milk and salt, is sipped by Tibetans everywhere, at all hours and in all kinds of weather.

Traditionally, Losar is a time to reconnect with family and share food, but that is difficult for the 14,000 Tibetans who live in the United States. “Some of the ingredients we use are the same here: the barley, the oats, the dania” — cilantro — “and fresh ginger and garlic,” Ms. Dolma said. “But having those things and being together to make the dishes aren’t the same thing.” She calls relatives in India and Nepal, she said, to be reminded how to cook the once-a-year Losar dishes like khapse and dresil, sweet rice cooked with sugar, nuts, raisins and butter.

The New York area is home to the largest Tibetan community in the country, at least 7,000 people, according to the Office of Tibet, in New York. (The office represents the Central Tibetan Administration, the self-proclaimed government in exile based in Dharamsala.)

Most young Tibetan-Americans here have never seen Tibet, or tasted tea made with dri butter (dri is the term for a female yak), or smelled the herb-scented soups that make up the daily diet in Tibet.

But food remains an important unifier for the ones who gather, many sporting signs of rebellion like platinum-bleached braids and skintight hoodies, for momos and Mountain Dew at small restaurants in Queens. (A photographic essay on the Tibetan community in New York, titled “Lhasa on the Hudson,” will open on Sunday at the Jacques Marchais Museum of Tibetan Art, on Staten Island.)

At many Tibetan Buddhist temples, this year’s Losar celebrations will be sober and limited. About 20 people, most of them young monks and nuns, have burned themselves to death in Tibet in the last year, in resistance to Chinese authority. They are being honored with fasts, demonstrations and prayer vigils.

Many of New York’s Tibetans live within one subway stop of Jackson Heights, a Queens neighborhood that has long absorbed, and fed, new arrivals to the city. Twenty years ago, Indian and Pakistani sweet shops and snack stalls dominated; then Ecuadorean bakeries and Colombian arepas arrived. Now, many streets are aflutter with Tibetan prayer flags and pictures of the Dalai Lama, the shop windows plastered with ads for necessities like momos, mustard pickle and phone cards for calling relatives dispersed in Nepal, Bhutan and India.

A new place called Norling Tibet Kitchen has the best beef momos in the neighborhood. One of the best restaurants over all is Phayul, up a narrow staircase, next to a hair salon, and usually packed. The husband-and-wife team who run the place, Chime Tendha and Dawa Lhamo, serve a typical mix of true Tibetan recipes and the Indian- and Chinese-accented dishes that have become comfort food for the community. Chili Chicken, a spicy stir-fry of green peppers, golden chicken, purple onions and red chile paste, is on almost every table, along with momos and sepen, a fiery blend of dried chiles, garlic and cilantro.

To eat it, Tibetans pinch off pieces of a puffy, thick steamed bread called tingmo, and use them to scoop up savory bites of chicken. Rice does not grow in Tibet, and is not a favorite among Tibetans, Mrs. Lama said, perhaps because it is so closely associated with China.

“It’s strange, but when we eat rice with our food,” she said, “we find that we are hungry again soon afterwards.”
808 2012-02-22 With the release of its first vintage, the 2004, the Rhys wines have been almost universally recognized as both brilliant and brilliantly expressive of their sites. I was impressed on my first visit to Rhys in 2007, and on a recent trip to the new Rhys winery and cave, built into the side of a mountain at Skyline Vineyard, I found that the wines have become even more focused. I tasted through the gorgeous 2010 wines and found clearly discernible distinctions among them, the holy terroir grail that New World pinot noir producers strive for but seldom achieve.

The Family Farm Vineyard, on a gentle slope in the foothills, yielded a wine with great finesse, an unusual floral quality and lovely mineral flavors. The Home Vineyard, Mr. Harvey’s first backyard planting, technically just outside the Santa Cruz Mountains appellation, was riper, denser and more concentrated, with a licorice aroma. Skyline Vineyard, high in the mountains above the fog line, offered aromas of violets and exotic spices, while the steeply sloping Horseshoe Vineyard produced an austere wine with intense mineral flavors.

The pinot noir from the Alpine Road Vineyard, just a half-mile away, offered sweeter, red fruit flavors — “baby fat,” Mr. Harvey said, which he predicted would be left behind with age. Yet Swan Terrace, a portion of the Alpine Vineyard that was bottled separately because Mr. Harvey and his colleagues believe it has its own character, was indeed remarkably different, with a floral aroma and flavors that were deliciously briny.

The biggest problem with the Rhys wines is that so little is made. Partly that’s because the yields in the mountain vineyards are so low compared with even low-yielding vineyards in friendlier environments, which might produce two to two and a half tons of grapes per acre.

“In Alpine and Horseshoe, we probably get around one ton in a truly average year,” Mr. Harvey said, “and in years like ’05 and ’11, next to nothing.”

To produce more wine, and to explore more distinctive terroirs, Mr. Harvey left his Santa Cruz comfort zone a few years ago to buy a vineyard in the Anderson Valley of Mendocino County. The 2008 vintage was the first from this vineyard, designated Bearwallow, and in 2013, 25 more acres will be ready for production. The 2010 Bearwallow was fruitier than the Santa Cruz wines, offering aromas of sweet berries and a touch of pomegranate.

Just recently Mr. Harvey bought an abandoned apple orchard on the southern end of the Santa Cruz Mountains. He hopes to plant an additional 20 acres there next year.

In search of potential sites, Mr. Harvey relies on a detailed, almost wonk’s-eye view of great vineyards around the world. Some might regard his findings as counterintuitive in California.

“Weather is just wildly overrated in terms of what derives from pinot noir,” he said as we strolled the craggy slopes of the Alpine Vineyard. Off in the distance on this uncharacteristically clear day, we could barely make out the Pacific. “Our warmest site will make the leanest, most Burgundian wines, and the coolest will make the ripest wines.”

Far more important, he said, was the character of the soil. Not simply whether the soil is schist, shale or limestone (all great for pinot noir, he said), but whether the soil was shallow and rocky, with the ability to swiftly absorb and drain water.

Most grand cru vineyards in Burgundy, Mr. Harvey said, are found in the middle of the Côte d’Or slope — not, as many people believe, because that’s where the ideal temperatures are found, but because that’s where the water drains the best.

“It’s a very balancing environment,” he said. “It offers lots of nutrients early in the season, then a water deficit, which tells the vines, ‘I need to ripen and get out of here,’ moving from a vegetative to a fruit cycle.”

Grand cru Burgundy is a high level to try to emulate. But Mr. Harvey is a man with a mission, and the means and determination to get there.
809 2012-02-22 A diplomatic cable written by a U.S. diplomat in Bangkok in 2008 estimated that there were 200 Burmese exile organizations in Thailand alone.

But the global Burmese-dissident business may soon be out of business. Funding for seminars is drying up, and foreign diplomats would rather fly into Myanmar than have lunch with exiled dissidents, as former President George W. Bush did during a visit to Thailand in 2008.

If the changes in Myanmar have surprised many observers of the country, they have been particularly bewildering and disorienting for exile groups, many of which are based here in Mae Sot, a Thai city on the Myanmar border that became a sort of headquarters for Burmese dissidents living abroad.

“I’ve spent half of my life with the revolution,” said Myat Thu, a former student activist who came to Thailand more than two decades ago. He lit a cigarette and recounted his escape through the jungles of eastern Myanmar after the military quashed a popular uprising in 1988.

He and his Thai wife, Khemitsara Ekkanasingha, run a cafe adorned with “Free Burma” stickers and pictures of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi.

Last year, before many of the reforms in Myanmar were announced, Ms. Khemitsara introduced a campaign for the release of female political prisoners in Myanmar, printing postcards and organizing marches and vigils.

Of the 200 women she campaigned for, all have been released. Ms. Khemitsara said she was now considering championing other causes, mentioning the inequalities of the global market economy.

“We are going to put up a new banner,” she said, pointing to the wall. “Stop the dictatorship of capitalism!”

Other dissidents here say they want to continue working on Myanmar-related issues — many have a lingering mistrust of the government — but they are not sure how long they can stay in exile.

Naing Aung, a former student activist, helps run the Forum for Democracy in Burma, a group partly funded by the U.S. government that in recent years had held seminars on democracy and human rights. Now long-term funding for such meetings looks uncertain, he said.

“Donors are saying, ‘If you are just doing seminars in Thailand and printing publications, we won’t finance you,”’ he said.

Life is comfortable for many dissidents living in Thailand, Mr. Naing Aung said, and it’s hard to imagine leaving. “People have children and mortgages,” he said.

The Burmese diaspora spans the globe. In addition to Mae Sot, the northern city of Chiang Mai is home to many dissident organizations. Other prominent dissident groups are based in London, Washington and New Delhi.

The Democratic Voice of Burma, an organization that was instrumental in illicitly gathering and broadcasting images of the 2007 military crackdown in Myanmar, is headquartered in Norway. Some journalists working undercover for the group inside Myanmar were imprisoned (and have since been released). Now, Aye Chan Naing, the organization’s executive director and chief editor, says he is negotiating with the government about opening an official branch office inside the country.

“I think within one or two years, if things keep moving in this direction, a lot of dissidents will move back, and the funding will dry up,” he said. “Some groups have been warned that this is their last year of funding.”

The government of President Thein Sein has been trying to lure exiles back. Aung Min, a government minister, traveled to Thailand earlier this month to woo dissidents, according to Mr. Aye Chan Naing, who met with him.

“Ultimately if you’re an activist, you want to be where the action is,” said Mr. Aung Naing Oo of the Vahu Development Institute, which is based in Chiang Mai. “If that action is not where you are, you have to move.”

But a number of dissidents say they are unconvinced by the changes and are not considering returning home.

“I don’t believe,” said U Bo Kyi, the co-founder of an association based in Mae Sot that keeps a database of political prisoners.

Mr. Bo Kyi, who fled Myanmar 13 years ago, says he is waiting for Myanmar’s leaders — many of whom were top generals during the days of military rule — to acknowledge and make amends for imprisonments, torture and many other abuses.

“We do not want revenge,” he said. “But we need recognition and reparations by the government.” He is, above all, looking for an apology.

“Confession is very important for national reconciliation,” he said.
810 2012-02-22 “Some poets don’t want music messing up their words,” the composer Charles Wuorinen said during a panel discussion before the New York premiere of his cantata “It Happens Like This” at the Guggenheim Museum on Sunday evening.

In this case, Mr. Wuorinen’s music seemed to be the perfect companion for James Tate’s poems, from the collection “Return to the City of White Donkeys” (2004). The texts are strange and beguiling. A dog reincarnated as a human in reward for good behavior laments his new existence in a dreary office cubicle. A man invited to a dinner party discovers he is to be a human sacrifice. A customer tries to order steaks in a candy store. A television-watching turkey joins a stranger on a couch.

Mr. Wuorinen, known for his complex, 12-tone music, has denounced populist trends in classical music. But along with his modernist colleagues Pierre Boulez and Elliott Carter, Mr. Wuorinen seems to have mellowed in recent years, writing more accessible pieces like this whimsical cantata for four singers and chamber ensemble. It was commissioned for the Tanglewood Festival of Contemporary Music in Lenox, Mass., and received its premiere there last August.

The cantata is thoroughly charming. The quirky characters and foibles of Mr. Tate’s seven poems are complemented by Mr. Wuorinen’s pungent score, performed with aplomb by the excellent Ensemble Signal, conducted by Brad Lubman. Dramatic flourishes, spare textures and splashes of instrumental color are woven throughout the song cycle to illuminate the text, both spoken and sung and interspersed with vividly scored ensemble numbers.

The four performers — Sharon Harms, a soprano; Laura Mercado-Wright, a mezzo-soprano; Steven Brennfleck, a tenor; and Douglas Williams, a bass-baritone — took on various roles and were superb singers and charismatic actors. Ken Rus Schmoll’s witty semi-staging, which incorporated animal props, kept the pace moving throughout the surreal and poignant narratives.

The program, part of the Works & Process series, began with the New York premiere of Mr. Wuorinen’s “Haroun Piano Book.” It uses material from “Haroun and the Sea of Stories,” a work based on the fable by Salman Rushdie that had its premiere at New York City Opera in 2004. The six movements of the piano suite follow the opera’s narrative.
811 2012-02-22 In recent weeks, the fund had circulated a confidential study of Greece’s long-term debt prospects that argued that reduced growth and the inability of Greece to adopt needed reforms could swell the country’s debt to 178 percent of G.D.P. by 2015 and still leave it at 160 percent of G.D.P. by 2020.

That being the case, the fund would not be able to lend Greece any more money, thus raising the prospect that default was the only option for the country.

But analysts point out that the very practice of trying to analyze what a country’s debt will be eight years on is in itself flawed — as the I.M.F. has accepted in a recent report that explained how it missed debt explosions in Greece, and .

And they question how, in a matter of months, Greece’s debt outlook in 2020 can change so quickly — going from 120 percent of G.D.P. last October, to a worst case of 160 percent and now back down again to 120 percent.

“This whole debt sustainability analysis is a joke,” said Charles Wyplosz, an international economist and critic of the I.M.F.’s ability to properly assess the long-term debt prospects of countries it lends to.

By forcing Greece to push through more austerity measures to reach this target, Mr. Wyplosz argues, growth suffers all the more — making the debt-to-G.D.P. goal even harder to achieve.

Better, he said, to accept from the outset that the debt cannot be repaid and write down a larger share of the country’s financial obligations rather than impose more growth-stunting measures on the country.

“We need policies that return Greece to the growth path, not more austerity,” Mr. Wyplosz added.

Forecasting growth in an economy that by the end of this year will have shrunk by close to 20 percent in four years is no easy task. Most economists expect growth to shrink 5 percent this year, and the I.M.F. is forecasting zero growth in 2013, followed by increases of 2.3 and 2.9 percent in the subsequent two years.

Economists have their doubts, though, that Greece can recover so quickly. And even the I.M.F. accepts that the prospects for growth could disappoint once again. In its more pessimistic prediction for Greece, the fund foresees a 1 percent downturn in 2013, followed by growth of just 1.3 and 1.9 percent in the ensuing years.

But with Greece’s traditional growth engine — the government — effectively sidelined in the coming years, it is unclear if the country’s small export sector, about 20 percent of G.D.P., can pick up the slack as has been the case in the more open Irish economy.

And without growth, it will be nearly impossible to generate the surplus the country needs to start paying down its debt. For the moment, Greece’s financial backers appear to have blinked. Even though many now argue that the financial system is better prepared for a Greek default, the fear that such an event in Greece will prompt investors to expect the same in and was, in the end, too powerful to overcome.

In , officials from the so-called troika of lenders — countries, the and the I.M.F. — expressed a cautious optimism that the agreement, flawed as it may be, might at least reassure Greeks that the country would not go bankrupt in coming days and leave the euro.

Such threats, uttered not just by Greeks, but by European leaders as well recently, have been a primary reason behind Greece’s economic collapse of late. Over the last two years, Greeks have pulled about 40 billion euros from their banks, and this loss of confidence has sent the economy into a tailspin, sinking close to 7 percent last year.

If just a small portion of those lost deposits were funneled back into the economy, a tentative recovery might ensue.

But Greece’s financial backers also warned that while Greece might well pass the laws to enact these changes, actually turning that law into practice whereby were collected, public enterprises sold, wages cut and civil servants laid off was by no means guaranteed.

“Passing laws in Parliament means nothing,” said one troika official who declined to be identified. “It’s the implementation that counts, what actually happens on the ground.”

Reflecting Europe’s lack of trust in Greece’s following through with the reforms, additional staff members from the will be assigned to monitor Greece and a system is to be put in place whereby government funds will be directed first to paying debt.

In every way, the bailout represents an unprecedented encroachment by the into domestic affairs of a sovereign state, with Greece being expected to submit weekly and monthly reports on virtually every aspect of its budgetary regime to its partners in Europe.

For those who see the cause of Greece’s ills in the reckless spending of its politicians, this increased scrutiny is reason to cheer.

“This is long-term good news. We have eliminated the possibility that Greece blows up Europe,” said Jason Manolopoulos, a hedge fund manager based in Athens and the author of “Greece’s Odious Debt.”

“Finally it looks as if Greek politicians will be reined in from more excessive spending.”

But it will be the success, or lack thereof, of the private sector portion of the deal that will largely determine whether Greece gets financial breathing room.

For the numbers to work, analysts say that 88 percent of bondholders must agree to the debt swap — a tall order given that more than 30 billion euros is held by hedge funds, asset managers and other private entities who, unlike the large European banks, are not inclined to succumb to government pressure.

Recognizing that private sector investors will not embrace an arrangement that gives them 30-year that pay only a 2 percent interest rate through 2015 (the average rate over the bond’s duration is 3.6 percent), the Greek government will pass a law this week that attaches collective action clauses to Greek bonds, a step that forces even holdouts to accept the terms.

Crucially, the new bonds will be governed by English law, unlike the old ones, and will thus carry more legal protection if Greece has to default on these new securities.

If bond investors have the same doubts that Europe and the I.M.F. have had concerning Greece’s capacity to pay down its debts, they may opt to participate in the transaction even though they will have to take a hefty loss.

That is what Greece and its financial backers are hoping for, at least.
812 2012-02-22 Saks Fifth Avenue, meanwhile, which said it was selling items like fine jewelry, fragrances and men’s accessories at a fast clip, had a “historically high gross margin rate performance,” said the chairman and chief executive, Stephen I. Sadove, in a statement. There was “reduced promotional activity” throughout the year as the company increased its full-price sales, and its margins for the year rose to 40.8 percent of sales, from 40.1 percent. For the quarter, margin fell 0.2 percentage point to 37.6 percent.

At Macy’s, a decline in margin was not because of lower prices throughout the store, but because of a free-shipping promotion and markdowns on cold-weather gear, said Mr. Lundgren in an interview. Holiday discounts “were about the same level as last year and they were all planned,” he said.

The average price paid for items at Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s rose 9 percent in the quarter, because of some inflation in commodity costs and better sales of expensive items like jewelry.

Mr. Lundgren added that the Bloomingdale’s business was particularly strong. “The Bloomingdale’s customer is categorized as that consumer who’s buying more luxury product, and that business was very good, and you’ve seen that from some of the other luxury retailers,” he said.

Macy’s gross margins declined by 0.3 percentage point for the quarter and for the year, but its margins, at 40.4 percent for the year and 41 percent for the quarter, were much higher than Walmart’s.

Home Depot said that sales at stores that had been open at least a year, also known has same-store sales, had increased in 13 of its 14 categories, and that it was seeing improvement in the professional-contractor sector. Sales in states where housing markets were particularly hard-hit by the recession, like and , were continuing to improve.

“The performance of our business, particularly in the back half of 2011, would suggest a strengthening market,” said Home Depot’s chairman and chief executive, .

Same-store sales rose 5.7 percent for the fourth quarter. And two indicators of high-end momentum also rose: transactions over $900 increased by 3 percent, while the professional-contractor business, which handles expensive home renovations, posted increases in transactions and the amount spent. “We’re starting to see the beginnings of an improvement among the professional contractors, which is great,” said Carol B. Tomé, chief financial officer.

Home Depot’s margins increased 0.29 percentage point from the same quarter a year ago, to 35 percent, which was mostly because of supply-chain improvements, Ms. Tomé said.

Apart from their profit margins, all the retailers posted sales increases, though with mixed results.

Walmart reported the second consecutive quarter of positive same-store sales; the retailer had been in a same-store sales slide for nine quarters before that.

The company said Tuesday that its domestic sales grew 2.4 percent in the quarter, to $72.8 billion, while sales at stores open at least a year increased 1.5 percent.

To achieve that, though, Walmart’s domestic profit margin slipped lower. Throughout its divisions, the company’s consolidated net income fell 13 percent for the quarter, but Mr. Holley said in a telephone call with reporters that the drop was because of a net income number a year ago that was buoyed by a benefit from the disposal of a German business. He said the more accurate number to look at was income from continuing operations, which rose 3.4 percent for the quarter, to $5.2 billion.

Executives said customers took advantage of programs like layaway over the holidays and responded to the 10,000 or so items that Walmart had brought back to stores. Visits to stores and the average amount spent per visit both rose during the quarter.

January 2012, the last month of the quarter, was the strongest month in terms of sales and traffic, Mr. Holley said. The company did not offer layaway after the holidays.

“It wasn’t the time that we had the layaway — that speaks to the momentum we have in the Walmart business,” he said. “We feel very good about where we are with market share grabs in most categories that we operate in.”

“Top-line results were generally in line with expectations, but surprisingly did not demonstrate any improved momentum versus” levels in the third quarter, a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst, Colin McGranahan, wrote in a note to clients.

Macy’s net income rose almost 12 percent from the fourth quarter a year ago, to $745 million, while its same-store sales rose 5.2 percent. Online sales for and the unit rose 40 percent from a year ago, and the company said it expected online sales in 2012 to exceed $2 billion.

At Saks, sales of luxury items pushed fourth-quarter net income up 48 percent to $37 million. Same-store sales rose 7.7 percent for the quarter.

At Home Depot, net income for the fourth quarter increased 32 percent to $774 million, while sales rose 6 percent to about $16 billion.
813 2012-02-22 A group of ministers is also considering a proposal to let foreign airlines buy stakes of as much as 49 percent in Indian carriers; foreign airlines are now blocked from any ownership. And aviation regulators said they would soon let private airlines like Kingfisher fly on profitable international routes that were previously reserved for Air India.

But analysts said that the proposals might not be sufficient or might not be enacted soon enough to save Kingfisher, which is owned by the flamboyant liquor baron Vijay Mallya.

The airline lost 4.4 billion rupees (about $90 million) in the quarter ended in December, compared with a loss of 2.5 billion rupees in the period a year earlier. Passengers and travel agents appear to be increasingly avoiding the carrier, especially after it canceled scores of flights in November. The airline’s passenger load factor, a measure of how full its flights are, fell to 75.2 percent in the last three months of 2011, from 83.6 percent in the period a year earlier.

“A lot of people are unhappy and don’t want the turmoil of traveling Kingfisher,” said Hriday Daswani, a travel agent at Dynasty Tours and Travels in Mumbai.

In the last several days, the airline did not fly to or from Kolkata, the large eastern city formerly known as Calcutta. The airline’s chief executive, Sanjay Aggarwal, said Kingfisher had to cancel flights to India’s northeastern states because it did not have enough pilots.

The airline’s problems have been brewing for years. Many analysts trace them to its 2008 acquisition of another money-losing carrier, Air Deccan. The deal allowed Kingfisher to start international service sooner than it would have been able to otherwise, but it also saddled the carrier with debt and a low-cost airline that operated differently from Kingfisher.

Since then, the company has frequently accumulated large arrears to oil companies, airports, the tax department and its employees. In recent months, many pilots have quit and joined other airlines like IndiGo, which is believed to be the only consistently profitable airline in India.

Mohan Ranganathan, a former pilot and safety consultant, said Kingfisher’s problems had festered because the government and state-owned companies had been too lenient with the airline.

Mr. Ranganathan said that one Kingfisher pilot he knew had received notices as far back as three years ago from the tax department that the taxes deducted from his paycheck had not been deposited with the government. Other government agencies or state-owned companies like banks, oil companies and airports also gave the company a lot of time to pay its bills.

“If an ordinary citizen doesn’t pay the tax or doesn’t deposit it, the Income Tax Department will go after you,” Mr. Ranganathan said.

On Tuesday, E. K. Bharat Bhushan, a senior Indian aviation official, said that the government would give the airline more time before punishing it for canceling flights without notifying regulators.

“They have an approximation of a plan,” Mr. Bhushan, the director general of civil aviation, said of the airline’s request for more time from the tax authorities and efforts to borrow more money. “I hope it works.”

Kingfisher, which owes $1.5 billion, has been talking to banks about financing for months, but lenders have been reluctant to extend credit unless Mr. Mallya and other investors put additional money into the company.

An executive at Kingfisher said that the company was negotiating with three potential investors but that any deal must be accompanied by changes in Indian policy. In addition to allowing foreign airlines to invest in Indian carriers, the government should lower taxes and fuel surcharges, said the executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was discussing confidential matters.

On Monday night, Mr. Mallya, whose other companies sell about half of all the liquor and beer consumed in India, told Times Now, a television network in Mumbai, that the airline would not close. “Government does not want it to happen,” he said. “It is not in national interest.”
814 2012-02-22 In the statement Tuesday, the nuclear agency said its team had “requested access to the military site at Parchin,” where there was evidence of a facility that could be used in weapons-related testing. “Iran did not grant permission for this visit to take place,” the statement said. In the past, Iran had said the team of inspectors could visit any nuclear-related location, but it has recently maintained that Parchin was a military base and off limits.

Access to the Parchin site may prove a litmus test of whether Iran will ever allow the kind of intrusive inspections that most Western officials say are necessary to establish whether Iran has conducted research on “weaponization.” The last report by the agency said Iran had gone beyond theoretical studies about how to detonate a nuclear device, building a large containment vessel at its Parchin military base for testing the feasibility of explosive compression. It called such tests “strong indicators of possible weapon development.”

The I.A.E.A. statement also said Iran and the agency could not agree “on a document facilitating the clarification of unresolved issues in connection with Iran’s nuclear program, particularly those relating to possible military dimensions.”

The director general of the agency, , said in the statement that “it is disappointing that Iran did not accept our request to visit Parchin during the first or second meetings,” insisting his group had “engaged in a constructive spirit.”

The latest warnings from Iran on Tuesday included a further extension of a dispute with the over an oil embargo due to come into force on July 1, with Iran outlining what were termed conditions for future sales to European customers. Iran said Sunday that it had cut off sales to and , and warned Monday that it might extend the ban to other members of the 27-nation European Union.

Growing tensions over Iran’s nuclear program have provoked speculation that may be contemplating a military strike against nuclear facilities, which Iran says are for peaceful purposes but which the West suspects are inching toward the capability to produce weapons.

Without mentioning Israel directly, Mohammad Hejazi, the deputy armed forces head, said Tuesday, “Our strategy now is that if we feel our enemies want to endanger Iran’s national interests, and want to decide to do that, we will act without waiting for their actions.”

Divisions in Iran’s leadership make it hard to interpret the government’s intentions, but the statement showed a new level of aggressiveness.
815 2012-02-22 Ms. Katseli, an economist who was labor minister in the government of until she left in a cabinet reshuffle last June, was also upset that Greece’s lenders will have the right to seize the gold reserves in the Bank of Greece under the terms of the new deal, and that future issued will be governed by English law and in courts, conditions more favorable to creditors.

While their country’s fate is being decided in abstract, high-level negotiations in , and as much as in Athens, many Greeks said they had begun to feel that the debt writedown and new loan is aimed at saving the more than the country and its citizens.

On Tuesday, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos defended the new debt agreement, calling it “the most significant deal in Greece’s postwar history” and asserting that it had “averted a nightmare scenario.”

Under the terms of the deal, Greece’s private lenders will agree to write down 100 billion euros of Greek public debt and take a loss of more than 70 percent in exchange for longer-term bonds. “I wonder what would be happening today in Greece, in the and in the global economy if a deal had not been reached, what prospects there would be for banks, for savings, for the wages of Greeks,” Mr. Venizelos said.

But many Greeks were not buying it. “In my simple mind, it seems crazy,” said Dionysius Tsoukalas, 35, as he served customers at a downtown Athens coffee bar. “They took off 100 billion, but now we took a new loan for 130 billion. Why would we do that? It’s crazy.”

Mr. Tsoukalas said he had a master’s degree in industrial product design but worked in the coffee bar five days a week to make ends meet. He said he earned around 700 euros a month, or about $927, and could barely get by, with his and new increases.

He was upset that Greek politicians had not followed through on their plans to make structural changes. “In two years they haven’t done anything,” he said. “They didn’t open the closed professions, they didn’t touch the cartels,” he added, referring to the powerful groups that control the import of consumer goods in Greece’s import-driven economy.

Privately, Greek and European officials said they did not believe that Greece’s increasingly weak political class would have the will or the time to carry out the new austerity measures, which they say require complex legal expertise and cooperation among ministries in a state that lags in administrative capacity.

Parliament already approved the measures in principle and is expected to pass specific implementation bills before the end of the month, even amid growing concern among Parliament members that the measures will push the country further into recession. At the same time, politicians are fighting for what little political capital they have left after two years of austerity has drained them of popular support.

Growing political instability is another wild card affecting Greece’s public finances. Opinion polls say that the center-right New Democracy party is leading in the polls, but that combined, left-wing parties that are opposed to the loan agreement also have significant support.

On Tuesday, Antonis Samaras, leader of New Democracy, who has been pushing for elections and is the front-runner to become the next prime minister, said the new agreement “eliminates the risk of bankruptcy for the country, secures its prospects within , creates the possibility for debt to become sustainable, and opens the road for elections.”
816 2012-02-22 Greece's debt restructuring is dragging credit-default swaps back into the spotlight.     The last time this financial instrument was on the global stage was in 2008, when the American International Group's credit-default swaps brought the insurer...
817 2012-02-22 8:28 p.m. | Updated      Even after European leaders appeared to have averted a chaotic default by Greece with an eleventh-hour deal for aid, worries persist that a debt disaster on the Continent has merely been delayed....
818 2012-02-23 The title character in “The Fairy,” an alternately effortless and forced French-language diversion, doesn’t soar on gossamer wings; she sprints on two filthy, suspiciously human feet. When she first bursts into a humble Le Havre hotel, disheveled and in need of a hairbrush along with shoes, the porter, Dom (Dominique Abel), doesn’t seem surprised. That’s true even when, calling herself Fiona (Fiona Gordon), she says that she’ll grant him three wishes. Dom, a simple soul or maybe a simpleton, asks for a moped and a lifetime supply of gas. Perhaps the filmmakers — Mr. Abel, Ms. Gordon and Bruno Romy shared the writing and directing — were worried about running on empty.

Dom doesn’t rush his third wish, partly because he doesn’t seem much of a dreamer, no matter if his head has taken up permanent residence in the clouds, and partly because this movie might be a lot shorter. As it is, waiting for Dom to decide on a third wish (Fiona keeps telling him to take his time) soon becomes something of a running — if more accurately dawdling, meandering and at times almost forgotten — joke. That’s because the wishes are merely a pretext for the bits of silly business and old-fashioned pantomime, the funny walks and goofy dances, at the heart of this gentle movie, which borrows some of its best moves and laughs from the film clowns of the silent era.

Although less technically polished than “The Artist” and splashed with bright color, “The Fairy” shares some of that film’s qualities, for good (funny and sweet) and bad (sentimental and ingratiating). The performances in each are body based, with the actors largely expressing themselves physically, both in their gestures — a highly arched brow, a right-angled leg — and faces as exaggerated as masks. There’s dialogue in “The Fairy,” however, if not much, and most of what’s said is beside the point of its bodies — at rest or, more often, in stretchy, choreographed motion. It’s no surprise that Mr. Abel, who’s Belgian, the Australian-born Ms. Gordon and Mr. Romy, a French native, share a background in the theater and in the circus.

Fiona may be a magical creature or an escapee from a mental institution who’s taken a liking to Dom, either because he’s the first one she’s come across in the outside world or because the two of them look as cozily built for each other as mating herons. With her receding, almost reluctant chin and thrust-out chest — she sometimes appears to be moving in opposite directions at once — Ms. Gordon looks particularly birdlike and is especially fun to watch. When she sprints, as during a cleverly extended and funny chase sequence after she steals some shoes, she keeps her upper body straight as a board, as if Fiona’s very torso were trying to deny the fact that she’s fast on the lam.

Fiona’s shoes distractingly pop off and on during this sequence, by all appearances unintentionally, suggesting that the filmmakers could use some help when it comes to continuity. The three are modest if not inexpert and have clearly watched their share of movies by the Finnish director Aki Kaurismaki (“The Man Without a Past”), the king of comic despair. Mr. Abel, Ms. Gordon and Mr. Romy work in a lighter, less ambitious key. They like neat frames, centered compositions, loud colors and slow burns. And while there’s not much in “The Fairy” that will surprise you if you’ve seen their previous screen collaborations, including “The Iceberg” and “Rumba,” there are moments here, like a pregnant belly that swells up and deflates as abruptly as a party balloon, that amuse.
819 2012-02-23 The remarks by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. were among his first since President Obama announced his administration's redoubled commitment to combat financial fraud....
820 2012-02-23 A federal judge freed John Kinnucan on bail of $5 million, despite his abusive telephone calls to prosecutors....
821 2012-02-23 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar news. Thursday's selections include items on tracking down a Twitter star, the line between theft and imitation in the technology industry and a su...
822 2012-02-23 At Apple's annual meeting, the protesters outside were few. Inside, they were even fewer. But the list of Apple's accomplishments? Well, that pretty much filled the meeting time....
823 2012-02-23 It's increasingly clear that Samsung wants to be a big player in mobile devices for business customers. The Korean manufacturer has released smartphones that threaten to eat both Research In Motion's and Microsoft's lunch. Those companies have thr...
824 2012-02-23 Rick Santorum's new ad attacks Mitt Romney, stating that he "did nothing" for Michigan workers....
825 2012-02-23 Swaps dealers will be required to manage the risks posed by derivatives trading, prevent conflicts of interest and empower a chief compliance officer to prepare an annual report detailing internal controls....
826 2012-02-23 “Where Do We Go Now?”, Nadine Labaki’s feature about the women of a remote village in Lebanon, will open the New Directors/New Films series....
827 2012-02-23 After an impressive 2011, Amar'e Stoudemire of the Knicks is not a dominant force this season....
828 2012-02-23 We recently noticed that very few of our clients came as a result of our new business initiatives. Why is that?...
829 2012-02-23 Google's plans for smart eyeglasses highlight the rise of wearable technology. Why China's renminbi could become the global reserve currency of choice....
830 2012-02-23 Google's plans for smart eyeglasses highlight the rise of wearable technology; Why China's renminbi could become the global reserve currency of choice.
831 2012-02-23 BOSTON (Reuters) - When hedge fund titan Steven A. Cohen next roots for his hometown New York Mets baseball team, he will have skin in the game as one of the team’s newly minted minority owners.

The billionaire trader, who heads the $14 billion SAC Capital Advisors, recently spent $20 million for a 4 percent stake in the Mets, according to a person familiar with the deal. Cohen’s spokesman, Jonathan Gasthalter, declined to comment.

Now Cohen will be entitled to a business card with “owner” stamped on it, parking at the team’s Citi Field stadium, the use of the stadium at certain times, and access to a luxury box where he can entertain family and friends with food and drink on a Saturday afternoon.

But those are only the minor perks of a deal that is seen as playing a critical role for both partners. The ailing club gets an infusion of much-needed cash. And Cohen, who is in the running to buy the Los Angeles Dodgers, gets a chance to try out for a bigger role in Major League Baseball.

The Mets, valued at $747 million by Forbes last year, have not only lost on the field but at the box office as well. Home game attendance in 2011 was down nearly 50 percent from 4,042,045 in 2008.

The team’s financial future remains precarious after principal owners Saul Katz and Fred Wilpon invested in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. A trustee overseeing the Madoff trust has sued the Mets owners for $386 million.

“With Cohen and others buying these small stakes, the Mets will now have greater liquidity to manage through difficult times,” said Robert Boland, a professor of sports business at New York University’s Tisch Center. The Mets were interested in selling minority stakes worth a total of $140 million, Boland said.

For Cohen, who is known to demand big returns for every bet he makes, the deal is equally attractive. “Sports franchises generally appreciate dramatically,” Boland said, adding, “Steve Cohen is buying a good deal with a guaranteed put of 3 percent after six years.”

More than the promise of a decent return, however, is the fact that Cohen, whose personal fortune is pegged at $8 billion, may use the Mets stake as a bridge to a bigger prize.

For Cohen, 55, who grew up in Great Neck, New York and spent many an agonizing afternoon watching his beloved team come up short, his taste for a bigger role in baseball has grown over the last year.

He is said to be on the short list of bidders for the bankrupt Dodgers and last year he flirted with taking a $200 million stake in the Mets before the team settled on another hedge fund manager, David Einhorn. That deal fell apart. If Cohen were to win the bid for the Dodgers he would have to liquidate the stake in the Mets.

“Being a minority owner is like playing in the minor leagues to see how you might do at becoming a full owner,” Boland said, adding, “It allows the league to see how someone would work out.”

The deal pairs the often losing Mets with one of the most successful and ferocious competitors in the $2 trillion hedge fund industry. Cohen pushes his managers hard and routinely fires underperformers. His fund reported top results for last year, rising 8 percent, while rival funds on average lost 5 percent.

Cohen has also been in the spotlight because of allegations of improper trading at his Stamford, Connecticut-based fund. A technology analyst working for Cohen was arrested and charged with insider trading last month.

Neither Cohen nor his firm has been accused of any wrongdoing.

For many hedge fund managers owning a piece of a major league sports team has long been an obsession. Jeffrey Vinik bought the Tampa Bay Lightning of the National Hockey League, John Henry is the principal owner of Major League Baseball’s Boston Red Sox and James Pallotta owns part of the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association.
832 2012-02-23 An assemblywoman's legislation had been by criticized by animal-rights advocates for a provision allowing shelters to euthanize animals that are in "psychological pain."...
833 2012-02-23 Ike Davis of the Mets said doctors found a minor lung infection and they wanted to make sure it was not something more serious....
834 2012-02-23 While Ben Bernanke has made Federal Reserve decision-making more transparent, too much still takes place behind closed doors, an economist writes....
835 2012-02-23 Avalanches have wracked the disputed territory in recent years....
836 2012-02-23 Somy Ali's journey from Salman Khan's girlfriend to protector of victims of domestic violence....
837 2012-02-23 CHICAGO — Despite an income tax increase in Illinois last year, Gov. Pat Quinn delivered more grim news about the state’s fiscal crisis on Wednesday, calling in an annual budget address for spending cuts that include the closing of state prisons and social service offices.

“This budget contains truths that may not be what you want to hear,” the governor, a Democrat. told the Democratic-controlled legislature in Springfield. “But these are truths that you do need to know.”

The proposal would eliminate two prisons and close 60 state offices and facilities, resulting in more than 1,100 layoffs and saving Illinois about $88.9 million, according to budget documents.

Mr. Quinn also said he would cut his own office’s budget by 9 percent next year and asked other state offices to do the same.

“Today, our rendezvous with reality has arrived,” he said.

It has, it seems, been coming for a while, as the state’s unpaid bills have mounted and reports of its underfinanced state pension and Medicaid systems have grown ever more alarming.

But while the governor spoke about the need for cuts in the Medicaid and pension systems, some critics said his proposals did not go far enough or provide specific steps to reduce the state’s unfinanced liabilities.

Even with cuts in discretionary spending, Mr. Quinn’s $33.8 billion proposed budget is still larger than the budget passed the last fiscal year, and would require pension and Medicaid changes to ease the state’s financial woes, which grew again this year to total about $8 billion in unpaid bills.

“It’s a little disconcerting that we would spend more money than we spent the year before,” said Matt Murphy, a Republican state senator.
838 2012-02-23 Obtaining Howard’s services could be the key to the Nets’ having immediate success in Brooklyn. The Nets’ star point guard, Deron Williams, may not re-sign this summer without the superstar center Howard in tow. The two teams will meet again March 16, the day after the trade deadline.

Magic Coach Stan Van Gundy had no interest in talking about Howard’s future during the team’s shootaround, saying “no” three times to answer speculation about Howard.

Aside from an exciting stretch in the third quarter, Howard and the Magic handled the Nets with ease in a 108-91 win. Howard (20 points, 17 rebounds, 2 blocks) put his stamp on the game early: the first two Magic baskets were his tone-setting dunks. He also shone in important moments, as his block of a Deron Williams floater led to a Chris Duhon 3-pointer in transition that put the Magic up by 79-61 and killed a Nets rally.

The Magic managed to take a 17-point lead going into halftime without making a single foul shot.

Williams scored 23 points and dished out 8 assists, but aside from flourishing in the third quarter (12 points, 3 assists), he could not lift the overmatched Nets. The Nets rookie MarShon Brooks registered a new career high with 24 points.

Howard emerged from the shower in the Magic locker room and greeted a large media horde with a simple message: “I’ve got one answer: Leave me alone.” And then he sang those same words.

LAKERS 96, MAVERICKS 91 On a night when Kobe Bryant struggled with his shot, Andrew Bynum delivered for Los Angeles in a win at Dallas, collecting 19 points and 14 rebounds. Bryant made 4 of 15 shots and finished with 15 points. Pau Gasol had 24 points for the Lakers. (AP)

ROCKETS 93, 76ERS 87 Visiting Philadelphia was held without a 3-pointer for the first time this season, missing all nine attempts in losing its fifth straight. Luis Scola had 19 points and 10 rebounds for Houston. Nikola Vucevic scored a career-high 18 points for the Sixers. (AP)

THUNDER 119, CELTICS 104 Russell Westbrook scored 31 points and Kevin Durant added 28 as Oklahoma City posted its 11th consecutive win at home.

Kevin Garnett’s return after a two-game absence for personal reasons was not enough to lift the Celtics. Paul Pierce and Garnett scored 23 points apiece to lead Boston, which lost its fifth straight. (AP)

TIMBERWOLVES 100, JAZZ 98 Luke Ridnour hit a floater in the lane at the buzzer, capping host Minnesota’s comeback from 18 points down in the fourth quarter. J.J. Barea finished with 22 points for the Timberwolves. (AP)

BULLS 110, BUCKS 91 Carlos Boozer made 9 of 12 shots, finishing with 20 points as Chicago prevailed at home.

Joakim Noah had 13 points, 13 rebounds and 10 assists for the Bulls. (AP)

PACERS 102, BOBCATS 88 Tyler Hansbrough had a season-high 22 points and 9 rebounds as Indiana beat host Charlotte for the ninth straight time. (AP)

IN OTHER GAMES Sacramento beat the host Washington Wizards, 115-107, to end a six-game losing streak as Tyreke Evans scored 22 points — 20 in the first half. ... The New Orleans Hornets held the Cleveland rookie Kyrie Irving to 6 points, tying his season low, and earned an 89-84 victory on the road. ... Host Toronto ended a three-game losing streak, beating Detroit, 103-93, behind 23 points from DeMar DeRozan. (AP)

NETS LOSE WILLIAMS Nets forward Shawne Williams had surgery to repair a fracture and remove two small bone fragments in his left foot. He will miss the rest of the season. Williams averaged 4.5 points in 25 games. (AP)
839 2012-02-23 State environmental officials are reviewing proposed regulations to govern natural gas drilling to exploit the Marcellus Shale, a rich natural gas field that runs through several states.

More legal challenges against Dryden and other local governments are anticipated from a gas industry that argues it needs consistent rules and predictability to invest in the state.

Landowners who have already leased their land for drilling and are counting on the income from royalties on gas sales are also fighting back.

A landowner is suing the Town of Middlefield, in Otsego County, over a similar local ban passed last year, arguing that only the state can ban hydrofracking.

The landowner, Jennifer K. Huntington, a dairy farmer from Cooperstown, released a statement on Wednesday about the Dryden decision: “The court is sending a message to New York towns that it is acceptable to deny New York landowners the right to market their minerals.”

Gas company officials have said they already face the prospect that New York will issue the toughest drilling regulations in the country, including drilling bans on state land and some watersheds, which limit how much business they can expect.

S. Dennis Holbrook, chief legal officer of Norse Energy, a driller in New York, said that since a drilling area could cover hundreds of acres overlapping several towns, local bans created “a potential checkerboard effect” that would bring chaos to drilling operations.

“This is a cause for stepping back and asking whether the state will allow you to drill,” he said of the court decision. “Obviously, New York has to prove that it intends to be open for business. This isn’t going to do anything to foster that image.”

Lawyers who follow drilling-related litigation said that while the Dryden ruling applied only to New York, it was among the first in the nation to uphold a local drilling ban.

“It certainly sends a message to other states that there’s nothing radical about saying that local governments have the authority to determine what land uses are harmful,” said Jordan Yeager, an environmental lawyer who represents municipalities and community groups in Pennsylvania, where hydrofracking of the Marcellus Shale is taking place.

Officials with New York’s Environmental Conservation Department, in their plan’s environmental impact statement, say that in regulating oil and gas development, state mining law supersedes local laws except for jurisdiction over local roads and the right to collect real property taxes. (The judge in the Dryden case said the state mining law did not pre-empt a locality’s right to ban drilling, “but only regulations dealing with operations” — that is, how the drilling is done.)

But the state’s proposed plan also calls for the department to look into cases where a company’s drilling plans clash with local land use laws and polices, and to consider any “adverse environmental impacts” on the local community before issuing a drilling permit.

Department officials released a statement: “If high-volume hydraulic fracturing moves forward, we will see where the courts are when we begin to review permit applications.”

Thomas S. West, an Albany lawyer representing Anschutz, said the company had not decided yet whether to appeal but added, “We are confident that either the Dryden case or the Middlefield case will end up in the appellate courts.”

In Dryden, a town of 14,000 people, the decision means more than validation of local government rights. Dave Makar, a former member of the Town Board who voted for the hydrofracking ban, said residents saw the technique as a threat to both their water and quality of life. “People move to the country for a way of life,” he said, “and the town respected that.”
840 2012-02-23 To arrive at those two propositions, the justices worked through any number of hypothetical questions and worried about the collateral damages to free speech values that a ruling upholding the law might generate.

Justice Stephen G. Breyer said it was all right to lie, for instance, when asked, “Are there Jews hiding in the cellar?”

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. suggested that it was acceptable to punish a false statement that “your child has just been run over by a bus.”

Justice Sonia Sotomayor asked about false statements made while dating. Justice Elena Kagan asked about lies concerning extramarital affairs.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. asked whether Congress could make it a crime to lie about having a high school diploma. Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. responded that some states had indeed enacted laws concerning diplomas from public universities, and he indicated that they would be constitutional if they concerned calculated lies about verifiable facts that led to real harm.

Mr. Verrilli listed several laws that punish those kinds of falsehoods, including ones prohibiting false statements to federal officials and banning the impersonation of federal officers, as well as perjury.

Similarly, he said, the Stolen Valor Act punishes only knowing falsehoods that result in “the misappropriation of the government-conferred honor and esteem,” which he called “a real harm and a significant harm.”

The hardest hypothetical question for the justices seemed to concern state laws that make it a crime for politicians to lie in some settings. Mr. Verrilli said such laws might run afoul of the First Amendment because of their potential to chill truthful speech for fear of prosecution.

Justice Kagan asked a lawyer for Mr. Alvarez, Jonathan D. Libby, whether the Stolen Valor Act posed the same problem. “What truthful speech will this statute chill?” she asked.

Mr. Libby’s response seemed to surprise Justice Kagan. “It’s not that it may necessarily chill any truthful speech,” he said. “We certainly concede that one typically knows whether or not one has won a medal or not.”

Justice Kagan considered what she had just heard. “So, boy, I mean, that’s a big concession, Mr. Libby,” she said.

Mr. Libby also acknowledged that the government may punish false speech that is intended to obtain something of value. Chief Justice Roberts asked whether Mr. Alvarez, who was politically active, benefited from his lie. Mr. Libby said that was possible.

The chief justice said this, too, was “an awfully big concession.”

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy seemed to summarize the court’s conflicting impulses in the case. On the one hand, he said, the government should not establish “a Ministry of Truth.” On the other, he said of lies like Mr. Alvarez’s, “I have to acknowledge that this does diminish the medal in many respects.”

The New York Times Company and other news organizations filed a brief supporting Mr. Alvarez in the case, United States v. Alvarez, No. 11-210. The brief argued that most false statements are better addressed by exposing them in the marketplace of ideas than by punishing them as crimes.

There was universal agreement on one point at Wednesday’s argument. No one spoke up for Mr. Alvarez, including his lawyer.

“Certainly, people are entitled to be upset by these false claims,” Mr. Libby said. “I mean, I’m personally upset by these false claims.”
841 2012-02-23 A group of students at the University of California, Davis, who were pepper-sprayed at close range by the police during a Nov. 18 protest aligned with Occupy Wall Street sued the university in federal court in Sacramento on Wednesday. The American Civil Liberties Union filed the suit on behalf of 17 students and two recent graduates, asserting that the university police violated their constitutional rights. “Our goal in this case is to make sure nothing like this ever happens again,” said Michael Risher, an A.C.L.U. lawyer.
842 2012-02-23 Re “A Better Way to Buy Politicians,” by Lindsay Mark Lewis (Op-Ed, Feb. 17):

Legalizing bribery cannot be the answer.

Mr. Lewis argues that we should repeal the McCain-Feingold law and allow wealthy individual and corporate interests to give unlimited donations to political parties. I think he’s wrong.

While the Supreme Court’s lawless Citizens United decision created an entirely new road map for corruption by allowing wealthy individual and corporate interests to dominate our elections through the use of so-called super PACs, reviving the old soft money contributions to parties would only make matters worse.

Political memories are short — the corrupt era of soft money was directly responsible for the enactment of some of the worst policies in generations: job-killing trade agreements heavily promoted by multinational corporate interests; tax cuts that disproportionately benefited the 1 percent while adding trillions to our long-term debt; and reckless Wall Street-promoted financial deregulation that paved the way for the shenanigans that set off the worst recession since the Great Depression.

We must take government off the auction block and put it back in the hands of the citizens, where a true democracy belongs. At a minimum, that means overturning the Citizens United decision and retaining the McCain-Feingold safeguards.

The writer is executive director of Progressives United, founded by former Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin.
843 2012-02-23 “Everyone oohed and aahed,” Ms. Hoffman recalled. Then one of the guests, a colleague of Mr. Hoffman’s, uttered the words “Bet you don’t have ... ” and described a Metrokane pepper mill he liked.

They didn’t have it, so he later gave it to them, and “bet you don’t have” became a rallying cry for a legion of enablers, friends and family members who would egg the Hoffmans on.

Ms. Hoffman said she didn’t think the family consciously went out to look for mills. “I’m not sure how we got from 6 to 600,” she said, “but I do remember when we hit 300, and we thought that was crazy.”

Crazier still, Mr. Hoffman is the only member of the family who actually likes pepper. “The rest of us didn’t get that gene,” said their daughter, Zoë.

For a mill to make it into the Hoffmans’ collection, it must meet several criteria: it has to be one they don’t already own, it needs to have a grinding mechanism and it should be attractive, Ms. Hoffman said.

“Our objective was never to have the most pepper mills,” she said. “It becomes more about buying an art piece than a functioning piece.”

And if a model comes in different colors and sizes, Mr. Hoffman said, the couple force themselves to choose just one. “Where do you stop with the plexiglass versions? You can get this mill in 145 different shapes, sizes, looks, colors,” he said, holding up a basic acrylic style.

Perusing the collection, which is on glass shelves mounted on a wall in the couple’s kitchen and on a stand-alone glass shelving unit in the dining room, you get a clear picture that the mills represent a family history. By Ms. Hoffman’s calculations, she and her husband have moved 21 times in their years together, to places as varied as Hong Kong, the Bahamas and Las Colinas, Tex.; they have lived here with their two children — Zoë, 18, and Zack, 20 — for about six years.

“It is something that definitely defines us,” said Zoë, who is a freshman at Hofstra University. “I don’t know if we travel for the sake of traveling, or if we go on family vacations to find pepper mills.”

“It’s a great way to remember a place,” she added. “A picture only lasts so long, but a pepper mill tells a story. And they all have stories.”

Her father held up a sleek silver model. “This one is from when we opened the helicopter lounge on the roof of the Peninsula in Hong Kong,” he said. “Everything had to have an aerodynamic shape.”

Moving on to another, he said: “We bought this one in the Bahamas, because it has blue glass that is just like the color of the sea. We thought it was a good representation of our time there.”

He pointed out pieces from Cyprus, Switzerland and the Napa Valley, and designs from Alessi, Joseph Joseph, Bodum, Dansk and Peugeot. The smallest, he said, is a 1.75-inch ebony mill by Asprey; the largest, a four-foot-tall pine mill from Switzerland.

“For a lot of my life, I just wanted to be taller than that mill,” Zoë said.

No one in the family can remember which one was the least expensive, but the priciest is made from an elk horn, with pewter accents, and cost about $550. The oldest dates to 1876. There’s one that looks like a spaceship, another that is a hamburger made of various woods. There’s a lipstick, a Chanelesque bottle, a bowling pin, a Rubik’s cube, a potted plant. Pick a motif, and there’s a mill to match.

There is also the proverbial “one that got away,” Mr. Hoffman said. Or rather, the 79.

“There was a complete collection of the Dansk originals on 1stdibs,” he said. “It was a 20-foot wall hanging, with pins holding in all the mills, and cost $29,000.”

“But where would we put it?” Ms. Hoffman asked.
844 2012-02-23 Credit: John Burcham for The New York Times
845 2012-02-23 Russia, Mr. Okulov said, might cease issuing permits for European airlines to fly over Siberia on routes from Europe to Asia. A threat to impose levies on European airlines when they fly over other countries’ airspace was also in the joint statement.

The Obama administration supports global rules on greenhouse gas emissions by airplanes on international flights but opposes the European measure because of possible violations of existing aviation treaties and because it could delay work on a more sweeping worldwide agreement in the United Nations.

Countries that adopted the statement said they might pass national laws prohibiting their airlines from complying with the European law, an approach so far favored by China. The declaration also suggested that nations might review so-called open skies agreements on landing rights and market access.

The statement said a branch of the United Nations, the International Civil Aviation Organization, and not the European Union, should regulate airplane emissions on international flights.

But European proponents of the rule say that group has stalled for years, caught up in the unwieldy diplomacy of global-warming matters. They also play down the cost. The rule requires airlines to pay 15 percent of the cost of compensating for the carbon dioxide emitted during any flight that lands in or takes off from Europe. The other 85 percent would be waived.

Carriers like American Airlines and China Southern are furious because they could face big bills as the number of permits that they need to buy rises.

“We strongly support the outcome of the Moscow meeting where governments voiced their united opposition to the E.U.’s unilateral tax, even spelling out the concrete steps they can take to overturn this scheme,” American Airlines said in a statement on Wednesday.

European Union authorities insisted that they would stand firm on the legislation and challenged opponents, as they have before, to come up with an alternative that would help curb greenhouse gas emissions by airlines.

The European Union would revise or withdraw that law only if a global system were put in place to curb emissions from aviation, said Isaac Valero-Ladrón, a spokesman for the European Commission in Brussels.

The countries that adopted the Moscow declaration are seeking “suspension of the only functioning system that exists to address aviation carbon emissions,” and Europeans are still waiting for “concrete, constructive alternatives for a global agreement,” Mr. Valero-Ladrón said at a news conference in Brussels.

If a trade war breaks out, he said, European officials would need to examine any measures that countries might eventually take against Europe’s airlines and industries before contemplating countermeasures.

As soon as “any country decides to introduce or enforce discriminatory measures that harm E.U. companies, well, in that case the commission will immediately assess the situation and might take appropriate actions provided for under E.U. legislation and international legislation,” Mr. Valero-Ladrón said.

If airlines do not comply with the European rule because they are prohibited from doing so by national legislation, he said, they may eventually be barred from European Union airports.
846 2012-02-23 Bohemian Wrist Tangles Become Known As ‘Kanye Bracelets’
847 2012-02-23 “The Technologists” in Matthew Pearl’s fourth novel are some of the first students to graduate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. With only this much information readers of Mr. Pearl’s look-alike “Dante Club,” “Poe Shadow” and “Last Dickens” can extrapolate. The setting will be collegiate Cambridge and Boston. The time frame will be near that of the Civil War. Snobs from Harvard will serve as sneering, bad guys. The action will get hot and heavy. And a lot of exclamation points will signal that this is an exciting story!!!

But the M.I.T. angle suggests that this book will have more novelty than the author’s two “Dante Club” clones. He has given the formula a new twist by focusing on scientists and on the resistance that they meet. He has also devised a plot that hinges on fictitious acts of scientific sabotage.

“The Technologists” begins with a naval disaster in Boston Harbor. Ships’ compasses have suddenly malfunctioned. Vessels have collided. “To the lifeboats!” exclaims the captain of one sinking ship, setting the frenetic tone very early.

Mr. Pearl then cuts cinematically to a man under water. But he is not a victim of the harbor catastrophe; he is Marcus, a hero from Newburyport who is out for a swim. Marcus was a Civil War soldier and prisoner, as well as a machinist, before being accepted as a charity student at “Tech,” as the book calls the new institute. Should Marcus do anything astonishingly brave in “The Technologists,” he will be striking a blow for intellect, progress, equal opportunity and the plight of any underdog, anywhere.

It takes a metric ton of exposition for Mr. Pearl to introduce his lineup of Tech students and Harvard swells, some of whom bear the names of real people. (Once again he incorporates prodigious historical research.) The book must also explain how M.I.T. began in Back Bay Boston, not in Cambridge, and how besieged it was in its early days. M.I.T. officials fear that the explosion in the harbor will redound badly on Tech and make it “a scapegoat for any panic about science.”

So it falls to the plucky, oddly homework-free students to protect Boston’s populace. At first they do so by conducting laboratory experiments. Although the book does not specify, they seem the sort of academics who might pronounce “laboratory” with the emphasis on the second syllable.
848 2012-02-23 “I loved it,” Laurie Anderson said. “And it even had a happy ending.”

Loudon Wainwright III, the father of the man of the hour, said: “Fear of failing, fear of aging, fear of love, fear of everything. This opera basically has it all.”

Perhaps. But it didn’t have a fear of news photographers. Ms. Abramovic, the performance artist, surprised two of them by asking to see the images they had taken of her. “I’ve never worn blue before so I have to see how I look,” she told them.

Rufus Wainwright, in a black Vivienne Westwood dinner jacket and rhinestone-appliquéd trousers with matching black toreador hat, didn’t seem afraid of anything. But then again, “Prima Donna,” which he wrote in French, had already been removed from the schedule of the Metropolitan Opera when he refused to translate it into English. Then it was dismissed in 2009 by critics out for blood at its premiere in Manchester, England.

“Obviously, I don’t fear failure or I wouldn’t be doing the things I do,” he said.

One thing he does worry about from time to time? The outfits that Jorn Weisbrodt, his significant other, wears for big occasions. Before Sunday’s opening, Mr. Wainwright looked over the plain black suit on Mr. Weisbrodt, the artistic director of the Luminato arts festival in Toronto, and felt compelled to accessorize it with a huge rhinestone tarantula brooch. It was sitting under his chin with glittering malevolence.

“For an event like this when Rufus is nervous, I just shut up and obey,” Mr. Weisbrodt said. The two are engaged to be married this summer. “In other relationships, I was anxious before walking in the door at the end of the day,” he said. “But with Rufus, I love him so much I only feel happy with anticipation.”

Even when his beloved decides he needs a tarantula crawling up his suit.

“I’m the web and he’s the spider,” Mr. Wainwright said later.

As long as nobody’s the fly or the prima donna.
849 2012-02-23 Credit: Deidre Schoo for The New York Times
850 2012-02-23 Buying spectrum allows wireless carriers to build their networks and handle more customer traffic. Verizon reached an agreement in December to buy wireless spectrum from the cable companies for $3.6 billion. The carrier also made a separate agreement that would allow the cable companies to market Verizon services, and vice versa.

These agreements had already raised concerns among some politicians, who noted that Verizon and Comcast, in particular, would essentially be on the same team.

“These joint-marketing agreements will turn these rival companies into partners, rather than competitors,” Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, wrote in a letter to the commission this month. “I fear this will ultimately mean less competition, less choice, and higher prices for consumers.”

In some ways Verizon and the cable companies have agreed to stay out of each other’s businesses, and the spectrum transfer does not raise the same antitrust concerns as the proposed merger between AT&T and T-Mobile, said Chetan Sharma, an independent telecom analyst. He said that the transfer would allow the wireless spectrum to be put in the hands of someone who needs it most: a cellphone carrier.

The cable companies bought the spectrum at an F.C.C. auction in 2006 with plans to possibly start a wireless business, but then never used it, said Mark A. Winther, a telecommunications analyst at IDC, a research firm. He said the wireless business was a bad fit for cable companies, which sell services like television and high-speed Internet to entire households, whereas mobile services are sold to individuals.

In its filing, T-Mobile warns that the spectrum transfer would limit the ability for competitors to build so-called fourth-generation LTE networks. But if the transfer were blocked, it is unclear whether T-Mobile would even be able to buy and use the spectrum. T-Mobile USA has not formally announced plans for LTE networks, and Deutsche Telekom, which owns T-Mobile USA, has shown a lack of interest in investing in the troubled carrier, Mr. Winther said.

In light of T-Mobile USA’s uncertain future, the carrier’s move against Verizon and the cable companies is an odd one, Mr. Winther said.

“It almost feels like, because they couldn’t join up with AT&T, they’re not going to let Verizon solve a spectrum problem,” he said. “It’s a weird position.”

But Mr. Sharma said T-Mobile’s petition may simply be a competitive move to keep Verizon, the stronger player in wireless, from becoming even stronger.

“They want to keep their options open if they do go down the path of LTE,” he said.
851 2012-02-23 It is unsettling to think that for today’s high school students, the civil rights movement is as dated a historical moment as the sinking of the Titanic was for their parents. This makes a work of narrative nonfiction like “To the Mountaintop: My Journey Through the Civil Rights Movement” all the more crucial in helping make this ancient history palpably real. Especially when the issues involved remain so relevant today.

“To the Mountaintop” is the latest in a continuing collaboration between Roaring Brook Press and The New York Times. That partnership is very much in evidence in the book, in which each chapter is preceded by a visual reproduction of archival New York Times pages, with the text of the relevant articles reproduced in full in a kind of appendix at the back. Tellingly, the introduction begins with the front-page headline heralding the election of Barack Obama, whose inauguration the author describes attending.

And that author, Charlayne Hunter-Gault, is an excellent guide to the momentous changes decades earlier that led up to Obama’s election. The first black woman writer at The New Yorker and a former reporter for The Times, for “The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour” on PBS and for National Public Radio, Hunter-Gault was also one of the first students to integrate the all-white University of Georgia in 1961, an occasion likewise documented on the front page of The Times.

Reminding herself that she was one of many young African-Americans who demonstrated in the South, Hunter-Gault ignored the jeers of white demonstrators as she entered the administrative offices to register. And when she heard the hateful epithets from the crowd, she found herself looking around for the one they might be aimed at, “since I knew it wasn’t me,” she writes. “I knew who I was. I was a queen.”

As a child growing up in fiercely segregated Atlanta, Hunter-Gault bought pig-ear sandwiches and fried pork skins from a food stand at her school while white children enjoyed meals in their own schools’ cafeterias. The effects of segregation defined daily existence for Hunter-Gault, as it also did for several generations of black Americans in the South, a point highlighted by the book’s extensive use of archival photographs along with those newspaper clippings.

But the story told here is largely personal, and Hunter-Gault’s experience elevates the book from the informational to the inspirational. “To the Mountaintop”  is decidedly more historical memoir than straight history.

Hunter-Gault’s accessible first-person narrative makes the events covered in the book (in the years 1959-65) engaging and moving. A current photograph of the author — who is clearly far from being an old lady — and her dynamic prose will help readers realize that the great questions she confronted, though they date back to a particular moment in history, are very much alive in 2012.
852 2012-02-23 Google reacted sharply to the move by Microsoft, suggesting that its archrival, which paid more than $2 billion in antitrust fines in Europe over the past decade, should bear much of the blame for the onset of the patent wars.

“We haven’t seen Microsoft’s complaint, but it’s consistent with the way they use the regulatory process to attack competitors,” said Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels. “It’s particularly ironic, given their track record in this area and collaboration with patent trolls,” he said, using a derisory term for rivals or companies that amass patents for the purpose of collecting fees.

Experts said the move showed there would be no easing of tensions among the top rivals in the technology industry anytime soon.

“This patent war will continue to rage,” said Michael A. Carrier, a professor at Rutgers Law School in New Jersey who specializes in antitrust law.

“If the parties cannot agree, it will be left to the competition-law agencies to grapple with the difficult issues of how patents are priced,” said Mr. Carrier, who is the recipient of a Google Research Award but who does not consult for any of the companies involved.

Mr. Carrier said that a single smartphone was built using hundreds of patents, and that the owner of any single one of those patents could hold up the entire industry, helping fuel a vicious cycle in which technology companies were being “forced to spend money to build an army of patents” to fend off litigation.

A prominent commentator on the issue, Florian Mueller, who also advises companies including Microsoft on patent issues, said that Google and Motorola would probably need to defend themselves vigorously to avoid being sent formal charges in this case.

“Google should think hard about whether it wants to get a 100- or 150-page statement of objections at some point relating to standard-essential patents,” said Mr. Mueller, referring to the document E.U. antitrust regulators often send to companies under formal investigation.

Mr. Mueller said that Motorola Mobility had shown “aggressive litigation and enforcement activities in Germany” and that if “every owner of standard-essential patents behaved like Motorola, this industry would be in chaos, and grind to a halt.”

The U.S. and European authorities have cleared the Google-Motorola deal, but Google still is waiting on approvals from China and other parts of the world.

In his blog post, Mr. Heiner said Motorola was unfairly trying to block Microsoft and other companies from using technology that devices needed for functions like connecting wirelessly to the Internet and playing video. Mr. Heiner complained that Motorola had refused to make patents available at “anything remotely close to a reasonable price” and had demanded that Microsoft remove Internet and video functions, or take products off the market.

“Motorola is on a path to use standard essential patents to kill video on the Web, and Google as its new owner doesn’t seem to be willing to change course,” Mr. Heiner wrote.

Apple has filed a similar complaint to regulators over Motorola’s licensing terms, and Joaquín Almunia, the E.U. competition commissioner, has already warned that he is treating any possible patent abuses by technology companies, including Google, as a matter of priority.

This month, after giving a green light to the tie-up between Google and Motorola, Mr. Almunia emphasized that he could take measures to address “actions by Motorola in the past” and “future action by Google” in the area of intellectual property.

Samsung, which makes smartphones and tablets that run on the Android operating system by Google, already is under formal investigation by Mr. Almunia for the way it has used standard essential patents and sought injunctions against its competitors in national courts.

Mr. Mueller suggested that Google, in order to overcome the latest challenge from Microsoft, might need to pledge not to seek bans on products when royalty disputes arise as a number of other prominent technology companies, including Apple, Microsoft and Cisco had already done.

Google should consider “a public declaration of how they are going to use standard-essential patents,” Mr. Mueller said.

Lawyers warned that regulators now risked becoming overwhelmed by the explosion of patent complaints and needed to take timely decisions clarifying the rules of the road for the sector.

“The competition authorities are going have to pick their battles carefully to maximize resources,” said Rachel Bickler, a lawyer at the Brussels office of Nabarro. The authorities needed to ensure “that antitrust investigations do not become a tool in the battles between commercial giants,” she said.

But Mr. Carrier, at Rutgers, said Mr. Almunia was likely to come under more pressure because his office was regarded as “more receptive than the U.S. to arguments about pricing of patents and competition-law violations for the high royalties charged for patents.” By contrast, U.S. courts were “more likely to allow the patent holder to price the patent at whatever level it wishes,” he said.
853 2012-02-23 SHANGHAI — Apple Inc. defended itself in a local court here Wednesday against allegations that it does not own rights to the iPad trademark in China, a challenge that threatens to prevent the company from selling one of its most popular products in one of its fastest growing markets.

The heated, four-hour session at the Shanghai Pudong New Area People’s Court ended, though, without the local district judge issuing any ruling or giving any public indication of how the case would be resolved.

The session came after a Chinese company called Proview International succeeded in blocking sales of the iPad in several smaller Chinese cities, and getting the authorities in several cities to seize iPads from some retailers.

But Apple stores in Beijing and Shanghai continue to stock and sell the iPad, and are among the busiest Apple stores in the world.

The case pits Apple, the technology Goliath, against a small Chinese computer display maker that has already filed for bankruptcy but seems determined to force Apple to cough up a fortune for the rights to the trademark.

Apple, which is based in Cupertino, Calif., contends that one of its subsidiaries acquired the rights to the iPad trademark from Proview in 2009, for about $55,000.

In a statement released Wednesday, Apple said: “We bought Proview’s worldwide rights to the iPad trademark in 10 different countries several years ago. Proview refuses to honor their agreement with Apple in China and a Hong Kong court has sided with Apple in this matter. Our case is still pending in mainland China.” But Proview claims that Apple did not obtain all the rights, and contends its Shenzhen subsidiary retains the rights in China.
854 2012-02-23 LONDON -- Martin Abbott, chief executive of the London Metal Exchange, has a lot on his plate.     Along with running the world's largest metal futures exchange, Mr. Abbott also is overseeing a bidding process that could lead to the 1 billion ($1....
855 2012-02-24 Disunion follows the Civil War as it unfolded.
856 2012-02-24 Service on parts of the B, D, F and M lines will be suspended overnight starting Monday and ending Friday morning, a continuation of a concentrated approach to repairs and cleanup that has been used in other parts of the subway system....
857 2012-02-24 Video posted on YouTube last week appears to show that the Syrian military has deployed a Russian-made weapons system to fire huge, 240mm high explosive mortars at parts of the city of Homs that slipped from government control last year....
858 2012-02-24 David Morrissey, whose British television credits include the original BBC mini-series version of "State of Play," the Channel 4 adaptation of "Red Riding" and the rejuvenated "Doctor Who," will play a "Walking Dead" character well-known to reader...
859 2012-02-24 The Opera Orchestra of New York's concert performance of Verdi's "Simon Boccanegra" scheduled for March 7 at Avery Fisher Hall because of a "loss of funding."...
860 2012-02-24 This talk of a crackdown on white-collar crime comes after the Securities and Exchange Commission was assailed for failing to rein in Wall Street ahead of the 2008 financial crisis....
861 2012-02-24 PepsiCo and a German dairy company, Theo Muller, will invest $206 million in a new plant to be constructed in Batavia, N.Y., midway between Buffalo and Rochester, according to the governor's office....
862 2012-02-24 Getting the flavor of pesto without having to break out the food processor....
863 2012-02-24 The Blossom chain of vegan restaurants will be joined on March 3 by a bakery....
864 2012-02-24 Apple versus a mathematical law that governs market growth; an interview with Richard Cordray, director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; the "Amish Bernie Madoff" and his community....
865 2012-02-24 One of Evercore Partners's most senior deal makers, Eduardo G. Mestre, will give up his title as the firm's head of investment banking in the United States after being appointed as a director at Comcast....
866 2012-02-24 Checking out "Lagrange," Japanese anime that's available online in the States....
867 2012-02-24 Apple versus a mathematical law that governs market growth; an interview with Richard Cordray, director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; the "Amish Bernie Madoff" and his community.
868 2012-02-24 The University of Minnesota men's hockey team swept Bemidji State last weekend to move up in the rankings. The next challenge: Nebraska Omaha....
869 2012-02-24 All the news from The Times that will hit you in the wallet.
870 2012-02-24 The abrupt return of the culture wars in this election has introduced a volatile new element into the battle for one of the most important electoral swing groups: moderate and independent women voters....
871 2012-02-24 In India, it sometimes seems flailing companies never die....
872 2012-02-24 Is a Premier League All-Star Game similar to this weekend's N.B.A. version worth considering?...
873 2012-02-24 Former Prime Minister Kevin Rudd announced on Friday that he would challenge his successor, Julia Gillard, for leadership of their Labor Party and the country in a ballot set for Monday morning. Mr. Rudd, who was replaced as prime minister by Ms. Gillard in a 2010 party coup, told reporters in Brisbane that he was “sick and tired” of being blamed for failures of her unpopular government and that Ms. Gillard could not defeat the opposition in elections next year.
874 2012-02-24 Two-time Olympic champion Yelena Isinbayeva broke her indoor pole-vault world record at the XL Galan meet in Stockholm, and Dayron Robles won the 60-meter hurdles after Liu Xiang was disqualified for a false start. Isinbayeva cleared 16 feet 5.25 inches on her second attempt, topping her mark of 16-4.75 set in 2009.
875 2012-02-24 The ratings — covering the school years 2007-8, 2008-9 and 2009-10 — were calculated for nearly 18,000 fourth- through eighth-grade teachers of English or math, or both, though some teachers were not rated in all three years. Charter school teachers were not included.

The city has defended the ratings, saying they give administrators a more objective look at teacher performance, so that teachers who do well can be emulated and those who do not get assistance, or if they do not have tenure, can be fired.

In a letter to teachers and principals on Thursday, the schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott, tried to calm their fears.

“The reports gave teachers and principals one useful perspective on how well teachers were doing in their most important job: helping students learn,” he said. “However, these reports were never intended to be public or to be used in isolation.”

“Although we can’t control how reporters use this information,” he added, “we will work hard to make sure parents and the public understand how to interpret the Teacher Data Reports.”

The union had sued to stop the reports’ release, arguing that it would violate teachers’ privacy rights and that the reports were exempt from public-disclosure rules because they were subjective and often inaccurate. A judge rejected the argument, ruling that the union had failed to prove that the city’s decision to release the names was “arbitrary and capricious,” the prerequisite for preventing their release under state disclosure laws, and that the information was of general public interest. The union’s appeals were unsuccessful.

The New York Times, one of a number of media organizations that had requested the records, plans to publish the ratings on its education blog, SchoolBook, and has asked teachers to respond online. On Thursday, several posters on SchoolBook called the reports deeply flawed and criticized the city as well as the news media for making them public.

Marie Kallo, a sixth-grade English and social studies teacher at Intermediate School 234 in Brooklyn, said that even though she had received an above-average rating, she was troubled by a significant error in her report: It said she had taught 120 students in 2007-8 when she had actually taught more than 200.

“That makes me question the accuracy of all the data reports,” Ms. Kallo said, adding that she also did not understand how the ratings were calculated. “How is it fair to be judged on information that is not accurate?”

Karen Fine, a third-grade teacher at Public School 134 in Manhattan who previously taught fifth grade, said she and her colleagues believed that the ratings were an unfair and inaccurate measure of a teacher’s performance because they used an unreliable methodology that had been criticized by many respected researchers and statisticians, and because they did not account for factors that could affect students on the day of testing, like being tired, nervous, or scared.

“For many of us who teach in N.Y.C., this has been our life’s calling,” she said. “We are constantly attacked on so many levels for what ails education in our country when we know that it takes a community to help children learn: principals, administrators, parents, lawmakers, and yes, teachers. The responsibility cannot lie solely on us.”
876 2012-02-24 “I don’t know that there’s a hard and fast rule about committee workloads,” Mr. Madigan’s spokesman, Steve Brown, said. “If you only meet once, I’m not sure why that would be viewed as wrong. Committees meet as bills are introduced and assigned.”

Records show that five House committees met three times or fewer last year: adoption reform, headed by Representative Sara Feigenholtz; international trade and commerce, headed by Representative Jack Franks; biotechnology, overseen by Representative Edward Acevedo; armed forces and military affairs, led by Representative Eddie Lee Jackson; and tourism and conventions, overseen by Representative Kenneth Dunkin. Ms. Feigenholtz, Mr. Franks and Mr. Dunkin also headed second committees with heavier workloads. They were not paid two stipends.

In 2009 and 2010, more than 20 committees met three times or fewer. The busiest committee in 2011, revenue and finance, headed by Representative John Bradley, met 25 times.

Mr. Dunkin said his tourism committee did not require many meetings last year, but his appropriation-higher education committee demanded considerable time.

“I have no interest in taking advantage of the system,” he said. “All of us down here, we’re not hustling the system. I’ve spent a ton of hours on my appropriations committee. I disagree that tourism only met one time. We met three or four times. With tourism, there just aren’t that many bills. That’s just the way it is.”

In addition to international trade and commerce, Mr. Franks last year headed the panel that deals with state government administration, one of the House’s more active committees. He said committee work was part of the job, and the stipends for serving as committee officials allowed Mr. Madigan to steer extra pay toward lawmakers.

“I think it’s a way to get more money to members of the General Assembly without having to increase salaries,” Mr. Franks said. “That’s what it’s designed to do. If we’re honest with taxpayers, the more honest thing would be to vote to raise salaries.”

In 2009 and 2010, the biotech committee, led then by Representative Maria Antonia Berrios, met a total of four times. She was not heading other committees, records show. Computer technology, the only committee for Representative Careen Gordon, who has since retired, met twice in 2010, as did Representative Esther Golar’s disability services committee, the only panel she headed that year, according to the records.

House Republicans earn extra pay as well. The minority spokesman’s position on each committee is held by a Republican. Two committees, pension investments and veterans affairs, are led by Republicans.

Mr. Madigan creates committees based in part on members’ personal interests. That was how the railroads industry committee, headed by Representative Elaine Nekritz, started.

“I was in a class of 35 people,” said Ms. Nekritz, who was elected in 2002. “So by the time the speaker went through the seniority system, there wasn’t really one left. He asked me if there was a subject area I was interested in, and I told him railroads. Then, later, I took over judiciary.”

The number of House committees rose to 56 in 2009, dropped to 53 in 2010 and fell to 46 last year.

In 29 states, lawmakers do not earn extra pay for committee work. Ten states pay committee leaders extra, ranging from an $18 per diem in Kentucky to $34,000 for certain committee posts in New York, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Representative Will Davis oversees the appropriations-elementary and secondary education committee, which met 13 times last year, and the less active health and healthcare disparities panel, which met five times. He asked Mr. Madigan to form the health committee to address growing concern over health care delivery.

“He allows members the opportunity to create their own committees,” Mr. Davis said. “My committee doesn’t see a lot of bills, but we’ve had many subject-matter hearings, and I’ve asked for certain bills to be assigned to it.”

Some lawmakers say the number of committees can complicate their schedules. A member may be assigned to seven or more with overlapping meeting times.

“I couldn’t even call my own bills today because too many members were running to other committees,” Mr. Franks said of his government administration committee meeting. “We could certainly cut down the number of committees.”
877 2012-02-24 That sounds like a wonderfully sensible approach — except that it’s utter fantasy. In late 2008 and early 2009, when G.M. and Chrysler had exhausted their liquidity, every scrap of private capital had fled to the sidelines.

I know this because the administration’s auto task force, for which I was the lead adviser, spoke diligently to all conceivable providers of funds, and not one had the slightest interest in financing those companies on any terms. If Mr. Romney disagrees, he should come forward with specific names of willing investors in place of empty rhetoric. I predict that he won’t be able to, because there aren’t any.

Without government financing — initiated by President George W. Bush in December 2008 — the two companies would not have been able to pursue Chapter 11 reorganization. Instead they would have been forced to cease production, close their doors and lay off virtually all workers once their coffers ran dry.

Those shutdowns would have reverberated through the entire auto sector, causing innumerable suppliers almost immediately to stop operating too.

Despite the relative health of its balance sheet, even Ford would have been forced to close temporarily, because critical parts would have become unavailable. And service providers — trucking companies, restaurants and more — would have been severely affected.

More than a million jobs would have been lost, at least for a time. Michigan and the entire industrial Midwest would have been devastated.

I consider myself an ardent capitalist, and well recognize the risks of government intervention, particularly the “moral hazard” of rewarding failure and the scary prospect of politics’ entering private sector decision-making.

But when markets fail, as they did for both autos and banks in 2008, government should have the ability — in fact, the obligation — to step in.

Interestingly, Mr. Romney’s current principal Republican opponent, Rick Santorum, has opposed not only the auto rescue but also the help given to the banks, which Mr. Romney supported.

Yet Mr. Romney has become the lightning rod on autos because of the full-throated roar with which he has delivered his views, including an Op-Ed essay in The New York Times in November 2008 and another essay in The Detroit News 10 days ago.

Among Mr. Romney’s grievances — and to be fair, those of other opponents of the auto rescue — is that the auto task force trampled on bankruptcy precedents and even the law to effect President Obama’s plan of “shared sacrifice” by all stakeholders.

What he conveniently ignores is that the president’s plan was litigated throughout the federal court system — all the way to the Supreme Court, in the case of Chrysler — without so much as a nod to the opponents from a single judge.

In retrospect, I recognize the emotions surrounding the decision to give members of the United Auto Workers company stock in exchange for resolving their health care claims. But the courts were emphatic that what we did was legal, because we remained true to a core principle of bankruptcy reorganization: every stakeholder received more from our plan than if the companies had been left to go bankrupt on their own.

Now, less than three years later, G.M. and Chrysler have markedly exceeded our expectations. Just a few days ago, G.M. reported an annual profit of $7.6 billion, and Chrysler is in the black as well. Both companies have increased their sales sharply, in part by making appealing new models.

And they are hiring new workers for the first time in many years. Michigan’s unemployment rate has dropped far faster than the national average, though it is still painfully high.

All of this was accomplished at relatively low cost; taxpayers will receive back the vast preponderance of the $82 billion that was invested.

“I’d do it again,” Mr. Bush said of the rescue in a recent speech. “Sometimes circumstances get in the way of philosophy.” Good thing he and Mr. Obama didn’t take Mr. Romney’s advice.
878 2012-02-24 PRESIDENT Obama recently called the United States the “Saudi Arabia of natural gas” and asserted that it was time for our oil-dominated transportation fuel market to open the door to natural gas. He’s right. It would be cheaper for consumers and reduce the strategic importance of oil. But first we need cars that can run on methanol, a high-octane fuel made from converted natural gas.

We’re producing more natural gas these days than we can use, thanks to new techniques to extract gas from shale. A recent report from the M.I.T. Energy Initiative, “The Future of Natural Gas,” called methanol “the liquid fuel that is most efficiently and inexpensively produced from natural gas.” China has already taken notice. Automakers there, like Chery, Geely and Shanghai Maple, have all introduced vehicles capable of running on methanol. Indeed, methanol is so much less costly per mile than gasoline that illegal fuel blending is rampant in China.

Unfortunately, most cars sold in the United States offer consumers no choice beyond gasoline. The so-called flex fuel vehicles that are now on the market are warranted to operate only on gasoline and ethanol. If Congress were to enact an open fuel standard that required new cars to be warranted to run on all-alcohol fuels, including methanol, natural gas could compete with oil in the liquid fuels market. Producing these cars would cost about $100 more. And these fuels could be distributed through the current refueling infrastructure with only slight retrofits.

The current global spot price for methanol made from natural gas is $1.13 per gallon, without any subsidy. Methanol produces about half the energy per gallon as gasoline, so you need to burn twice as much to go just as far. But it is still cheaper than gas. It would cost approximately $3 today, including taxes, distribution and retail markup, to travel the same distance on methanol as on a gallon of gasoline, according to calculations by the Methanol Institute, a cost that is well below the current national average for gasoline. If the economics of natural gas change, a flex fuel vehicle could still run on methanol made from coal, biomass and possibly recycled carbon dioxide, if that technology proves economical.

Natural gas can also play other roles in the transportation sector. It can be used to generate electricity to charge the plug-in hybrids and electric vehicles that have entered the market. And if natural gas prices were to spike, there is always coal, nuclear or renewable power to rely upon for power generation. (Today, only 1 percent of the electricity in the United States is generated from oil.) Still, mass-market penetration of plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles will take some time, because of the high cost of automotive batteries.

Another way to run cars on natural gas is by using compressed natural gas, or C.N.G. These vehicles require a dedicated fuel line and a large gas canister in the trunk. However, the cost of converting a light-duty vehicle to C.N.G. is over $10,000. Such an upfront cost would be reasonable in high mileage users (over 35,000 miles per year) like taxis, buses and garbage trucks, but is too high for a typical car owner, and the return on investment would take many years, even with current low natural gas prices.
879 2012-02-24 The consumer products maker Procter & Gamble said on Thursday it would eliminate 5,700 jobs over the next year and a half as part of a cost-cutting plan.

Procter & Gamble said it hoped to save $10 billion by the end of the fiscal year ending in June 2016.

The company, which is the largest of its kind, has experienced slowing sales in the United States as consumers continue to spend cautiously. The company also has faced high costs for fuel, packaging and other commodities.

In addition, like other American companies that do business in foreign markets, Procter & Gamble is not getting the same benefits from foreign currency exchanges that it enjoyed last year.

The cost-cutting strategy is an attempt to address those problems even as the company keeps up spending on initiatives it considers crucial to growth. Those include marketing new products like the single-unit Tide Pods in North America and expanding Oral B in Latin America.

The job cuts amount to about 10 percent of the company’s nonmanufacturing work force and are expected to be complete by the end of the fiscal year that ends June 2013. The cuts include 1,600 jobs that Procter & Gamble announced earlier this month.
880 2012-02-24 Terry Winters’s new, vigorously painted abstractions are ravishing enough to risk the old pejorative “decorative.” As if to defend against anti-hedonist judgment, Mr. Winters also offers a series of notebook collages combining scientific and quasi-scientific imagery in Matthew Marks’s small exhibition space at 502 West 22nd Street. Mixing diagrams, charts, children’s drawings and microscopic and astronomical representations, and with transparencies layered over opaque pages, they suggest the research program of an addled consumer of popular science magazines.

The collages are interesting, but the paintings are riveting in their gorgeousness. All but 2 of the 11 on display measure a nearly square 80 by 76 inches and most have the title “Tessellation Figures.” Tessellation is a kind of patterning in which the units cover a surface without gaps or overlaps — a checkerboard, for example. Mr. Winters favors diamonds, which in some cases, as in “Tessellation Figures (9),” extend flatly all over the canvas.

Despite the flickering colors and darks and lights, that topography appears inert compared with most of the other paintings, where patterning is warped and layered to complicated, spatially illusory effect. In “Tessellation Figures (1),” mint-green diamonds in a big circle diminish in size toward an open center, creating a tunnel-like structure that sucks your gaze in toward a hazy, blue and green ovoid hovering in luminous, orange space. The effect is psychedelically thrilling; it is like a portal into another universe.
881 2012-02-24 “The euro crisis is forcing governments to restructure how they think about medications,” said Richard Bergström, director general of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations.

Because the prices governments are willing to pay are falling, drug companies are recalibrating their strategies and considering economic factors earlier in the process of developing medicines. They are also reducing the number of new drugs in which they invest research money.

On average, West European countries spend 8 to 12 percent of their gross domestic product on health care — a proportion that has remained stable despite the crisis, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

The pharmaceutical sector, though, is being hit disproportionately hard because cutting prices for pills is a quick way to reduce spending, compared with alternatives like cutting money for hospitals or restructuring health care systems.

In the last year, pharmaceutical sales to pharmacies and hospitals declined 2.2 percent in France, 3.1 percent in Italy and nearly 9 percent in Spain, according to Business Monitor International, a company in London that follows the pharmaceutical industry.

Analysts say that it is difficult to predict how badly profits will be affected in the next fiscal year. Other factors, including expiring patents, mean that each company’s profit will be affected differently.

Still, “the austerity measures themselves are going to affect everyone,” Mr. Bergström said.

And the numbers are not encouraging.

Novartis, the Swiss pharmaceutical giant, posted a 7 percent decline in net income for 2011 despite a 16 percent increase in sales. AstraZeneca, based in Britain, posted full-year revenue for 2011 of $1.34 billion, down 2 percent from 2010. In 2011, net profit for the company’s West European market was down 11 percent from the previous year.

Kaushal Shah, an analyst with Business Monitor International, said the clearest way to see the effects of the euro crisis on pharmaceutical companies was in job cuts. AstraZeneca plans to cut more than 7,000 jobs in Europe, in addition to the 21,600 positions it has eliminated since 2007. Novartis, a largely European company, will cut nearly 2,000 jobs in the United States this year. Pfizer cut 6,000 jobs last May. In times of hardship, pharmaceutical companies usually lay off sales representatives and protect research and development departments, which lead drug creation. In this crisis, even research and development positions face cuts as companies strive to make these departments more efficient so as to reduce costs while maintaining a pipeline of new products.

“2011 is the first year recorded where R.& D. is down in the industry as a whole,” Mr. Bergström said.

As euro zone countries lower the prices they pay for pills, the European market will also feel the effects of cross-referencing by governments, looking to pill prices in other countries to help determine what they will pay.

Portugal, which cross-references by taking an average of the five cheapest prices of a drug in other countries, is one of many nations that do this. Italy, Germany and Spain are among other countries that cross-reference.

Adding to the challenge for companies is the need to show newly cost-conscious governments that their drugs are cost effective.

Germany, Europe’s largest pharmaceutical market, has required drug companies since January 2011 to prove the added benefit of a new medication by producing documentation comparing it with other treatments on the market.

The German government will now pay higher prices only for drugs that clearly demonstrate a unique benefit in relation to other medicines and therapies already available, making Germany the first country in the euro zone to enact such measures as a major part of changes to health care policy. Partly as a result of these changes, the German government reported saving 1.9 billion euros on drugs in 2011, three times the savings in 2010, Business Monitor International said.

Drug companies worry that actions in Germany could hurt sales in other European markets.

“What the industry is seeing now is that process is not so automatic; payers are not always willing to reimburse at a higher rate for a newer, better treatment if there is already a treatment available for patients that costs significantly less,” said Matthew Cabrey, senior director of corporate communications for Shire Pharmaceuticals.

Shire, based in Dublin, is the maker of Adderall, a blockbuster drug for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or A.D.H.D. Five years ago, Shire began studies that compared its drugs with others on the market, analyzing its amphetamine-based A.D.H.D. medications against competing treatments widely prescribed in Europe.

“Financial conditions have highlighted and accelerated the need to demonstrate value for medicines,” Mr. Cabrey said.

He said that while conducting the extra tests had not directly increased Shire’s cost of doing business, it had significantly affected planning. Shire now considers the economics of pharmaceuticals much earlier in the development process. That can lead to certain medicines not being developed if it seems unlikely that the market will recognize their value.
882 2012-02-24 This was the president’s first major effort to tackle an issue that has surfaced in the last few weeks as oil prices have been driven up by tensions in the , where has threatened to retaliate against the West because of sanctions over its .

Mr. Obama seemed keenly aware of the risk posed by oil prices. A previous cycle of price increases played briefly to the benefit of Senator during the 2008 campaign, when his running mate, , revved up crowds with the chant, “drill, baby, drill.”

The president said that the United States is producing more oil now than at any time during the last eight years, with a record number of rigs pumping. The White House, he said, was prepared to open new areas in the Arctic Ocean and the Gulf of Mexico to exploration.

But Mr. Obama warned that no amount of domestic production could offset the broader forces driving up gas prices, chief among them Middle East instability and the ravenous energy appetite of , which he said added 10 million cars in 2010.

“Anybody who tells you we can drill our way out of this problem doesn’t know what they’re talking about, or just isn’t telling you the truth,” he said to whoops from the crowd of nearly 1,500.

Mr. Obama’s remarks, tinged with humor and sarcasm, were bluntly political, on a trip that included fund-raising events in Miami and . But his message was sober: neither he nor anyone else can do much about oil prices, which he said were likely to keep rising.

The White House contends that the public has grown accustomed to these periodic spikes and will him for speaking honestly about the underlying economic realities rather than offering “gimmicky” fixes — something he eschewed in 2008.

Still, with gasoline prices nationally about 12 percent higher than a year ago, Democratic political analysts believe Mr. Obama needs to get ahead of the issue quickly. , for example promised this week to bring gas down to $2.50 a gallon.

“Four dollars per gallon has typically been the tipping point when people go from complacency to exasperation,” said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, who notes that people have begun mentioning gas prices with increasing urgency in his focus groups.

Gas prices did not figure prominently in the Republican debate on Wednesday in , where the candidates trained most of their fire on one another. But Republicans in Congress criticized Mr. Obama for not opening more federal land to exploration, and for not approving the pipeline.

“The president would like everyone to forget that gas prices have doubled over the past three years while he consistently blocked and slowed the production of American-made energy,” a spokesman for House Speaker , Brendan Buck, said in a statement.

Even Mr. Obama, they noted, once referred to his “all-of-the-above” policy as a “hodgepodge.”

Among Mr. Obama’s proposals are opening 75 percent of the nation’s offshore oil and natural gas resources by 2017; fuel-economy and emissions standards for trucks, vans and buses; and an administration effort to prevent bottlenecks in the oil market.

Michael Levi, an energy expert at the , said, “Any effective energy policy is almost inevitably going to be a hodgepodge.” He credited the president with stimulating production, though he said the rejection of Keystone sent a weak signal.

The , the industry’s lobbying group, said Mr. Obama had restricted opportunities to produce more oil by shortening leases and slowing permit approvals.

The president fired back, repeating his demand that Congress end subsidies for the oil and gas industries.

“It’s outrageous,” he said. “Every politician who’s been fighting to keep these subsidies in place should explain to the American people why the oil industry needs more of their money.”

None of Mr. Obama’s proposals were new, and some were aspirational. He said gasoline and diesel produced from algae could replace up to 17 percent of imported oil. But experts say such fuel is a long way from being commercially viable on that scale.

Joking that he once bought a car for $500, Mr. Obama said that because of new fuel-economy standards, new cars will average nearly 55 miles per gallon by the middle of the next decade.

Mr. Obama struck his own inadvertent blow for fuel economy, by flying to on a 757 rather than a 747. The bigger 747, which usually serves as , was in the shop.
883 2012-02-24 The Dow Jones industrial average made another run at 13,000 but did not quite get there.

Stocks recovered from an early loss Thursday and pushed the Dow within four points of the milestone. Investors were encouraged by more good news on jobs, but gains were limited by poor results from retailers.

The Dow finished up 46.02 points at 12,984.69. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index gained 5.80 points to close at 1,363.46. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 23.81 points to 2,956.98.

The Dow has not closed above 13,000 since May 19, 2008, four months before the financial crisis.

Investors were encouraged Thursday after the government reported that the number of people seeking unemployment benefits last week was unchanged. The four-week average was the lowest in four years.

High unemployment has been a problem for retailers, which have been forced to slash prices even though they are paying more to make and ship goods. The burden showed in earnings reports released Thursday.

Kohl’s, the department store chain, sank 6 percent after weak holiday sales led it to miss Wall Street estimates for revenue and earnings. The grocery store operator Safeway plunged more than 7 percent after reporting a 6 percent drop in profit.

Part of the problem is the rising cost of gasoline, which could hurt the economic recovery. The price of gas is rising as tensions mount over Iran’s nuclear program. A gallon of regular sells for $3.61 on average, the highest on record this time of year.
884 2012-02-24 SHANGHAI — A local court has rejected an effort by a Chinese company to stop Apple from selling its popular iPad here amid a trademark dispute over who owns the rights to the iPad name.

The Shanghai Pudong New Area People’s Court released a statement on its Web site Thursday saying that it would not rule because a related trademark court case between the two companies was pending in Guangdong Province, in southern China.

An Apple spokeswoman confirmed the court decision and said the company would continue to challenge the position of the Chinese company, Proview International, which claims to own the trademark rights to the iPad name in mainland China.

“Proview’s injunction request was rejected,” Carolyn Wu, the Apple spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview Thursday. “The court granted Apple’s request to suspend the case.” Apple insists that one of its subsidiaries acquired the rights to the iPad name in China from the Chinese company several years before the tablet computer was released.

But the Proview parent company, a computer display maker based in Taiwan, says its subsidiary in Shenzhen, which is in Guangdong Province, retains the rights to the iPad name in the mainland. Proview is facing bankruptcy and has said it is trying to force Apple to pay some compensation.
885 2012-02-24 The euro zone’s large, core nations, Germany and France, are set to grow in 2012, but only 0.6 percent and 0.4 percent respectively. But pushing the projections down were a predicted contraction of 1.3 percent foreseen for Italy and 1 percent in Spain — two of the euro zone’s big economies, which are also beset by debt troubles.

Of the three small countries that have received international bailouts, Ireland was expected to experience slight growth, while Greece and Portugal were projected to suffer steep contractions.

There was a 0.1 percent drop in employment during the third quarter in both the 27-country European Union and the 17-nation euro zone, with the worst impact felt in the south. “Greece, Portugal and Spain account for 95 percent of the rise in unemployment in the E.U. since late 2010,” the report said. “Additionally, Spain and Greece have seen their youth unemployment rates surge (from already high pre-crisis levels) to close to 50 percent.”

The report is likely to intensify concerns that as countries enact austerity measures to appease the debt markets, they are undermining the economic growth needed to help pull them out of financial distress. The risk of a downward spiral was highlighted by the report, which suggested that, while the debt crisis has abated somewhat since December, politicians should not use that as a reason for complacency.

“If the sovereign-debt crisis were to rebound massively, with a broad surge in risk premia and spillovers across countries, severe credit rationing and a collapse of domestic demand could ensue,” the report said. “Such an outcome would most likely trigger a deep and prolonged recession, not sparing even those countries which have shown more resilience so far.”

That warning sets the stage for a battle next week at a summit meeting of European Union leaders, as Germany is resisting moves to increase the size of a firewall for the euro zone so that Italy and Spain can be protected.

The economies of the Netherlands and Belgium are both expected to contract this year, painting a more complex picture than that of a straight north-south divide. The Dutch and Belgian economies both suffered in the global business downturn. Confidence was hit further in Belgium by worries about the banking sector, following the collapse of Dexia, and in the Netherlands by a decline in home prices.

The only countries projected to grow by more than 2 percent this year — Latvia, Lithuania and Poland — are East European and outside the common currency bloc.

A recovery is “still forecast for the second half of the year but is expected to be more modest and to occur later than forecast in the autumn,” the report said.

Even this could prove optimistic, however, because the findings are premised on an assumption that key decisions are made to tackle the debt crisis and restore confidence.

Mr. Rehn said Thursday that there was “a clear need to further strengthen the euro area financial firewalls,” so that Europe was “fully equipped to overcome the current crisis and return to recovery.” Most policy makers outside Germany are hoping they can gain momentum for bolstering the firewall after the decision Tuesday to grant a second bailout to Greece. The Greek Parliament on Thursday approved a huge bond swap that will write down around €107 billion, or $143 billion, of the country’s privately held debt.

“There are many pieces that have to fall into place for this to be just a mild recession,” said Marco Stringa, the European economist in London for Deutsche Bank. “What is needed is that politicians should continue to deliver at a European level even if things are improving.”

As gloomy as the report Thursday was, some maintained that it could have been a lot worse. Compared with last November, “prospects have worsened and risks remain, but there are signs of stabilization especially in the recent period,” Mr. Rehn said. He added that, with the exception of Greece, risk premiums, on the sovereign bonds of struggling euro zone countries had come down since mid-November — a measure of investor confidence.

Mr. Rehn also argued that there were no signs of a credit crunch after the European Central Bank offered cheap, longer-term loans to the banking sector in December. Many Italian, Spanish and French banks had taken up the offer, the commission report noted.

“The new liquidity measures by the European Central Bank have contributed to the improvement,” Mr. Rehn said.

Separately, a barometer of German business sentiment rose more than expected, raising optimism that the euro zone’s biggest economy is growing again after declining 0.2 percent in the last quarter of 2011. The Ifo business climate indicator, considered a reliable predictor of future economic performance, rose for the fourth month in a row in February. Manufacturers, retailers, wholesalers and builders all reported feeling better about their prospects than in January.

“Today’s Ifo index provides further evidence that the economic contraction at the end of last year was only a brief stopover,” Carsten Brzeski, an economist at ING Bank, wrote in a note to clients. The data mean there is “at least some good news for the euro zone,” he said.
886 2012-02-24 New York City's Education Department has called for investigations into nine high schools for irregularities in the way the schools scored examinations or awarded credits, and has identified hundreds of students in the city who were allowed to gra...
887 2012-02-24 A federal judge has released from prison a stock research analyst accused of insider trading, rejecting an appeal from prosecutors that he posed a danger to the community because of harassing voice messages he had left for government officials.   ...
888 2012-02-24 Once upon a time, New York subway announcements were an unintelligible mishmash of growl and static. They've come a long way. Today, the mellifluous voice of Bernie Wagenblast, a transportation-voice-over specialist, is heard on many platforms, pe...
889 2012-02-24 McCANN--Edith D. The Beth Israel Medical Center community joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Edith D. McCann, beloved mother of our dear friend and devoted colle...
890 2012-02-24 Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. defended the Justice Department's record on financial fraud Thursday evening, asserting that the administration's ''record of success has been nothing less than historic.''     In a speech at Columbia University...
891 2012-02-24 Once upon a time, New York subway announcements were an unintelligible mishmash of growl and static. They've come a long way. Today, the mellifluous voice of Bernie Wagenblast, a transportation-voice-over specialist, is heard on many platforms, pe...
892 2012-02-24 The Lebanese director Nadine Labaki's feature ''Where Do We Go Now?,'' a top prize-winner at last year's Toronto International Film Festival, will be the opening-night presentation of the 41st New Directors/New Films series, the annual program org...
893 2012-02-25 Such is the power of the Apple name and brand in China that an enterprising company there has been making one-burner gas stoves carrying the once-bitten Apple logo and a label that says "iphone." Stove, cellphone, whatever --- it's the latest exam...
894 2012-02-25 Todd Heisler spent four days photographing the members of a unique program at the California Men's Colony that pairs inmates with dementia with caretakers - other inmates....
895 2012-02-25 The California Men’s Colony is using convicted killers to care for inmates who can no longer care for themselves.
896 2012-02-25 Amish religious leaders are petitioning to handle a ponzi scheme in church, not court.
897 2012-02-25 Go to next slide
898 2012-02-25 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
899 2012-02-25 Greece’s woes continued to weigh on Europe and austerity measures are cutting profits at drug companies on the Continent. American markets are in a “hooray-for-Hollywood” mood as the Oscars approach....
900 2012-02-25 And on Friday, an S.E.C. commissioner, Luis A. Aguilar, told a group of securities lawyers that a recent attempt to tighten the agency’s policy of allowing a company to settle a fraud case while neither admitting nor denying any wrongdoing “applies in so few situations, it needs to be revised to be more useful and effective.”

While another S.E.C. case in Wisconsin, where a federal district judge in December challenged an S.E.C. settlement, was subsequently approved, the cases demonstrate that Judge Rakoff’s challenge of the “neither admit nor deny” settlement is reverberating beyond Wall Street and New York.

That is not what securities law experts expected last November, when Judge Rakoff issued the ruling.

At the time, the consensus was that the decision was unlikely to affect cases involving other regulatory agencies or in other jurisdictions.

Because the proposed settlements included a permanent injunction against further wrongdoing by the defendants, they are subject to approval from a federal judge. But Judge Rakoff argued that the judiciary should not be considered a rubber stamp to approve executive-branch enforcement cases.

Lawyers both inside and outside the S.E.C. argued that the “neither admit nor deny” settlements were perhaps the only way to get companies to settle fraud cases, because to admit wrongdoing would open them to civil damages.

An appeal of Judge Rakoff’s decision by the S.E.C. is pending at the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in New York.

The S.E.C. has continued to defend and to use the practice. Matthew T. Martens, chief litigation counsel at the S.E.C., said Friday that “every other federal agency” settles cases similarly — and some of them allow a defendant to explicitly deny the charges.

Because the S.E.C.’s court papers detail its assertions about how securities laws were broken, “the public is not left wondering what bad conduct has occurred when we bring complaints,” Mr. Martens said at The S.E.C. Speaks, a conference sponsored by the Practising Law Institute.

Of the roughly 2,000 cases the S.E.C. has filed over the last three years, Mr. Martens said, a judge has required explanations of the proposed settlements fewer than 10 times, and only one judge — Judge Rakoff — has rejected a settlement.

In addition to the lack of an admission of wrongdoing in the New Jersey case, Judge Bumb said the proposed settlement bothered her because it contained a “carve out” allowing money set aside for payment of the fine to be used to pay the company’s legal fees.

Those potential fees are uncapped, she noted, leaving the public with no idea if in fact the company will pay any penalty to the government. Her ruling in the case was reported Thursday by The American Lawyer.

Judge Bumb also asked the trade commission and the company to submit arguments on whether this settlement should be subject to the same standards of review laid out by Judge Rakoff — that based on the facts of the case the judgment be considered fair, reasonable, adequate and in the public interest. If the parties felt that standard is not relevant, Judge Bumb said, they should tell her what standard should apply.

David C. Vladeck, the director of the F.T.C.’s bureau of consumer protection, said in a statement that the commission believed “our settlements serve the public interest and meet any applicable standard of judicial review.”

The S.E.C. recently revised its “neither admit nor deny” policy to forbid the practice in settlements where a company has admitted guilt in a related criminal case. That occurred in several instances recently when the S.E.C. settled civil fraud charges at the same time that the Justice Department settled criminal charges related to bid-rigging by Wall Street firms in the municipal bond market.

Mr. Aguilar said at the conference Friday that even that new policy needed to be revised and expanded to be more effective.

“I think it needs to be expanded to have more utility when other agencies, not just criminal authorities, get defendants to admit that they conducted certain acts that were inappropriate,” Mr. Aguilar said, speaking to a reporter. “I believe that should be taken into account with the S.E.C. as well.”
901 2012-02-25 In 2007,  the American critic Dave Hickey called Mr. Price “the Glenn Gould of object-makers,” comparing him to the pianist as someone who was “predisposed to step away from the spotlight, similarly driven by meticulous eccentricities and beguiled, as Gould was, by the full, intimate grandeur of his practice.”

Only one museum survey of his work was held during Mr. Price’s lifetime — organized at the Menil Collection in Houston in 1992. A 50-year retrospective is to open at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in September and travel to the Nasher Sculpture Center in Dallas and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 2013.

After his first three exhibitions in 1960, 1961 and 1964 at the legendary Ferus Gallery, the epicenter of Los Angeles cool, a succession of unusually loyal art galleries kept his work in sight with frequent shows, especially the James Corcoran Gallery and L.A. Louver in Los Angeles and the Willard, Franklin Parrasch and Matthew Marks galleries in New York.

If small, his works were still bold in every other way: color, internal scale, visceral effect and associative richness. Even their smallness exuded a nervy, David-against-Goliath confidence. Mr. Price liked to quote the artist Joseph Cornell, whose small boxed assemblages he admired: “Tiny is the last refuge of the enormous.”

Mr. Price first became known in the early 1960s for his so-called Eggs, intensely colored ovoids punctuated with small openings from which slimy-looking forms might protrude, suggesting fingers, phalluses, worms or perhaps entrails. At once beautiful and disturbing, abstract and overly specific, these objects were sometimes presented on pedestals that placed them, rather imperiously, at eye level, calling attention to their every shift in color, texture and shape, inside and out.

His subsequent efforts were stylistically diverse, but he rarely strayed far from the tensions he had achieved in his Eggs, between dazzling exteriors and mysterious interiors, foreshadowed by openings that could appear either soft and vaguely sexual or severely geometric, with the implied monumentality of the entrance to a Mayan temple.

As Mr. Price’s work evolved, he managed to synthesize, in series of works, from just about every 20th-century art style and several corners of popular culture, especially Surrealism but also Russian Constructivism, Japanese prints and Mexican tourist wares. The sculptures of Constantin Brancusi were particularly influential. Other inspirations included natural crystals, the jagged forms of the American Southwest and the coastline of Massachusetts, where he lived during the 1980s.

In his most extended series, he created numerous variations on the common tea cup. The earliest had snails for handles; the later ones, glazed with glossy primary colors, suggested abstract Bauhaus architecture. His first solo show in New York, at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1969, consisted entirely of cups.

His svelte yet pneumatic forms could suggest cartoonish hands, abbreviated Loch Ness monsters or salacious tongues. Others conjured up jellyfish or rogue ocean waves, which Mr. Price, a surfer, knew well. He named one such piece “Pacific.” The announcement card for his 1961 show at Ferus featured a photograph of him on a surfboard, his arms extended exultantly skyward.

The critic Lucy R. Lippard identified Mr. Price as “something of a Surrealist, something of a purist, something of an expressionist, something of a naturalist.” Mr. Price himself remarked on the associational richness in his work in a letter to a friend in 1959. Referring to one of his mound-shaped sculptures — which preceded the Eggs and would form his 1960 Ferus debut — he wrote that making it kindled “fond memories of mountain peaks, breasts, eggs, worms, worm trails, the damp undersides of things, intestines, veins and the like.”

Kenneth Martin Price was born on Feb. 16, 1935, in West Hollywood in Los Angeles, the only child of Kenneth Albert Price and the former Joan Agnes Collins and the son and grandson of inventors. A grandfather had invented headlights, among other things, and his father had helped develop the Popsicle and double Popsicle for the Good Humor Ice Cream Company in the 1930s.

“I remember the garage at our house being full of Popsicle molds and all kinds of interesting stuff,” Mr. Price recalled in a 2008 interview.

He grew up near the beach in Santa Monica and Pacific Palisades, where his parents designed and built a house. He surfed almost every day from the age of 15 to 30, briefly studied the trumpet with Chet Baker and thought of himself as an artist from an early age. He recalled that nature and Mexican folk pottery were central, early visual experiences, and once said that his idea of a perfect day was one spent drawing while listening to jazz.

While still in high school he took classes in cartooning and life drawing at the Chouinard Art Institute and later enrolled at Santa Monica City College. He enjoyed his first ceramics course there so much that he began taking classes at colleges and art schools all over Los Angeles.

By the time he earned his bachelor degree in fine arts from the University of Southern California in 1956, he was aware of Voulkos, who was applying the scale and gestural freedom of Abstract Expressionism to large clay forms. Voulkos’s conviction that ceramics was a full-blown art was a galvanizing antidote to what Mr. Price called the “crafts-dogma hell” he had encountered in other schools.

Along with Mr. Mason, he pursued graduate study with Voulkos at the Los Angeles County Institute of Art (now the Otis College of Art and Design) for about a year. But finding Voulkos’s influence oppressive after a while, he attended the New York State College of Ceramics at Alfred University in western New York — famous for its traditional studio ceramics program —   where he completed a two-year master’s program in one.

Back in Los Angeles, immersing himself in its burgeoning art scene, Mr. Price joined a kind of boys club of artists that included Mr. Bengston, Mr. Ruscha, Mr. Bell, John Altoon and Ed Kienholz and that used the Ferus Gallery as its base. He also drew inspiration from surveys of European modernism that featured the work of Hans Arp and Joan Miro, and from the Pasadena Museum of Art’s 1963 retrospective of the work of Marcel Duchamp, whose smaller sculptures often exerted an ambiguous sexual charge. In 1962, he spent six months traveling in Japan, visiting potteries and master potters, enthralled by a country where, he observed, “everyone uses a handmade teacup if they can afford it.”

In 1968, Mr. Price married Happy Ward, who survives him, along with three children, all of whom work for him in some capacity: two step-daughters, Romy Colonius and Sydney McDonnell; a son, Jackson Price, and nine grandchildren. The family moved to Taos, in 1971, first into a vacation home that he owned with Mr. Bell and eventually into the house and studio in Arroyo Hondo, which he and his wife designed.

Rather than ignore the protocols of craft, as Voulkos tended to, Mr. Price made its intimations of control, patience and obsession implicit in his work. Especially after the mid-1980s, it sometimes seemed that each new series introduced a new way of applying and showcasing color. He began painting his forms with scores of thin layers of bright acrylic paint that he then sanded down in patches, revealing multiple hues. Undulant surfaces treated this way suggested rough-hewn stones or meteors from a Technicolor world. On smoother forms the process could yield tiny pore-like starbursts of contrasting colors, to startlingly skin-like effect.

In his last years Mr. Price turned to making larger but still eminently blobby, loquacious pieces in bronze, continuing the process of layering color and sanding. He also continued to resist explaining his work’s meaning. As he said in a talk delivered at the Chinati Foundation in Marfa, Tex., in 2005, “My primary satisfaction comes from making the work, and my idea of success is getting it to look right.”

“I can’t prove my art’s any good,” he added, “or that it means what I say it means. And nothing I say can improve the way it looks.”
902 2012-02-25 The artworks of Mr. Price, who died on Friday, will be featured in a career-spanning retrospective later this year in Los Angeles....
903 2012-02-25 CAIRO — Egyptian politicians scrambled this week to guess the effect of a verdict in the trial of former President Hosni Mubarak, which is now set to be announced in early June, around the same time as the election of his successor.

After hearing arguments on the final day of the case, the presiding judge said this week that he would announce a verdict on June 2, 10 months after the trial’s opening first captivated the Arab world.

Any outcome will be a watershed in the history of the region.

Mr. Mubarak, along with his interior minister, is charged with directing the killing of as many as 800 civilian protesters during the 18 days of demonstrations last year that ended his decades in office. The former president and his two sons, Gamal and Alaa, are charged with receiving kickbacks — mansions near the Red Sea — from a friend in exchange for prime public land at discounted prices. If convicted of responsibility for the killings, Mr. Mubarak could face the death penalty.

But throughout the trial, the prosecution did not present any testimony or evidence, other than Mr. Mubarak’s general responsibility as president, that he specifically directed the police to shoot or kill demonstrators. Many lawyers and experts say he may, therefore, be acquitted of the most serious charges. Many other Egyptians wonder why the charges were so narrow in the first place, compared with the widely acknowledged corruption and police abuse that prevailed during Mr. Mubarak’s 30 years of essentially unaccountable leadership.

Retribution against the former president and his government allies was perhaps the most passionate demand of the revolt that ousted him one year ago. A conviction would probably set off widespread celebrations, while an acquittal could renew public anger and unrest in the streets. Either outcome may have a profound impact on the eve of a presidential election, including potentially elevating the demand for justice for the old government as a prominent issue in voters’ minds.

It is not clear whether the promised presidential election will take place before or after the verdict is announced.
904 2012-02-25 Economists suggest favorable conditions for landlords will continue for at least a year, with employment gradually rising and construction of new apartments remaining constrained.

As job growth has begun to accelerate in recent months, young people are starting to move out of their parents’ homes or away from shared rooms and into their own rentals.

Families who might previously have bought homes are also staying in rentals longer. They may be waiting for the housing market to hit bottom or finding it difficult to qualify for a mortgage. Many others remain uncertain about their job prospects and wary of the obligations of ownership.

When Charles Griffith moved with his wife and two children to Orlando, Fla., last fall, they chose a new two-bedroom apartment for $1,140 a month. They left a four-bedroom house they had bought a decade ago in Antioch, Calif. His brother-in-law has moved in and taken over the mortgage payments.

Mr. Griffith, who works as a supervisor for Southwest Airlines, and his wife, a customer service representative for the airline, are enjoying the flexibility and convenience of renting, as well as amenities like a pool. “We kind of like the situation now of not having to be under so much pressure,” said Mr. Griffith, 40, adding that the family may eventually buy in Orlando. But “with the economy and the airline industry, that factors into us thinking maybe we should hold off for a while.”

The home ownership rate has been falling from its peak of 69.4 percent in 2004, according to census data. By the fourth quarter of 2011, it was down to 66 percent. That means about two million more households are renting, said Kenneth Rosen, an economist and professor of real estate at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley.

Not all those people are choosing apartments, of course. Some are moving into single-family homes left vacant by foreclosures. Eager to capitalize on the trend, investors are scooping up some houses at a deep discount and leasing them to tenants who have lost their own homes.

Several prominent hedge funds and private equity firms have recently announced plans to invest in distressed properties and convert them to rentals. And earlier this month, the government solicited applications from investors interested in buying pools of foreclosed properties held by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration.

Still, it is in apartments, not houses, where renters are feeling the most competition.

Although many families crushed by the recession have doubled up and plenty of underemployed 20-somethings are living with their parents, some young people are finally getting their own space. Nearly 60 percent of job gains in the last two years have gone to people who are 20 to 34, a crucial rental group, according to an analysis of Labor Department data by G. Ronald Witten, a consultant to apartment companies.

During the economic downturn, apartment developers retrenched. The number of new apartments completed fell from 284,200 in 2006 to less than half that number in 2011, according to census data.

The limited supply is pushing up prices in some markets. In San Francisco, rents jumped close to 5 percent last year, according to Reis, and increases averaged 3 percent in Austin and New York. Landlords have also been withdrawing incentives like a free month’s rent.

Liz Brent and Matt Mochizuki moved into a studio apartment a year ago in the Mission District in San Francisco for $1,395 a month. Now they want more space.

Ms. Brent, 26, makes costumes and is working as a barista at a cafe where customers leave big tips. Mr. Mochizuki, 27, has a steady job making custom metal work for a design studio. They are budgeting $1,800 a month in rent.

But at an open house for an apartment billed as a one-bedroom, they found a studio with an awkward layout and bad light. More than 40 people were in line, many ready to hand over a check.

“That’s what the market is like now,” Ms. Brent said of their fruitless search. “That’s how many people showed up for this tiny apartment with no windows.”

Some rental markets remain soft, like Atlanta and Las Vegas, the epicenter of the housing bust. Orlando, too, might seem an unlikely place for rental strength. The unemployment rate, at 9.7 percent, is higher than the national average, and home prices slipped 4.6 percent last year, according to the Standard & Poor’s Case-Shiller home price index.

Yet Ric Campo, chief executive of Camden Properties, a real estate investment trust that owns apartment buildings, said rental business was brisk at its LaVina development. Since the office for the 420-unit complex opened last summer, more than half the apartments have rented.

That’s “a faster rate than we’ve ever seen in Orlando,” Mr. Campo said. The company has raised the base rent on a two-bedroom apartment to $1,080, from $995 a month.

Many now wonder about a more profound shift among future buyers. Matt Byford, a 24-year-old litigation consultant in Chicago, acknowledges that low interest rates and low prices favor buying. But he says he is renting and in no hurry to buy, because he doesn’t expect much to change soon.

Brad Forrester, chief executive of the ConAm Group, which manages about 50,000 apartments in the western United States, says, “I think it’s going to be interesting to see whether there’s been a fundamental sociological shift in that 20- to 35-year-old cohort, where they literally say ‘this American dream just doesn’t work for me.’ ”
905 2012-02-25 Honduran leaders have taken note, and President Porfirio Lobo is expected to approve a top-to-bottom review of the national police soon, modeled on a proposal by Dr. Castellanos.

Many credit Dr. Castellanos with inspiring a call for change in Honduras, a country of eight million that has rapidly turned into one of the most violent areas in the world. Recent crackdowns on drug trafficking in Mexico and Colombia have driven criminals here. Poverty is rampant, shorelines are vast and impunity prevails.

Allies of Honduras, hoping that a growing sense of public outrage will force an end to the status quo, have intervened recently. Chile and Colombia have helped vet police officers. American leaders, concerned that Honduras could destabilize Central America if it does not immediately confront its insecurity crisis, have taken the unusual step of sending a former ambassador to Nicaragua, Oliver P. Garza, to work as a full-time adviser inside the Honduran presidential palace. And Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is scheduled to visit Tegucigalpa next month.

Whether the fight against cartels in Honduras is successful, analysts say, will depend in large part on persuading the public to stand up to the culture of intimidation that has impeded investigations.

Dr. Castellanos is at the fore of that battle. “I am going to continue this fight,” she said in a recent interview, “even if I lose my life along the way.”

Dr. Castellanos, who grew up in the sugar fields of rural Honduras, found herself drawn to academia at a young age but promised her parents she would not forget the problems of everyday life. She took up sociology and soon was writing papers with titles like “Honduras: State of Corruption.”

“I know the people’s rights, and I know what the government should and should not do,” she said.

She has always been in the public eye, writing a newspaper column for 13 years and, in 2004, founding a center for crime statistics at the National Autonomous University of Honduras. Known as the Violence Observatory, it now sits on a hill adjacent to the astronomical observatory, a symbol of its ambition.

Dr. Castellanos took over the university in 2009, shortly before Honduran military officers carried out a coup, ousting the nation’s president while he was still in his pajamas and thrusting the country into crisis. Chaos soon seized the university as students and faculty clashed with the police and demanded the return of the deposed president, Manuel Zelaya. Dr. Castellanos urged civility, but the violence continued.

AS the university’s leader, Dr. Castellanos worked to modernize it by ending political favoritism. She won over students and faculty with paella parties at her house.

Ayax Irías, a longtime faculty member who is now a deputy to Dr. Castellanos, said her style was to demand action regardless of the cost. “She is a rare species in a country like Honduras,” he said.

Now, as Dr. Castellanos takes aim at the national police, her strident voice and uncompromising style have unsettled some leaders, who have accused her of political posturing. (She has denied any interest in public office.)

She pushed relentlessly to create an international commission to oversee a purge of the police, but she encountered fierce resistance from within government.

Héctor Iván Mejía, a spokesman for the police, said the approach was misguided. “We are the ones who know how to handle the problem,” he said.

Dr. Castellanos has also quarreled with President Lobo, who found himself at the center of a national uproar after the murder of the two young men on their way home from a birthday party in October.

Mr. Lobo has defended his approach, noting that he has replaced about 200 of 14,000 officers and top officials, created a community policing program and appointed a bishop for the police force in hopes of instilling religious values. The centerpiece of his efforts is Operation Lightning, a joint effort between the army and the police to patrol high-crime parts of the country.

While homicides have fallen slightly since the operation began in November, Honduras still has one of the highest murder rates in the world, with 85.9 homicides for every 100,000 residents, according to the Violence Observatory (the United States, by contrast, has an average of 5 homicides per 100,000 residents). Last year, there were 7,059 homicides, up 13.1 percent from 2010.

Mr. Lobo has acknowledged failures in fighting crime. But he has said that Operation Lightning and other efforts, like barring two men from riding a motorcycle together, to reduce drive-by shootings, are working.

“When I leave the presidency,” Mr. Lobo told reporters recently, “Honduras will have peace and tranquillity.”

Many security forces in the region have been infiltrated by drug organizations, but analysts believe the problem is particularly severe in Honduras because of its dire poverty, proximity to Mexico and the setback its security institutions suffered after the 2009 coup. In the past year, police officers have been implicated in kidnappings, extortion and robberies.

Lisa J. Kubiske, the American ambassador to Honduras, said the crisis posed an “existential threat” to Honduras. “The amount of money that drug organizations have to throw around is just enormous by any standard, but particularly by the standards of a country that is one of poorest in the hemisphere,” she said.

IN October, the night before sympathy cards started appearing on her doorstep, Dr. Castellanos was nagging her son about the family car. She was planning a hectic day of errands, and she needed him to be back by 8 a.m. the next day.

“Yes, Mamá,” he said in his obedient-but-defiant way. Had he filled the car with gas? “Yes, Mamá.”

But when the car did not show that morning, and her son did not answer his cellphone, Dr. Castellanos feared something was wrong.

In the days that followed, Dr. Castellanos learned many things she did not want to know: Mr. Vargas had died first; he was shot in the back. Eight police officers were believed to be involved.

Several of them disappeared after the shooting, and some are still on the government payroll.

She thought about the things her son left behind. He had been working on a superhero comic book with friends and hoped to earn a degree in sociology.

One night, hundred of students gathered at the university, candles in hand, to remember their classmates. As Dr. Castellanos looked out at the sea of flames, she said she hoped their generation would be able to live freely, without fear.

“None of this gets rid of suffering,” she said, “but the suffering gives us strength.”
906 2012-02-25 MOSCOW — Five candidates are still campaigning in Russia’s presidential election, but investors in the country’s stock exchange seem to have already called the race.

Equity analysts say a rally in the Russian market ahead of the election, still a week away, shows that investors are confident that Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin will win the election smoothly and with enough legitimacy to avoid short-term political and economic instability.

Since the beginning of the year, the Russian stock market has regained the ground it lost late last year, when street protests erupted in Moscow.

Those protests have since grown, but so has investor confidence that they pose no serious challenge, at least in the short term, to Mr. Putin and may in fact exert a positive influence on equity markets by elevating pressure on his government to bring about economic change. Rising oil prices have also helped bolster confidence in Russia’s resource-dependent economy.

“We had a bit of overshooting in the perception of political risk in December,” said Yaroslav Lissovolik, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank in Moscow. “We’ve seen a change in the perception of this movement in the short to medium term.”
907 2012-02-25 During a job interview, it is usually not a good idea to enthusiastically volunteer that you enjoy a drink now and then. But in Utah, it could soon be a requirement, at least for those seeking appointment to the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.

In the dry upper reaches of Utah’s government, dominated by members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the commission that oversees alcohol sales has a reputation — inside the state and beyond — for being less than friendly to the product, or at least unfamiliar with it.

A bill in the State Legislature, which advanced by a crucial committee vote on Friday, would address that concern by requiring that at least two people on the five-member commission be drinkers.

Applicants for the two drinking slots — all commissioners are selected by the governor — would even have to sign an affidavit to the effect that they had consumed alcohol for at least a year before their appointment.

How much drinking is required? Fair question, no doubt, for an applicant — but the answer is, unfortunately, unclear. The original draft of the proposed bill, HB 193, used the phrase “regular consumers,” but the bill’s sponsor, Representative Brian Doughty, a Democrat from Salt Lake City, said he deleted the word “regular” in an amendment after other legislators complained that the word was hard to define.
908 2012-02-25 “The crisis has meant that our competition simply vacated the space that was our obvious target, in terms of clients,” said Jorge Ignacio Marchán Riera, who is the head of Pichincha’s operations in Spain.

Mr. Marchán said his bank would make a profit this year on its Spanish business, two years ahead of schedule. Assets under management in Spain are expected to double, after having reached 63 million euros ($84 million) at the end of 2011, up from 27 million euros a year earlier. And while most Spanish banks are downsizing their consumer networks, Mr. Marchán wants “at least” 20 branches across Spain by the end of the year, up from 12 at present.

Still, it may be too early to call Pichincha more than a small and timely success story in an otherwise bleak banking landscape.

“Pichincha is doing well partly because it comes from zero and so doesn’t carry the heavy load of bad loans that banks here have accumulated,” said Javier Santomá, professor of financial management at IESE, a Spanish business school. “The real test for any bank, however, always comes, not when it lends, but when it eventually tries to get its money back.”

Banking to migrants, however, looks promising. Migration worldwide is expected to continue rising, which in turn should benefit Pichincha and other institutions from developing countries that have expanded overseas to cater to migrants who send part of their earnings home.

Last year, remittance flows to developing countries rose 8 percent, to $351 billion. They are likely to reach $441 billion by 2014, according to a report published in December by the World Bank.

The World Bank noted that remittance outflows from Spain had remained “fairly resilient” and grew 15 percent in the first half of last year as “migrants have cut into savings and even consumption in order to send remittances, and perhaps to prepare for an eventual return.”

Yet so far, and despite Spain’s struggling with a jobless rate of almost 23 percent, only a few thousand Ecuadoreans have packed their bags to go back home. Senami, Ecuador’s national migration secretariat, said that in the second half of last year, 2,794 registered Ecuadoreans had sought information on how to benefit from a state-sponsored assistance program to return home from Spain.

According to Spain’s immigration statistics, the number of registered Ecuadoreans fell by about 35,000 in the last two years, but that figure includes those who, like Ms. Guamán, acquired Spanish citizenship.

While the United States dwarfs other countries as a destination for Latin American emigrants, Spain comes second, receiving about one in 10 Latin American migrants each year, according to the World Bank. Over all, Spain registered about five million migrants in a decade, now equivalent to 12 percent of its population. Ecuadoreans form the largest Latin American community in Spain, spearheading migration to the country after a devastating economic crisis in 1999 that led to a 70 percent depreciation of Ecuador’s currency, the sucre, and a default on its external debt. The crisis occurred just as Spain’s construction-led boom was getting under way.

The newcomers from Latin America did not go unnoticed among Spanish banks that then had the liquidity to extend credit. Before applying for its own banking license, Pichincha discussed forming an alliance with Banco Popular, one of the biggest Spanish institutions. In 2006, Popular started MundoCredit, a subsidiary with 60 branches, aimed at migrants and their soaring remittances. Money outflows from Spain rose almost fivefold from 2001 to 2007, reaching $15.2 billion in that year, according to the World Bank.

But the negotiations between Popular and Pichincha stalled, and last year Popular shut MundoCredit as a stand-alone entity, following in the footsteps of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, or BBVA, which also closed down a similar business called Dinero Express.

Behind such closures, “the logical thinking is that you are dealing with clients whose track record is hard to establish and who are in the front line in terms of job vulnerability,” said Emilio Ontiveros, chairman of Analistas Financieros Internacionales, a research consulting firm in Madrid.

In the meantime, however, Santander and BBVA, the two biggest commercial banks in Spain, expanded aggressively into Latin America to offset weakening domestic revenue. Net earnings at both banks fell 35 percent last year. While a booming Brazilian business helped cushion the fall for Santander, Mexico overtook Spain as the market contributing most to BBVA’s earnings.

Pichincha has managed to pick up clients by not charging for remittances to Ecuador or to other countries, like Peru and Colombia, where Pichincha operates. In addition, the bank has been expanding its microcredit business in Spain, as well as setting lower thresholds for clients to earn interest on their deposits — currently 3.5 percent a year on an account as small as 600 euros ($802). The cultural affinity, meanwhile, is strengthened by Latin Americans’ accounting for four-fifths of the bank’s employees in Spain.

On the other hand, shifting money from Ecuador to Spain remains complicated and costly because the bank “is simply not as integrated on an operational level as might seem,” said Manuel Romera, director of the financial sector of the IE business school, who helped a small Ecuadorean company with such a transfer.

Pichincha’s other — and arguably riskier — expansion strategy has involved buying assets from Spanish institutions that need to lift their capital ratios to comply with new banking rules. Last year, for instance, Pichincha paid 5.5 million euros for a Latin American consumer credit portfolio from Bankia, one of Spain’s biggest savings banks. Such purchased assets have contained on average 9 percent of bad or doubtful loans, thereby raising the overall level held by Pichincha in Spain to 7 percent. That percentage, however, remains below the 7.7 percent average for the Spanish banking sector.

Mr. Marchán, Pichincha’s chief in Spain, recognizes the risk but says he thinks his bank is equipped to handle it.

“I come from a country that has itself been in crisis for as long as I’ve lived,” he said, “so what is happening now in Spain certainly doesn’t feel like something that we wouldn’t know how to cope with.”
909 2012-02-25 BEIJING — The Communist Party chief of Sichuan Province, a large area in western China that includes restive Tibetan towns, visited some of the Tibetan areas earlier this week and urged residents to follow the law and oppose separatism, according to a report Friday in Sichuan Daily, an official newspaper.

Protests by Tibetans in Sichuan have become a regular occurrence and prompted officials to flood the area with security forces. The party chief, Liu Qibao, made a trip to the prefectures of Aba and Ganzi, where Tibetan clergy have been engaging in self-immolations to protest Chinese policies and ordinary people have taken to the streets to rally against the authorities. Mr. Liu met with security officers and also visited Kirti Monastery in the town of Aba, called Ngaba in Tibetan, where many of the self-immolations have taken place.

“Everyone is equal before the law. No matter whether you are a monk or a nun, you are a citizen first,” Mr. Liu said, according to a translation of passages in the Sichuan Daily article by The Associated Press. “There are no monasteries outside the law, nor are there individuals outside the law.”
910 2012-02-25 When I last wrote about Betterment, an online investment adviser that doesn't mind if you don't have a lot of money, I noted its promise but fretted over its relatively high prices, lack of international investments and lack of Individual Retireme...
911 2012-02-25 DETROIT -- Mitt Romney is making his foray into the Ohio television market, securing a small amount of commercial time ahead of the state's Super Tuesday primary.     He joins his ''super PAC,'' Restore Our Future, which has been the heaviest pres...
912 2012-02-25 5 p.m. | Updated  A fast-growing industry in upstate New York - yogurt production - is about to get even bigger.     Gov.Andrew M. Cuomo said Friday that PepsiCo and a German dairy company had agreed to open a yogurt factory in the western part of...
913 2012-02-25 LONDON -- The Lloyds Banking Group, partly owned by the British government, reported on Friday a loss for 2011 after it had to compensate some customers who were wrongly sold insurance.     Lloyds, based in London, said its net loss for last year ...
914 2012-02-25 Rick Santorum creates a stir by speaking out against prenatal testing. Virginia's governor and legislature get caught up in an emotional debate over requiring women seeking abortions to undergo an ultrasound. President Obama, under pressure, recal...
915 2012-02-25 Photo of police officers detaining a Tibetan exile who was shouting anti-Chinese slogans during a protest in Katmandu, Nepal. Photo (S)...
916 2012-02-26 Danilo Scarpati's Milan fashion week photo diary....
917 2012-02-26 Writing nominees say they're not preparing acceptance speeches in advance, on the theory if they do plan, they won't win....
918 2012-02-26 Go to next slide
919 2012-02-26 Two days before the Arizona and Michigan primaries, Rick Santorum argued that religion and conservative principles are at risk, saying President Obama is a “snob” for encouraging all Americans to go to college....
920 2012-02-26 Sonny Vandevelde's Milan fashion week photo diary....
921 2012-02-26 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
922 2012-02-26 Huawei, a Chinese handset maker, is hoping to stake a bigger claim in the smartphone industry with its latest device, a quad-core smartphone called the Ascend D Quad. Richard Yu, the chairman of Huawei Device, unveiled it at a news media event at ...
923 2012-02-26 Mr. Liu, one of Mr. Yu’s closest friends, wrote Charter 08, a manifesto calling for gradual political reforms, and was sentenced in 2009 to 11 years in prison, a move that contributed to Mr. Liu’s being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize the next year. Mr. Yu, 38, was placed under house arrest in Beijing in October 2010, five days after the Nobel committee announced Mr. Liu’s award, and then, in December, was detained. He was tortured for three hours.

Mr. Yu is one of several prominent Chinese intellectuals to have chosen a path of self-exile because of the hardening of the state against voices of dissent.

Though there are dissidents like Mr. Liu who maintain they will never leave China, Mr. Yu said his friends supported his decision. “They said the situation for people like us is going to get worse, not better,” he said.

The security apparatus is on full alert this year during a once-a-decade leadership transition in China, when the Communist Party reshuffles its top officials.

The last of Mr. Yu’s 11 books was an attack on Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, whom many Chinese praise as having an empathic character. But Mr. Yu argued in “China’s Best Actor: Wen Jiabao” that that was merely a construct intended to fool ordinary Chinese. He said he did not expect much better from Xi Jinping, who is likely to be China’s next president, and those who surround him. Mr. Xi went on a carefully choreographed five-day tour of the United States this month.

“The country’s leader is simply a guy selected by a few of the most powerful families in China to work for them,” Mr. Yu said. “It’s because they’re in this power scheme together, and because they benefit from it, and because the social conflict in China is a lot sharper now. To maintain the status quo, they’ll do whatever they can.”

Mr. Yu is finishing two books scheduled to be published this year in Hong Kong. One is a critique of Hu Jintao, the current president, and the other is a biography of Mr. Liu.

“I think I truly became a political dissident after 1999, when I became friends with Liu Xiaobo and took part in the following decade or so in all the activities he did for human rights in China,” Mr. Yu said.

His political education actually began in his hometown, Chengdu. “I was 16 during the 1989 protests, and this had a big impact on me,” he said. “I didn’t take part, but every night we would listen to BBC and the Voice of America.”

Mr. Yu studied modern Chinese literature at Peking University. He began writing essays and passed around printouts and photocopies to friends.

He was labeled a literary sensation when his first book, “Fire and Ice,” appeared in 1998. It was a scathing work of social and political criticism that the China scholar Geremie R. Barmé called “undoubtedly the most provocative book of its kind to have appeared in years.”

Mr. Yu even quoted Mr. Liu in his book, which Mr. Barmé noted was apparently the first time someone on the mainland had publicly cited him in a positive light in years. Mr. Liu had been sentenced in 1996 to three years of hard labor for his writings.

Mr. Yu’s writings were packaged with those of two other intellectuals. Liu Xia, the wife of Liu Xiaobo, gave her husband the books while he was in prison “to show that a younger generation of writers was active,” Mr. Yu said. But Mr. Liu published a harsh critique of the writings.

Nevertheless, another prominent writer, Liao Yiwu, arranged a dinner in Beijing where Mr. Liu and Mr. Yu met. A working friendship was born. The two wrote together and led the Independent Chinese PEN Center. Their relationship extended through the writing of Charter 08, when Mr. Yu discussed drafts with Mr. Liu. Mr. Yu, who converted to Christianity in 2003, said he had extensive input on the part about religious freedom.

“Christianity gives me a very strong basis for my faith,” he said. “I don’t think that democracy can be a faith. Only a more ultimate goal would allow me to withstand all the difficulties I’ve gone through.”

Mr. Yu said his work with Mr. Liu had been a focus of his interrogation in December 2010. “They asked in detail about articles I had written in the past 10 years,” he said. “They asked a lot of questions about my interaction with Liu Xiaobo and the mothers of Tiananmen Square victims, and they asked about my trips abroad.”

He said the interrogators also singled out the biography of Mr. Liu that he was writing and the book about Mr. Wen.

Four days after being tortured, Mr. Yu was released but forced to stay in Chengdu for three months. Even after returning to Beijing, he was told by officers to leave the capital during certain times, like the annual anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.

Whenever one of his articles was published in Hong Kong, officers would show up to harass him in Beijing, he said. He began thinking about leaving last spring, and got permission last month, he said. Officials probably believed it would be better to have him outside China in this transition year, Mr. Yu said. Officers accompanied him, his wife, Liu Min, and their son, Yu Guangyi, to the Beijing airport boarding gate and took their picture.

And how will he remain relevant while outside China? Mr. Yu said he believed the Internet would help. He has a Twitter account, @yujie89, with nearly 30,000 followers. (He said he preferred not to use Chinese microblogs because of censorship.)

Mr. Yu said his immediate goals were to apply for asylum and finish the two books due this year. Then he plans to work on a book about the history of Christianity in China.

“Maybe in a couple years I’ll have a green card, and maybe I’ll become an American citizen,” he said. “But I see my career and lifelong goal as achieving democracy and freedom in China. And so my goal is to eventually return to China.”
924 2012-02-26 Mr. Liu, one of Mr. Yu’s closest friends, wrote Charter 08, a manifesto calling for gradual political reforms, and was sentenced in 2009 to 11 years in prison, a move that contributed to Mr. Liu’s being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize the next year. Mr. Yu, 38, was placed under house arrest in Beijing in October 2010, five days after the Nobel committee announced Mr. Liu’s award, and then, in December, was detained. He was tortured for three hours.

Mr. Yu is one of several prominent Chinese intellectuals to have chosen a path of self-exile because of the hardening of the state against voices of dissent.

Though there are dissidents like Mr. Liu who maintain they will never leave China, Mr. Yu said his friends supported his decision. “They said the situation for people like us is going to get worse, not better,” he said.

The security apparatus is on full alert this year during a once-a-decade leadership transition in China, when the Communist Party reshuffles its top officials.

The last of Mr. Yu’s 11 books was an attack on Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, whom many Chinese praise as having an empathic character. But Mr. Yu argued in “China’s Best Actor: Wen Jiabao” that that was merely a construct intended to fool ordinary Chinese. He said he did not expect much better from Xi Jinping, who is likely to be China’s next president, and those who surround him. Mr. Xi went on a carefully choreographed five-day tour of the United States this month.

“The country’s leader is simply a guy selected by a few of the most powerful families in China to work for them,” Mr. Yu said. “It’s because they’re in this power scheme together, and because they benefit from it, and because the social conflict in China is a lot sharper now. To maintain the status quo, they’ll do whatever they can.”

Mr. Yu is finishing two books scheduled to be published this year in Hong Kong. One is a critique of Hu Jintao, the current president, and the other is a biography of Mr. Liu.

“I think I truly became a political dissident after 1999, when I became friends with Liu Xiaobo and took part in the following decade or so in all the activities he did for human rights in China,” Mr. Yu said.

His political education actually began in his hometown, Chengdu. “I was 16 during the 1989 protests, and this had a big impact on me,” he said. “I didn’t take part, but every night we would listen to BBC and the Voice of America.”

Mr. Yu studied modern Chinese literature at Peking University. He began writing essays and passed around printouts and photocopies to friends.

He was labeled a literary sensation when his first book, “Fire and Ice,” appeared in 1998. It was a scathing work of social and political criticism that the China scholar Geremie R. Barmé called “undoubtedly the most provocative book of its kind to have appeared in years.”

Mr. Yu even quoted Mr. Liu in his book, which Mr. Barmé noted was apparently the first time someone on the mainland had publicly cited him in a positive light in years. Mr. Liu had been sentenced in 1996 to three years of hard labor for his writings.

Mr. Yu’s writings were packaged with those of two other intellectuals. Liu Xia, the wife of Liu Xiaobo, gave her husband the books while he was in prison “to show that a younger generation of writers was active,” Mr. Yu said. But Mr. Liu published a harsh critique of the writings.

Nevertheless, another prominent writer, Liao Yiwu, arranged a dinner in Beijing where Mr. Liu and Mr. Yu met. A working friendship was born. The two wrote together and led the Independent Chinese PEN Center. Their relationship extended through the writing of Charter 08, when Mr. Yu discussed drafts with Mr. Liu. Mr. Yu, who converted to Christianity in 2003, said he had extensive input on the part about religious freedom.

“Christianity gives me a very strong basis for my faith,” he said. “I don’t think that democracy can be a faith. Only a more ultimate goal would allow me to withstand all the difficulties I’ve gone through.”

Mr. Yu said his work with Mr. Liu had been a focus of his interrogation in December 2010. “They asked in detail about articles I had written in the past 10 years,” he said. “They asked a lot of questions about my interaction with Liu Xiaobo and the mothers of Tiananmen Square victims, and they asked about my trips abroad.”

He said the interrogators also singled out the biography of Mr. Liu that he was writing and the book about Mr. Wen.

Four days after being tortured, Mr. Yu was released but forced to stay in Chengdu for three months. Even after returning to Beijing, he was told by officers to leave the capital during certain times, like the annual anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.

Whenever one of his articles was published in Hong Kong, officers would show up to harass him in Beijing, he said. He began thinking about leaving last spring, and got permission last month, he said. Officials probably believed it would be better to have him outside China in this transition year, Mr. Yu said. Officers accompanied him, his wife, Liu Min, and their son, Yu Guangyi, to the Beijing airport boarding gate and took their picture.

And how will he remain relevant while outside China? Mr. Yu said he believed the Internet would help. He has a Twitter account, @yujie89, with nearly 30,000 followers. (He said he preferred not to use Chinese microblogs because of censorship.)

Mr. Yu said his immediate goals were to apply for asylum and finish the two books due this year. Then he plans to work on a book about the history of Christianity in China.

“Maybe in a couple years I’ll have a green card, and maybe I’ll become an American citizen,” he said. “But I see my career and lifelong goal as achieving democracy and freedom in China. And so my goal is to eventually return to China.”
925 2012-02-26 Such is the power of the Apple name and brand in China that an enterprising company there has been making one-burner gas stoves carrying the once-bitten Apple logo and a label that says "iphone." Stove, cellphone, whatever --- it's the latest exam...
926 2012-02-26 JoAnne Denise Pitter, the daughter of Irma J. Pitter and Dr. Michael C. Pitter of Warren, N.J., was married Saturday afternoon to Akinyemi Temitope Akiwowo, a son of the Rev. Adefunmilola T. Akiwowo and Akinola O. Akiwowo of Ewing, N.J. Canon Leroy A. Lyons performed the ceremony at St. Mark’s Episcopal Church in Plainfield, N.J., where he is the rector.

Mrs. Akiwowo, 28, works in Stamford, Conn., as a sales associate focusing on treasury bonds for the investment banking unit of UBS, the Swiss bank. She graduated from Hofstra.

Her father is the chief of gynecological robotic and minimally invasive surgery at Newark Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark. Until last year he was on the board of the Caribbean Medical Mission, a group in Irvington, N.J., providing free medical care and supplies. Her mother is an account manager in Jersey City for Cigna, the health insurance company.

Mr. Akiwowo, 31, is an associate focusing on commercial litigation at Genova, Burns & Giantomasi, a Newark law firm. He graduated from Loyola University Maryland and received a law degree from Seton Hall.

His mother is the associate director of grants at Essex County College in Newark. She is also the associate pastor at NexGen Church, affiliated with the Baptist church, in West Windsor, N.J. His father works during the week in Columbia, Md., as a manager for Magellan Health Services, an insurance company.
927 2012-02-26 But that was an interlude, and the unabashed Ms. Nussbaum was soon overseeing a notable, if far less playful, confrontation between two creative and cantankerous forces of renown.

The creative star was Joyce Carol Oates, the brilliant author who teaches at Princeton University. She began with a whispery and riveting reading of her Ernest Hemingway chapter in “Wild Nights!,” the fun, macabre and distinctly imagined tales of the final days or hours of five famous writers.

That kicked off a panel with Ms. Oates, Ms. Nussbaum, Judges Richard A. Posner and Diane P. Wood of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, and Alison LaCroix, a law school professor whose interests include medieval times and literature.

Mr. Posner is arguably America’s most influential judge outside the Supreme Court and is provocative for most, maddening to some, his candor often unrestrained. He was the skunk at this intellectual party, especially vis-à-vis the love of boxing shared by Ms. Oates and Hemingway.

She has been fascinated with “the spectacle” since her father took her to matches in Buffalo as a child. In her novel “You Must Remember This,” she defines boxing as “just like life, only speeded up,” while an essay on Mike Tyson helped make the sport a legitimate subject for intellectual scrutiny.

But Mr. Posner finds boxing unspeakably boring and distasteful, and merely a means for participants to attain dementia. He made that clear.

He also does not like to read about dying people, finds Hemingway a sick and crazy wreck of a person, and disdains biographies of writers and artists since he sees them as unhelpful invasions of privacy.

“We haven’t lost anything in that we don’t know the first thing about Homer,” he said, referring to the Greek poet and author of the “Iliad” and “Odyssey.”

The more we know about a great artist, the more we bring to his work, said Ms. Oates with her reflexively understated, almost spectral air.

As for boxing being boring, Ms. Oates responded, “Muhammad Ali boring?”

And as for the judge not liking to read about dying people, Ms. Oates, whose genteel and even fragile manner belies the ferocity of her intellect, responded, “Like King Lear?”

Mr. Posner said three death scenes in Tolstoy’s “War and Peace” satisfy his interest in death and literature.

Well, he won’t be a fan of “Wild Nights!” The terror Ms. Oates conceded she felt in writing it is apparent. Her revulsion for Hemingway as a person, but admiration for his art, comes forth.

That is especially so as she imagines his thinking just before he committed suicide. As she told the gathering, she was sympathetic to him as a person, even if he projected his self-loathing onto others, and she finds “the truest man of action” to sometimes be one who takes his own life.

I was moved to read “Wild Nights!” a few days later and found it alternately timely, painful and heartening, since it is about big change.

“Mornings when work does not come are long mornings,” she has Hemingway thinking.

This is my final effort in this space, so a few upcoming mornings may be long.

But, as Ms. Oates’s own prolific ways personify, one story, one ending, can just be a new beginning. And that’s reassuring.
928 2012-02-26 They broke on many issues, but most recently over an investigation by the Haitian Parliament into whether senior government officials held dual nationality, a violation of the Constitution that would disqualify them from their jobs.

Mr. Conille, who though appointed by Mr. Martelly answers to Parliament, had insisted they comply with requests to turn over passports and other documents. Mr. Martelly, who once had an American residency card but has denied rumors that he holds dual nationality, took the position that the executive branch did not have to comply.

Some ministers have done so, but Mr. Conille had hoped to clear the air at the Thursday meeting. When none showed up, he said, “I decided it wasn’t going to work if they lost confidence in me.”

Mr. Conille had also pressed for an audit of about $600 million to $800 million in no-bid contracts that the previous government had given for earthquake-related operations, but he denied rumors circulating in the capital and on the Internet that some money related to the bidding had found its way to the Martelly presidential campaign through intermediaries.

“I have no indication of that,” Mr. Conille said.

Mr. Martelly’s aides have said that the president objected to the audit on grounds that the past should not be rehashed. But Mr. Conille defended the audit because of the amount of money and the “exceptional circumstances” under which it was awarded.

“They were negotiated under difficult circumstances and we want to make sure the state was well protected,” he said. “It made sense to look back.”

A preliminary report by a special audit commission to decide whether a deeper investigation is warranted is due next week, he said.

Even under trying circumstances — Mr. Martelly, he confirmed, angrily confronted him and lawmakers at a meeting at his residence, but he declined to discuss what he said or did — most of his interactions with the president were cordial and open, Mr. Conille said.

Mr. Conille, a physician who had worked for former President Bill Clinton in the United Nations’ special office for Haiti, said he took pride in helping the country make progress. That included clearing some camps, helping set up a new industrial park in the north, filling vacancies on the Supreme Court, breaking ground on a new hospital and setting the stage for more private investment.

“So many positive things are going on,” he said.

Still, diplomats had sought to head off the crisis and were rocked by the resignation. Of the $4.5 billion pledged by international donors, only about half has been delivered, and more is unlikely unless a stable government is in place.

The Interim Haiti Recovery Commission — for which Mr. Conille as prime minister had served as chairman, along with Mr. Clinton, and which was set up to make sure the aid was delivered — has faded into oblivion after Mr. Martelly and Parliament could not agree on extending it past its expiration date in October.

“So many actors are not willing to commit resources when the government is not stable,” said retired Major Josesph M. Bernadel, a member of the commission representing Haitians living abroad.

Mr. Conille said he recognized the toll of instability. But he made no apologies for his decision or his deliberative approach, despite growing public impatience.

“We had to take stock and organize,” he said, “while making sure we address urgent issues.”
929 2012-02-26 But the burgeoning civil war in Syria has upset that paradigm, placing the Russians and Americans and their respective allies on opposite sides. It is a conflict that has sharply escalated sectarian tensions between Shiites and Sunnis and between Iran and Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf nations. And it has left Israel hopeful that an enemy will fall, but deeply concerned about who might take control of his arsenal.

“What makes Syria so much more complicated than Libya is that the strategic issues are as prominent as the moral ones,” said Anne-Marie Slaughter, a Princeton professor and until recently the director of policy planning at the State Department.

“Syria couldn’t be more strategically located, and the prospect of letting a full-fledged civil war erupt is incredibly dangerous,” she said, adding that it would become a proxy war between the gulf states and Saudi Arabia against Iran. “And then Israel is in there, too.”

Washington is keenly aware of the larger forces at play and of the dangers of another military intervention in an Arab country.

“It’s an arena right now for all of the various interests to play out,” said Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in an interview on CNN. “Turkey clearly has an interest, a very important interest. Russia has a very important interest. Iran has an interest.”

For Russia, the fall of Mr. Assad, an ally and arms customer, would further diminish its influence in the region. If Mr. Assad goes, any new government will note Russia’s support for him, including a steady supply of weapons. Arabs across the region, who are demanding their rights and freedoms, may resent it, too.

“Even switching sides at this point won’t help,” said Dmitry Gorenburg, a Russia scholar with the Center for Naval Analyses, a federally financed research group based in Virginia.

For the United States, the conflict is a bundle of risks and contradictions that has made Washington’s stance — frustrating those who favor a more robust intervention — far more cautious than it was in Libya.

Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton has called any comparison of Syria to Libya a “false analogy.” In the largest sense, Libya could be seen as a strategic sideshow, on the edge of the Arab awakening, while Syria is quite clearly at center stage. Mr. Assad’s crackdown, which has killed at least 6,000 civilians, has seized international attention and presented a vexing moral dilemma about intervention.

If the responsibility to protect civilians is a legitimate new part of international law, why would it apply to Libya and not to Syria? Why shouldn’t the world intervene in what is already a one-sided civil war? Without a robust intervention, what happens to the momentum and principles of the Arab Spring? Will Western calls for democracy and equal rights suffer and help radical Islamists rise to power?

For Washington, Europe and the Sunnis of Saudi Arabia and the gulf, the impact on Iran is as important as the fate of Mr. Assad. Syria is one of Iran’s closest allies. It was nearly alone in supporting Iran, not Iraq, in their war in the 1980s. Syria is Iran’s main conduit to supply aid and weapons to Hezbollah, Hamas and Islamic Jihad.

Mr. Assad’s fall would be a major defeat for Iran, so it is giving his government money, arms and advice, say intelligence officials of two Western countries.

The United States and Europe — with tenuous Russian and Chinese support — have isolated Iran economically and diplomatically to try to forestall Tehran from being able to build a nuclear weapon. The conflict in Syria complicates that delicate diplomacy, but a new Syrian government could be a greater blow to Iranian influence than any sanction the West has mustered so far. It could also revive democratic protests in Iran.

But the administration is ruling out direct military intervention in this conflict. After a decade of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and a limited intervention in Libya that was harshly criticized by Republicans, President Obama wants no new military adventure in an election year. Nor does the Pentagon, especially given Syria’s integrated air defense system, supplied by Russia.

Not least, American officials point out the murky nature and incoherence of the armed opposition to Mr. Assad and note that the Free Syrian Army, formed by exiled Syrian Army officers, defectors and militias, does not control significant territory in Syria where arms could be supplied.

For now, the administration has no intention to arm Syrian opposition groups, despite public advocacy by two senior Republican senators for such a course. Some light weapons are getting to the rebels, mostly through Jordan and Lebanon, but not enough to make a significant difference.

Pentagon officials said planners had been asked to look at a range of military options for Syria, but they anticipated no American involvement. Of course, they said the same for Libya, until the White House changed course.

Of the many combustible dynamics involved in the crisis in Syria, the Sunni-Shiite schism is one of the most potent. Mr. Assad’s government is dominated by the minority Alawites, whose sect is an offshoot of Shiite Islam. The Iranians are Shiites, as are the leaders in Iraq. The Saudis and most of the gulf states are Sunnis. So are many extremist groups, like Al Qaeda, which view the conflict with their own, complicating agendas.

There is some evidence that Sunni radicals are turning their attention to Syria, with weapons and fighters trickling across the border from Iraq and Al Qaeda’s leaders calling for jihad in Syria.

But there is reason for skepticism, too, as “Al Qaeda” has become a kind of phantom cited by almost anyone — the Assad government to bolster claims that its opponents are terrorists, Washington as another reason to shun deeper entanglement.

The central issue is how to speed up what many now regard as the inevitable collapse of the Assad government without plunging the society into a civil war, said Volker Perthes, a German scholar of the region who runs the German Institute for International and Security Affairs.

“Arming the rebels and bringing about a civil war will prolong the regime,” Mr. Perthes said. “A real war is what Assad really wants, because it would allow him to overcome the reluctance of the great majority of the armed forces to fight.”

A real war would also be messy. Turkey, which shares a border with Syria, fears the growing instability and sectarian bloodshed. It worries about more refugees spilling over the border, having already accepted thousands. Israel, too, fears chaos. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has dismissed the idea that the Arab Spring will produce governments any kinder to Israel than the dictators who could at least enforce order.

As Syria slips deeper into turmoil, an alternative to Mr. Assad is not ready. The Syrian National Council is still trying to broaden its representation, establish its credibility inside the country and improve links with the independent Free Syrian Army. The Arab League and Western nations, like the United States and France, want to help, much as they helped to sell the Libyan Transitional National Council as an alternative government to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.

Bassma Kodmani, a member of the executive board of the Syrian National Council, said that with the upsurge in deaths in Idlib and Homs, including those of at least two Western journalists and a Syrian blogger, the council’s view was shifting toward encouraging foreign intervention, as painful as that might be. “We are really close to seeing that military intervention may well be the only solution,” she said. “There are two evils, military intervention or protracted civil war.”

Indeed, the more blood that is spilled, the less likely that all parties will be able to coexist once the violence finally stops.

Ms. Kodmani said a “Yemen” model, whereby the Assads leave Syria and give up power to trusted elements in the current government, was already unacceptable, because military units under government control had killed civilians. “The other crucial difference is that Yemen took six months and had 1,200 dead,” she said, a toll already surpassed in Syria. “We can’t live with another six months at this pace of repression and killing.”

Even so, foreign military intervention seems unlikely. Russia, stung in Libya, has said it would veto any United Nations Security Council resolution mandating force.

On Friday, in Tunis, countries referring to themselves as the “Friends of Syria” — minus Russia and China — met with the Syrian National Council to discuss what the White House calls “further steps” and “additional options” against the Assad government, including calls for an immediate cease-fire, the provision of humanitarian aid and a United Nations peacekeeping force.

The Syrian government is in no mood to surrender. While there are signs of disintegration of central control, with only a minority in the armed forces willing to shoot unarmed citizens, for the most part, the military and security forces have not broken.

Sanctions are badly hurting the business class that supports the government. A senior Syrian security official recently moved his family out of the country, while a member of the large Assad family transferred funds abroad, a senior Obama administration official said.

But the longer Mr. Assad holds on to power, the more people will die. That is bound to make any political transition a bloody one, with a higher risk of revenge killings and attacks against those minorities, including Alawites and Christians, who have supported the government.

“The window for a peaceful transition is closing,” the senior administration official said. “It’s now more a question of what happens after he falls. Can he fall fast enough that grievances won’t fester?”
930 2012-02-26 James R. Pomerantz, a psychology professor at Rice University, said in an interview that Dr. Neisser’s genius was to combine these new understandings in constructing a new view of the mind, much as a paleontologist assembles a dinosaur skeleton from scattered fossils. The result, Dr. Pomerantz said, was “a single coherent way of thinking how the mind works.”

Dr. Neisser’s work showed that memory is a reconstruction of the past, not an accurate snapshot of it. He found that however much people think they are remembering actual events, they are really remembering memories — and probably memories of memories. The mind, he said, conflates things.

In a much-publicized experiment the day after the space shuttle Challenger exploded in 1986, Dr. Neisser asked students to write down their immediate experience upon hearing the news. Nearly three years later, he asked them to recount it. A quarter of the accounts were strikingly different, half were somewhat different, and less than a tenth had all the details correct. All were confident that their latter accounts were completely accurate.

Another memory experiment compared the testimony of John W. Dean III, the former aide to President Richard M. Nixon, during the Senate Watergate hearings with tapes of Mr. Dean’s conversations that the president had secretly recorded. He found discrepancies in detail after detail.

But Dr. Neisser said the testimony was accurate about the most important truths: that there really had been a cover-up, and that Nixon did approve it.

He also made observations about perception. In one experiment, he had participants watch groups throwing balls on a video screen. As they watched, a woman walked through the room carrying an open umbrella. Few remembered seeing her. Dr. Neisser called this phenomenon “selective looking”; other psychologists christened it “inattentional blindness.”

One result of this work on perception and memory was to cast doubt on accounts of remembered child abuse that swept the United States in the early 1980s. Dr. Neisser called into question the widely held view that extremely vivid memories cannot be false. He worked with the False Memory Syndrome Foundation and served on its board.

In 1995, Dr. Neisser headed an American Psychological Association task force that examined research suggesting that intelligence varied among ethnic groups. The panel ended up questioning the tests themselves, or, in his phrase, the assumption that “there’s something wrong with children who score low on intelligence tests.”

“Once you make that assumption,” he said, “all your later theory and research suffers from a built-in bias. To ask what’s wrong with black children is to assume that something is the matter — to locate the problem in the mind of the child.”

Ulrich Gustav Neisser was born in Kiel, Germany, on Dec. 8, 1928, and his family immigrated to the United States in 1933. He later dropped the “h” in his first name to sound more American, he said. His boyhood friends called him Dickie, and he was later known as Dick. He grew up in Swarthmore, Pa.; Washington and New York. His father, Hans, a noted economist, expected him to be a scientist. The boy had a chemistry set he did not use.

He went to Harvard and found psychology more interesting than physics. He was attracted to the Gestalt school of psychology, which takes a complex, holistic view of mental processes but lacks the scientific rigor of what became cognitive psychology. He even did some unsuccessful research on extrasensory perception, citing in an autobiographical statement “a soft spot in my heart for exciting but unlikely hypotheses.”

His contrariness extended to his own work. In 1976, he wrote “Cognition and Reality,” a book that challenged much of the field of cognitive psychology, arguing that it ignored the real world in favor of the laboratory.

Dr. Neisser earned an undergraduate degree in psychology from Harvard, a master’s degree from Swarthmore College and a doctorate from Harvard. He went on to teach and do research at Brandeis, Cornell and Emory College.

His marriage to Anna Gabrielle Peirce ended in divorce. His second wife, Arden Seidler, died before him. Besides his son Mark, he is survived by three other children from his first marriage, Philip, Tobias and Juliet Neisser; a son, Joseph, from his second marriage; a stepdaughter, Jennifer Seidler; a sister, Marianne Selph; and a grandson.

Dr. Neisser came to the realization that his own memory was as fragile as those of his research subjects. For years, he had said that he was listening to a baseball game on the radio when he heard about the attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. Finally, he said, it dawned on him that he could not have been listening to a baseball game in December.

In a graduation speech at the New School for Social Research in 1998, Dr. Neisser asked how the graduates could be sure they remembered anything accurately. He told them they could not be sure. Then he struck a more hopeful note, adding: “This is a graduation, your graduation, or perhaps your son’s or your daughter’s; for that reason you are not likely to forget it. Everything is happening just as it should, just as you will remember it years from now.”
931 2012-02-26 Mr. Liu, one of Mr. Yu’s closest friends, wrote Charter 08, a manifesto calling for gradual political reforms, and was sentenced in 2009 to 11 years in prison, a move that contributed to Mr. Liu’s being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize the next year. Mr. Yu, 38, was placed under house arrest in Beijing in October 2010, five days after the Nobel committee announced Mr. Liu’s award, and then, in December, was detained. He was tortured for three hours.

Mr. Yu is one of several prominent Chinese intellectuals to have chosen a path of self-exile because of the hardening of the state against voices of dissent.

Though there are dissidents like Mr. Liu who maintain they will never leave China, Mr. Yu said his friends supported his decision. “They said the situation for people like us is going to get worse, not better,” he said.

The security apparatus is on full alert this year during a once-a-decade leadership transition in China, when the Communist Party reshuffles its top officials.

The last of Mr. Yu’s 11 books was an attack on Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, whom many Chinese praise as having an empathic character. But Mr. Yu argued in “China’s Best Actor: Wen Jiabao” that that was merely a construct intended to fool ordinary Chinese. He said he did not expect much better from Xi Jinping, who is likely to be China’s next president, and those who surround him. Mr. Xi went on a carefully choreographed five-day tour of the United States this month.

“The country’s leader is simply a guy selected by a few of the most powerful families in China to work for them,” Mr. Yu said. “It’s because they’re in this power scheme together, and because they benefit from it, and because the social conflict in China is a lot sharper now. To maintain the status quo, they’ll do whatever they can.”

Mr. Yu is finishing two books scheduled to be published this year in Hong Kong. One is a critique of Hu Jintao, the current president, and the other is a biography of Mr. Liu.

“I think I truly became a political dissident after 1999, when I became friends with Liu Xiaobo and took part in the following decade or so in all the activities he did for human rights in China,” Mr. Yu said.

His political education actually began in his hometown, Chengdu. “I was 16 during the 1989 protests, and this had a big impact on me,” he said. “I didn’t take part, but every night we would listen to BBC and the Voice of America.”

Mr. Yu studied modern Chinese literature at Peking University. He began writing essays and passed around printouts and photocopies to friends.

He was labeled a literary sensation when his first book, “Fire and Ice,” appeared in 1998. It was a scathing work of social and political criticism that the China scholar Geremie R. Barmé called “undoubtedly the most provocative book of its kind to have appeared in years.”

Mr. Yu even quoted Mr. Liu in his book, which Mr. Barmé noted was apparently the first time someone on the mainland had publicly cited him in a positive light in years. Mr. Liu had been sentenced in 1996 to three years of hard labor for his writings.

Mr. Yu’s writings were packaged with those of two other intellectuals. Liu Xia, the wife of Liu Xiaobo, gave her husband the books while he was in prison “to show that a younger generation of writers was active,” Mr. Yu said. But Mr. Liu published a harsh critique of the writings.

Nevertheless, another prominent writer, Liao Yiwu, arranged a dinner in Beijing where Mr. Liu and Mr. Yu met. A working friendship was born. The two wrote together and led the Independent Chinese PEN Center. Their relationship extended through the writing of Charter 08, when Mr. Yu discussed drafts with Mr. Liu. Mr. Yu, who converted to Christianity in 2003, said he had extensive input on the part about religious freedom.

“Christianity gives me a very strong basis for my faith,” he said. “I don’t think that democracy can be a faith. Only a more ultimate goal would allow me to withstand all the difficulties I’ve gone through.”

Mr. Yu said his work with Mr. Liu had been a focus of his interrogation in December 2010. “They asked in detail about articles I had written in the past 10 years,” he said. “They asked a lot of questions about my interaction with Liu Xiaobo and the mothers of Tiananmen Square victims, and they asked about my trips abroad.”

He said the interrogators also singled out the biography of Mr. Liu that he was writing and the book about Mr. Wen.

Four days after being tortured, Mr. Yu was released but forced to stay in Chengdu for three months. Even after returning to Beijing, he was told by officers to leave the capital during certain times, like the annual anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre.

Whenever one of his articles was published in Hong Kong, officers would show up to harass him in Beijing, he said. He began thinking about leaving last spring, and got permission last month, he said. Officials probably believed it would be better to have him outside China in this transition year, Mr. Yu said. Officers accompanied him, his wife, Liu Min, and their son, Yu Guangyi, to the Beijing airport boarding gate and took their picture.

And how will he remain relevant while outside China? Mr. Yu said he believed the Internet would help. He has a Twitter account, @yujie89, with nearly 30,000 followers. (He said he preferred not to use Chinese microblogs because of censorship.)

Mr. Yu said his immediate goals were to apply for asylum and finish the two books due this year. Then he plans to work on a book about the history of Christianity in China.

“Maybe in a couple years I’ll have a green card, and maybe I’ll become an American citizen,” he said. “But I see my career and lifelong goal as achieving democracy and freedom in China. And so my goal is to eventually return to China.”
932 2012-02-26 Tyshawn Taylor and Thomas Robinson made it a memorable ending for Kansas.

Robinson kept the game going with a 3-point play in the closing seconds of regulation, and Taylor made two free throws with 8.3 seconds left in overtime to give No. 4 Kansas an 87-86 victory over No. 3 Missouri on Saturday. The win was the Jayhawks’ 22nd straight at Allen Fieldhouse.

Missouri, which lost a 19-point second-half lead, never got off a potential winning shot in the final seconds. Michael Dixon was boxed in by Robinson as he tried to get to the basket, and the buzzer eventually sounded on a rivalry steeped in tradition.

The colleges started playing in 1907 and joined the same conference the next year. But the rivalry, in which 267 games have been played, is coming to an end, with Missouri leaving the Big 12 next season for the Southeastern Conference.

Students began lining up for prime seats at daybreak last Sunday, and thousands formed a boisterous crowd outside before tip-off. They poured into the gym the moment the doors cracked open, working themselves into a wall of noise during player introductions. The sound registered at 120.2 decibels, roughly equal to that of a jet engine.

Robinson finished with 28 points and 12 rebounds for Kansas (24-5, 14-2), which wrapped up at least a share of its eighth straight Big 12 title and 12th in the conference’s 16 years. Taylor added 24 points, 7 in overtime.
933 2012-02-26 So is this year’s rally suddenly in jeopardy?

Not necessarily. Yes, it’s true that over the long run, corporate profits are a major driver of stock market performance. But there is virtually no correlation between earnings growth and stock price movements in any single calendar year, said Doug Ramsey, chief investment officer at the Leuthold Group.

Mr. Ramsey has studied market performance going back to 1938, and has discovered that in the 16 best years for stocks, eight actually coincided with declines in corporate earnings. And profits rose in 13 of the 16 worst years for stocks.

It just goes to show that earnings aren’t a predictor of stock performance; it’s the other way around. The equity market is a forward-looking gauge of the health of the economy, which in turn affects profits.

So don’t assume that this year’s rally must be threatened by weaker-than-expected earnings. Instead, it may simply be foreshadowing a profit rebound in 2013, just as last year’s flat stock market predicted this year’s modest profit outlook.

For the record, Mr. Ramsey says he believes that S.& P. 500 profits will decline this year, versus 2011. Yet he thinks domestic and foreign stocks are likely to produce double-digit gains.

Jason Hsu, chief investment officer at the investment consulting firm Research Affiliates, says that this “is a classic case of the dichotomy between the health of the economy and the health of corporate earnings.”

So just as they did last year, investors face two conflicting trends.

“It’s hard to say which one is ultimately going to dominate,” Mr. Hsu says. But, he notes, investors understand that earnings are cyclical and that profit growth had to slow eventually.

On the other hand, there has been better-than-expected news about the domestic economy, coupled with signs of improvement from Europe. So in the short run, he says, the markets are likely to react to the economy.

“As long as improvements to the economy and the European crisis dominate the headlines, I think the earnings slowdown is going to be somewhat of a nonissue for the time being,” he said.

Mark R. Freeman, chief investment officer at the Westwood Holdings Group, an asset management firm, says investor confidence will really be put to the test when first-quarter earnings reports start rolling in this spring.

Right now, first-quarter 2012 profits are expected to grow barely 1 percent versus the same period in 2011, according to S.& P. Capital IQ. But if earnings don’t at least meet those modest expectations, and instead decline, investors might rethink their newfound confidence in the economy, he says.

OF course, he adds, one other factor must be taken into account.

In an environment of low interest rates, when the bond market is offering record-low yields, investors have begun to look to other asset classes as potential sources of income.

“The equity market isn’t just promising decent dividend income, but also the ability to grow that income in the future,” Mr. Freeman says. “The irony of ironies is that it may not be earnings growth that props up stock prices like last year. It may be income.”
934 2012-02-26 The cherished American ideal of self-reliance has a flip side: discomfort with the idea of bailouts and safety nets. The notion that even a small portion of such aid might find its way to the undeserving can be enough to scuttle support, or restrict help so drastically that few can use it. The specter of moral hazard haunts a basic tension in American life: to what extent are people responsible for their own problems? The more trouble you’re in, moral hazard suggests, the less we should help.

Bankers say that generously easing loan terms or reducing mortgages outright would only encourage homeowners who can pay to pretend they can’t. It would also, the bankers say, send a dangerous message: a financial commitment isn’t really a commitment. Economists and policy makers say the bankers are right — but only to a point. Shaun Donovan, the secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, said that there was a “nugget of truth” to the moral hazard argument. But he also said that the best evidence indicated that only about 10 or 15 percent of mortgage defaults were by homeowners still financially capable of paying their mortgages. Most troubled homeowners, like the Katrina victims, are genuinely hard up.

Kamala D. Harris, the attorney general of California, is adamant that homeowners are not looking to abuse the system. “I have met with these families,” she said, “and every single one of them wants to pay to stay in their homes.”

Still, the $26 billion deal that authorities struck with banks this month over foreclosure abuses — a main element of which will require the banks to reduce homeowner debt — angers some. Homeowners who keep paying their mortgages, even if their homes have lost value, reasonably wonder why neighbors who weren’t as responsible are getting help.

On the other hand, the problems in the housing market are a problem for all of us. Many economists and housing experts agree that the debt that now looms over homeowners is holding back a broad recovery.

Since the settlement was announced, pressure has mounted for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants whose loans are not eligible for the deal, to allow debt relief for their borrowers as well. But concerns over moral hazard, among other things, have held them back.

MORAL hazard has long been used to explain why social safety nets like welfare, unemployment insurance and workers’ compensation should be less generous. It is almost always applied to the recipients, rather than the providers, of such benefits. A lot of energy has gone into arguing that higher workers’ comp payments, for example, make workers careless. Far less is said about how lower workers’ comp invites moral hazard for employers by, say, making them less attentive to workplace safety.

Economists have longcomplained that moral hazard could easily be described in more neutral language, like “misaligned incentives.” But the term, with its implied judgment, has stuck.

It seems to have originated in the 19th-century insurance industry. (Hazard was a popular game of dice.) Insurers drew a bright line between natural hazards, like storms, and moral hazards, like playing with matches, that stemmed from what the 1867 edition of the Aetna Guide to Fire Insurance called “carelessness and roguery.”

Today, insurers battle moral hazard with co-pays and deductibles. If you have health insurance, you are, based on the theory of moral hazard, less likely to avoid smoking, and more likely to go to the doctor for a common cold. But in a 2005 article in The New Yorker, titled “The Moral Hazard Myth,” Malcolm Gladwell noted that people with insurance do not check into hospitals for their enjoyment, and that people without insurance forgo preventive care that could save thousands of dollars. Moral hazard also overlooks the noneconomic costs of risky actions like smoking — costs like ruined lungs, suffering and death.

“The economics of moral hazard work to convince us that, however well intentioned, social responsibility is a bad thing,” Tom Baker, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania, wrote in “On the Genealogy of Moral Hazard,” a historical account published in 1996. “Moral hazard signifies the perverse consequences of well-intentioned efforts to share the burdens of life, and it also helps deny that refusing to share those burdens is mean-spirited or self-interested.”

That is not to say that there is no such thing as moral hazard. Economists point to a 2008 settlement in which Countrywide Financial announced that it would modify subprime loans for people who were delinquent. Suddenly, many of Countrywide’s subprime customers stopped paying.

But remedies can be designed to reduce moral hazard, said Adam J. Levitin, a Georgetown University law professor and mortgage expert. He points out that Countrywide, now owned by Bank of America, offered help only to those in default, instead of to all those who were given suspect loans. In the case of the debit cards, an investigation found that FEMA neither checked the identity of recipients nor told them how the money could be spent.

Under the new foreclosure settlement, only homeowners who were already delinquent will be eligible for principal reduction.

Plenty of other factors keep homeowners from trying to shirk commitments, said Elyse D. Cherry, C.E.O. of a community development group, Boston Community Capital. Ruined credit makes it harder to borrow money, get an apartment and, with employers increasingly doing credit checks, find a job. Moving is hard on families. And then there are the larger social costs: pockmarked neighborhoods and declining property values.

Moral hazard, Ms. Cherry said, “is hogwash.” That is an interesting view coming from a woman who runs what might be considered a petri dish for moral hazard. Boston Community Capital buys homes that have gone into foreclosure, then sells them back to the original owner at a price they can afford. If homeowners later sell at a profit, they must split the proceeds with Boston Community Capital.

Presumably anyone who heard about the program, which is small, would be tempted to default. Banks are so sensitive to this possibility that many forbid the resale of a foreclosed home to its original owner, even though it would make no difference to the banks’ bottom line.

But usually, the clients have defaulted long before hearing about the program. Some, in fact, are packed and waiting for eviction.

Consider the case of one Boston Community client. In one view, she might seem like a classic case of moral hazard — the kind of person many Americans are loath to help. When the banks offered to lend her money against the rising value of her home, she happily accepted. Now she owes $400,000 on a house worth closer to $100,000. Aiding her now might only encourage that type of behavior.

Another view is that she is a working person striving for the American Dream. She had every reason to believe that her bankers knew more about finance than she did. She paid a contractor for renovations; he absconded. When the recession hit, her work dried up and her home’s value dropped. Now, she’d love to buy back the home for its current market price.

Ms. Cherry answers that question with a question: Does it matter? Moral hazard, she said, has been used to fend off solutions long enough.

“Let’s assume that the guy who says, ‘I paid my mortgage; why shouldn’t she pay hers?’ wins, right?” Ms. Cherry said. “Now what do we do? How is that a strategy for getting out of the problem that we’re in?”
935 2012-02-26 Documents related to the case involving Monroe Beachy, who has been accused of running a Ponzi scheme....
936 2012-02-26 Today, it’s that oblivion that threatens to engulf both peoples. No two nations have ever been so deeply shaped by each other and yet so unaware of their debt to each other.

At the dawn of the 20th century, Iran was racked by the lawlessness and tribalism that were endemic to the region. By about midcentury, under Reza Shah Pahlavi, Iran had an army and an effective central government, which made subsequent industrialization possible. The credit for a surprising amount of that industrialization goes to the efforts of leading Iranian Jews.

Among them were the Nazarian brothers, who left Iran for Israel in the late 1940s, fought in Israel’s 1948 war of independence, went on to work in construction and, when they had mastered those skills, committed the unthinkable: they returned to their birthplace to begin building there. They became manufacturers of loaders, dumpers, cranes and cement mixers, and made these modern tools of urbanization available and affordable for the first time in Iran. The city of Isfahan, one of Iran’s greatest tourist destinations, whose proverbial grandeur equals “half the world,” became so only when the brothers, in collaboration with top Israeli engineers, built its underground sewer system and rid the city of disease and noxious air.

Another group of brothers, the Elghanians, erected high-rise buildings and highways that inoculated the country against tribal isolation. They also founded Iran’s first advanced plastic factory, which paved the way for other socioeconomic and scientific advances.

But soon after the fall of the shah, the chief of the Revolutionary Courts, Sadegh Khalkhali, executed hundreds of democratic-minded youths who had turned against the new regime. He also executed one Elghanian brother, Habib, on the charges of sowing “corruption on earth” and “espionage for Israel.” Mr. Elghanian’s execution set fire to the Jewish community. Many of Iran’s 100,000 Jews fled, mostly for Israel or the United States, and today only around 20,000 remain.

Just as the majority of Iranians are unaware of this history, so too are Jews unaware of the contributions of Iranians to Jewish survival. All too often, I’ve witnessed American Jews’ look of surprise when, upon meeting me, they learn of the existence of Jews in Iran for the first time, despite the fact that Iran still remains the largest home to Jews in the Middle East outside of Turkey and Israel.

As early as the sixth century B.C., Jews, exiled in Babylonia, found a savior in Persia’s Cyrus the Great, who helped them return to Israel. In the early 1940s, Iran became a refuge to Jews, who were this time fleeing Hitler’s army. Thousands owed their lives to the valorous conduct of Abdol-Hossein Sardari, the head of Iran’s diplomatic mission in France, who defied Nazi orders by issuing thousands of passports and travel documents to Jews. Even when President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was in top Holocaust-denying form, the descendants of the Polish survivors who chose to settle in Iran were laying flowers upon the graves of their loved ones in what’s known as the Polish Cemetery in Tehran.

Would the two nations allow their rulers to begin a war if they were aware of their depth of indebtedness to each other? By bombing Iran, Israel would be bombing a portion of Jewish history. If that happens, which side I would choose will not be a question. I will be twice destroyed by the two imperfect yet beloved cultures that each make up half of the woman I am.
937 2012-02-26 Indeed, by any measure, the north side of 69th Street on either side of Lexington Avenue is an urban gem, lined with elegant town houses and converted stables that evoke a New York from Edith Wharton’s time. Although the homes to the west of Lexington Avenue face the factorylike expanse of Hunter College — and to the east, looming apartment towers — the blocks are quiet, forming a microneighborhood that feels like an oasis from the clamor of New York, and perhaps even the 21st century, too.

“At night you can take a bowling ball and it won’t hit anything,” said Bill Roskin, president of the freshly hatched neighborhood association.

The transit authority says it has few other options. It is installing elevators at various stations in keeping with its agreement with the federal government to make 100 stops compliant with the Americans With Disabilities Act by 2020. Ms. Tendler said that to build the elevators at the 68th Street stop, which serves Hunter College, the existing exits must be shut temporarily, raising the issue of commuter access.

Shuttering the station would be problematic; it is one of the busiest in the city, according to Ms. Tendler, and the nearest stations to the north and south are oversubscribed. Yet the platforms at the 68th Street stop extend underground to East 69th Street. For the agency, the answer was simple: just build permanent entrances there, which would also ease overcrowding once the original entrances reopen. The job is projected to cost $57 million and take just over three years, one of which would go to the construction of the entrances.

But at community board meetings that touched on the matter in October and early January, neighbors yowled. The original plans showed subway entrances on the north side of East 69th Street, where the sidewalk is narrow and gorgeous old buildings sit. The agency said the image was for illustrative purposes only, but the damage was done: the sketches made it look as if subway travelers would be spit out at the wrought-iron door of a particularly gracious doorman building on the intersection’s northwest corner, a landmarked block. The controversy was first reported by the online news site DNAinfo.

“As originally contemplated, it was absolutely preposterous,” said Richard Bourgerie, a retired lawyer who lives in an apartment there. “And not to be too crass about it, but it could detract from the value of the apartments in the building.”

So residents, who insist they have no problem with elevators being installed, began pushing for alternatives. Surely the platform could be extended to East 70th Street, a more commercial corner, some said, or to East 67th Street. Or perhaps the existing entrances needn’t be shut during the construction period at all. They also noted that the Second Avenue subway, when opened, would ease the commuter burden on the Lexington Avenue line.

But the transit authority said Hunter College would ensure that the stop stayed very busy, despite any siphoning off by the new Second Avenue line. Ms. Tendler also said East 67th Street was the site of a “very complicated switching system.” While the authority is considering the possibility of entrances there, which would be more expensive, it is now aiming to put the entrances on the south side of East 69th Street, which some residents still oppose.

“Money might not be an object to people who live on 69th Street,” Ms. Tendler said, “but it is an object for us.”

As the neighborhood association plots its counterproposal — it has hired the land-use lawyer Sid Davidoff — the transportation authority is conducting an environmental assessment that is expected to be completed around June.

Architectural and historical preservation experts, for their part, said that while the authority could lessen the aesthetic impact on East 69th Street by building better-looking entrances, mass transit was an intrinsic part of urban life. Many landmarked areas share space with subway stations, after all.

“Does it belong there? No,” said Andrew Alpern, an architectural historian. “But if we start saying we’re not going to allow subway entrances where there’s an architecturally or socially distinctive block, of course not — we can’t do that. That’s elitism of the worst sort.” He added: “But you can certainly take feelings into account, of how you put it in there. That’s a balancing-out that New York is famous for.”
938 2012-02-26 He has found plenty of support for his view. Within a month of the HOT lane’s opening, Mr. Rodgers and a coalition of local groups had gathered thousands of signatures on a petition calling on state and county authorities to stop or suspend the program immediately.

The source of his displeasure: “The time it takes me to get home, and the time away from my family,” Mr. Rodgers said in a telephone interview. Driving in the free lanes, he said, the 45-mile trip home from work during rush hour had doubled to a 90-minute or even two-hour grind since the conversion. He credits the petition drive for the state’s decision to delay a second lane-access project.

The shake-up of who gets to use express lanes, and at what price, extends beyond Atlanta. California air-quality regulators ended single-occupant H.O.V. privileges for many types of hybrids last summer, revising the list of eligible vehicles to exclude older, conventional hybrids like the Toyota Prius in favor of plug-in hybrids and battery-electric cars. Likewise, the rules controlling lane access for hybrids in Virginia will change in July.

Like Atlanta, which secured a $110 million Transportation Department grant in 2008 for congestion reduction projects, cities including Dallas, Denver, Houston and Los Angeles have completed or are now converting car pool lanes to high-occupancy toll lanes with federal support. In December, Virginia secured a $20 million federal grant for a HOT lane project in the works for Interstate 95. The project, with a projected cost of more than $940 million, will connect with HOT lanes already under construction on the Capital Beltway.

Nicknamed Lexus lanes in the 1990s by critics who pointed out that many drivers would not be able to afford the privilege, HOT lanes are rarely introduced without some opposition. The debate over how to unclog American highways pits free-market fixes — pricing schemes based on travel demands at specific times of day — against government incentives that restrict roadways as a carrot for desirable behaviors like car-pooling or driving a less polluting car.

On Interstate 85 in Atlanta, motorists left the new toll lane virtually vacant for the first few days. Gov. Nathan Deal soon stepped in, slashing the maximum charge for traveling the full length of the corridor at peak travel times to $3.05, from $5.50, after less than a week of operation. And he asked federal authorities to allow two-person car pools to drive free in the toll lane. The Federal Highway Administration decided to maintain the three-person car pool requirement for HOT lane funds, however, writing in November that it was still too early to evaluate the program’s effectiveness.

The old system was far from ideal. According to the Georgia Department of Transportation, morning travel speeds in the two-person car pool lane peaked at 36 miles an hour in 2005-6. In 2009, the lane picked up to 45 m.p.h. at the height of the morning commute. But the state attributed the increase to short-term gas shortages, gas price spikes, a slowing economy and road improvements, and worried that by 2015 the H.O.V. lane travel speeds would average only 26 m.p.h.

Indeed, cities including Seattle and Minneapolis have used HOT lanes to maintain average speeds upward of 50 m.p.h. in the toll lane more than 95 percent of the time. Even in Atlanta, where the program has met vocal opposition, the lane was used for about 7,300 trips each weekday in its first month, officials reported. By January that had grown to more than 11,600 trips per weekday.

In the first full work week of December, average speeds during the morning peak ranged from 39 to 63 m.p.h., compared with 30 to 57 m.p.h. in the general lanes. Toll rates reached no more than $3.75, and the daily trip averages for the month were $1.16.

Of course, commuters could have all of those benefits — driving in the express lane without paying tolls — if they traveled in car pools.

Eliminating the prized privilege for hybrids may have had some unintended consequence in the transition period while plug-in models remain relatively scarce. Researchers with the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California, Berkeley found that banning solo hybrid drivers from the car pool lane appeared to slow traffic across all lanes. Possibly because drivers feel uncomfortable blazing past stopped traffic at 70 m.p.h., and probably because cars switching out of the car pool lane must decelerate more, the researchers suggest, greater congestion in adjacent lanes slows travel speeds in the car pool lane.

According to Ellen Hanak, a senior policy fellow with the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California, paid express lanes can do a lot more for changing behavior and reducing congestion than free car pool lanes.

“The nature of how land use and residential development and job development has occurred, we have more and more situations where car pools are just not convenient for people,” she said in an interview at the organization’s San Francisco headquarters.

Federal census data released last fall showed that in 2009 just 10 percent of United States workers took car pools to work; 76 percent of American workers drive to work alone. For suburban residents commuting to jobs in a city, solo driving is even more common, at 82 percent.

Despite thriving grass-roots ride-sharing plans like the “casual car pool” across the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, a lot of H.O.V. lanes have been underused, Ms. Hanak said. “The idea with HOT lanes was ‘O.K., let’s use the capacity better and put a price on the availability of a faster lane.’ ”

Although the old perception of HOT lanes as a privilege for the rich persists, Ms. Hanak said, “Anybody who’s a driver can at certain times find it really valuable to get somewhere faster. Time can be money for everybody.”

Not surprisingly, many businesses and researchers see technology as part of the solution. For example, I.B.M., the California Transportation Department and the Center for Innovative Transportation at the University of California, Berkeley have joined in a research initiative intended to bring more real-time data into traffic management.

Ms. Hanak said she believed technology could play an even larger role in smoothing the flow of highway traffic.

“Technology has evolved to the point where it’s possible to move toward a system where we’re charged in general for road use the way people are charged on these express lanes,” she said.

For any solution, the ultimate test may be surviving some level of irrationality on the road.

“You’ve got to deal with this organic thing, which is the driving public,” Ms. Hanak said.
939 2012-02-26 IN the fall of 1995 the conductor Michael Tilson Thomas opened his inaugural program as music director of the San Francisco Symphony with the premiere of Lou Harrison’s “Parade.” This was not just a festive piece to begin a new era. Mr. Thomas was signaling that under his leadership the orchestra would champion idiosyncratic American composers, especially West Coasters like Harrison.

This mission expanded in 2000, when Mr. Thomas presented an American Mavericks festival. The programs brought together composers as different as Charles Ives, Edgard Varèse, Meredith Monk and other mavericks who did not fit in with any school or style. The festival was a hit with audiences, and smaller related spinoffs have continued in subsequent years.

As part of its centennial season the San Francisco Symphony is again presenting a major American Mavericks festival, which includes a four-concert residency at Carnegie Hall in late March. The first two programs (March 27 and 28) feature the full orchestra in Stern Auditorium. The opening program begins with selections from John Cage’s “Song Books” with Ms. Monk, Joan La Barbara and the soprano Jessye Norman. Could there be more diverse vocalists? Henry Cowell’s “Synchrony” and the New York premiere of John Adams’s “Absolute Jest” for string quartet (here the St. Lawrence Quartet) and orchestra will also be heard. The program concludes with Varèse’s sonically assaultive “Amériques,” completed in 1921 and still a shocker with its police sirens and lion’s roar.

The next night Mr. Thomas conducts Carl Ruggles’s “Sun-Treader” and Ives’s “Concord Symphony” (Henry Brant’s orchestration of Ives’s visionary “Concord” Piano Sonata). Of special interest is Morton Feldman’s “Piano and Orchestra,” an unconventional concerto with swaths of mystical music, featuring the superb pianist Emanuel Ax.

The series then moves to Zankel Hall, where members of the orchestra will play smaller-scale works (March 29 and 30). The first program has pieces by Harry Partch, Mason Bates and David Del Tredici along with Harrison’s exhilarating Concerto for Organ and Percussion (which had a rare performance at the Juilliard School during the recent Cage festival). The brilliant organist Paul Jacobs is the soloist. The final program, hosted by Mr. Thomas and conducted by Jeffrey Milarsky, has music by Ms. Monk, Steve Reich, Lukas Foss and the New York premiere of Morton Subotnick’s “Jacob’s Room: Monodrama.”

The term maverick has been devalued of late by politicians from all over the spectrum who claim it as a brand name. What links the American Mavericks composers for Mr. Thomas is their feisty independence. Harrison, for example, drew great inspiration from Eastern music, writing unconventional pieces that combined Asian instruments, especially the gamelan, with Western models.
940 2012-02-26 But this latest version of the Permit Extension Act is contentious among environmentalists and smart-growth planners, because in addition to extending permit deadlines, it covers “environmentally sensitive areas” in the Highlands, the Pinelands and other rural zones excluded from the permit extensions in the last two rounds. The new bill not only expands the areas that will now qualify for permit extensions, but also retroactively renews permits that had expired in those areas — in a rule that New Jersey Sierra Club’s director refers to as “the Dracula clause.”

“This bill puts environmentally sensitive areas back in play,” said Jeff Tittel, the director of the Sierra Club’s New Jersey chapter. “If they ran out in the last two years, they can come back to life.”

Chris Sturm, the senior director of state policy for New Jersey Future, said her group, which promotes smart-growth planning, was concerned with sections of the Highlands and the Pinelands beyond those in the designated “growth areas” included in the permit extensions.

“We understand the need to extend permits in times of economic downturn,” she said. “But we’re asking, why the expansion into two regions that are designated important for water resource protection?”

Carol Ann Short, the chief operating officer of the New Jersey Builders Association, described the new bill as clarifying “what the Legislature had intended with the original Extension Act,” by including “certain areas in the Highlands and Pinelands where growth was planned and approvals were granted.”

The Chiusanos’ Hammonton project is in one such area, in the Pinelands; Ms. Chiusano said there were already other apartment complexes adjacent to their property. There is a need in that area for the type of housing they want to build, she said.

“There’s so much uncertainty in the housing market,” she said. “If we had to go back in and do it all over again, that’s just not a risk we’re willing to assume.”

Measured by the number of state building permits, the pace of new housing has slowed considerably in the last few years. From January to November 2011 (the period for which the most recent statistics are available), the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs issued building permits for 10,474 residential units, versus 36,870 residential units over the same period in 2005, and 23,374 in 2007.

Even so, when combined with more than six million square feet of approved office and retail space, the department estimated, the net value of approved projects yet to be built was in excess of $10 billion in 2011.

Failure to renew the Permit Extension Act would mean additional costs for builders throughout the state, and possibly the death of planned projects. Basing his estimate on earlier studies, Mr. Van Osten says permissions and regulations account for 25 to 35 percent of a project’s cost.

Mr. D’Anastasio estimated that for projects of the size he is planning — 112 town houses in Woodstown, 25 single-family homes in Deptford and 60 town houses in Magnolia — the permit renewal process would cost him an additional $20,000 to $50,000 per project. That amount would cover application fees, engineering escrows, and paying his professional team to reappear before local governments. Should a project be rejected, the cost of redesigning it would be far greater.

“We have all this money invested in these approved projects but no new market to build in yet,” said Mr. D’Anastasio, who also has partially completed projects in Burlington City, Glassboro and Mays Landing. “If they don’t extend the Permit Extension Act, I would have to go back and incur all the expenses of going through two rounds of approvals all over.”

Even if some builders are no longer in a position to complete projects, the value of the permits remains significant, Mr. Van Osten said. “They have these projects in their pockets and money invested,” he said. “If they needed to sell it to someone else, they could do that.”
941 2012-02-26 3. Lightly score the skin of the duck breasts to make a diamond pattern; be careful not to cut all the way through to the meat. Sprinkle with salt, cover and refrigerate until ready to use in the cassoulet.

4. Toss the duck legs with the garlic (use more if your cloves are small), thyme, shallot and a few pinches of salt. Refrigerate and marinate the duck legs overnight.

5. Heat the oven to 350. Put the duck carcass, onion, carrot and celery in a roasting pan. Roast, turning every now and then until quite well browned. Take your time; it’ll take at least an hour.

6. Transfer the contents of the roasting pan to a large pot; pour off the rendered fat and reserve it. Add the bay leaf, parsley and about 10 cups of water to the pot, and turn the heat to high.

7. Bring just to a boil, then lower the heat so the mixture sends up a few bubbles at a time. Cook, skimming and discarding any foam that accumulates, for at least 60 minutes and up to 2 hours. Cool slightly, then strain. Season with salt and pepper. Refrigerate the stock overnight. The next day, take the stock out of the refrigerator and remove the duck fat from the top; it will have solidified, and you’ll be able to scoop it right off.

8. Put the fat in a medium saucepan over medium heat. When the fat melts and reaches about 190 degrees, add the duck legs along with the garlic and as much olive oil (or duck fat) as necessary to submerge the legs. Discard the thyme and shallot.

9. Cook, never letting the heat exceed 200 degrees, until the meat is tender and easily pierced with a fork, about 11/2 hours. Let cool, then store the duck in the fat in the refrigerator until you’re ready to use it in the cassoulet.

Makes: 1 carcass for stock; 2 legs for confit; 2 breasts for searing; about 8 cups stock; and 1 cup fat.
942 2012-02-26 Knowing that her son was fascinated by history, Stella, who had been reading a book of letters written by the legendary Mitford sisters, began telling the story of Unity Mitford, the daughter of an aristocratic British family who insinuated herself into ’s inner circle and later shot herself in the head after declared war on . Suddenly, horribly, McCartney realized she couldn’t possibly finish the story. She giggled with loopy fatigue. “Oh, dear!” Miller looked up, waiting for the denouement. “And then,” she said hurriedly, “the English lady became very sad.”

The next morning, Stella would board a plane to Rome, where she was opening a new shop.

She may be one of the most interesting designers in the world today, but when she started out, the fashion world didn’t have many nice things to say about Stella McCartney. A prominent designer in New York, at the mention of her name, used to shriek like a jay, “The incredibly untalented Ms. McCartney!” And there was the public put-down by when, in 1997, he learned that he was being succeeded at Chloé by a 25-year-old woman who was only two years out of fashion school. “I think they should have taken a big name,” he snipped. “They did, but in , not fashion.”

The man who hired McCartney for Chloé, Mounir Moufarrige, surely recognized the value of her famous family name. Moufarrige, an unctuous, hand-kissing executive, is the same individual who, a dozen years later, made “artistic adviser” of Ungaro. McCartney was well aware of his game but also felt confident that she could run a fashion house. After all, few major designers have come into the business better prepared than McCartney — if being exposed, from birth, to the demands of touring, celebrity and the media counts as preparation. As for Moufarrige, she said with a wry smile, “He was really my last connection to the McCartney thing.”

McCartney took with her to Chloé her best friend and classmate from Central Saint Martins, Phoebe Philo, with whom she had already started a talked-about label in her apartment in Notting Hill. “I mean, we were living in each other’s pockets,” McCartney says. “We were stuck like glue.” The clothes that she and Philo designed for Chloé were exactly what you’d expect from two English girls out to make their mark in a Paris dominated by the brash talents of at Dior, and, as of October 2000, at Yves Saint Laurent. McCartney and Philo’s clothes were equally brash — freely and crudely expressing the desires of young women for sex and fun — with skintight pants, skimpy sequined dresses and airbrushed T-shirts (McCartney used T-shirts her parents bought in the ’70s as a source).

McCartney and Philo, both single at the time, were presumably interested in those things themselves. , who has been a close friend of McCartney’s since they met in 1999, remembers being shocked at her wildness. “I’ve actually never seen someone go from such a free spirit to such a kind of beautifully conventional, hard-working life as a wife and mother,” she told me. “She was in full fun mode when I met her, and I just fell in love with her. She was shockingly honest. I always say there’s this kind of hidden ghetto side to Stella. She’s tough. She doesn’t back down from someone who might have less to lose than her.”

After McCartney left Chloé, some speculated that there was tension between her and Philo. But McCartney insists that “we didn’t have that fashion-chick falling out; we just moved on.” According to Ralph Toledano, the respected executive who took over Chloé from Moufarrige and today runs the fashion division of Puig, McCartney pulled the design weight at Chloé — not Philo, as many assumed. “Phoebe had a lot of input,” Toledano says, “but Stella was running the show.” One reason people concluded that McCartney was less talented was that Philo went on to triumph without her at Chloé ­­ — and later became the much celebrated minimalist designer of Céline — while McCartney’s first show for her own label was a flop. In what she now calls “a massive misstep,” McCartney sent out plastic guitar purses and clothes trashed with Cockney rhyming slang. The Allied bombing of had commenced the night before.

“I don’t think you can blame that!” she said, laughing at the memory. In a burst of British irreverence, she also hired Saint Martins students for her design team rather than professionals. “But the biggest mistake was I was trying to be something that I wasn’t.”

Where she has succeeded since then is in designing for exactly who she is. Now 40 years old, she has developed a witty, down-to-earth approach to dressing women like her: well-to-do, yes, but working women with lives of responsibility and complexity, women who have more use for a well-cut pantsuit for work or a roomy knit jumpsuit for hanging out with girlfriends than they do for a floor-length gown. McCartney is one of the very few designers, male or female, who make clothes for all hours of the day and not just the evening. In fact, red-carpet fashion has never been McCartney’s strength. , a friend, recalled wearing a dress by McCartney to the Oscars and laughing with her afterward, because “I was on every worst-dressed list possible.” Much more successful was a group of ultracurvy black cocktail dresses with a sheer, polka-dot panel down one side that McCartney designed in early 2011, after the birth of her last child, as if to announce she was ready to go out again. They were a huge hit with customers; in magazines, the dress looked as good on as it did on Gisele.

It sounds incredibly simple, but after more than a decade of dead-serious conceptualism, postmodern irony and Galliano-type showmanship, the fashion industry feels stuck for ideas: designing from life for life — rather than returning to the ’60s, say, or drawing inspiration from the “warrior woman” or some other female fantasy — feels fresh and modern.

The offices for McCartney’s company are on Golborne Road, not far from the pots-and-old-boots charm of Portobello Road, and a 10-minute drive from her home. There are three levels, with the 13 members of the design staff, including merchandisers and designers for shoes and children’s wear, on the top floor. Frederick Lukoff, the chief executive who previously worked at and Lanvin, told me: “This is a company of mothers. It’s a unifying trait. These are organized, efficient moms. There are not many men, and the few are usually stunned by the level of organization of the women.”

In December, I attended several design meetings with McCartney and her team — Carolina Brodasca, Natasha Cagalj, Sara Jowett, Frances Howie — and I had the impression, most of the time, that they were finishing one another’s sentences. The people around McCartney seem to have no trouble voicing their opinions about designs. “I don’t think she’s competitive in that way,” Jowett explained. “She’s like, ‘Great, if you’re doing something brilliant, then let’s do that.’ ” As Tom Ford, a close friend of McCartney’s for the past 15 years, said: “Stella is not competitive in the girl arena. She is a girlfriend.”

I later asked McCartney about the lack of hierarchy and attitude in her office. “You know, the fashion industry has got some funny personalities,” she said delicately. “We don’t. We like a nice atmosphere. We don’t see the point in too much ego or competition. We just want to get on with it.”

When the (now PPR) agreed to back McCartney in 2001, the designer struck a very good deal for herself, the kind that was uncommon even then and almost certainly would not happen today. With the advice of her uncle, the lawyer John Eastman, McCartney negotiated equal ownership, 50-50. “They were fighting for 51 percent, and I just kept holding out,” she told me. “The very healthful part of the relationship is that we’re doing well, and they allow us to work in a fairly separate manner. Luckily, we’re a strong-enough brand, and a different-enough brand, so they can see the value in the 50 percent they don’t own.”

I asked McCartney if she ever considered asking her father for money to start her company so she could have full control. “We don’t do things like that in my family,” she said. “We work.” Plus, by teaming with Gucci, she would also get its production and distribution know-how.

When I spoke to François-Henri Pinault, the chairman of PPR, he recalled only two occasions of mild tension: once after he bought Puma in 2007 and asked McCartney if she would consider doing a line for Puma rather than for , where she has had a popular women’s performance line since 2004; and again when he transferred her much-liked chief executive to another PPR brand. She made her objections clear in both instances, Pinault said. (She prevailed on Adidas, but lost on the C.E.O.) He added: “It’s always the same with Stella. It’s a tough discussion, but when it’s over, it’s over. She knows that she’s the co-owner of the brand, its creative mind.”

Today the company has estimated annual sales of $120 million, a figure that doesn’t reflect the brand’s full retail power with licenses. And McCartney is expanding: in 2010, after a successful children’s-wear line for Gap, she started Stella McCartney Kids. And at this summer’s Olympics in London, British athletes will be wearing uniforms her company designed for Adidas, the team sponsor. This year, the company, which does most of its business in and the , plans to open its first stores in . McCartney has hinted in the past that she might not want to stay in fashion forever, but Lukoff dismisses the idea that she would ever sell. “That’s not the McCartney way,” the C.E.O. said, adding: “She’s building an asset. She looks at the figures with keen interest.”

Those figures have not been much affected by the recession. Her clothing is as expensive as other designer labels — a minidress from her summer line sells for about $2,200 — but because she offers a full wardrobe rather than primarily evening wear, there is a larger price range than in a lot of her competitors’ lines. (On the low end, for instance, is a T-shirt dress for $395.)

The sweater fitting on the day of the concert took place in a narrow, high-ceilinged studio at the rear of the building, with a view of a parking lot. Around 4 p.m., Brodasca told McCartney that she needed to look at some sunglasses designs before she left for her daughter’s ballet recital.

“The folder is big, so I might have it sent to your house, and you can look through it this week,” Brodasca said.

McCartney frowned. “They always do this,” she said to me. “They give me folders. ‘Take it home with you.’ When I go home, I don’t have time to do that.”

Brodasca continued, “We’re going to use them for the next two collections, so whatever you mark. . . .”

“I’ll do it now, then,” McCartney said.

She glanced at her BlackBerry. Each night, her longtime assistant, Samantha Merry, sends her an updated text of her appointments. That week, Beckett’s preschool was holding its Christmas pageant and Miller was in a concert. McCartney’s life is highly scheduled — as a matter of salvation, her sister Mary suggested. “I think Stella would crack up if she felt that she wasn’t organized and was missing things with the kids; that would make her unhappy.” She added, “And it’s not the way we grew up.”

After a quick look at the sunglasses, McCartney said it was time to leave for the recital, and I followed her out to her gray Mini Cooper. She tossed her black bag into the back next to two child’s seats. Leaving the lot, she hung a left, hit the clutch and shifted, and in a moment we were sailing through the dark, winding, residential streets of Notting Hill. A few minutes later, we rumbled to a stop in front of a large house and went inside to watch six little girls dance in a room seemingly created for such a purpose.

Later I asked McCartney if her Mini was turbocharged.

She laughed. After a moment she said: “My mum used to have a Mini Cooper. She had it custom-sprayed this metallic hot pink. She had a little microphone put in it, and she would sing to her eight-track. And she had a bench seat put in the front, and she’d always have four dogs in the back. My mum was renowned for collecting us late from school. I’d be on the village lane in Peasmarsh, and all of sudden — yeeooww — racing around the corner was this pink Mini with screaming out.”

McCartney is in many ways her mother’s daughter. Like Linda, who died in 1998, McCartney doesn’t often wear makeup or fuss with her hair (though she doesn’t go so far as to cut it herself, as her mother did) or worry much about her critics. That so many of her designs seem to say, “This is me, whether you like it or not,” suggests the depth of her mother’s influence.

“She’s a paradox, I’ve always thought,” says Andrea Barron, a documentary-film producer, who has been a close friend of McCartney’s for more than 20 years. “She’s as male as she is female. She’s as feminine as she is strong. She’s always present. She’s one of those people, if you’re talking, who listens. She’s got balls, but she’s gentle. Every paradox, and I’ve thought this since Day 1.” For good or bad, contrast — the stylistic refuge of many designers in the past 20 years — is also at the heart of McCartney’s fashion, with a masculine pajama print complemented by a swirly white trim taken from a ceramic pattern, a combination she used recently for minidresses. But she does the effect well, in a way that feels true to her.

The seesawing between one thing and the other relates, naturally, to her upbringing: the public/private nature of Paul and Linda’s life, the to and fro between her “more gritty side,” as she put it, and her cosmopolitan, well-to-do American side. In a work or social situation, you can almost see her drawing from both parts of herself, her conversational manner direct and mildly ironic. (One person, commenting on her ability to make people feel special, said, “I can never work out when it’s completely natural and when it isn’t.”)

Perhaps the most obvious way her parents have influenced her is in her thinking about animal cruelty. She is the only high-end designer who makes exclusively nonleather handbags and shoes. Her Falabella bags, which feature a chain detail along the edge, are hugely popular — according to Lukoff, accessory sales have grown fourfold in the last three years. Talking about her insistence on being leather-free, McCartney told me that she doesn’t think the rules of the fashion industry change very much. “They do on the design level, how a dress is made, but when it comes to how business is done, people pretty much follow the same rules,” she said. “Obviously I believe that using crocodile or leather to make a handbag is cruel. But it’s also not modern, you’re not pushing innovation.”

McCartney lobbies on behalf of , as her parents did, appearing in a recent graphic video that exposes inhumane practices in the leather-goods industry. But she doesn’t hype her ethics with hangtags. In part that’s because she wants consumers to love a bag for its design, not as something eco, and in part it’s because the system of fair-trade, sustainable, ecological products is not perfect. “You can be making organic sweaters, fair trade, in and the next month, that company is no longer in business,” she said. “Or it rained for a week, and the women couldn’t get to work. So there are a million things that can shift the rules, which I think is interesting.”

Some of McCartney’s best and most surprising designs seem to come from a world of happy homemakers. At the end of her spring 2011 show, following chic pantsuits and grown-up denim play outfits, she sent out shifts and blazers done in an oversize botanical print of lemons and oranges: a retro look with overtones of decorative aprons. (“A lot of people thought we had put a tablecloth on the runway,” Cagalj says.) But McCartney was comfortable with the association. “She’s two women, in a sense,” Barron told me. “She’s the woman who stands behind her man — I’m sure you’ve seen that with Alasdhair. She cooks. She’s that total ’50s woman. But she’s also the type, the woman who does everything herself.”

Her friends agree that marriage has changed McCartney. She and Willis met as she was setting up her company; he was then the publisher of Wallpaper magazine, which ran a creative agency on the side. He came to a meeting to discuss a logo design. Two years later, they married. “One of the smartest things she has ever done is choose Alasdhair as her husband and the father of her kids,” Paltrow told me. “They complement each other. He’s Northern, very practical — not buttoned-up, but he’s not like an American guy talking about his feelings all over the place. She’s like a firecracker.”

Their wedding was in a castle in : three days of games, teas and horseback riding, and a singular gesture of love by the groom. “We were having a cocktail on the lawn after the ceremony, and Alasdhair was making a toast, and he said, ‘I’d like to announce a new addition to our family.’ So we all thought she was pregnant,” Paltrow, a bridesmaid, recounted. “And then out from this row of trees comes this thoroughbred horse. Everyone burst into tears.” Later, the bride and groom — she having changed into a dress of her own design embroidered with stars — hit the dance floor in a bit of Fred and Ginger choreography that had been rehearsed for weeks. “It was insane,” Paltrow said.

Even if marriage has calmed her, she still doesn’t back down from a fight. The McCartney narrative has long included the story that, in 2001, when she left Chloé to start her own line, she turned down opportunities to design and Gucci. According to McCartney, Tom Ford tried to persuade her — over her protests that she didn’t work with fur and leather — to take the creative-director job at Gucci while he designed Yves Saint Laurent, which Gucci Group had recently acquired. “He said: ‘Just come to my studio and look at everything. Maybe you’ll do it,’ ” she recalled, shaking her head. “As if all those exotic skins and corduroy hamster fur were going to turn me on and make me change my entire ethic.”

But when I spoke to Ford, he said: “It was never a conversation about taking over at Gucci. I think she might have interpreted that at a certain point.” He said he was aware of previous statements she made in the press, but “I just never corrected her.”

“Oh, he’s a lying, cheating . . . what?” McCartney exclaimed, when I repeated his comment. “That’s the weirdest thing. Why would he take me into an office and show me every dead animal? ” She laughed and, frowning, said to me: “How are you going to handle that? ‘Stella says she got offered Gucci but she didn’t . . . LOSER!’ ” She continued to chuckle.

That Friday afternoon was a busy one for the design team on Golborne Road. In addition to garments for the fall runway show, set for March 5 in Paris, there was a preseason collection and a separate one that McCartney planned to show during London Fashion Week. Also, she and Brodasca had a meeting with people from Adidas to discuss Olympic gymnastics uniforms. Starting at noon, at the table in the conference room, the design team began looking at line sheets and samples of fabric and yarn as they determined what they liked or still needed.

Looking at some jacquards and prints, McCartney said: “This is all very exciting, but it really needs monitoring. Because in my head, I’ve got 500 different shows here.”

Jowett said, “Well, the prints will hold it all together, and the technique will just add to the depth of what you — ”

McCartney shook her head. “I think we’ve just got to narrow it down.”

“We’re low on time and manpower, let’s put it that way,” Brodasca said.

“And what about our fluid woman, she’s not here,” McCartney said, using shorthand for a soft garment. “We have to help her.” She turned to Howie. “Almost a silk jersey. Is it not going to give you enough structure?”

When I left the office at 5, they were still working, empty teacups sitting amid the line sheets.

Almost every Friday night, McCartney and her husband leave London with their kids and dog and drive two hours to their country home, a former Georgian manor on about 400 acres, where they have a couple of horses, some ponies and a small flock of sheep, as well as extensive flower and vegetable that Willis designed.

When I arrived at 9:30, McCartney, wearing jeans, an old brown sweater and heavy socks, was waiting in the doorway. She took my coat and said that she was making dinner. The children had already gone to bed. The house was utterly still. In the kitchen, Willis was throwing logs onto a fire in the walk-in fireplace, and McCartney was at the counter making pasta and a . A long trestle table stood in front of the fire. The walls were a pale blue, and the original stone floors were uneven and gleaming.

A large window above the sink overlooked the stable yard — part of the property still to be renovated, as I saw the next morning — and on the wall was a chart with each of the children’s names, followed by rows of stars designating rewards and privileges. “It’s a way of keeping order,” McCartney said. There was a corridor lined with boots and coats, and next to it was a breakfast room, where on one wall was an enormous photograph taken by in the ’70s of Paul and his children playing by a wooden fence at their farm in Scotland. “We used to play on that fence for hours,” McCartney said.

McCartney had warned that spending time with her would require weathering some conditions: vomit, tantrums, dog hair. But her children were well behaved and seemingly secure. The next day, when Reiley went down for a nap, Beckett was off with his father, and Miller and Bailey had returned to the weekend’s central event — the arrival of four wild kittens that were now living in the barn — we sat on a big sofa in the living room and talked about Alexander McQueen, her good friend (they struck their deals with Gucci around the same time) who committed suicide in 2010. Before that, he was known to cut off contact for weeks at a time. She says she understands the desire to retreat.

“There are a lot of pressures,” she said. “It’s overwhelming to leave the house sometimes. Even if I didn’t have kids, I would be the same, but I think my brain is occupied with things other than fashion, fashion, fashion.”

Later, over a lunch McCartney prepared, I raised the idea with Willis that McCartney’s brand might one day extend beyond fashion, not unlike the examples of or Calvin Klein.

Willis, who owns a brand-consulting firm that represents , among others, said: “I think Stella is associated with a value system — sustainability, moral values — that’s absolutely relevant to the times. The other brands are just beginning to catch on to her values, but they don’t have the authenticity. So the opportunity for her business to go into hotels and food — ”

Willis, serious, said to her, “Ultimately, what you offer the market is derived from how you live your life.” And then to me: “It’s not as if she’s fabricated these beliefs for the sake of her business. People see that.”

But McCartney was not interested in discussing her brand or her business or her future when the afternoon was slipping away and it would be dark soon.

“Do you want to stay in the kitchen or go for a walk?” she said, shifting her weight from one stockinged foot to the other. So we put on our coats and headed out into the field, taking Miller with us.
943 2012-02-26 Stella McCartney in New York, London and, when she gets the rare chance to relax, Warwickshire....
944 2012-02-26 McCANN--Edith D. Beloved mother of James J. III (Cindy), Louise, Peter D. (Deborah Berke), and William died peacefully February 21, 2012, ten days short of her 93rd birthday. An avid gardener, she was an active citizen in the community she loved, ...
945 2012-02-27 Controversial industry executive says his chief critic was right about difficulties he would face making microfinance turn a profit....
946 2012-02-27 The plaintiffs, a consortium of farmers, were seeking to have Monsanto's agricultural patents invalidated....
947 2012-02-27 The shootings in a high school cafeteria in Charden, Ohio, give parents yet another opportunity to talk with our children and neighbors about gun violence....
948 2012-02-27 In a new survey from Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management, wealthy Americans cited rising health care costs as their top financial concern....
949 2012-02-27 Cathy Horyn answers questions about her story on Stella McCartney and the work ethic that drives McCartney's fashion line....
950 2012-02-27 By invoking the specter of overseas bribery against Kazuo Okada, its ousted shareholder, Wynn Resorts has effectively opened itself up to a wide-ranging federal investigation of its overseas dealings....
951 2012-02-27 Howard Beck, the N.B.A. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers....
952 2012-02-27 Sony's $2.2 billion bid for EMI's publishing assets is one of two proposed deals - the other one involving the Universal Music Group - that would further consolidate the music industry....
953 2012-02-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
954 2012-02-27 An improperly tightened fuel-pressure sensor may cause a small amount of fuel to leak on certain Nissan vehicles from the 2011-12 model years....
955 2012-02-27 Stan Fields joined Horizon Media, New York, in a new post, executive vice president and managing partner. He had most recently been executive vice president and managing director at MediaVest Worldwide, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe.

John Greco and Loretta Seymour joined Maritz Research, part of Maritz, in new posts. Mr. Greco becomes director of new business for the Maritz Technology-Telecommunications Research Group, based in the Boston office; he had most recently been director for United States sales at Ovum Research, Boston. Ms. Seymour becomes vice president and global market lead at Maritz’s Automotive Research Group, based in the Torrance, Calif., office; she had most recently been senior director of the Orange, Calif., office of J. D. Power & Associates.

David Hemelgarn joined the Chisano Marketing Group, Dayton, Ohio, as senior vice president. He had been business development executive at American Trim, Sidney, Ohio.

Pete Hughes and Lianne Onart joined DNA, Seattle, as associate creative directors. Mr. Hughes has worked at agencies that include BBDO and Cole & Weber and Ms. Onart has worked at agencies that include Cole & Weber and Hydrogen.

“Just My Shell,” the M&M’s commercial that ran during Super Bowl XLVI on Feb. 5 and introduced the Ms. Brown brand character, was named the winner of the 2012 YouTube Ad Blitz, sponsored by the YouTube unit of Google. The commercial won a vote on youtube.com as favorite Super Bowl spot. The commercial was created for M&M’s, sold by Mars, by the BBDO New York unit of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. As of Feb. 12, there were 133 million views of Super Bowl spots through YouTube Ad Blitz, YouTube reported, up 43 percent from the views during the week that followed Super Bowl XLV in 2011.

Tim Leake joined the New York office of Hyper Island in a new post, global partnership director. He had been creative director and director for creative innovation at Saatchi & Saatchi New York, part of the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe.

Maize Marketing, Santa Monica, Calif., formed a division to provide communications services to professional services firms like law firms and consulting companies. The new division will be led by Joseph Geisman.

MRM Worldwide, New York, opened an office in Melbourne, Australia, which will be overseen by Mark Cripps, regional director for Asia-Pacific. Renee Stewart, digital director, will lead the Australian account service team. MRM is part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Oakwood Healthcare, Dearborn, Mich., chose Duffey Petrosky, Farmington Hills, Mich., as its creative agency of record for advertising and marketing communications. The assignment, estimated at $1 million to $3 million, had been handled by Team Detroit, part of WPP.

Danny O’Leary joined IEG, Chicago, part of the GroupM division of WPP, as director for client solutions in the IEG Consulting Group unit. He had been director for business and property development at Intersport.

Javier Osorio joined Tris3ect, Chicago, in a new post, creative director on the Kimberly-Clark account. He had been a creative director at Lapiz, Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett division of the Publicis Groupe.

Keith Pardy joined the Weather Channel Companies, Atlanta, in a new post, chief marketing officer. He had most recently served as chief marketing officer at Research in Motion. Weather Channel is owned by a consortium that includes the NBCUniversal division of Comcast, Bain Capital and the Blackstone Group.

Lesley Ridge joined 360 Public Relations, Boston, as content and community manager at the 360PR Social unit. She had been digital services manager at the Washington office of K-global.

Roundarch, Chicago, a digital agency that builds Web sites and apps, was acquired by the Aegis Group, London, in a deal that is initially valued at $125 million and may reach $250 million including earn-outs in the next five years. Roundarch will be combined with Isobar, part of the Aegis Media division of Aegis, to form an agency that will be known as RoundarchIsobar. Roundarch has 250 employees in Chicago and in offices in Boston, Denver and New York and works for marketers like Avis, Bloomberg Sports and HBO.

Mario Ruiz Public Relations, New York, was opened by Mario Ruiz, who had been senior vice president for media relations at the Huffington Post Media Group, part of AOL. Huffington Post will be the agency’s initial client.

Snapple, sold by the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Plano, Tex., was signed to be the first official beverage partner of “America’s Got Talent,” the summer reality talent competition series on NBC. The deal, for undisclosed terms, follows agreements between other beverages like Coca-Cola and Pepsi-Cola with reality talent competition series like “American Idol” and “The X Factor.”

The Telluride Tourism Board, Telluride, Colo., selected Cultivator Advertising and Design, Denver, to serve as its advertising agency of record for three years. The assignment, which had been handled by Signature Advertising, Denver, has a budget estimated at less than $1 million.

Gary Townsend joined Englander Knabe & Allen, Los Angeles, as a partner. He recently retired as chief deputy assessor for Los Angeles County and has been a consultant on several campaigns by candidates for local and state offices.

U-Link Business Solutions Company, Shanghai, was acquired by the Publicis Groupe, Paris, and renamed UBS Saatchi & Saatchi Health as it becomes part of the Publicis Healthcare Communications Group. Financial terms were not disclosed. U-Link has 170 employees in Shanghai and an office in Beijing and works for clients like Johnson & Johnson, Novartis and Pfizer.

Joe Warren joined MPG US, New York, in a new post, executive vice president and director for client services. He had been senior vice president and group planning director at MediaVest, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group unit of the Publicis Group. MPG US is part of the MPG division of Havas Media, which is owned by Havas.
956 2012-02-27 Finance leaders tell Europe that the International Monetary Fund will not provide a bailout; David Carr on the government's use of the Espionage Act against whistle-blowers....
957 2012-02-27 Finance leaders tell Europe that the International Monetary Fund will not provide a bailout; David Carr on the government's use of the Espionage Act against whistle-blowers.
958 2012-02-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
959 2012-02-27 The investment will help Cheniere Energy build a facility in Sabine Pass, La., where natural gas will be compressed, chilled and shipped to Europe, Asia and other foreign markets on giant ships....
960 2012-02-27 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
961 2012-02-27 Plus: How do you respond to a customer who posts a bad review online?...
962 2012-02-27 If you are just starting out as a photographer, there are a few basic steps to take to thwart people who try to snag copies of your images off the Web....
963 2012-02-27 Victims of acid attacks are the subject of 'Saving Face."...
964 2012-02-27 The ability to throw pitches past bats is an important quality to consider when you draft pitchers....
965 2012-02-27 Nokia and Microsoft, partners in smartphones, are not in talks about an equity partnership or a formal merger, the Nokia chief executive, Stephen Elop, said in an interview. Speculation about a Microsoft takeover of Nokia has surfaced periodically...
966 2012-02-27 It appears to be only a matter of time before Nokia and Microsoft get into the tablet computer business. Stephen Elop, the Nokia chief executive, said in an interview that the Finnish handset maker was looking closely at the possibility of produci...
967 2012-02-27 HSBC Holdings, one of Europe’s biggest banks, said that its profit rose 27 percent last year, to $16.8 billion, in part because of greater demand for loans in the developing world....
968 2012-02-27 Howard Kissel, the longtime theater critic for The Daily News, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69.

His death was confirmed by his sister Anne Kissel Elliot, who said he had been suffering from complications of a 2010 liver transplant and had returned from a visit to her in Palm City, Fla., on Thursday.

Mr. Kissel, who for some four decades wrote about film, music and art as well as theater, also once made a foray into acting. There he is in an early scene of Woody Allen’s 1980 film, “Stardust Memories.” Easily recognizable in his oversize eyeglasses and a three-piece plaid suit, with a halo of dark curls (the curls later became silver), Mr. Kissel, as the manager of the filmmaker played by Mr. Allen, argues against his client’s decision to stop making comedies and to deal with human suffering instead. The manager says, “Human suffering doesn’t sell tickets in Kansas City.”

And Mr. Kissel knew a few things about selling tickets, as well as about New York, the city he adopted as his home. He lamented what he playfully called the Kiddy Komponent of New York theatergoing, which he said led to a 13-year run for “Beauty and the Beast” (1994-2007). He praised the “wonderful dizzy quality” of the puppets in “Avenue Q” (2003), which went on to win the Tony Award for best musical and is still running in an Off Broadway theater. He wrote that the 1995 Roundabout revival of Stephen Sondheim’s musical “Company,” a quintessential Manhattan show, looked as if “it had been done by people who had never been here.” He found “The Drowsy Chaperone” (2006) “full of wit and high spirits, so entertaining you can overlook the fact it came from Los Angeles.”

Before joining The Daily News in the mid-1980s, Mr. Kissel was an arts editor of Women’s Wear Daily and its sister publication W magazine. He also served as chairman of both the New York Film Critics Circle and the New York Drama Critics’ Circle. But Mr. Kissel never overestimated the power of theater criticism. “Many shows have become big hits without us,” he said as part of a panel of critics discussing the 2005-6 season on the CUNY TV program “Theater Talk.” “I think that’s just fine. Our job is not to make hits. Our job is to make judgments.”

He was the author of “David Merrick: The Abominable Showman,” a biography of the prolific Broadway producer whose shows included “Gypsy” and “42nd Street.” He turned Stella Adler’s lectures into the book “The Art of Acting” and most recently wrote “New York Theater Walks,” which detailed walking tours based on the city’s theatrical history.
969 2012-02-27 Gov. Dave Heineman of Nebraska, a Republican who is chairman of the governors association, said his state would not “default to the federal government.” But he said “it would be a costly mistake to spend millions of taxpayer dollars” building an exchange before the Supreme Court issues its decision in a challenge to the health care law, which is expected in late June.

A handful of states, including California, Connecticut, Maryland, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington, are moving at a brisk pace to establish exchanges.

In Washington, State Senator Karen L. Keiser, a Democrat who is chairwoman of the Senate health care committee and a leader of the National Conference of State Legislatures’ health committee, said: “Since 2010, many states that were making solid progress, like Iowa and Maine, have gotten stymied. The Tea Party set back health care reform in states where its members were most active.”

State Representative Gregory D. Wren of Alabama, a Republican who is co-chairman of the health reform task force of the conference of state legislatures, said he was distressed to see states postpone action. “The sands in the hourglass are slipping away across the country,” he said.

Mr. Wren has introduced a bill to create an Alabama exchange, but he said that Gov. Robert Bentley, a Republican and a dermatologist, was “taking a wait-and-see approach, to see what the Supreme Court says.”

Research by the nonpartisan Urban Institute found that 14 states had made significant progress in creating exchanges, 16 had made little or no progress and 20 were somewhere in between.

Paradoxically, said one of the researchers, Matthew Buettgens, “states making the least progress could benefit the most,” because they have large numbers of uninsured residents.

In another curious twist, insurance companies, which battled Mr. Obama over health care in 2009 and 2010, are now urging state officials to set up exchanges. They generally prefer state regulation, and they stand to gain because the United States Treasury will send subsidy payments directly to insurers on behalf of low- and moderate-income people who enroll in health plans offered through an exchange.

“Insurance companies are making planning and investment decisions around the Affordable Care Act,” said Representative Joe Courtney, Democrat of Connecticut. “They want to make sure the exchanges work.”

The federal government has given out more than $600 million to help states establish exchanges, but states must figure out how to pay the operating costs.

Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said: “States continue to go at their own pace as they set up their exchanges. This is a natural result of a process that gives states maximum flexibility.”

Proponents, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, a Democrat, say the exchanges will simplify the purchase of insurance and cut costs by increasing competition. Each exchange will have a Web site where consumers and small businesses can compare insurance prices and benefits.

Information technology will be the backbone of every exchange. The complexity of the computer systems needed to verify eligibility, enroll consumers, calculate subsidies and connect the exchange to state Medicaid agencies has slowed work in some states.

State officials, who are cutting budgets to cope with fiscal problems, are often reluctant to spend state revenues.

In Pennsylvania, Gov. Tom Corbett, a Republican, has received $34 million in federal money to develop contingency plans for an exchange even as he denounces the federal law as unconstitutional. A state-run exchange would allow Pennsylvania to “control its own destiny,” said the state insurance commissioner, Michael F. Consedine.

In New Hampshire, Gov. John Lynch, a Democrat, was eager to set up an exchange. But state legislators blocked the idea and forced the insurance commissioner to return $666,000 provided by the federal government for a state-run exchange. “If the federal government sets up an exchange here in New Hampshire, we will not be complicit,” said State Representative Neal M. Kurk, a Republican.

In Oklahoma, State Representative Mark E. McCullough, a Republican, wanted to set up an exchange “as a defensive maneuver, so we could maintain as much control as possible.” But the proposal touched off a furious debate. “We are arguing whether to set up a noncompliant exchange or just sit tight and do nothing.” Mr. McCullough said

In Iowa, State Senator Jack Hatch, a Democrat, is leading efforts to create an exchange. But his bill has only “a one-in-four shot of being passed,” he said.

“Consumer groups, insurance brokers, Democratic legislators and moderate Republicans would like to set up an exchange,” Mr. Hatch said. “But they are being held up by radical conservatives, a Tea Party group, who don’t want to do anything.”

Mr. Hatch said that Gov. Terry E. Branstad, a Republican, was “hiding, remaining silent because he’s afraid to go up against the conservative wing of his party.”

Tim J. Albrecht, a spokesman for Mr. Branstad, said: “That’s simply untrue. If Obamacare is forced on the states, we will be ready. But no state legislation is needed this year.”

Wisconsin began planning an exchange last year under an executive order issued by Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican. But he repealed his own order last month and told state officials to stop work on the exchange.

Florida, which is leading the court challenge to the new law by 26 states, has not made any commitment to set up an exchange and is “taking a wait-and-see approach,” said Jack McDermott, a spokesman for the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation.

Texas is also taking a hard line. “Gov. Rick Perry believes that the federal health care law is unconstitutional, misguided and overreaching,” said his spokeswoman, Lucy Nashed. “Because of that, there are no plans to implement an exchange in Texas.”

In Michigan, Gov. Rick Snyder, a Republican, has urged the Legislature to create an exchange. But his request has stalled in the Republican-led House, where Speaker Jase Bolger says he wants to wait for the Supreme Court ruling.

In Ohio, Democrats have introduced legislation to create an exchange. But State Senator Michael J. Skindell, the sponsor of the Senate bill, said that Gov. John R. Kasich, a Republican, and Republicans who control both houses of the Legislature “are not doing anything with regard to development of an exchange.”

Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor, a Republican who is director of the Ohio Insurance Department, said, “The Obama administration has not issued clear guidance on how either a federal or state exchange will work.”

Bills to create exchanges are gaining momentum in New York and New Jersey. Connecticut established an exchange last year.
970 2012-02-27 To executives at MSNBC, however, the book’s statements were indefensible and, though they did not say so publicly, incongruent with a channel that has branded itself as progressive and forward-thinking and has a disproportionately high share of African-American and Hispanic viewers.

Though Phil Griffin, the president of MSNBC, denied that the channel’s political identity was a consideration in the breakup, he said last week, “I want MSNBC to reflect America in the 21st century, not the America of the 1940s.”

As cable news channels like MSNBC and Fox News Channel have grown highly politicized, they have become arbiters of the bounds of acceptable discourse — not always a comfortable role for those involved. A corporate allergy to controversy sometimes exists, even though controversy is what sometimes motivates channels to hire commentators and compels people to watch.

Timothy Stanley, a British historian whose biography of Mr. Buchanan, “The Crusader,” was released two weeks ago, said he thought the departure was a “marketing decision” by MSNBC, a unit of Comcast. “They took an opportunity to get rid of someone who was doing damage to their liberal brand.”

Mr. Buchanan has always been an ardent conservative. That’s why he was hired by MSNBC in 2002, after spending the previous 20 years as host of CNN’s “Crossfire” between unsuccessful runs for president. At that time, MSNBC called itself “fiercely independent” and had no clear political tilt.

Though accused by some of hate and intolerance, Mr. Buchanan was, for a long time, the visible conservative commentator on MSNBC. He was well liked by colleagues at the channel, even by those with opposite views. “Nobody was more polite, gracious and charming,” said David Shuster, who shared an office with him for several years and is now a substitute anchor for Current TV, a liberal competitor of MSNBC.

Mr. Buchanan was paid well, too. By 2007, he was making more than $500,000 a year at MSNBC, the most of any commentator, according to past and present MSNBC employees who insisted on anonymity because contract details were confidential. The employees said his salary was high in part because he was co-anchor of a show in 2002 and 2003.

And he was writing conservative calls to arms all the while. In 2002, it was “The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization;” in 2006, it was “State of Emergency: The Third World Invasion and Conquest of America.”

While the most recent book is “much more comprehensive,” Mr. Buchanan said, “basically the theme is the same one.”

But MSNBC is not the same channel. In the last few years it has leaned to the left, particularly in prime time, causing Mr. Buchanan to seem more and more like an outlier, even on “Morning Joe,” the talk show co-hosted by Joe Scarborough, a former Republican member of Congress. Mr. Buchanan occasionally came up against MSNBC’s boundaries. In early October he referred to President Obama as “your boy, Barack Obama” in a debate with the Rev. Al Sharpton, and some viewers took it as a racial slur, spurring him to say on “Morning Joe” the next day that he was using boxing terminology.

Two weeks later, “Suicide of a Superpower” was released and was picked apart by liberal groups like Media Matters for America. Mr. Griffin, who had an advance copy, was troubled by its overall lament of diversity and by specific insinuations, including that American Jews had made a “collective decision” to decrease their population through abortion and that the “diverse army of today” may not be superior to the all-white Confederate Army of the Civil War.

In explaining their points of view, Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Griffin found themselves saying the same thing, “Read the book.”

Mr. Stanley said that “Buchanan is very clever and careful at not saying whether the end of white America is a good or bad thing.”

The channel halted Mr. Buchanan’s appearances. He started promoting his book on Fox News, which has higher ratings than MSNBC, and other outlets. He rebuffed Mr. Griffin’s proposal for an hourlong debate with Mr. Sharpton about the book. In November, he fell ill and was hospitalized for 10 days, he said.

In January, as Mr. Buchanan’s absence gained attention, Mr. Griffin was quoted as saying that “the ideas he put forth aren’t really appropriate for national dialogue, much less the dialogue on MSNBC.” They soon started discussing severance terms, Mr. Buchanan said. MSNBC executives said they were relieved that his departure had received relatively little attention when it was announced. Dismayed, however, several of the channel’s hosts spoke up in support of him.

Mr. Scarborough and his co-host, Mika Brzezinski, said in a statement that while they disagreed “strongly” with the book, they believed “those differences should have been debated in public,” on “Morning Joe.”

Chris Matthews, a longtime friend, said on his show: “To Pat, the world can never be better than the one he grew up in as a young boy — Blessed Sacrament Church and Grade School, Gonzaga High School, Georgetown University. No country will ever be better than the United States of America of the early 1950s.”

That was one of Mr. Griffin’s points: that Mr. Buchanan was a product of a earlier era. Some conservatives called his removal “censorship.” Others said it contributed to the narrowing of the American mind — liberals at MSNBC, conservatives at Fox. Mr. Buchanan seemed to agree; “the American people are divorcing one another, they’re separating from one another,” he said. (He appeared on Fox on Feb. 17, the day after his departure was made public, though he said over the weekend that he had not been offered a job there.)

But Michael Steele, the former Republican National Committee chairman, said he was asked to be an MSNBC contributor last year specifically to create “greater ideological diversity.”

“I don’t believe Pat’s departure is a signal that Phil is backing away from that,” Mr. Steele said by e-mail. “Instead you’re beginning to see the emergence of ‘diverse’ conservative voices like Steve Schmidt, Robert Traynham, Meghan McCain and Robert Costa appearing on various shows throughout the day and evening. No doubt, Pat’s passion and fight will continue — it just may look and sound a bit different.”
971 2012-02-27 First thing Sunday, the two sat down to clear the air. Collins described it as a one-way conversation. He expressed his displeasure; Tejada said he understood. The matter was declared closed.

“We talked about the team, about work, about everything, for starting spring training,” Tejada said. “I’m ready to play.”

The matter might have revealed less about Tejada, who inherited the shortstop job after the departure of Jose Reyes, than it does about Collins, who has never been shy about expressing his feelings.

No one mentioned to Collins that Jeter has a home in Tampa, but it probably would not have mattered. Collins acknowledged last week that his desire to have Tejada arrive early from his home in Panama was selfish.

Tejada said that he had problems obtaining his visa at the United States Embassy in Panama City, a three-hour drive from his home in Veraguas, while Collins guessed that he might have gotten a “late start” in his effort to acquire it.

“I told him the importance of what it meant to be here and be a part of this team and what an impact it would have made on his teammates,” said Collins, who has insisted for days that he was disappointed, not angry. “He’s such a good kid, and he was very upset to think he messed up.”

Collins said he was in Port St. Lucie starting Dec. 31. He brought up outfielder Lucas Duda, who arrived here Feb. 5.

In many ways, Duda and Tejada are in a similar situation heading into spring training, which starts officially for the Mets’ position players Monday. Both Duda and Tejada performed admirably when thrust into the lineup midway through last season. And both are understood to have some ways to go in their development.

Tejada said that he did not feel pressure to fill in for Reyes, who signed with the Marlins as a free agent. “I’m Ruben Tejada,” he said. But he said he hoped to step up the level of his play. He batted .284 in 96 games last year after hitting .213 in 78 games in 2010. He said he worked with a personal trainer to bulk up.

“I feel a little bit more stronger,” Tejada said. “Every year you work to get better, so this year, I feel really good.”

Johan Santana completed his first up-and-down bullpen session of the year. He threw 50 pitches, stopping twice, for a few minutes each time, to simulate in-game rest. Terry Collins was pleased. “Another bright day,” he said, even though the sky was completely overcast.
972 2012-02-27 Prosecutors have a constitutional duty to disclose significant evidence favorable to a criminal defendant. But too often that duty, as laid out by the 1963 decision Brady v. Maryland, is violated.

To help ensure compliance, some prosecutors, criminal defense lawyers and legal scholars have sensibly concluded that prosecutors’ files, as a general rule, should be made open to defendants. In cases where turning over evidence might endanger a witness, for example, a judge could allow an exception.

A small number of state and local governments have adopted open-file policies that require prosecutors to make available well before trial all information favorable to the defense, without regard to whether such information is likely to affect the outcome of the case. and and places like have found that such policies make prosecutions fairer and convictions less prone to error. The Justice Department should join this movement and set a national example. But instead, it continues to take half-measures in response to its own failures to meet disclosure requirements.

It responded to several cases of Brady violations by its attorneys — including egregious misconduct in the case of the late Senator — by providing more training and by directing each attorney’s office to set forth clearly its version of the department’s Brady policy, which is to turn over favorable evidence only if it is “material,” meaning likely to make a difference in the case’s outcome.

Those changes are not sufficient because the Brady rule is too easily skirted. It allows prosecutors to withhold favorable evidence that they deem not to be material, leaving defense lawyers unaware of evidence that may be owed them. Ninety-six percent of federal criminal cases are resolved by plea bargains, so the rule puts defendants at a disadvantage in negotiation: without access to information in the government’s files, they don’t know the evidence they face and can’t assess their odds at trial.

This weakness in the Brady rule also means there is no way of knowing how many violations are buried by plea bargains. The few that become known, through trials or post-trial challenges, are no index of the problem’s true dimensions, but they can show how deeply rooted it is.
973 2012-02-27 The carbon dioxide from airplanes accounts for about 3 percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions, a share projected to go up as air traffic rises. The European Union is now requiring airlines that fly into or out of Europe to pay a fee for these emissions. This is a smart response to an urgent problem. The United States and the other nations opposing the program should either come up with a better idea — soon — or drop their objections.

Under the scheme, essentially a cap-and-trade system, airlines will be given an emissions ceiling and allocated permits. They will have to buy new permits only if they exceed the ceiling. This will put a premium on operating more efficiently. And Europe’s hope is that it will avert any increase in emissions and lead to a modest drop, beginning with a 3 percent cut this year compared with a 2004-6 baseline.

The United States, Russia, China and 20 other nations opposed to the plan met in Moscow last week to plot a response. Though no specific actions were agreed, there was much belligerent talk, and even a list of possible retaliatory actions, including levies on European-based airlines that fly internationally. Russia suggested that it might withdraw permissions for European airlines to fly over Siberia on routes from Europe to Asia.

For the sake of their own financial survival, many airlines are trying to become more efficient. But like the power industries, many of which have vociferously resisted cap and trade, they want to change on their own schedule, and without the threat of penalties.

Governments are clearly listening to their airlines. Many, notably Russia and China, also bristle at what they see as an insult to their sovereignty. The Obama administration says it would prefer a global agreement under United Nations auspices. That would be great. But Europe argues, with some justification, that talks aimed at such an agreement have been going on fruitlessly for 15 years, while the problem of climate change continues to grow.

It is not yet clear how many airlines, if any, will exceed their allotment, and by how much. Some of them have already added small surcharges — $3 in the case of Delta Air Lines — in anticipation of having to pay something when the E.U. presents the bill.
974 2012-02-27 Walking down a hallway toward the team bus, Miller turned and said, “We’re just together.”

Still, Kentucky is more than a collection of feel-good moments. It is also a formidable collection of talent. That includes the 6-foot-10 freshman Anthony Davis, known as Spiderman, who leads the country with 4.8 blocks a game and could potentially be the top pick in this year’s N.B.A. draft. There is the 6-4 Lamb, who can play both guard positions and averages 13.8 points. Terrence Jones, a 6-9 sophomore, is an adept rebounder and defender who can score from a variety of spots.

When Kentucky rebounds or creates a turnover, the freshman point guard Marquis Teague pushes the ball to the other end and averages almost five assists, many of them on lobs to Davis or Jones after drawing defenders while driving to the basket. Michael Kidd-Gilchrist, a 6-7 freshman, held Mississippi State guard Dee Bost, who had 16 points at the half, to 5 in the second half as Kentucky came back from 13 behind to win.

“Everyone here makes plays right now,” said Coach John Calipari, in his third season at Kentucky.

He told his team after the game, “You all now are making plays, and we’re real good when you do that.”

Syracuse has just one loss, and North Carolina is talented and could peak going into the N.C.A.A. tournament. Ohio State is well rounded, Missouri has worn down opponents all season with its pace and Kansas may have the best player in the country in Thomas Robinson, but the Wildcats look as strong as any title contender because of their length and cohesiveness on defense and their versatility on offense.

This team is as talented as Calipari’s 2009-10 team, which had five first-round draft picks and went 35-3. What separates this team from that one is poise.

The team from two seasons ago, which had point guard John Wall and center DeMarcus Cousins, was a No. 1 seed in the N.C.A.A. tournament but lost in the regional final to West Virginia. It was a volatile team. Cousins jawed with opponents, the big man Daniel Orton was once removed from a game and sent to the locker room because of his temper, and guard Eric Bledsoe could be careless with the ball.

All were freshman, as was Wall. A week before the N.C.A.A tournament, Calipari said he was watching for the emotional outburst that would cause the Wildcats to lose.

Kentucky does not have those issues this season.

“It doesn’t seem like he has to fight this team like he fought that team two years ago,” Vanderbilt Coach Kevin Stallings said. “It seems like there are no cantankerous personalities that he has to fight. It felt like a couple of years ago he was fighting guys and they were fighting him. This team seems like they have bought in to what he wants more and as a result, they are having unbelievable results. It seems like their team chemistry is a little better.”

There is something else that differentiates the teams: free-throw shooting. Calipari’s teams at Memphis were mediocre from the free-throw line (62 percent in 2006-7, 61 percent in 2007-8) and so was his 2009-10 Kentucky team (67 percent). This season’s team is making 72 percent of its free throws, the best in the Southeastern Conference, including 17 of 21 in the win over Mississippi State.

Kentucky has four players averaging double figures and a fifth, Miller, who scores 9.9 points a game. But scoring is the second-best thing Kentucky does. The Wildcats lead the country in field-goal-percentage defense, limiting opponents to 36.3 percent shooting.

“It starts with Davis, but the overall defense is what separates them from everybody,” Mississippi State Coach Rick Stansbury said. “It’s the best Kentucky team I’ve seen in the 22 years I’ve been here.”
975 2012-02-27 ¶Arby’s Restaurant Group, Atlanta, shifted its creative account to Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, from BBDO New York, part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, which is owned by the Omnicom Group. Spending was estimated at more than $110 million. Although the decision was made without a review, it came a month after Russ Klein joined Arby’s as chief marketing officer; when he was global chief marketing officer at Burger King, he used Crispin Porter as his creative agency.

The change by Arby’s came six days after a presentation at a conference by Bob Kraut, senior vice president for advertising and marketing communications at Arby’s, during which he said the ads by BBDO New York, which carried the theme “It’s good mood food,” helped contribute to gains in awareness for the Arby’s brand as well as sales. In a statement, John Osborn, president and chief executive at BBDO New York, said: “There’s not much to say. The numbers speak for themselves. We’re proud of our contributions to the Arby’s business.”

¶U.S. Cellular, Chicago, named Mullen, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as advertising agency of record for creative and digital assignments. Spending was estimated at $100 million. The creative account had been handled by Publicis & Hal Riney, San Francisco, part of the Publicis Groupe, and the digital account had been handled by another Publicis Groupe agency, Publicis Modem.

¶Weather Channel Companies, Atlanta, hired the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty as creative agency of record. Spending has not been determined. Weather Channel Companies — owned by a consortium that includes the NBCUniversal division of Comcast, Bain Capital and the Blackstone Group — has not had a creative agency of record in recent years.

¶Steffan Postaer joined the San Francisco office of Gyro as executive creative director, succeeding Justin Curtis, who left, the agency said, to pursue new opportunities. Mr. Postaer will join Robert Ray, president of the office, in leading Gyro San Francisco. Mr. Postaer had most recently been chairman and chief creative officer at the Chicago office of Euro RSCG Worldwide, part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas.
976 2012-02-27 But that same filing showed just how profitable Facebook already is — and the growth trajectory in advertising revenue that it must try to sustain. In a bid to woo Madison Avenue, Facebook is offering a daylong event for marketers in New York City on Wednesday. It is expected to introduce new advertising tools there, including ways to reach what is now an untapped market: the 425 million Facebook users on mobile devices.

In effect, Facebook’s greatest achievement is also the source of its greatest challenge. It has persuaded its users to voluntarily share a great deal of information about themselves: who they are, where they live, whether they follow basketball or opera, even what their children look like. All that data could make Facebook a game-changing advertising platform.

Advertisers can tailor messages on Facebook on the basis of demographics like age and gender and on the preferences and affinities of its users. If Facebook users click the “like” button for a particular grocery store chain, for instance, their name — and sometimes their picture — can appear as part of an advertisement for the chain on the Facebook pages of their friends. The same can be done when users read a news site connected to Facebook, or a song they stream from one of Facebook’s many entertainment partners, though users can tweak their settings to prevent Facebook from using such information for advertising.

The rich, varied pool of data is Facebook’s greatest asset, giving the company a lot of ways to get creative with ads and sponsorships.

“Facebook already has more data than they are leveraging,” said Rebecca Lieb, an analyst who studies online advertising for the Altimeter Group, a research firm. “There are so many infinite ways to slice and dice the data Facebook currently has that it’s rather daunting.”

Slicing and dicing the data for the purposes of serving up advertisements is a tricky business, Ms. Lieb added. “It can’t freak people out; it has to be cost-effective; it has to be relatively easy to do at scale,” she said.

Ms. Lieb described Facebook as one of the biggest platforms in the history of advertising. According to a survey released last week by the research firm eMarketer, Facebook has the largest share of display advertising on the Web — although Google, with its many more outlets for ads, including on mobile devices and search pages, makes nearly 10 times more from advertising.

Facebook had $3.7 billion in revenue in 2011, an 88 percent increase from the previous year. According to its filing, Facebook posted a profit of $1 billion last year, with the bulk of that coming from advertising. Nate Elliott, an analyst with Forrester Research, said Facebook was far from realizing its potential as an advertising platform. It could use data on users, for instance, to serve them advertising on other Web sites, not just its own. It could also create a more “intelligent system,” as he put it, to match marketers to the right consumers.

“There are ways to invisibly deliver marketing messages,” Mr. Elliott said. “You don’t have to hit people on the head and say, ‘Your friends liked it, so we think you’ll like it.’ ”

Facebook can, Mr. Elliott went on, “change the way online marketing works.”

Facebook declined to comment on what advertising techniques it planned to announce at Wednesday’s event. Whatever it does announce, it will have to keep one eye on regulators all across the world.

Facebook is already constrained in Europe. In an agreement signed in December with the government data protection agency in Ireland, the company promised to tweak the Facebook site for users across Europe. Among other things, it promised to clarify how user data is employed to deliver advertising and to keep users’ ad-click data for no more than two years.

German regulators have clashed with Facebook over companies using its “like” button to target advertising, as well as over some of its photo features. Europe’s proposed data protection regulation presents far larger worries. It would compel all online companies to honor a consumer’s so-called right to be forgotten, by deleting an individual’s data at his or her request. The proposed regulation would also require sites like Facebook to obtain users’ explicit consent for every morsel of data that they share.

Facebook, in its written response to the European Commission, suggested that constant requests for such permission would annoy users. “There would be a high degree of user frustration if they were to be repeatedly asked for consents for something that is evident to them,” the company wrote.

It went on to warn European lawmakers that too many rules would hurt the ability of Facebook and other companies to grow in Europe, saying that “there is a risk that an excessively litigious environment would impede the development of innovative services that can bring real benefit to European citizens.”

One rule in Europe is already impossible to enforce. Consumers are now required to give consent every time a tracking tool known as a cookie is deployed by a Web site. Even European government Web sites have been unable to comply.

There is plenty of scrutiny in the United States, too. One lawsuit in California charges that Facebook deploys user’s preferences — “likes” — in ads without their consent. Another one says that the company ignored warnings from users who pointed out that Facebook was tracking users’ activities on the Internet even after they had logged off the social network. It faces similar claims from users in individual states.

Facebook stopped that practice last September and said in a statement last week that the cases were “without merit.”
977 2012-02-27 The promoter for Sinead O’Connor’s two shows at the Highline Ballroom last week, Josh Wood, walked onto the stage on Friday night holding a small piece of paper. He explained that Ms. O’Connor needed him to relay a personal message to the fans before the concert started. “I have laryngitis,” he read. “I may quack or cough, so please bear with me.”

There wasn’t much response to the announcement, other than some supportive applause. These days audiences — and especially a self-selective audience like this one — generally know such things before they arrive at the gig. The fans might have already processed the news and adjusted their expectations; they might have been a step ahead of her.

She’d mentioned throat trouble earlier that day on her Web site, sineadoconnor.com. It was, she wrote, because of a poor sound mix at a Los Angeles show earlier in the week that had forced her to shout. She had canceled an interview on “Today,” and the week before a spot on “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon.” She has a new record, and some new semi-controversy: many reading this will know of her recent Las Vegas wedding, her depressive episodes and her Twitter-feed frankness.

But she hadn’t canceled the gigs, which was as it should be. These were the serious fans — solidly middle age, receptive to the irresolution and intensity of her work, her blaming and reactions to blame, her desire for attention and her rejection of pop-star values. No one else is so well conditioned to bear with her.

She sang about babies, mothers, good and bad boyfriends, faith and faithlessness, and sounded fine. No coughs, no quacks. Not great: she was consistently a bit flat during the first half of the concert; her tiny glottal catches at the end of strong vowels didn’t come easily, nor did her dynamic shifts between her breathy voice and her loud, strident one.

Her new record, “How About I Be Me (and You Be You)?” (One Little Indian), is the first in a dozen years that comes without an overarching theme, and with the kind of lyrics that made her famous, the ones parsing sex and spirituality with anger and idealism. But the music is slight and stale, shut off from the flows of current pop. The strong suits are her candor and her voice, and on Friday she could only rely on her candor.
978 2012-02-27 The pain and allure of departure, more than the satisfaction of arrival, run through the stories told in “House of Stone,” Anthony Shadid’s elegiac, heartbreaking memoir of the year he spent restoring a long-abandoned family home in southern Lebanon.

The book’s searching characters and mournful tone would be moving even if a reader had no knowledge that Mr. Shadid, a correspondent for The New York Times and perhaps his generation’s finest chronicler of the Middle East, died on Feb. 16 at 43 while on assignment in Syria. As it is, a book conceived as an introspective project of personal recovery — as well as a meditation on politics, identity, craft and beauty in the Levant — now stands as a memorial. It is a fitting one because of the writing skill and deep feeling Mr. Shadid unobtrusively displays.

“House of Stone” is an elegant narrative that creates unity from diverse elements, much like the Ottoman-era cemento tiles over which Mr. Shadid obsesses and bargains during one stage of his beguiling restoration work. The book tells the story of his family’s migration from Lebanon to Oklahoma early in the 20th century, and along the way it illuminates the consequences of the Ottoman Empire’s fall; the binding ties of bayt, or home and belonging, in Arab families; the workplace ethics of Mr. Shadid’s small construction site in Lebanon; and the flavors of that battered society’s bitterness and resilience.

At the heart of the book, Mr. Shadid’s third, lies the strong, open voice of its author. He is drawn to his family’s origins at a time when, after years of hard travel and conflict reporting at The Washington Post, he finds himself “stunned by war, and shockingly, no longer young, or married, or with my daughter.” He arrives as an emotional refugee in Jedeidet Marjayoun, a town not far from the Israeli frontier, where his great-grandfather left an empty house that Mr. Shadid partly owns by inheritance.

His new Lebanese neighbors quickly disabuse him of any fantasy that they will bathe him a restorative embrace. They make a sport of fleecing him and regard his desire to rebuild the home as “reckless, dangerous, and altogether ‘American.’ ” Yet Mr. Shadid is too much in need of a project that will calm and repair his injured self to care very much what they think. His motivation, he writes, is “bayt and the desire to resurrect what once stood for something.”

He hires Abu Jean, a 76-old foreman of formidable strength and erratic work habits. The supervisor provides a kind of maypole for the rest of the vivid characters in the book to revolve around. The men whom Mr. Shadid encounters wile away their semi-employed lives by smoking hashish, drinking Scotch and beer, cursing blue streaks and practicing arts both dark and sublime. Their coarseness and utter lack of sentimentality protect the book from preciousness. Meditative, affecting passages about landscape, gardening and olive growing flow into sections of exuberant profanity, mainly in the form of insults hurled by Mr. Shadid’s new acquaintances.
979 2012-02-27 But Apple’s main rivals — Samsung and other sellers of cellphones using the Google Android operating system, like HTC of Taiwan and Huawei and ZTE of China — are making smartphones for much less, and the iPhone is becoming ubiquitous, threatening its cachet.

For now, said T. Michael Walkley, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in Minneapolis, the iPhone lineup has momentum and Apple, based in Cupertino, Calif., should be able to pad its lead over rivals this year.

“But I cannot say with certainty that five years on, Apple will still be on top,” Mr. Walkley said, noting that Apple and HTC did not even make smartphones six years ago. “I assume they will be, but it is difficult to predict anything in this dynamic market.”

He estimated that Apple had captured 52 percent of all profits in the smartphone industry in 2011, a share he predicted would increase to 60 percent this year.

Apple, following its tradition of participating only in its own promotional events, has no formal presence or exhibition stand at the Mobile World Congress, the industry’s largest annual convention this week in Barcelona.

Alan Hely, an Apple spokesman in London, said the company had no comment for this article.

Timothy D. Cook, the Apple chief executive, told a Goldman Sachs investment conference this month that Apple would not rest on its laurels after its record fourth quarter, in which it sold 37 million iPhones — 17 million more than it had ever sold in a quarter.

Tongue in cheek, Mr. Cook called the 37 million “pretty good,” drawing laughs, but then put it in stark perspective: “As I see it, that 37 million for last quarter represented 24 percent of the smartphone market. So three out of four people bought something else. And it represented less than 9 percent of the handset market, so nine out of 10 people are buying something else.

“The smartphone market last year was a half billion units,” he continued. “In 2015, it is projected to be a billion units. When you take it in the context of these numbers, the truth is, this is a jaw-dropping industry. It has enormous opportunities to it. Up against those, the numbers don’t seem so large anymore.”

Carrying the iPhone has benefited operators, who use it to attract new customers. Sprint, the No. 3 carrier in the United States after AT&T and Verizon, sold 1.8 million iPhone 4S’s in the fourth quarter, its first sales of Apple models. In that period, the operator added 1.6 million customers, the biggest such increase in six years.

Deutsche Telekom, France Télécom and Vodafone have also spoken of the positive effect iPhone sales have on their profits. But over time, the iPhone could be undermined by its own success.

“All of a sudden, every teenage girl has an iPhone,” Mr. Walkley said. “The real danger is that Apple becomes so mainstream that there is a breakaway by consumers to something new.”

Apple’s competitors are awaiting that chance, said Mark Newman, the director of mobile research at Informa Telecoms and Media, a research business in London.

That puts pressure on Apple to continue innovating with each new iPhone. The 4s, which looked no different from the iPhone 4, added Siri, the Apple voice-activated command function introduced with the iPhone 4S, which helped make it a top-selling phone.

“Apple is focused on defending the high end of the market, and that is becoming harder to do each year,” Mr. Newman said. “Competitors, such as the Galaxy from Samsung, are starting to catch up. I think it is inevitable that the margin pressure increases.”

That pressure is not evident at Apple, which continues to derive more than 40 percent operating profit from the sale of each smartphone, Mr. Walkley estimated.

In 2011, Apple became the world’s largest buyer of semiconductors, according to Gartner. It displaced LG of Korea as the No. 3 maker of mobile phones by volume, trailing only Nokia and Samsung.

Apple narrowed the lead held by Android, the free operating system developed by Google. By last December, 44.5 percent of all smartphone buyers in the United Sttes were choosing iPhones, up from just 25.1 percent last October. The proportion choosing for Android fell to 46.9 percent from 61.6 percent, according to Nielsen.

Patrick Rémy, the vice president of devices at France Télécom in Paris, said he saw no sign of the Apple brand’s diminishing. On the contrary, Mr. Rémy said, Apple and Samsung have the financial resources to invest in the marketing, image and innovation that are needed to stay a step ahead of the competition.

“We are not seeing any major part of these brands declining,” Mr. Rémy said.

But competition, especially from lower-price rivals, is not standing still.

By 2016, more than half of all smartphones sold will cost less than $300, according to Informa. Last year, 81 percent — most of them iPhones — cost more than $300. The proportion costing less than $200, which currently makes up 5 percent of the global market, is expected to increase almost fivefold, to 24 percent, by 2016.

Shao Yang, the marketing director for mobile devices at Huawei — the Chinese maker of mobile networking equipment which has set a goal of being among the world’s top three cellphone makers by 2015 — said consumers would be able to obtain superior performance for less in the future.

“I think currently the biggest trend is not the price, but the capability,” Mr. Shao said. “There is a competition in capability. The function of the phone will change very fast.”

Huawei, based in Shenzhen, sold 20 million smartphones last year, up from 3.1 million in 2010. Huawei sold about half of its smartphones in China for between $150 and $200. Its biggest foreign market is the United States, where Huawei in January presented the Ascend P1 S, calling it the thinnest smartphone at 6.65 millimeters, or 0.26 inch.

The P1 S will not start selling until April, and Huawei has not released the price. But Mr. Shao said it would cost less than an iPhone. “Smartphones are going to become cheaper and cheaper,” he said.

Apple, though, is represented in the low-price smartphone segment. The iPhone 3, a predecessor, is being given away with a £16.50 plan at O2 U.K., while the iPhone 4 is free with a £36 plan.
980 2012-02-27 KISSEL--Howard, passed away at his Manhattan home on February 24 at the age of 69. The longtime New York arts and theatre critic was born in Milwaukee, WI but was a true New Yorker from his college days at Columbia University until his death. The ...
981 2012-02-27 One of the nation's most sought-after political positions has been filled well in advance of Election Day: AMC announced on Friday that the British actor David Morrissey will play the role of the Governor on its hit apocalypse-by-zombie drama ''Th...
982 2012-02-27 McCANN--Edith D. Beloved mother of James J. III (Cindy), Louise, Peter D. (Deborah Berke), and William died peacefully February 21, 2012, ten days short of her 93rd birthday. An avid gardener, she was an active citizen in the community she loved, ...
983 2012-02-28 Greece’s restructuring of its debt could potentially prompt payouts on the country’s credit-default swaps, a move that could send shivers through the financial system....
984 2012-02-28 An image on a billboard at a busy Manhattan intersection meant to promote "Mad Men" also evokes painful memories from Sept. 11....
985 2012-02-28 The new ultrasound bill is slightly less awful than the original....
986 2012-02-28 The sale effectively signals the end of Maiden Lane II, one of two investment vehicles the Federal Reserve Bank of New York set up to house risky investments the government had acquired from the American International Group....
987 2012-02-28 Readers weigh in on how the term is rising and resonating in the national conversation....
988 2012-02-28 We close Black History Month with a slide show of 17 Times photos from the civil rights era hand-chosen for The Learning Network....
989 2012-02-28 On Monday, several of Microsoft's top executives participated in an annual ritual, TechForum, showcasing the company's research and development. One technology was a futuristic computer display allowing a viewer to peer around objects displayed on...
990 2012-02-28 T plucks the best shoes right off the runway. Today's shoe: a slingback with a giant round jewel on the toe....
991 2012-02-28 Researchers found the pedestal and feet belonging to a disputed statue in Koh Ker, Cambodia, 60 miles northeast of the Ankor Wat temple complex.
992 2012-02-28 Bruce Headlam and Brian Stelter discuss testimony on Monday from a top British police official on an investigation into whether the newspaper made payoffs to members of the government and the police....
993 2012-02-28 After a user allows an application on an Apple mobile device to have access to location information, the app can copy the user’s entire photo library, without any further warning....
994 2012-02-28 A commitment to Shakespeare in the Park will keep Lily Rabe from starring in "An Early History of Fire" for the New Group....
995 2012-02-28 Apple has sent out press invitations for an iPad event to be held next week in San Francisco. The invitation bears an image of an iPad and says: "We have something you really have to see. And touch."...
996 2012-02-28 JPMorgan Chase executives will be talking strategy and the state of the global economy at the bank's annual investor day....
997 2012-02-28 Mortgages backed by the Federal Housing Administration will get more expensive; California takes steps to stop some foreclosures.
998 2012-02-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
999 2012-02-28 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1000 2012-02-28 Netflix has transformed itself into primarily an Internet streaming service for television shows, not feature films, with TV series now accounting for more than half of all Netflix viewing, reports Brian Stelter on Tuesday in The New York Times....
1001 2012-02-28 In seeking to overhaul the corporate tax system, it is important to look beyond corporations when thinking about the taxation of businesses, an economist writes....
1002 2012-02-28 The Chicago Tribune has released more details on the admissions scandal at the University of Illinois, including the politicians involved and how successful their beneficiaries were....
1003 2012-02-28 On Feb. 28, 1993, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agents raided the compound of the Branch Davidian religious sect in Waco, Tex., to arrest its leaders, including the self-proclaimed Messiah, David Koresh, on weapons charges....
1004 2012-02-28 NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. — A day after Tyler Clementi disappeared, the only physical trace of his whereabouts a wallet he left behind on the George Washington Bridge, Dharun Ravi, his Rutgers University roommate, sent a series of text messages to a friend, Molly Wei.

The police had already interviewed Mr. Ravi and Ms. Wei, separately, about why they had used Mr. Ravi’s webcam and briefly watched Mr. Clementi in an intimate encounter with another man.

“Did you tell them we did it on purpose?” Mr. Ravi asked Ms. Wei, according to her testimony in Mr. Ravi’s trial Monday. When Ms. Wei replied that she had, explaining that they had not expected to see Mr. Clementi kissing another man, Mr. Ravi wrote back, “I said we were just messing around with the camera.”

Mr. Ravi is on trial in Middlesex Superior Court on charges of bias intimidation as a hate crime, invasion of privacy and hindering apprehension. He is not charged with contributing to the suicide of Mr. Clementi, whose body was found several days after he jumped from the bridge, but the state of mind of both men is critical to the case. Prosecutors say Mr. Ravi, motivated by antigay sentiment, intentionally set out to embarrass Mr. Clementi; Mr. Ravi’s lawyers have portrayed him as a young man who may have acted foolishly, but was not homophobic and did not intend to hurt his roommate.

Also on Monday, a Rutgers employee testified that Mr. Clementi had submitted a request online around 4 a.m. Sept. 21, 2010, to be transferred to a single room. On that form, Mr. Clementi wrote that he wanted to move to a single room because “roommate used webcam to spy on me.” But Judge Glenn Berman did not allow that statement into evidence, ruling that it was hearsay.

Ms. Wei was originally charged in the case, but her charges were dropped as part of a pretrial intervention program that included 300 hours of community service, attending counseling for cyberbullying and, on Monday, testifying for the prosecution.
1005 2012-02-28 But since then, manufacturers in Japan have struggled to keep up with rising competition from South Korean rivals, which have better adapted to changes in technology — including a shift by consumers toward smartphones and tablets, which use far fewer chips than laptops. Apple’s iPad, for example, primarily uses flash memory instead of DRAM.

Two manufacturers in Japan, NEC and Hitachi, merged their memory businesses to form Elpida in 1999, the same year that another Japanese maker, Fujitsu, abandoned the DRAM business.

Still, a persistent global glut in DRAM chips has led to a slump in prices. The price of a benchmark chip, the DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM, declined roughly 85 percent to a record low of 71 cents in the year to November as PC shipments faltered, according to Reuters.

Yukio Sakamoto, Elpida’s president and chief executive, complained last year that the “price of one DRAM now hardly buys you one rice ball.”

The global economic downturn, a punishingly strong yen and widespread floods in the manufacturing hub of Thailand last year also weighed on Elpida’s bottom line, crippling efforts to keep up with the heavy investment by the market leader Samsung, which has more aggressively diversified into chips for mobile devices.

According to the market research firm iSuppli, Elpida ranked third in the global DRAM market with a 12 percent share in the three months to September, far behind Samsung Electronics, with 45 percent, and Hynix, with 22 percent.

Mr. Sakamoto said the company had been pushed into bankruptcy when offers from potential partners fell through. He declined to name potential deals or partners, however.

“We had been expecting various offers by today but what we got was not concrete,” Mr. Sakamoto said on Monday during a press conference.

Elpida’s demise comes as a blow to the Japanese government, which invested 40 billion yen ($500 million) in Elpida in 2009 in a bid to salvage the country’s last maker of PC memory.

Japan’s government may have found it difficult to justify further support for the struggling chipmaker as the tsunami and nuclear disaster last year took center stage.

The Japanese trade minister, Yukio Edano, said he still hoped that the company would emerge from bankruptcy as a stronger contender in the global DRAM market.

“We hope it can rebuild its operations as quickly as possible,” Mr. Edano told reporters Monday in Tokyo.

Elpida’s bankruptcy filing is the biggest ever by a Japanese manufacturer, according to Shoko Research, a credit research company.

The company will be delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange on March 28.
1006 2012-02-28 While the end of the Starz deal is bad news for Netflix, said Richard Greenfield, an analyst at BTIG Research, “given the significant increase in TV viewing, it’s not the catastrophic event that everyone thought it would be a year ago.”

The new-release movies provided by Starz account for just 2 percent of all viewing, Netflix says, down from 8 percent a year ago — illuminating the fact that the company has spent lavishly on new streaming titles that subscribers want to watch instead. (“I would contend Netflix spends wisely rather than lavishly,” a Netflix spokesman, Steve Swasey, said in response.)

Many of the new titles are full seasons of TV series like “Mad Men,” “Breaking Bad” and “Lost” that Netflix executives call “26-hour movies.”

The pivot to TV reruns was necessitated in part by the tightening of the movie spigot by major movie studios. Fearing that Netflix might grow too popular or powerful, the studios “have decided to dramatically raise prices” for films and shows, said Youssef H. Squali, a managing director for Jefferies & Company. “So in effect, the company is being forced into offering more (older) TV content because it’s cheaper,” he said.

The company’s next challenge is to come up with original shows — instead of reruns — that subscribers will latch onto, mimicking the HBO model. Such a model further distances Netflix from films and differentiates it from newfound competitors like Hulu and Amazon.

Reed Hastings, Netflix’s chief executive, told business school students in Manhattan last week that the company would try a couple of dozen original series in the coming years, but did not specify a timeframe; Netflix had previously said that five such series would premiere by the end of 2013.

A show from Norway, “Lilyhammer,” had its American debut on Netflix earlier this month, and an ambitious drama made just for Netflix, “House of Cards,” will have its debut later in the year. A revival of the Fox sitcom “Arrested Development” will come out sometime next year.

“While they are losing the Starz content later this week, and that could cause some people to cancel subscriptions to the service, the library will otherwise be generally improving throughout the year and then having a more significant step up with ‘House of Cards’ in late ’12 and ‘Arrested Development’ and Dreamworks films in ’13,” said Michael Olson, an analyst at Piper Jaffray.

Still, there is a persistent undercurrent of criticism about Netflix’s actual movie selection, and it was highlighted this week by the Starz disappearance. Mr. Olson’s firm reported last week that only four of the 50 top-grossing films of 2011 were currently available for streaming on the service, and that one of them, Disney’s “Gnomeo and Juliet,” would vanish on Wednesday.

John Hall, a graphic designer in Massachusetts, said he recently dropped the streaming service and started resorting to DVD rentals for that reason. Whenever he headed to Netflix to stream a film, he said, “more often than not, the film I wanted to see was only available on disc.”

Netflix is sensitive to that criticism — but says it doesn’t really matter. (And not just because Mr. Hall is still paying for DVDs by mail.) As long as its algorithms serve up something worth watching, even if it’s not the subscriber’s first choice, he or she will continue paying for and enjoying the service, the company believes.

“The cocktail party conversation in the media world is, the content’s terrible,” Mr. Greenfield said. “And yet the average subscriber is devouring over an hour a day, every single day. Obviously they don’t think it’s horrible.” He noted that films did not need to be box-office smashes to succeed on Netflix — in fact, some films have a second life online precisely because they were not widely seen in theaters.

Earlier this month, Netflix secured rights to “The Artist,” which won the best-picture Oscar at the Academy Awards ceremony on Sunday. It has earned just $32 million at the box office to date and will become available on Netflix in less than six months, the company said Monday.

Netflix can also replenish some of the vanishing Starz films by buying them separately. But for now, its rights to “Toy Story 3,” “Tron,” “Tangled,” “A Christmas Carol” and other films are drying up. Some TV series from Starz are vanishing too, including “Party Down” and “Spartacus,” creating new tests for Netflix’s recommendation algorithms.

Netflix declined to comment on exactly what proportion of total viewing that TV episodes make up, but its executives put the number at 50 to 60 percent last fall. Mr. Greenfield said he suspected that the percentage was 80 percent — an impressive triumph for TV over film.
1007 2012-02-28 Studies have already shown that Medicare spending is concentrated on a small group of individuals who are seriously ill. But an analysis by the IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics, the research arm of IMS Health, a health information company in Danbury, Conn., provides a rare glimpse into the medical problems of people with private health insurance who are under 65. About three-quarters of them suffer from at least one chronic condition that could spiral out of control without proper care.

Health insurers are likely to have little choice other than to monitor these cases more closely, said Daniel Malloy, an executive at IMS Health. Under the federal health care law, which is expected to go into effect in 2014 if it is not struck down by the Supreme Court, insurers will no longer be able to deny coverage to anyone with a potentially expensive medical condition or put limits on how much they will pay in medical bills.

And avoiding these patients altogether will no longer be an option. Insurance companies will be required to enroll millions of new customers without the ability to turn them away or charge them higher premiums if they are sick. They will prosper only if they are able to coordinate care and prevent patients from reaching that top 1 percent, Mr. Malloy said. “The insurance model is fundamentally changing,” he said.

Many insurance executives say they are already developing programs to better address the needs of these patients. The insurers often work with employers that are self-insured to manage their workers’ medical conditions, and companies are already demanding they do what they can to control costs.

“Once we’ve got patients, we’re responsible,” said Dr. Lonny Reisman, the chief medical officer for Aetna, another large insurer. “We’ve always managed them as aggressively and effectively as we can.”

Insurers are becoming increasingly sophisticated in being able to identify those who are high spenders and those who are at risk of developing serious complications. “It’s important to know who they are and manage their conditions,” said Dr. Pat Courneya, the medical director for the health plan offered by HealthPartners, a large health system based in Bloomington, Minn., which is a client of IMS. People with high medical bills often continue to be costly throughout the years, he said.

While diabetes, for example, typically costs about $12,000 a year to cover, a diabetic whose condition rages out of control can become one of the top spenders with expenses that average $102,000 a year, according to the IMS report. Uncontrolled, their diabetes may lead to a heart attack or stroke or they may lose their eyesight or have a limb amputated.

When Wendy Meath, a 59-year-old with diabetes, was hospitalized a year ago, she was identified by HealthPartners as someone who needed help to control her disease. She had been admitted for kidney stones, one of many possible complications of diabetes. Although she had insurance through her husband, she was unemployed.

Since leaving the hospital, where she was admitted for 12 days for a series of complications from the surgery to remove the stones, Ms. Meath has been in regular contact with one of HealthPartners’ nurses, who serves as a case manager. The nurse calls at least once a month and checks in after she goes to the doctor for any developments. The health plan also assigned a social worker to help her with the cost of medications and other obstacles that were preventing her from taking better care of herself. “It makes me feel like I’m not alone,” Ms. Meath said.

“They’re trying to prevent the big things from happening, which is great,” she said.

The next challenge, say insurers, is to figure out how best to work with a person’s doctor. Because many of these patients seem to be seeing many doctors and taking many medications, there may be no one who is accountable for the patients’ overall health. “You’re going to see some gaps in care that led to this kind of progression,” Mr. Malloy said.

Insurers say they are experimenting with different ways to pay doctors so they are more responsible for overseeing these patients. Cigna, for example, says it plans to pay doctors more to coordinate care or develop ways for the doctors to share in the savings generated when someone does not go to the hospital if the visit could have been avoided through better treatment.

But insurers are also still grappling with their understanding of human nature — why some people simply don’t take care of themselves or take their medicine or go to the doctor, even when it is clear that they should.

Aetna, for example, recently eliminated the co-payments in some of its health plans for certain medicines for people who have recently suffered a heart attack. In a recent study, however, many patients who got these medicines free were still not taking them.

“The reality is if we don’t figure out how to get to the patients, we’re not going to get where they need to be,” Dr. Reisman said.
1008 2012-02-28 “We are developing policy objectives,” said Michael Stebbins, the assistant director for biotechnology in the Office of Science and Technology Policy who is helping oversee the report’s preparation. “We would like to maximize the availability of the results of federally funded research to get the most out of public investments, but want to balance that need against any potential harm that policies might have on publishers.”

The battle over scientific publishing was joined a decade ago when researchers realized that the Internet rendered obsolete the core of the traditional business model — that dissemination of key discoveries could be accomplished only by mailing out results in hard-copy journals. Publishers recouped their costs and made their profits through subscriptions and advertising.

The Internet brought a clamor from many scientists and interest groups for open access — making papers instantly available on the Web. Michael B. Eisen, a molecular biologist at the University of California, Berkeley, and a founder of the open-access Public Library of Science, argues that with the advent of the digital age, “the notion that the good of science is served in any way by giving it to publishers evaporates.”

Commercial publishers, and many nonprofits, however, emphasize that their role extends far beyond merely mailing out scientific reports. The journals convene peer-review panels, select the papers and edit them. If the government required open-access publication of these carefully prepared research papers, it would be “infringing upon and taking without compensation the added value the journal provides,” said Allan R. Adler, vice president for legal and governmental affairs for the Association of American Publishers.

The federal government, in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008, established a legislative starting point to deal with this impasse, requiring researchers financed by the National Institutes of Health — $25.7 billion in grants annually — to post their final peer-reviewed papers on its free-access Web archive PubMed Central no later than a year after publication. Scientists who wanted the new papers immediately could get them by subscription or by paying publishers a premium for electronic copies.

The program appears to be a success. Well over a million researchers and interested nonscientists are using PubMed Central every day, and publishers are not going bankrupt, although Mr. Adler warned that it was too early to assess the damage the policy is causing their industry. And open-access advocates are not satisfied with the N.I.H. model because it falls short of true open access and, in Dr. Eisen’s words, is thus “not enough.”

The debate between these two extremes has been remarkably vitriolic, in part, perhaps, because neither side has been completely honest. Mr. Adler would not discuss publishers’ profit margins, and open-access advocates frequently say that the journals are low-overhead cash cows that are gouging the public. Open-access scientists, on the other hand, are less than candid about how important it is to their careers to be published in prominent traditional journals. If scientists truly wished to kill the system, all they would have to do is withhold submissions.

It was this nasty standoff in part that prompted the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology in 2010 to assemble a task force of stakeholders to ask the White House to review the debate and present options. Publishers were also afraid that the Obama administration was going to impose an open-access policy without consulting them.

“No one was satisfied with the way this was going — folks from all sides were coming to us,” said Bart Gordon, a Tennessee Democrat and former Science Committee chairman now retired from Congress. “We were most of all a convener, and tried to do it outside the spotlight so people didn’t have to posture as much.”

The results of their work appeared in the America Competes Reauthorization Act last year, calling on the administration to prepare the coming report on possible dissemination policies for all government agencies with an annual research budget of $100 million or more. There are about a dozen of these.

In December, with the administration’s deadline approaching, Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, the chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, a committee member, introduced the Research Works Act, which would prohibit federal agencies from disseminating research without the prior consent of the publisher. The bill tracked closely with similar 2008 legislation — never brought to a vote — that sought to roll back the N.I.H. experiment as an infringement of publisher-held copyrights. The Research Works Act appeared to do the same thing.

Then early this month, both the Senate and House introduced a competing bill, the Federal Research Public Access Act of 2012, another measure with antecedents in past Congresses, which essentially extends the N.I.H. program to all federal agencies with outside research budgets of $100 million or more, and limits the embargo on public access to six months.

Neither bill is expected to move forward this year. Mr. Issa and Ms. Maloney said in a statement on Monday that they “will not be taking legislative action” on the Research Works Act, which has no other sponsors. They acknowledged that greater public access “appears to be the wave of the future,” but emphasized that the transition must be “collaborative” and “must respect copyright law.”

The Issa-Maloney statement coincided Monday with the announcement by Elsevier, the Amsterdam-based publisher of about 2,000 scientific journals and a leading backer of the Research Works Act, that it was withdrawing its backing for the bill, “although we continue to oppose government mandates in this area.” More than 5,700 researchers had joined a boycott of Elsevier, in part for its support of the bill.

The Public Access Act (two House sponsors) is in a different position. Some supporters may regard it as a way station on the legislative road to full open access at a later time, but its Congressional backers have a different idea. For them, the N.I.H. is a viable model and the Public Access Act, or something like it, could be the last word.

“We’re not looking to put publishers out of business,” said Representative Mike Doyle, the Pennsylvania Democrat who introduced the bill. “My purpose is not to go to complete open-access. We see the bill as a reasonable middle ground. The N.I.H. is proving that it works.”
1009 2012-02-28 “If we solve one problem, we create another problem.”

Membership in the association is voluntary, Burleson said.

“If the schools are just going to arrange their own schedule, why do we even set a tournament?” Burleson said. “Over a period of time, our state tournament, which is a highlight of our association, deteriorates to nothing. That’s the whole point of having an organization.”

Conflicts between religious beliefs and scheduling are becoming more commonplace because of the nation’s changing demographics, said Sarah Barringer Gordon, a professor of law and history at the University of Pennsylvania.

“Some associations are rethinking who their constituencies are,” Gordon said. “As pluralism works its way through American sports, we’re going to see more and more situations like this one.”

Several of Beren Academy’s opponents this season agreed to change the time of their games to avoid conflicts with the Sabbath, the school’s boys basketball coach, Chris Cole, said.

Cole, the team’s coach for 10 years, said many of the players on this season’s team, which is 23-5, had been playing together since grade school.

“We have a pretty mature group of guys,” Cole said. “They knew this could happen down the road.”

Beren Academy has an enrollment of 274, with students from 18 months to 18 years old. The upper-level school has 71 students.

This would have been Beren Academy’s first trip to the state semifinals. (The tournament is separate from the larger one run by the University Interscholastic League for the state’s public schools.) Zachary Yoshor, a 16-year-old junior on the basketball team, said this season’s success was a result of the players’ working together for so long.

“Our record has never been this good,” Yoshor said. “We’ve been able to win against teams that we’ve never beaten before. I’m appreciative that we’ve been able to play this far.”

The appeal request proposed that the team drive from Houston to Dallas on Thursday night, spend the night and play the semifinal game earlier on Friday, school officials said. Beren Academy’s opponent would have been Covenant School, from Dallas. Our Lady of the Hills, the team from Kerrville that Beren Academy defeated in the regional final, will replace Beren Academy in the state semifinal game.

“There isn’t any more for us to do,” Sinoff said. “We want to be in this year, but if not this year, next year.”

Mark Buchine, whose 17-year-old son, Isaac, plays for Beren Academy, said he still planned to head to Dallas with hopes of a resolution that would allow him to see his son play this weekend.

“It’s disappointing,” Buchine said. “I think the kids will be disappointed, too, but the team has this attitude of when there are bad calls, you just move on.”
1010 2012-02-28 Nokia delivered two Windows devices in 2011: the Lumia 800, a premium phone, and the Lumia 710, a lower-price version. In January, the company said it would sell a version of the Lumia 900 in the United States that would run on AT&T’s new network using superfast Long Term Evolution, or LTE, technology, something even Apple does not yet offer for the iPhone.

Ms. Harlow, 49, the captain of Duke University’s women’s basketball team her senior year, had faced pressure before. She explained to the crowd of analysts and journalists gathered at the annual industry convention here last year that Nokia and Microsoft would produce their first phone using the Windows operating system by the end of the year — a pace two to three times quicker than Nokia’s previous rhythm.

But deep down, even Ms. Harlow was a bit awed by the task before her, which would require an accelerated, effective collaboration with a completely different corporate culture in a creative endeavor so intimate that both would have to discard mutual mistrust to make it work.

Stephen A. Elop, Nokia’s chief executive, said during an interview at this year’s Barcelona trade show that the relationship with Microsoft had gone well. Mr. Elop said that neither he nor Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive and Mr. Elop’s former boss, had had to intervene to arbitrate disputes in the mixed teams of Nokia and Microsoft employees working on Lumia.

“We have regular reviews where we sit down and go through all the details and have debates about the best way forward, but the teams are quickly able to move through these issues and get to a common point,” Mr. Elop said. “A year later, it is all focused just on going forward and not examining, ‘What did we say in the contract?’ We’re getting stuff done.”

But the United States is still the most vexing market for Nokia.

“The big question will be how they tackle the U.S. market, where they have virtually no presence anymore,” said Mark Newman, an analyst with Informa Media and Telecoms in London.

By the end of 2011, Nokia said, it had sold more than a million Lumia phones, which Mr. Newman characterized as good but “underwhelming.”

The wider price range introduced on Monday with the new phones and the expanded geographic footprint provided by the new online marketplaces will increase the potential market for Windows phones by 60 percent globally, said Terry Myerson, a vice president of Microsoft’s Windows phone unit. That market has so far been limited primarily to the United States, Japan and Western Europe.

Officials from both Microsoft and Nokia declined to disclose details on the companies’ strategy, the promotional budget or the method chosen for trying to persuade the other three big operators in the United States, Verizon Wireless, Sprint and T-Mobile USA, to sell their phones.

Mr. Myerson said Microsoft was aware that Windows was not a dominant force in mobile devices. “We recognize that Windows phone is the challenger in the market against established alternatives,” he said. “We have tried to get a very clear point of view about why users should choose Windows phone.”

One of the major reasons, he said, is that Lumia Windows phones are “faster at the everyday tasks that busy people have to do every day.”

Ms. Harlow said Nokia and Microsoft were far along on their plans for the United States and the rest of the world. The companies’ work on Lumia devices is split among five locations: San Diego, Beijing and Taiwan and Salo and Tampere in Finland.

“We are focused on generating demand with consumers and doing the appropriate things across all media,” said Ms. Harlow, who has spent time in all Lumia locations over the last year, working with people from Microsoft and Qualcomm, which is making the chips for the phones. “We have what we believe is a comprehensive plan put together with AT&T to ensure that sales associates are knowledgeable and excited and ready to sell the story.”

Nokia is a distant No. 3 in smartphone operating systems. Its aging Symbian, the proprietary smartphone operating system that Nokia is phasing out for Windows, had only 12 percent global market share in December and it was declining fast. (Research in Motion, maker of the BlackBerry, is the other sick man of the industry, with a declining 9 percent share, according to Strategy Analytics, a research firm.)

The combined share held by Windows, which includes phones made by Nokia, HTC and Samsung, is just 1.7 percent.

A wild card will be Google’s plans for Motorola Mobility, which Google is set to acquire for $12.5 billion. Microsoft hopes that if Google converts Motorola into a high-volume global maker of Android phones, Samsung, the biggest user of Android, would be driven to another operating system — perhaps Windows.

Lee Younghee, senior vice president for global marketing of Samsung Electronics mobile products, described Samsung’s work with Google at the Mobile World Congress as a “strong partnership” but noted that Samsung had consciously followed a mixed strategy of Android, Windows and Bada, Samsung’s proprietary operating system.

“We believe that Android is a growing market,” Ms. Lee said. “We believe there are other sectors where will need a strong partnership with Google, not just in research and development, but marketing. But we can say that as long as we can maintain this business model with Google, our relationship can be well managed. I think so far we are O.K.”

Referring to Google’s purchase of Motorola, Ms. Lee confirmed that the companies’ relations were still good. “Even after their announcement,” she said.
1011 2012-02-28 Despite the widespread popularity of the procedure, previous studies have reached mixed conclusions as to whether stents are effective for treatment of stable coronary artery disease.

The researchers reviewed eight randomized trials comparing P.C.I. with standard medical care. Combining data from all the studies, the researchers found that prescribing beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, statins and daily aspirin — now standard for treatment of stable coronary artery disease — was just as effective as stent implantation for prevention of chest pain, heart attack, the need for a future P.C.I. and death.

More than half of patients with stable coronary artery disease are now implanted with stents without even trying drug treatment, Dr. Brown said. The reason, he believes, is financial.

“In many hospitals, the cardiac service line generates 40 percent of the total hospital revenue, so there’s incredible pressure to do more procedures,” he said.

“When you put in a stent, everyone is happy — the hospital is making more money, the doctor is making more money — everybody is happier except the health care system as a whole, which is paying more money for no better results.”

Dr. Allan Schwartz, chief of cardiology at Columbia, who was not involved in the study, said that the analysis reinforced what was already known — that treatment with medicine first is usually the best approach.

“I agree with the conclusions,” he said, “but they shouldn’t be oversimplified. Cardiac disease is complicated, and there are lot of factors that go into assessing who should and shouldn’t be treated with stenting.” Sometimes a stent is indicated even in patients with stable coronary artery disease, he said — for example, when the medicine doesn’t work or has intolerable side effects.

Two recent meta-analyses showed an advantage for P.C.I. But those reviews considered patients enrolled in the 1980s and 1990s when balloon angioplasty without stents was the predominant form of surgical intervention, and when medical therapy generally did not include statins, ACE inhibitors and other drugs that are now standard in medical treatment.

This review, published in The Archives of Internal Medicine, included only prospective randomized trials that compared P.C.I. and medical therapy with medical therapy alone. There were 7,229 patients in all, half randomized to P.C.I. and half to medicine alone. More than 70 percent of the surgical patients received stents, and the studies followed patients for an average of more than four years.

Death rates were 8.9 percent with P.C.I. and 9.1 percent with medical treatment. Rates for nonfatal heart attacks were 8.9 percent for those who got stents and 8.1 percent for those on medicine alone.

P.C.I. was eventually performed on 30.7 percent of patients who got only medicine, but a second P.C.I. was required for 21.4 percent of those who got stents. None of these differences was statistically significant.

Dr. Harlan Krumholz, a cardiologist and professor of medicine at Yale who was not involved in the study, said that the findings hold a lesson for doctors treating heart patients. “When people are making decisions, it’s important to disclose to them that this procedure — outside of an emergency — is not known to be lifesaving or to prevent heart attacks,” he said. “The vast majority of people who have this procedure have the expectation that it will help them live longer. That belief is out of alignment with the evidence.”

Some theories suggest that stenting reduces mortality by improving blood flow or stabilizing plaques that can break away and cause blood clots, but the researchers found nothing to support those ideas.

Angina is often the symptom that convinces doctors and patients that medical therapy is not enough and that a stent is required. But in this analysis, 29 percent of people who had P.C.I. still had angina, compared with 33 percent of those on medicine, an insignificant difference.

These results support the current concept of coronary artery disease, the authors wrote — that it is a systemic inflammatory disease of the arteries that cannot be successfully treated by surgical intervention at a particular site on one artery.

According to Dr. Brown, a professor of medicine at Stony Brook University, many doctors cannot accept this. Instead, he said, “interventional cardiologists use the analogy of a pipe blocked in a house — it’s a terrible analogy, but patients accept it. It’s simplistic and erroneous.”
1012 2012-02-28 The United States ski team announced Monday that Bode Miller would miss the remainder of the ski season because of a bothersome left knee that did not respond sufficiently to recent arthroscopic surgery. Miller, 34, will soon have additional surgery on the knee but said in a statement that he planned to continue racing next season.

“I love ski racing and I love being active, so I hope for a solid recovery and to get back to training as soon as possible,” said the statement, released by the team. “I’m still having fun, and as long as skiing is enjoyable, I’m going to continue to do it.”

Miller began the 2011-12 season with success, winning the famed Birds of Prey downhill in Beaver Creek, Colo. He continued to be one of the American team’s top performers but injured his knee this month racing at the site of the 2014 Olympics in Sochi, Russia. He continued to race, but on Feb. 20, after races in Bansko, Bulgaria, he had a surgical procedure that Sasha Rearick, the men’s team head coach, said was to “clean up” the joint.

“The plan was to come back and race in Crans-Montana,” Miller said, referring to the races in Switzerland competed over the weekend. “But I couldn’t get the range of motion that I needed out of my knee to be competitive. We thought if I rested a few more days, things would come around, but it didn’t happen.”

Miller has won five Olympic medals, the most of any American ski racer. At the 2010 Vancouver Olympics, he won gold, silver and bronze medals. He has also won five world championship medals, including four gold medals. Miller has won 33 World Cup races and has victories in every World Cup discipline.

“Bode had a solid season and was skiing technically and tactically better than he has been in a number of years,” Rearick said. “His win in Beaver Creek was fantastic. It was amazing to see him back on the top of the podium in downhill, and I know that was incredibly powerful for him.”
1013 2012-02-28 A section of the Renuzit Web site devoted to Renuzit Fresh Accents can be found at renuzit.com/hellogorgeous. (Coincidentally, ads in a campaign for new Tide Pods, which plays off variations on “pop,” calls the tablets a “Pop of hello gorgeous.”)

And the new Renuzit line is being sold “at a gorgeous price,” the ads proclaim — that is, a value price that starts at $1.99 apiece. (The product is composed of a decorative holder and a gel that is billed as lasting 30 days.)

The campaign for Renuzit Fresh Accents, with a budget estimated at $5 million, is certainly not the first to use sex as a sales tactic. After all, Lillian Russell appeared in ads for Coca-Cola at the turn of the last century.

The campaign is, however, an example of a more recent trend, in which marketers take a tack that may be described as “turnabout is fair play”: After decades of objectifying women to peddle products, Madison Avenue is now doing the same with men.

The trend takes two paths, straightforward and tongue-in-cheek. The serious side was on display during Super Bowl XLVI on Feb. 5, when H&M ran a commercial for a new line of bodywear bearing the David Beckham name that showed Mr. Beckham baring about as much of a body as can be bared in prime time on American broadcast television.

The silly side is typified by the long-running campaign for I Can’t Believe It’s Not Butter, which once featured Fabio, as well as commercials for brands like Old Spice. Another example of a campaign playfully serving up beefcake is a new one from the Clorox Company, for a new type of Liquid-Plumr called Liquid-Plumr Double Impact. Two hunky actors portray plumbers in a commercial filled with double entendres like “a long snake to grab deep clogs.” The actors also appear on the Liquid-Plumr Facebook fan page, at facebook.com/LiquidPlumr, where one poses partly bare-chested, displaying a muscular abdomen and the waistband of his briefs. The actors invite visitors to “give us a call” at 1-855-HOT-PLMR or send “a steamy Plumr-Gram” to Facebook friends.

The commercial for Liquid-Plumr Double Impact has received a mixed reception on social media, as typified by a blogger who describes it as “cheeky” but also believes it “crosses” the line of selling sex. Executives who sell Renuzit and work at Red Tettemer say they do not expect anyone to take the sex in their campaign seriously or to take offense at the ads.

Rather, they say, the hotties in the ads are supposed to represent the attractiveness of the decorative holders.

The goal is to offer the buyers of air fresheners, who are primarily women ages 25 to 54, an “attractive” product that “fits into the home, something she wants right out there on the living room table” rather than hidden on a top shelf, says Eric Schwartz, general manager for laundry and home care at the Henkel North America unit of Henkel in Scottsdale, Ariz.

“If there’s one thing that gets the attention of the magazine reader, the online reader, in the cluttered, mundane world of air care, it’s attractiveness,” he adds. “It’s core to what consumers want to buy and use in the home.”

The campaign serves up “the concept of attractiveness in a new way that would be memorable,” Mr. Schwartz says, “and potentially worth sharing in today’s world of social media.”

The goal is “to make a dollar’s worth of spending” on the campaign “look like $10,” he adds, as consumers “find it humorous enough to pass on to friends and family.”

On Facebook, the campaign is in the spotlight on the Renuzit fan page, at facebook.com/Renuzit, and there is also a separate page under the rubric Gorgeous Man, where visitors are already posting comments both nice (“I’ll take two!”) and naughty (“I’d like one in a size ‘XL,’ please”).

In another social media aspect of the campaign, so-called mom bloggers are being sent samples of the product and the ads and encouraged to write about them.

Mr. Schwartz is confident the ads will not be judged as exploiting sex because “we’re tying the advertising message to what we’re trying to get across about the product,” he says.

“I think the consumer is pretty savvy to marketing techniques,” Mr. Schwartz says. “They see the link between the attractiveness of the product and the advertising idea.”

Steve O’Connell, partner and executive creative director at Red Tettemer & Partners, echoes his client.

“Our effort was to keep it classy,” says Mr. O’Connell, whose agency also creates campaigns for the Dial for Men product line sold by Henkel North America.

“We don’t think it crosses the line,” he adds. “There’s no sexual innuendo, there are no double entendres.”

As for the tone of the Renuzit Fresh Accents campaign, “we don’t want to take ourselves too seriously,” Mr. O’Connell says.

“We want to have some fun with it,” he adds, so the ads are presented “with a wink,” with an eye toward “some shareability and talk value.”

If the ads were to say, “‘Hey, this is a gorgeous air freshener,’” that would be “boring,” Mr. O’Connell says. “Bring in a gorgeous man.”

“We didn’t set out to objectify men,” he adds, “but you always see gorgeous women” in ads because those responsible for creative tasks at agencies will say, “‘There’s a hot woman, so guys will pay attention.’”

Although the price of the product clearly plays a role in the campaign, the idea was “not to lead with the price, but to lead with the attractiveness,” Mr. O’Connell says, because “the big part of the difference was its esthetics.”

The agency initially sought the models for the campaign in Philadelphia, he adds, but eventually cast the right kind of male pulchritude in New York.

“The fun tidbit we found on set,” Mr. O’Connell says, is that one of the models was “the guy in Beyonce’s ‘Irreplaceable’ video.” (His name is Bobby Roache.)

Renuzit Fresh Accents is a type of air freshener known, according to Mr. Schwartz, as “nonelectric continuous action products,” which cost less than plug-in or battery-operated air care items but more than a venerable, lower-tech Renuzit line, Renuzit Adjustables, which is often priced at 99 cents apiece.

Bringing out the new line is “not just focused on the economic situation,” Mr. Schwartz says, but clearly these days consumers are making choices “between needs and wants.”

The nonelectric air fresheners are “the one bright spot in an otherwise declining category,” he adds.

The other marketers that sell air fresheners include powerhouses like SC Johnson & Son (Glade), Procter & Gamble (Febreze) and Reckitt Benckiser (Air Wick).

Reckitt Benckiser estimates the air freshener market in the United States at $2 billion annually; Henkel North America estimates it at $1.4 billion.

Reckitt Benckiser found success last year with a new product called Air Wick Flip & Fresh, a scented oil that is billed to last up to 45 days and costs around $2.99 for a single package and $4.99 for a twin package.

Red Tettemer created the Renuzit Fresh Accents campaign, which carries the theme “Refresh. Renew. Renuzit,” after being connected to the Renuzit brand executives by the Dial for Men brand executives, Mr. O’Connell says. Red Tettemer was awarded the Dial for Men account last March.

Henkel North America did not have an agency of record for Renuzit until recently, when Pereira & O’Dell in San Francisco was named to create campaigns for home care and laundry care products that, in addition to Renuzit, include Purex and Soft Scrub.

Red Tettemer “has done great work for the company,” Mr. Schwartz says, “and will continue to work for the company.”

Henkel North America has been busily bringing out new products in several categories, among them Dial for Men Speed Foam Body Wash, Purex Complete 3-in-1 laundry sheets, Purex Ultra Packs tablets and a fabric softener, Purex Complete Crystals Softener.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. And read coverage anytime of advertising, marketing, television, print, movies and new media on the Media Decoder blog at mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com.
1014 2012-02-28 His posts include observations about the apartment (a view of the traffic at West 66th Street and the Tavern on the Green parking lot was of “Central Park in name only”), insights on the building (“the headline-grabbers at 160 are the river-facing ‘A’ and ‘B’ lines”), and other relevant tidbits (“the dog across the hall yapped nonstop during my visit”).

“Oh, I’ve always wanted to meet him!” Sofia Song, vice president for research at StreetEasy, said of Mr. Waxenberg. “West81st is a well-known persona on our site.”

For Mr. Waxenberg, who works full time in information technology at a financial firm, real estate is a bit more than a hobby, perhaps even a passion. “But the best hobby is a passion, right?” he said.

Amid the cacophony of acerbic commenters on other real estate Web sites, Mr. Waxenberg’s posts stick out like a polite and informative sore thumb.

A typical critique of a listing often reads like this recent one on Brownstoner: “It looks like an asylum.”

In his reports, Mr. Waxenberg makes a note of ceiling cracks, available storage space and the condition of appliances (a sticker inside the microwave often includes the assembly date, he said, a clue to the age of kitchen renovations), and if he thinks a layout doesn’t work, he might suggest some alternatives.

He also takes a careful look at the price, and when he says it is too high, he is often right.

But not always. In 2008, he wrote up a duplex on West 90th Street, saying, “No matter how many expensive embellishments you pack into a fourth-floor brownstone walkup, it’s still a fourth-floor brownstone walkup.” He told the broker he had doubts about the $2.795 million sticker price, the post continued. “She looked at me like I was from Mars,” he reported.

It sold for $2.65 million, just 5 percent off the asking price.

Being from Manhattan, Mr. Waxenberg, who has a gentle demeanor and an easy sense of humor, grew up with some awareness of real estate. His aunt is a broker, he said, and his mother prefers not to let a dinner conversation pass without mentioning that she bought her classic-nine on Riverside Drive for $26,000.

But his experiment on StreetEasy began when he and his wife were deciding whether to buy their rent-stabilized apartment, a three-bedroom in a building on West 81st Street (hence the handle), where they lived with their three children.

“I was trying to establish a benchmark for what our place was really worth and to see whether there were any viable alternatives out there,” Mr. Waxenberg said. “Structuring it as a formal report really helped me do that.”

Based on what his family was looking for, he stumbled into his area of expertise: Upper West Side apartments with at least two bedrooms, in prewar buildings. Readers took notice and, assuming he was a broker, began asking him for help finding apartments of their own.

“I had to write back, ‘Well, I can’t,’” he said, “‘that’s not actually legal.’”

Despite some reservations about the profession (he used terms like “dark side” and “mortal soul” on discussion boards when he talked about getting his real estate license), he decided to take the plunge when the broker Keith Burkhardt, who has his own small firm, offered to sponsor him. A handful of deals and many, many open house reports later, he has developed some genuine expertise.

Playing the part of both an agent and a critic, however, may not make him many broker buddies.

“Everybody wants the spin to be good,” said Lisa Lippman, a director at Brown Harris Stevens who crosses paths with Mr. Waxenberg on occasion. She says that his reviews do not bother her personally, but that plenty of her colleagues might “resent someone who comes out with a negative spin.”

Last summer, the Waxenbergs finally bought their stabilized apartment, for the toe-curling figure of $1.32 million, but he continues to post on StreetEasy. He has toned down the criticism somewhat since becoming an agent, and he says he does not review properties that his clients might pursue, but it is still a great hobby, he said. His wife doesn’t mind, and sometimes he brings along one of his children.

Besides, he continued, it is a way of marketing his Upper West Side acumen — a sentiment that sounds suspiciously like broker-speak.

So, would Mr. Waxenberg ever consider doing it full time?

“It would break my mother’s heart,” he said, flashing a mischievous grin. “It’s sort of the opposite end of the spectrum from ‘my son the surgeon,’ isn’t it?”

Fair enough. But he never actually said no.
1015 2012-02-28 After the vote, Mr. Rudd acknowledged Ms. Gillard’s victory and declared it “well past time that these wounds were healed.” Analysts had estimated that Mr. Rudd needed at least 35 votes to mount another challenge for the leadership in the short term.

“The caucus has spoken,” Mr. Rudd told reporters. “I accept the caucus’s verdict without qualification and without rancor.”

Mr. Rudd promised not to initiate another challenge before the next parliamentary election and tried to strike a conciliatory note with former colleagues in the cabinet, many of whom had issued stinging personal attacks against him in recent days.

“To those who have been a little more willing in their public character analysis of me in recent times, could I say the following: I bear no grudges, I bear no one any malice, and if I’ve done wrong to anyone in what I have said or in what I have done to them, I apologize,” he said.

Another challenge to the party leadership by Mr. Rudd is not out of the question, some analysts said. But the Labor Party’s greater concern involves consistently low poll numbers since late 2010 for it and Ms. Gillard.

In a survey released Monday by Newspoll, based on polling conducted Thursday to Sunday among 1,152 voters, 53 percent supported the opposition coalition to 47 percent who supported the Labor Party, a difference that was within the margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points.

The opposition leader, Tony Abbott, was running even with Ms. Gillard, with 38 percent saying Mr. Abbott would make the better prime minister, to 36 percent saying Ms. Gillard would. Mr. Abbott, in Canberra, dismissed any talk of a rebound for Labor after the vote Monday.

He framed the leadership vote as “not so much a new start for this prime minister, but merely a stay of execution.”

Perhaps the most ominous result in the survey for Ms. Gillard was that despite her supporters’ withering attacks on Mr. Rudd, respondents still preferred him over her as the leader of the Labor Party by almost two to one: 53 percent to 28 percent.

Despite having won the “most decisive victory we’ve ever seen in a challenge against a leader in Australia,” said Norman Abjorensen, a political scientist at Australian National University in Canberra, Ms. Gillard will have to turn around the poll results within three months to stave off another challenge from Mr. Rudd.

To do so, Mr. Abjorensen said, Ms. Gillard will have to showcase her legislative victories, like the introduction of the largest emissions trading program outside the European Union and the strong economic growth that has occurred on her watch. “The challenge now, both tactically and strategically for the government, is to try to get the whole political discussion in Australia back to policy, back to achievements and back to goals for the future,” Mr. Abjorensen said.

In some circles, however, Ms. Gillard is viewed as unlikely to emerge with a victory in the next parliamentary election, said Michael Wesley, executive director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy, an independent research institute in Sydney. Allies of Australia have begun sizing Mr. Abbott up as her likely successor, he said.

“If anything, I think this has made Abbott more likely to come into power, and I think that’s already starting to be factored in,” Mr. Wesley said. “From what I can tell, the foreign diplomatic community is making a great effort to get to know Abbott and his foreign policy positions.”

As prime minister, Mr. Rudd developed a reputation for bullying people and making autocratic decisions, and that reputation still influences his colleagues’ opinion of him, Mr. Wesley said.

Ms. Gillard’s supporters may dismiss Mr. Rudd’s popularity with the electorate at their own peril, Mr. Wesley said.

“I think a really quite damaging narrative has opened up in all of this, and it’s been lost in some of the commentary,” he said, “and that’s this idea of ‘the candidate of the people versus the candidate of the party,’ and you couldn’t have had a starker difference looking at the polls this morning and looking at the results of the vote. I think that will be manifest in the election when it comes.”
1016 2012-02-28 Some studies have suggested that consumption of diet soft drinks may be associated with Type 2 diabetes and development of the condition known as metabolic syndrome — high blood pressure, abdominal obesity and other risk factors. Now a 10-year epidemiological study has found a link between diet soft drinks and cardiovascular disease.

The analysis, published online in The Journal of General Internal Medicine, included 2,564 adults over 40 living in Manhattan. Researchers found that diet and regular soft drink consumption were both associated with a number of risk factors for cardiovascular disease.

Even after controlling for many of those risks, including diabetes, the researchers found that daily consumption of diet soda was still independently associated with an increased risk for stroke, heart attack and death. The reasons for the association are unclear, the authors said, and the results must be interpreted with caution.

“The message for diet soft drink drinkers is not to be alarmed,” said the lead author, Hannah Gardener, an epidemiologist at the University of Miami. “What we’ve found is an association, and it might be due to chance or other unmeasured variables.”

Still, she added, if people stop drinking diet soda, they “are not going to be missing out on any important vitamins or minerals.”
1017 2012-02-28 WikiLeaks said Monday that it had begun to expose e-mail correspondence from the global geopolitical analysis firm known as Stratfor, detailing the company’s work for clients.

WikiLeaks did not disclose how it had obtained the e-mails, but Stratfor acknowledged in December that its data servers had been breached by a group of hackers known as Anonymous. The loose-knit group publicly supports WikiLeaks.

Anonymous posted online the names, e-mails and credit card numbers of thousands of Stratfor subscribers.

Now the contents of the e-mails are being exposed — five million pieces of correspondence in all, spanning seven years, WikiLeaks said.

It added that the organization was analyzing the documents with the help of 25 publications around the world, including Rolling Stone in the United States, L’Espresso in Italy and The Hindu in India. WikiLeaks said that Stratfor kept many records on the group and its founder, Julian Assange, who is under house arrest in Britain as he appeals an extradition order to Sweden in a sexual misconduct case.
1018 2012-02-28 KISSEL--Howard. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his family and loved ones. May his memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Lois S. Nyren, President...
1019 2012-02-28 6:57 p.m. | Updated      LONDON - HSBC Holdings, one of Europe's biggest banks, said on Monday that its profit rose 27 percent last year in part because of greater demand for loans in the developing world....
1020 2012-02-28 KISSEL--Howard. New-York Historical Society trustees and staff mourn the passing of Howard Kissel, colleague and friend to the American Musicals Project. Howard's wisdom and talent added depth and breadth to everything to which he contributed, fro...
1021 2012-02-28 A federal class-action lawsuit brought last year by a consortium of farmers against the agricultural and chemical company Monsanto was dismissed Monday by Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald of Federal District Court.     The plaintiffs, none of whom use M...
1022 2012-02-28 McCANN--Edith D. Beloved mother of James J. III (Cindy), Louise, Peter D. (Deborah Berke), and William died peacefully February 21, 2012, ten days short of her 93rd birthday. An avid gardener, she was an active citizen in the community she loved, ...
1023 2012-02-28 PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. - David Wright had a couple of shirts added to his wardrobe before the Mets took the field for their first official workout of spring training.     The first was a blue Michigan football jersey he received after losing a frien...
1024 2012-02-28 KISSEL--Howard. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund mourn the passing of our beloved colleague. While serving on TDF's Board for the past thirty years, his dedication and wise counsel helped TDF grow and flourish. We are de...
1025 2012-02-29 Mike Dungan has worked with some of country's top young acts, including Lady Antebellum....
1026 2012-02-29 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1027 2012-02-29 Brandon Nimmo, who was the Mets' top draft pick last year, did not play high school baseball but is confident he can succeed....
1028 2012-02-29 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar news. Wednesday's selections include a video of an imaginary iPad you would love to have, a profile of an influential angel investor in Silicon Val...
1029 2012-02-29 Microsoft has made a test version of its new Windows 8 operating system software available to the public....
1030 2012-02-29 On Wall Street, bonuses survive a sharp decline in profits; the European Central Bank soothes fears of a credit crunch; Eduardo Porter asks if there were alternatives to the stimulus package....
1031 2012-02-29 Coverage from in and around the Paris shows.
1032 2012-02-29 Mitt Romney is doing just well enough (and not much better) to be on track for the Republican nomination....
1033 2012-02-29 On Wall Street, bonuses survive a sharp decline in profits; the European Central Bank soothes fears of a credit crunch; Eduardo Porter asks if there were alternatives to the stimulus package.
1034 2012-02-29 People who share too too much personal information on social media may be more susceptible to identity fraud....
1035 2012-02-29 During a poolside event in Barcelona, Microsoft showed off the latest version of its Windows operating system, which is designed for both desktop and tablet computers. The software is designed so a user of a Microsoft phone, tablet and PC will hav...
1036 2012-02-29 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
1037 2012-02-29 Microsoft is back on center stage, basking in some attention for its Windows 8 operating system for computers. It gave the media and industry analysts an early look at the software, and initial reactions were positive....
1038 2012-02-29 On Feb. 29, 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson’s National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders (also known as the Kerner Commission) warned that racism was causing America to move “toward two societies, one black, one white — separate and u...
1039 2012-02-29 WASHINGTON — President Obama channeled his 2008 campaign persona on Tuesday, using an energetic speech before the United Auto Workers conference to remind Michigan on primary day that he helped save the auto industry with a controversial bailout even as Mitt Romney was calling for the leading car companies to seek bankruptcy.

“Just a few years ago, nearly one in five autoworkers were handed a pink slip,” Mr. Obama said in a full-bore address filled with applause lines for a core Democratic constituency. “And as the financial crisis hit with its full fury, America faced a hard and once unimaginable reality: two of the Big Three — GM and Chrysler — were on the brink of failure.”

And then, he gleefully got to the punch line that he has been perfecting ever since the Republican campaign road show headed to Michigan, where Mr. Romney has been trying to live down the infamous Op-Ed article headlined “Let Detroit Go Bankrupt” that he wrote in The New York Times in 2008.

“Some politicians,” Mr. Obama said, “even said we should ‘let Detroit go bankrupt!’ ” The crowd booed, and Mr. Obama paused, dramatically, then added, “You remember that?”

There were more boos; the president was clearly enjoying himself.

“Think about what that choice would have meant for this country, if we had turned our backs on you, if America had thrown in the towel. GM and Chrysler wouldn’t exist today.”
1040 2012-02-29 A wave of mergers between Roman Catholic and secular hospitals is threatening to deprive women in many areas of the country of ready access to important reproductive services. Catholic hospitals that merge or form partnerships with secular hospitals often try to impose religious restrictions against abortions, and sterilization on the whole system.

This can put an unacceptable burden on women, especially low-income women and those who live in smaller communities where there are fewer health care options. State regulators should closely examine such mergers and use whatever powers they have to block those that diminish women’s access to medical care.

Gov. Steve Beshear of , for example, recently turned down a bid by a Catholic health system to merge with a public hospital that is the chief provider of indigent care in . He cited concerns about loss of control of a public asset and restrictions on reproductive services.

The nation’s 600 Catholic hospitals are an important part of the health care system. They treat one-sixth of all hospital patients, and are sometimes the only hospital in a small community. They receive most of their operating income from public programs like and and from private insurers, not from the Catholic Church. They are free to deliver care in accord with their religious principles, but states and communities have an obligation to make sure that reproductive care remains available. This should be a central goal for government officials who have a role in approving such consolidations.

As Reed Abelson wrote in a recent report in The Times, these mergers are driven by shifts in health care economics. Some secular hospitals are struggling to survive and eager to be rescued by financially stronger institutions, which in many cases may be Catholic-affiliated. By one estimate, 20 mergers between Catholic and non-Catholic hospitals have been announced over the past three years and more can be expected.

The 2009 “Ethical and Religious Directives” issued by the warns that Catholic institutions should avoid entering into partnerships “that would involve them in cooperation with the wrongdoing of other providers.” Catholic hospitals have refused to terminate pregnancies, provide contraceptive services, offer a standard treatment for ectopic pregnancies, or allow sterilization after caesarean sections (women seeking tubal ligations are then forced to have a second operation elsewhere, exposing them to additional risks).

In one case, the sole hospital in a rural area in southeastern announced in 2010 that it would partner with an out-of-state Catholic health system, and would immediately adhere to Catholic directives that forbid certain reproductive health services. As a result, a woman whose doctors wanted to terminate a to save her life had to be sent 80 miles away for treatment. A coalition of residents, physicians and activists campaigned against the merger and it was called off before it was finalized.
1041 2012-02-29 “This case was filed by 12 Nigerian plaintiffs who alleged that respondents aided and abetted the human rights violations committed against them by the Abacha dictatorship in Nigeria,” Justice Alito said, quoting.

Then he asked: “What business does a case like that have in the courts of the United States? There’s no connection to the United States whatsoever.”

Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg tried to return the discussion to the narrower question: not whether United States courts can hear human rights cases over events that took place abroad, but whether corporations may be sued in such cases. “I thought what we were talking about today,” she said, “was is it only individual defendants or are corporate defendants also liable?”

The answer turns on the meaning of the Alien Tort Statute, a 1789 law that allows federal courts to hear “any civil action by an alien for a tort only, committed in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.”

The law was largely dormant until the 1980s, when federal courts started to apply it in international human rights cases. A 2004 Supreme Court decision, Sosa v. Álvarez-Machain, left the door open to some claims under the law, as long as they involved violations of international norms with “definite content and acceptance among civilized nations.”

A lawyer for the plaintiffs in Tuesday’s case, Paul Hoffman, said the justices should look to “the law of nations” in deciding which acts are subject to the law but to United States law to decide which entities may be sued.

The Obama administration supported the plaintiffs in the case, Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, No. 10-1491. Edwin S. Kneedler, a deputy solicitor general, said that while “the Alien Tort Statute identifies who the plaintiff must be — the plaintiff must be an alien — it does not identify who the defendant may be.”

Justice Stephen G. Breyer appeared to want to stop short of announcing a categorical rule, much as the Supreme Court had done in the Sosa decision. On the one hand, he said, “There is no United States Supreme Court of the World.” On the other, he said, he could think of “counterexamples” to a blanket rule that said “never sue a corporation.” He named one such example: “Pirates Incorporated.”

Kathleen Sullivan, a lawyer for the defendants, said the justices should look to international law to decide whether suits against corporations under the Alien Tort Statute should ever be allowed.

“There is no country in the world that provides a civil cause of action against a corporation under their domestic law for a violation of the law of nations,” she said, adding that “every convention for every international tribunal excludes corporations.”

Justice Elena Kagan said that was in some ways an overstatement. “As far as I can see,” she said, “the international sources are simply silent as to this question.”

The justices also heard arguments in a companion case, Mohamad v. Palestinian Authority, No. 11-88. It was brought by the family of Azzam Rahim, an American citizen who was tortured and killed during a 1995 visit to the West Bank.

Mr. Rahim’s family sued the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Liberation Organization under a 1991 federal law, the Torture Victim Protection Act. The law allows civil lawsuits against “an individual” who engages in torture or killings.

The justices seemed to find the 1991 law much easier to understand than the one from 1789. “Individual,” several justices said, has a common meaning, and it does not include corporations and other organizations.

“I think I have to say that you are on a weak wicket,” Justice Breyer told Jeffrey Fisher, a lawyer for the family.

Mr. Fisher did what he could with what the justices seemed to think was an exceptionally weak hand.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. summarized Mr. Fisher’s position: “You are saying, ‘Well, we want a term that is going to include individual persons and organizations but not state organizations.’ And the only term that fits perfectly is ‘individual.’ ”

Chief Justice Roberts was incredulous. “Really?” he asked, to laughter in the courtroom, which the chief justice joined.
1042 2012-02-29 Lower DVD sales in the fourth quarter dragged down earnings for DreamWorks Animation SKG, the company reported Tuesday, and its profit tumbled 72 percent.

The company’s net income fell to $24.3 million, or 29 cents a share, compared with $85.2 million, or 99 cents, a year earlier, DreamWorks said Tuesday. Analysts had projected profit of 31 cents excluding items, the average of 13 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.

“Kung Fu Panda 2,” one of two films DreamWorks Animation released in 2011, reached the home video market in mid-December. Michael Pachter, an analyst at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles, cut his profit estimate in a note on Friday, citing weak holiday demand for DVDs. This month, DreamWorks Animation announced plans to develop entertainment products in China.

“The overall home entertainment environment remains challenging,” its chief executive, Jeffrey Katzenberg, said during a conference call. Consumer purchases of movies on DVD remain “modest,” he said.

Sales for the quarter, which ended in December, declined 21 percent to $219 million, from $275.7 million a year earlier, beating forecasts for $205.1 million.
1043 2012-02-29 Now, Beltran and Wainwright are united again as the primary additions to the Cardinals, the reigning World Series champions. St. Louis won another title last season despite losing Wainwright to reconstructive elbow surgery in spring training. His return adds another ace to Chris Carpenter in the rotation, and Beltran stabilizes the lineup, playing right field while Berkman takes Pujols’s spot at first.

“You don’t hear our name mentioned with the big free-agent hauls or whatever, but name another team that added two guys to their roster the caliber of what we got,” Berkman said. “It’s right there for us. We expect to win.”

The Cardinals are not the only team to add two impact players; their spring training neighbors, the Miami Marlins, signed Jose Reyes, Mark Buehrle and Heath Bell. The Angels brought in C. J. Wilson to go with Pujols.

But Berkman has a point: rarely has a team that lost a megastar had such reason for confidence. After Pujols left in December, General Manager John Mozeliak used the savings to re-sign shortstop Rafael Furcal and give Beltran a two-year, $26 million contract.

Wainwright understood his connection to Beltran and called him after the deal.

“I told him I was happy he was here and couldn’t wait to be a teammate,” Wainwright said. “I told him, ‘The media’s going to ask us about that game, probably,’ and he just stopped me and said: ‘Hey, that’s in the past, let’s just put it behind us and move on. We’re teammates.’ ”

Wainwright said that was exactly what he wanted to hear. Beltran, who finished last season with the San Francisco Giants and has not played in the postseason since Wainwright struck him out, said he did not feel awkward.

“We’re professional ballplayers,” Beltran said. “We’re not enemies. It just happened that in that particular game, I happened to be the last out. But it’s not the end of the world for me. As a player you have to move on. There are times in your career as a ballplayer you have good experiences and some others you have bad experiences, but we’re here for one reason, and that’s being able to go out there and compete.”

Beltran has faced Wainwright in only one game in the regular season since 2006, with a double, a single and a walk at Citi Field on July 27, 2010. They have also faced each other in spring training — but never, of course, as teammates.

On Tuesday, Beltran dug in before a patchy crowd of encouraging Cardinals fans. Red Schoendienst, the Hall of Famer, peered through the net behind the batting cage. Two decorated football men — Bill Parcells and Ron Wolf, who live locally — took in the scene from a golf cart.

Wainwright threw six pitches to Beltran — four fastballs, a slider and a changeup. Beltran missed the slider and took the others. Wainwright threw only one curveball in his session, to a second round of hitters that included Yadier Molina. Molina ripped it over the left-field fence.

Mets fans can only imagine Beltran doing the same if he had swung at Wainwright’s curve in Game 7. Such frustration is understandable, if unfortunate. Beltran was a five-time All-Star in his seven seasons in New York, and even in that fateful playoff game, he doubled and scored the Mets’ only run. He said he was proud of his Mets career.

“Honestly, I feel personally that in the years I was healthy there, I did good and tried to help the team win,” said Beltran, who missed significant parts of 2009 and 2010 to injury. “Unfortunately we didn’t win anything, but that was a good experience. I got a chance to be around good people, got to play with good players, and when I was good, I felt the support from the fans.”

Popularity with the home crowd has never been a problem for Wainwright. He changed instantly from World Series closer to top starter, going 64-34 in four seasons before last year’s injury. Tuesday marked one year since his surgery, and now he trains with no restrictions.

“You have to sort of caution your expectations there, but he’s still an elite pitcher,” Mozeliak said. “If we get 90 percent of Adam, it’s still a big plus.”

Wainwright said he had no doubts about his recovery and would push his body as far as it could go. Almost all patients who follow the precise rehabilitation plan for Tommy John surgery make a full recovery, so chances are his elbow will be strong.

If it is, Wainwright should throw thousands of pitches this season. But none could ever be more significant than the one that changed so many destinies that October night in Flushing.
1044 2012-02-29 While Related would like to see even more tourists, the percentage of residents who shop there has run counter to expectations. Josh Podell, a former executive at Jones New York who runs Podell Real Estate Advisors, a consultancy, said he had been “pleasantly surprised” by the amount of activity on the upper levels. “Historically, this format doesn’t work” in New York, he said.

Michael Lomonaco, the chef-owner of Porter House New York, a 250-seat American steakhouse that opened on the top level in 2006 after the closing of Mr. Vongerichten’s V, a French steakhouse, said he was so taken with the strength of walk-in business that he will open a 50-seat bar in the center of the fourth-floor atrium in early fall.

“The old adage that New Yorkers won’t go upstairs to shop has been proven wrong by Time Warner Center,” said Mr. Lomonaco, who ran Windows on the World in the World Trade Center for four years before the building’s destruction and spent nine years at “21” Club. “A good portion of our guests are walk-in business.”

Related has employed a full-court-press marketing effort with a deliberate approach to leasing. The marketing group choreographs about 200 events each year at the center’s shops and restaurants, and arranges for art and photography exhibits that also lure visitors.

But the core of the business — attracting a steady and growing stream of free-spending shoppers — depends on carefully curating the retail environment.

Paco Underhill, the chief executive of Envirosell, a retail consultancy, and the author of “The Call of the Mall” and other popular books on retailing, said “there is a big difference between operating a mall and an ‘all.’ ” Unlike the “all” approach, in which developers are less constrained to be selective of their tenants, Mr. Underhill explained, “a mall requires lots of leasing decisions.”

Trial and error play an inevitable role. Along with the Whole Foods store, an immediate hit, the center’s earliest efforts focused on high-end retailers like the shoe designer Stuart Weitzman, Tourneau watches and the accessories store J. W. Cooper.

While these have proved successful, Related found that bringing in more mainstream, though still relatively upscale, brands like J. Crew, Sephora and Esprit also bolstered traffic. Other name-brand luxury and mainstream retailers included Hugo Boss, Cole-Haan and Eileen Fisher as well as Coach and Williams-Sonoma.

Of course, there have been misses. There was the sprawling Borders; the 10,000-square-foot Samsung Experience, a showroom for electronics enthusiasts that offered products for demonstration but not for sale; and the European sister brands United Colors of Benetton and Sisley. These four retailers, and a few more, have departed. Related says it has 28,000 square feet of space in play and 20,000 feet of “imminent” moves. It says an additional 20,000 feet will become available over two years. The Borders bankruptcy, which left Related with a lease still five years to run, could have meant a long-running retail black hole while Related and other creditors slugged it out in bankruptcy court.

“When we saw the signals that Borders was going to go out of business, we were able to get control of the space before we were thrown into the whim of the bankruptcy proceedings where landlords lose control,” said R. Webber Hudson, executive vice president of Related Urban, the company’s mixed-use development arm. “When it got into court we already had our deal.” Related declined to be more specific.

The openings are also allowing Related to recalibrate its retailer roster, said Kenneth A. Himmel, the chief executive officer of Related Urban. The developer has already signed C. Wonder, a clothing and furnishings store from J. Christopher Burch, the former husband of the designer Tory Burch, into one-third of the Borders space. Mr. Himmel, who founded Related Urban in 1997 with Stephen M. Ross, the chairman and chief executive of Related, said he expects to create some multilevel stores by combining the rest of the Borders store with the vacant Samsung space above it.

Related declined to comment on a report that the Swedish fast-fashion retailer H&M had agreed to lease about half of the Borders space. The vacancies include the 4,500-square-foot space that Sephora is leaving to move into the 8,700-square-foot store just vacated by Esprit on Monday, after that company closed its retail outlets nationwide.

In early April, L. K. Bennett, a women’s boutique based in London, will open its first New York store in a 2,100-square-foot space. J. Crew recently moved its men’s line into a separate store in the center to make room for a 3,300-square-foot Crew Cuts store offering children’s wear as part of the original store on the third floor.

Success will bring its own challenges, said Mr. Podell, the consultant. For example, available space can run low. “We see it all the time,” he said. “If a tenant wants to expand, they will move.” However, he added, the choices within striking distance of Time Warner Center are limited. “The only other area is Madison and Fifth,” he said. “They are so far way, it’s not really competition.”
1045 2012-02-29 The House sought Tuesday to undercut a 2005 Supreme Court ruling that gives state and local governments eminent domain authority to seize private property for economic development projects. Sponsors of the bill, which passed by a voice vote, said it was needed because the 5-to-4 ruling in a Connecticut case skewed constitutional intentions that eminent domain apply only to land for public use projects. The legislation would withhold for two years all federal development aid to states or locales that take private property for economic development. It also bars the federal government from using eminent domain for economic development. The House passed similar legislation five months after the court ruling, but the bill did not advance in the Senate. Prospects for Senate action on this bill are unclear. The ruling in the Connecticut case, Kelo v. City of New London, allowed New London to exercise state eminent domain law to take over the property of several homeowners for commercial use.
1046 2012-02-29 The waivers would also cover lawful permanent residents who were arrested in the United States or whose actions occurred domestically, as well as those arrested by the state or local police, rather than the federal authorities.

Even with the exceptions, a senior administration official familiar with the procedures stressed that the mandate meant that executive branch officials would be forced for the first time to consider transferring a newly arrested terrorism suspect to military custody. That could expose the government to greater public scrutiny whenever it decided against the military option.

The rule was part of a bipartisan package of detainee-related measures shaped by the Senate Armed Services Committee in a deal between Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and John McCain of Arizona, the top Democrat and Republican on the panel. Proponents of the mandate stressed that it would not disrupt national security investigations, in part because it gave the president the power to waive the requirement if doing so was in the United States’ security interests.

The Obama administration had strongly objected to the provision, but it was included in a major defense bill anyway. When Mr. Obama signed that measure on Dec. 31, he issued a signing statement blasting the detainee rule as “ill conceived.” He also vowed to interpret his waiver power to preserve a “maximum measure of flexibility,” foreshadowing the procedures issued on Tuesday.

The sweeping scope of the waivers outlined by the administration could reopen the debate over whether to handle noncitizen terrorism suspects as wartime prisoners rather than as criminal defendants.

The Bush administration designated two prisoners arrested inside the United States as “enemy combatants” and transferred them to a military brig. Both men — one of whom, Jose Padilla, is an American citizen — eventually were prosecuted in civilian courts. But the Obama administration has vowed to use traditional law enforcement agencies for all terrorism cases arising inside the United States.

The debate flared in particular around the case of Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Nigerian man who tried to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner on Dec. 25, 2009. After initially cooperating with interrogators from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Mr. Abdulmutallab did not speak to them for several weeks in January 2010 after he was given a Miranda warning. He eventually resumed talking and provided extensive information. He was later prosecuted in a civilian court, pleaded guilty and was sentenced to life in prison several weeks ago.

Under Mr. Obama’s guidelines, if F.B.I. agents take someone like Mr. Abdulmutallab into custody and think there is probable cause to believe that the prisoner fits the definition of a terrorism suspect covered by the law, they are to notify the attorney general.

The attorney general, in consultation with other top members of the executive branch legal team — the secretaries of state, defense and homeland security, the chairman of the military’s Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence — will discuss whether there is “clear and convincing” proof the prisoner is covered by the law.

If so, the officials are to consider whether the prisoner is covered by the waivers Mr. Obama is issuing. Even if not, the administration guidelines allow the attorney general to make other exceptions on a case-by-case basis.

All six members of an interagency national security team must agree before a prisoner is transferred to military custody, effectively giving any of them veto power over complying with the mandate. In addition, even if all six agree that a prisoner should be transferred to the military, the director of the F.B.I. must agree that the timing is right.
1047 2012-02-29 RIVETING high-wire action sequences are not something you tend to find in documentaries about food. Especially documentaries in which the main character is well into his 80s.

But when David Gelb, a 28-year-old director, was shooting a crucial passage in “Jiro Dreams of Sushi,” a cinematic portrait of Jiro Ono, a legendary and exacting Japanese chef who works near a Tokyo subway station, he had to deal with a race against the clock as tense as a flee-from-the-fireball scene in a Ridley Scott movie.

“Jiro Dreams of Sushi” is probably too modest to qualify as future Oscar bait, but one scene is like chum in the water for gourmands: Toward the end of the documentary, which comes out in New York on March 9, there is a spellbinding “concerto of sushi” in which nearly every item on the omakase menu at Sukiyabashi Jiro, Mr. Ono’s sliver of a restaurant, is captured in a loving close-up while Mozart soars on the soundtrack.

It looks simple enough — point a camera at the fish and start rolling — but it wasn’t.

Mr. Ono’s standards are so obsessively high that he wanted to shoot each handmade masterwork at “the supreme moment of deliciousness,” Mr. Gelb said, which happened to be the precise instant of its creation.

“It was important to Jiro that the sushi looked the way it was supposed to,” Mr. Gelb said.

This went beyond the fresh glistening hue of the fish. In the chef’s eyes, the scene had to incorporate even the gentle settling and merging of the fish and rice and sauce as each piece was placed onto a plate.

Take too long, Mr. Gelb said, and “we would’ve lost the soft landing, because it had already landed.”

So the sushi concerto may look serene, but it really involved Mr. Gelb racing around with a camera, trying to maximize a few scant seconds before a customer gobbled up the movie’s beautiful scenery.
1048 2012-02-29 One of the perks of winning the Super Bowl is getting to host the next season opener in prime time. But when the Giants begin the defense of their championship at MetLife Stadium this fall, they will also get an extra-long break before their second game.

The 2012 opener has been scheduled for Wednesday, Sept. 5, instead of the traditional Thursday start, to avoid conflicting with President Obama’s speech at the Democratic National Convention, scheduled for Thursday, Sept. 6. It will be the first N.F.L. game played on a Wednesday since 1948.

The Giants will have 10 days off before they have to play again.

The season opener will kick off at 8:30 p.m. Eastern. An opponent will be announced later, but the Green Bay Packers, who won the Super Bowl after the 2010 season, are on the Giants’ schedule. If that is the opening matchup, it will be the second year in a row with the winners of the two most recent Super Bowls.

ANOTHER CONCUSSION SUIT A former Dallas Cowboys defensive lineman has sued the N.F.L., alleging that concussions have affected his short-term memory and caused migraine headaches and other health problems.

The lawsuit by the lineman, Michael Myers, was filed Friday in United States District Court in Houston. It accused the league of negligence, fraud and conspiracy in its handling of head injuries.
1049 2012-02-29 What I would come to discover over the course of this two-month assignment is that the martini is a blessedly stateless entity, created equally well in the shakers of bartenders from Manchester, N.H., to Miami. Maybe it spoke to my utter lack of sophistication, but as long as the proportions were right, as long the bartender understood the word “dry,” I was happy.

For the sake of sample consistency, my order was always the same: one gin martini, very dry, shaken, with a twist. I wasn’t partial to any particular gin, though I found myself mostly ordering Hendrick’s, a cucumber- and rose-infused Scottish brand that has become to gin what Grey Goose is to vodka in most bars: the ubiquitous top-shelf brand. When I was in the mood for something with a more unadorned taste, I would go for Beefeater or Plymouth, if it was available.

Not that there weren’t the occasional mixological mishaps. At the bar at the downtown Des Moines Marriott, my martini arrived with a lemon twist and olives. A restaurant in New Hampshire served an editor friend of mine his martini in a wineglass. It did not stop him from gulping it down.

Then there was the time in a Sioux City, Iowa, hotel bar when a columnist from another publication ordered a martini and the bartender looked at him utterly stumped. She had been on the job just a few weeks, she said, lowering her head. Luckily, she was both patient and gracious enough to follow his meticulous instructions: fill a shaker with ice, put in half a capful of vermouth and top it off with Beefeater. We made out just fine.

Many purists insist that the vodka concoctions popular with martini drinkers today are an affront to the drink’s heritage. The one true way to drink a martini, they say, is with gin and dry vermouth.

I always opt for shaken over stirred, not out of any homage to James Bond, but because as a practical matter shaking makes the drink colder. And some bartenders will tell you the bruising that occurs when the ice smashes around helps release more flavor. Of course some will tell you the opposite, that bruising is a bad idea.

Over the course of my travels, some bartenders got a little carried away with the shaking. They shattered so much ice that you ended up with a drink more resembling a 7-Eleven Slurpee than something fit for Winston Churchill. His signature beverage, as lore has it, was gin, no vermouth, served icy cold. Instead of vermouth, which became scarce during World War II, he would bow in the direction of France.

I found my request for very dry martinis mostly heeded. At Soby’s, a modern Southern-cuisine restaurant in downtown Greenville, S.C., the bartender said to me: “Very dry. So do you even want me to look at the bottle of vermouth?” Excellent question.

And to make my sample as broad as possible, I ordered in as many different kinds of establishments as I could, aiming for the ideal mix of high and low. In South Carolina, I headed for the Thoroughbred Club at the famed Charleston Place hotel, a monument to old world Southern decadence, where I bumped into Newt and Callista Gingrich late on the Friday night before he pulled off a 12-point victory in the South Carolina primary.

He insisted the conversation he gamely struck up with me and my partner, Brendan, be off the record. But I feel no betrayal of journalistic ethics by reporting that his drink of choice appeared to be Scotch on the rocks, while Ms. Gingrich gingerly sipped a hearty pour of white wine.

It was a different setting entirely from the bar in the north concourse at the Omaha airport, where I was given Bombay in a nine-ounce plastic cup. While I might have been able to quibble with the presentation, I couldn’t complain about the liquid contents.

The bartender who poured me a Plymouth martini at the Loews Don CeSar in St. Pete Beach, Fla., came closest to summing up the drink wisdom revealed in my two-month investigation.

I complimented her on a job well done. There was no violent jostling of the shaker, just a gentle rattling for 20 seconds or so that left my drink cold enough to the last sip. To ensure it was dry, she poured a little vermouth into an empty, chilled glass and then shook it out, leaving just the traces.

“It’s so simple,” she said. “But then again people mess up simple all the time.”
1050 2012-02-29 GENEVA — Amid heightened tensions with the West over its nuclear program, Iran on Tuesday called for negotiations on a treaty banning nuclear weapons and condemned their production or possession as “a great sin.”

The Iranian foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, said in a statement to the Conference on Disarmament here that there were two ways to engage with Iran on its nuclear program: engagement or confrontation. Iran, “confident of the peaceful nature of its nuclear program, has always insisted on the first alternative,” he said.

Mr. Salehi’s statement came only days after the United Nations’ nuclear watchdog agency expressed concern over the possible military dimensions of Iran’s nuclear program. The watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency, offered its assessment after Iran denied visiting inspectors access to military facilities linked to the nuclear program.

The agency reported in November that it had “credible” information that the complexes at Parchin, southwest of the capital, Tehran, included an explosives containment chamber used for experiments that were “strong indicators” of possible nuclear weapons development.

Echoing sentiments expressed in speeches by Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Mr. Salehi denied that the nuclear program had a military purpose, saying Iran would be a stronger country without nuclear arms.
1051 2012-02-29 A recipe for butterscotch custard with clove and black pepper....
1052 2012-02-29 8:19 p.m. | Updated      SAN FRANCISCO - The private photos on your phone may not be as private as you think....
1053 2012-02-29 The financial system could face a test this week as industry officials debate a provision of the Greek bailout.     Greece is preparing to overhaul its bonds next month, a restructuring that could potentially prompt payouts on credit-default swaps...
1054 2012-02-29 KISSEL--Howard. 1942-2012, Cherished Friend, Deine Seele rings in die Luft. Dona D. Vaughn and Ron Raines...