1 2007-03-01 Johnny Damon was the underdog - the big underdog - to Snoop Dogg when he played the rapstar in Xbox 360 football for charity during Super Bowl week. "He thought he was going to beat me 50-0," Damon said. Damon knew he was in trouble when Snoop's p...
2 2007-03-01 An executive at UBS and a former lawyer at Morgan Stanley were charged with conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday for allegedly passing information about pending stock-rating changes and merger announcements to hedge funds and other accomplices...
3 2007-03-01 A new poll shows the former New York mayor gaining support among Republicans....
4 2007-03-01 Getting presidential candidates to answer specific questions can be hard. Some left-leaning groups have been training voters to sharpen their skills....
5 2007-03-01 New shows in New York include "Journey's End," "BFF" and "The Oresteia."...
6 2007-03-01 John Harris, editor in chief of The Politico, apologizes for coining the phrase "slow-bleed strategy" to describe Rep. John Murtha's plan to end the war in Iraq. Harris writes: Please note the context: What is slowly bleeding away is the administr...
7 2007-03-01 Leftover wish lists from this year's Oscars....
8 2007-03-01 Swiss Re said General Electric would divest its stake, worth about 3.5 billion Swiss francs ($2.9 billion), selling half to Swiss Re and placing the other half in the market. Swiss Re had waived a lock-up period on the shares, which General Electr...
9 2007-03-01 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
10 2007-03-01 “It was a different feel out there,” said Curry, who finished with 16 points and 7 rebounds. “Man, you don’t know how much you miss somebody until they’re gone.”

The Knicks did get some good news: Steve Francis intends to practice Thursday and, if all goes well, he could play Friday against Golden State, according to his agent Jeff Fried.

Francis shut himself down Sunday because of knee tendinitis. But he felt better about pushing the knee after undergoing a magnetic resonance imaging exam Wednesday in New York, Fried said. The team had no further details. David Lee (ankle) is also aiming to return for Friday’s game.

The loss left the Knicks (26-33) two and a half games out of the playoff field. With 24 games left to play, this is not a time to be experimenting with lineups or talking about learning experiences. The Knicks have no choice but to do both.

Crawford, their No. 2 scorer, probably needs surgery. Someone else will have to set up Curry and someone else will need to complement Stephon Marbury’s playmaking.

“We didn’t have another guy attacking,” Marbury said. “Normally, it’d be both of us going and attacking and creating for others, whereas it was just myself tonight. And then ‘Q’ started to attack more in the second half.”

The Knicks struggled all night to contain Al Jefferson, the Celtics’ quickly blooming power forward, who finished with 26 points. Paul Pierce had 24 points and Gerald Green, the slam-dunk champion, had 21 points, including 4 3-pointers.

The Knicks turned the game around in the third quarter, when Richardson got assertive. He hit 3 3-pointers and had 14 points in the period. Boston missed 6 of 7 shots and had a pair of turnovers and the Knicks pounced, with a 22-6 run to open the second half.

They took their first lead of the night, 81-79, on a Marbury 3-pointer early in the fourth quarter. They had their last lead at 88-87 with 4 minutes 50 seconds to play. The Celtics quickly pulled away, with Green scoring 7 points in an 11-2 run.

Jefferson sealed the victory with a spinning layup around Curry, followed by a jumper over Curry. Boston (15-42) won for just the third time since Jan. 5, a span of 26 games.

The Celtics used frequent double teams to deny Curry the ball and stifle him when he got it. He got just 4 shots in the first half and Coach Isiah Thomas said the Knicks simply failed to get him sufficient touches.

“We weren’t as persistent,” Thomas said, and without Crawford on the court, “we didn’t have enough weapons out on the floor to make them pay.”

The Knicks were also missing Nate Robinson, who stayed in New York with an illness, leaving them with three healthy guards, and a severe shortage of shooters to keep the defense honest. The Knicks’ starting lineup included two players — Jeffries and Malik Rose, who are not known for their scoring.

But the Knicks figured out a few things in the second half, leaving them optimistic they can weather the coming weeks.

“I think we’ll have a better understanding now,” Marbury said of playing without Crawford. “Now that we’ve played a game, we have a game under our belt, it will be a lot easier to go out and play a certain style. The game has definitely changed without him.”

Isiah Thomas ended the curious Jerome James experiment and instead started Malik Rose at power forward. Rose played just 10 minutes, however, finishing with 2 points and 3 fouls. Channing Frye started the second half in his place. ... James, who had started 10 straight games, but rarely after the first quarter, did not play Wednesday. ... The rookie Mardy Collins was the first, and only, guard off the bench. He had 6 points and 5 assists in 25 minutes. ... The Knicks finished February with a 6-5 record, their first winning month since December 2004, when they went 9-7. The Knicks have not won more than seven games in a month since then. ... The Celtics announced that Wally Szczerbiak will have season-ending ankle surgery next week.
11 2007-03-01 SINGAPORE, March 1 — Asia’s stock markets closed down today amid concerns that a slowing United States economy could hurt the region’s export-dependent economies, and European shares were off in the afternoon. But there were signs that the rout that began in China Tuesday and swept through global markets was abating, following reassuring comments by the chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve.

East Asia’s largest markets — in Japan, Hong Kong and Taiwan — ignored Wednesday’s rebound on Wall Street. Taiwan’s benchmark stock index led the region lower, falling as much as 2.83 percent. Stocks in China also dropped, with one benchmark index of exchanges there falling roughly 2.79 percent.

But aside from those two markets, stocks appeared to be regaining their footing. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei-225 and Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index both fell roughly 0.86 percent. India’s benchmark index declined by 0.35 percent. The stock market in South Korea was closed for a public holiday.

In Europe, stocks rallied in the morning after Swiss Reinsurance Co., the world’s largest reinsurer, and brewer InBev NV reported earnings that topped analysts estimates, according to Bloomberg News.

But shares began to decline in the early afternoon.

Investors seemed to take heart after Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, told a congressional panel that Tuesday’s 416.02-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average did not change the Fed’s forecast for moderate economic growth in the United States. His testimony helped restore confidence among investors, sending the Dow Jones up 52.39 points, or 0.4 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed up 0.56 percent and the Nasdaq rose 0.34 percent.
12 2007-03-01 SINGAPORE, March 1 — Asia’s stock markets continued to tumble today on concerns that a slowing U.S. economy could spell trouble for Asia’s export-dependent economies. The losses extended the rout that began in China Tuesday and swept through global markets.

East Asia’s largest markets — in Japan, Taiwan and China — ignored a rebound on Wednesday on Wall Street, where stocks rose after encouraging comments on the economy by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve.

Japan’s benchmark Nikkei-225 fell as much as 1.55 percent, while the benchmark in Taiwan fell as much as 2.67 percent. Stocks in China also dropped, with one benchmark index of exchanges there falling roughly 1 percent. The stock market in South Korea was closed for a public holiday.

Mr. Bernanke told a congressional panel that Wednesday’s slump in stock prices did not change the Fed’s forecast for moderate economic growth in the United States. His testimony helped restore confidence among investors, sending the Dow Jones industrial average up 52.39 points, or 0.4 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed up 0.56 percent and the Nasdaq rose 0.34 percent.

Mr. Bernanke’s optimism was echoed by economists around Asia, who said that the latest sell-off was more a sign of investors’ anxiety about record-breaking rallies over the past several months than a reflection of any downturn in Asia’s economic prospects.

“We’re seeing some blowing off of some froth in the equity markets and that’s probably a good thing,” said Peter Morgan, regional economist at HSBC in Hong Kong. Mr. Morgan likened the latest drop in stock prices to the correction in emerging market stocks that began in India last May. Stocks there dropped almost 30 percent, but had recovered by mid-October along with the region’s other markets.
13 2007-03-01 “It is impossible to get a number” on big investment bank’s exposure to subprime loans, said Richard X. Bove, an analyst with Punk Ziegel & Company. “And I don’t think they even know.”

The cost of insurance against potential bond default on Bear Stearns’s debt, for example, increased 40 percent recently, from about 22 basis points in mid-January to more than 31 on Tuesday, according to Lehman Brothers data.

Insurance costs for major firms with exposure to the subprime market, like Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch increased similarly. Brad Hintz, an analyst with Sanford Bernstein, said investors are increasingly concerned about Wall Street’s exposure to that market.

Investors, while heartened yesterday by Mr. Bernanke’s prediction of moderate economic growth, have had a revolving list of concerns: a slowing economy, oil prices and accelerating inflation. But now a major concern is whether the problems of subprime lending will spill over into the broader mortgage market, which at $6.5 trillion at the end of 2006 is the biggest bond market.

During the housing boom, Wall Street developed a series of profitable connections to the subprime market that included providing financing to companies that made loans to homeowners, buying finished mortgages, packaging them into bonds and then trading them. Last year, the subprime business generated $600 billion in loans, about 20 percent of all mortgages written, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. While down slightly from 2005, that is up from $120 billion in 2001.

Wall Street now faces risks on two fronts. First, it stands to earn less from originating, packaging and trading mortgage-backed securities. Second, it will have to absorb more of the losses from loans when borrowers are no longer making payments.

In the past, it could demand that mortgage companies buy back defaulted loans, but such large “put back” requests have driven many lenders out of business, and big investment banks are making many more loans through subsidiaries they own. As a result, the banks retain more of the risk in the form of “residual” interest in the loans they bundle into negotiable securities, a process known as securitization.

“The brokerage firms have done something curious: they are not abandoning subprime mortgage origination; they are taking positions,” Mr. Hintz said.

In December, Merrill Lynch completed a $1.3 billion acquisition of First Franklin, which was among the 10 biggest subprime lenders last year, and Morgan Stanley bought Saxon Capital for $706 million.

Bank executives say they anticipated the problems in subprime and they have been buying lenders because they want to better control lending standards in the industry.

“Saxon was a long-term strategic decision,” said Anthony Tufariello, who heads the securitized product group at Morgan Stanley. “And we are happy we made that decision because we bought it as a servicing platform with the expectation that the market would undergo dislocation.”

And the deal-making continues. Citigroup said that it would provide working capital and a credit line to ACC Capital Holdings, which owns Ameriquest and Argent Mortgage. Although the terms were not disclosed, it includes an option for Citigroup to acquire Argent, which lends through mortgage brokers.

By some estimates, the potential risks to the big banks are relatively modest. Mr. Hintz, of Sanford Bernstein, calculates that Lehman Brothers had $7.3 billion in residual risks at the end of 2006, $2 billion of it in noninvestment grade mortgages. If the noninvestment grade residuals decline by 20 percent, Lehman’s earnings would decline 3.2 percent after taking into account compensation costs and taxes; Bear Stearns’s income would fall about 4.1 percent.

A Lehman spokeswoman declined to comment on her company’s mortgage business.

Not all analysts are as sanguine.

Guy Moszkowski, an analyst with Merrill Lynch, downgraded Goldman Sachs, Bear Stearns and Lehman based on the erosion of risk appetite among its customers and because he believes the problems of subprime lending are spreading to “Alt-A” mortgages, which fall between subprime and prime and accounted for about 13 percent of loans written last year.

Investment banks entered the subprime market because the loans generated high yields, making them popular among pension funds, insurance companies, hedge funds and foreign investors. On the other side of the food chain, small mortgage companies and brokers stood ready to feed Wall Street with loans. The banks supplied the cash for the loans, and agreed to buy the loans from them.

The business generated multiple lines of income for Wall Street, including underwriting and trading. By 2005, the residential mortgage-backed securities market was generating 15 percent of fixed income revenues, and the subprime sector was bringing in 3 percent to 4 percent of fixed income revenues, Mr. Hintz said.

Lehman, RBS Greenwich Capital Markets, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch were the biggest underwriters of mortgage-backed securities in 2006, with Lehman controlling 10.7 percent of the market and underwriting $51.8 billion worth of mortgage-backed securities, according to Inside Mortgage Finance.

For some analysts, the bigger risk to Wall Street is simply that the spigot has been turned off.

“Does the flow of mortgages to the securitization machine slow?” asked Jeffrey Harte, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill. “That’s what I’m most worried about.”

Volume is falling. Production of nonagency mortgage securities fell almost 50 percent between January and February, according to preliminary numbers compiled by Inside Mortgage Finance. The data indicate that new subprime and Alt-A loans fell significantly in February.

But Wall Street seems to believe it will come out on top, surviving where smaller players lacked the resources. “The economics of the business are moving in favor of well-capitalized entities who don’t have to go outside” for other services, said Gyan Sinha, who heads asset-backed securities research at Bear Stearns.

One gauge of the subprime business is an index that tracks bonds backed by subprime loans, the ABX.HE. The index for loans issued in 2006 has fallen sharply in two months. Its price is used to calculate the cost of insuring the bonds from losses.

On Tuesday, the cost to insure a low-rated, “BBB-” portion of the bonds jumped to nearly $1,983 for $10,000 of bonds, from $1,641 on Monday and $410 at the end of December, according to the Markit and CDS IndexCo. The index, which was little changed yesterday, tracks the performance of 20 mortgage bonds, or pools, and provides a snapshot of complex market.

Each mortgage pool is broken into a number of tranches, which carry different risks and rewards for investors. Portions rated “AAA,” for instance, carry the least risk and provide the smallest return; investors in these pools also get paid off first when borrowers repay their loans. The riskiest portions of the debt, or the residuals, are often held by the mortgage companies that issued the loans or the Wall Street firms that underwrote the bond.

The big banks’ optimism is based in large part on the structure of these bonds. For one thing, most bonds collect more in interest payments than they are obligated to pay out. They also include a cash reserve, or residual, that can be dipped into if interest payments fall short because of defaulting borrowers.

“You can have a pretty long period of stress before you start to see actual write-downs,” said Anthony V. Thompson, who heads research of asset-backed securities at Deutsche Bank Securities.

Much depends on the strength of these bonds’ structure, which is determined largely by agencies like Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.

Skeptics say that Wall Street’s faith in complexity has proved wrong before, most recently in the meltdown of the manufactured housing, or trailer home, market. The business boomed in the early and mid-1990s before collapsing in the late ’90s when many buyers of the homes defaulted.

“These credit corrections are not unexpected,” Mr. Thomson said. “What’s harder to predict is the precise moment when the market decides to reprice the risk.”
14 2007-03-01 At the same time, upscale agencies providing trained aides are proliferating solely for the private-pay market, as are national chains with more modest services — and more reasonable prices. These franchises are intended for today’s consumer of home health care who need simple companionship, reminders to take medication, an escort to doctors’ appointments and help preparing meals.

The largest of these chains, Home Instead, opened in 1994 with six franchises and now has 722. Their 37,000 part-time workers tend to the needs of 43,000 elderly clients. The advantage is a lower hourly fee — say, $15 an hour for nonmedical needs vs. $20 an hour for a trained agency aide — and the disadvantage a scramble to find more skilled help as a patient’s health declines.

Policy experts worry that the new home health care businesses could put profit above quality.

“Consumers are always in jeopardy when there’s an opportunity to make a lot of money,” said Val J. Halamandaris, president of the National Association of Home Care, who 40 years ago was chief counsel to the Senate Committee on Aging. “Sometimes it works out beautifully, and sometimes it doesn’t. But nobody’s policing it; that’s for sure.”

Gray-market hiring, which Dr. Meier says most of her patients choose, is largely a financial decision to avoid the fees of home-care agencies, where perhaps $9 of the $20 hourly fee goes to the aide. In a gray-market arrangement, the aide might get $12, a 33 percent increase — although sometimes without benefits, worker’s compensation or Social Security — leaving a family able to afford additional hours.

Many who have hired by word-of-mouth, without criminal background checks, and paid directly cite the loyalty of employees and their ability to work unfettered by regulations. Some agencies, for example, prohibit their aides from lifting a patient who has fallen without calling 911 or getting approval from a supervisor. That rule protects a client from being moved improperly, the aide from injury and an agency from liability. But some families shudder at the prospect of a loved one lying on the floor.

Many families worry more about temperament than tasks. Dr. Meier, and most of her patients say that entrusting someone with intimate care is less a reasoned decision than an intuition about character.

“You can teach someone how to turn a bed-bound person,” Dr. Meier said, “but you can’t teach the milk of human kindness.”

Others say they chose gray-market employees if family members insisted upon someone of the same race. That is why Michael Elsas, president of Cooperative Home Care Associates in the Bronx, a worker-owned agency, turned to what he called “the German au pair network,” rather than his own better-trained aides, for his mother. But as her Parkinson’s disease progressed, Mr. Elsas said, the au pairs were not up to the task. He hired two aides from his agency, keeping one of the German women to placate his mother.

“The cost quadrupled,” Mr. Elsas said, to $1,400 a week, from $350.

Referrals from corporate employee-assistance plans and also coverage under long-term care insurance are fueling the growth of the full-service agencies. Senior Bridge, for example, has expanded from New York City to 18 suburban and Sun Belt locations. And House Works in Boston, a boutique agency with fewer than 700 clients, has seen its gross revenue grow in six years to $9 million, from $590,000.

According to the American Association for Long-Term Care Insurance, a trade group for agents, more than one-third of the $3.3 billion in benefits paid in 2006 went toward home care. But policies differ in whether they cover only certified aides or a broader menu including gray-market employees or companions. And state insurance officials worry about the pressure to deny benefits as more policyholders, now in their 50s and 60s, begin to make claims.

The demand for home care aides throughout the industry is expected to outstrip supply. The Bureau of Labor Statistics counted 663,280 such aides in 2005, up from 577,530 in 1999, a tally that does not include gray-market workers. But the Census Bureau reports a stagnant number of women with little education, ages 25 to 54, the traditional labor pool for this occupation, just as the 85-and-over population is soaring.

Innovators in the field are looking for ways to reduce turnover, estimated at 40 percent to 100 percent a year by various agencies. This so-called churn results in an inexperienced and uncommitted work force.

The Service Employees International Union has been at the cutting edge of creating a more stable pool of workers. In New York, Local 1199 unionized 60,000 home-care employees. Unionized aides, many of them former welfare recipients, get a full array of benefits, rare in this industry, and opportunities to master English, study nursing or learn computer skills.

One of the union’s newest offerings is a sort of consciousness-raising group, focusing on self-esteem and a sense of community among otherwise isolated workers. Last month, 13 aides from an agency in Queens shared their gripes with a facilitator. Many had been summoned from clients’ homes just moments before the workshop. This sort of administrative confusion was typical, they said, and along with wages, which average $9.34 an hour nationwide, is their main complaint. But aides also said clients criticized their broken English, refused to eat their ethnic food, touched them inappropriately or assumed they would steal.

The Visiting Nurse Service is raising its pay scale to $10 an hour by 2008. Compensation will be tied to seniority, which VNS hopes will reduce turnover, and to the completion of specialty training in areas like Alzheimer’s disease, which will provide career ladders for aides.

By all accounts, there is only one training program in the country for gray-market aides, at the Schmieding Center for Senior Health and Education at the University of Arkansas. There, Dr. Larry Wright, a geriatrician, designed a 119-hour curriculum for independent contractors, most enrolled by private employers. The course costs only $275, thanks to the subsidy of a benefactor.

“If I saw agencies doing fantastic work, it would be one thing,” said Dr. Wright, who says most agencies do little more than criminal background checks. “But there’s not much value added and significant cost.”

Even the best-trained agency aides wind up improvising in the privacy of a client’s home. It may be against the rules to escort patients in a private vehicle or use their credit cards when shopping. But Mr. Elsas, of Cooperative Home Care Associates, has no doubt it happens.

“The system depends on the good judgment and integrity of workers who may be making $7 an hour,” he said. “What’s wrong with that picture?”

One effort to instill good judgment is a peer-mentoring program at Mr. Elsas’s agency where senior aides make in-home visits to newcomers. But a home setting precludes the oversight found in nursing homes, tightened after the scandals of the 1970s. Setting national standards for agency employees, independent contractors and even family caretakers is one goal of a conference in March at the International Longevity Center in New York.

Sheila Baker, a geriatric social worker who has hired gray-market help for her mother, prefers informal oversight. At Mount Sinai’s geriatric clinic, for example, aides escorting patients to medical appointments are always asked to leave the room long enough for the elderly person to speak freely about the arrangement. And at Ms. Baker’s mother’s apartment, even with a gray-market aide who was once a physician in the Philippines, Ms. Baker and her sister, a nurse, make unannounced visits.

Larry Minnix, head of the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging, advocates national standards to prevent a repeat of the nursing home scandals in the home-care arena. And he speaks from personal experience.

Before they died, Mr. Minnix’s in-laws were cared for at home by one beloved aide hired from the gray market. That aide, in turn, hired friends for additional help. One, who did yard work, had a criminal record. Another, with a family of nine, ran up exorbitant grocery bills because she was taking most of the food home. But his in-laws, Mr. Minnix said, were dependent on the original aide and fearful of changing the arrangement.

“This could happen to anyone,” he said. “And it’s something the country doesn’t know what to do about yet.”
15 2007-03-01 WASHINGTON, Feb. 28 — Senator John McCain of Arizona took the platform of a late-night talk show Wednesday and said he would formally announce his campaign for the presidency in early April. His remarks erased entirely whatever doubt could have existed about his ambitions for the Republican nomination.

“The last time we were on this program — I’m sure you remember everything very clearly that we say — but you asked me if I would come back on this show if I was going to announce,” Mr. McCain told David Letterman. “I am announcing that I will be a candidate for president of the United States.”

“Oh,” Mr. Letterman replied with what seemed at least a glimmer of surprise.

Mr. McCain is known as something of a free spirit, and his aides suggested that his remarks to Mr. Letterman were, if formal-sounding, extemporaneous rather than a result of careful planning by his campaign. Nonetheless, aides said, his appearance clearly fit into the campaign’s effort to stir as much excitement and interest as possible in his plans — a point Mr. McCain himself made as he and Mr. Letterman bantered on.

“By the way, I’ll be making a formal announcement in April,” Mr. McCain said. By way of explanation, he added: “This is the announcement preceding the formal announcement. You know you drag this out as long as you can. You don’t just have one rendition. You’ve got to do it over and over.”

Acting a bit downcast, Mr. Letterman responded, “How do you think that makes me feel?”

The exchange was the latest example of how the customs of presidential campaigns are changing. Not all that long ago, an announcement was a defining moment in the evolution of candidates, in which they truly opened their campaigns. For 2008, on the other hand, candidates have been not only announcing but also preannouncing on Web sites and various television shows and in random interviews.

In truth, Mr. McCain has been running for the White House for nearly two years and, ever since forming a presidential exploratory committee in November, has repeatedly told interviewers that there are no circumstances he can foresee in which he would not run.

He has assembled a full campaign staff, and his organization has been churning out nearly daily pronouncements of the latest political figure to endorse him. In Iowa two weeks ago, he talked at three events about what he would do as president. And he is going to the West Coast this weekend to raise money.
16 2007-03-01 WASHINGTON, Feb. 28 — David C. Iglesias, who was dismissed as the United States attorney in New Mexico, has said he believes that he was ousted because he resisted pressure before the 2006 elections to bring corruption charges against a Democrat in his state, a Democratic senator said on Wednesday.

Mr. Iglesias has told Congressional aides that two federal lawmakers had separately called him in mid-October asking about the status of an inquiry involving a statehouse construction contract and a former Democratic state lawmaker, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said in a statement Wednesday on the Senate floor.

Mr. Schumer did not identify the lawmakers who made the calls either by name or party affiliation, but he suggested that they wanted Mr. Iglesias to move quickly with indictments before the November elections to help Republicans.

Mr. Iglesias is one of eight United States attorneys known to have been dismissed in recent months by the Justice Department. Each had been appointed by President Bush during his first term, but Democrats have criticized the removals as politically motivated. Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, said in a floor statement that the firings represented an effort “to bring political operatives into these offices.”

Mr. Iglesias’s account of the calls was first reported on Wednesday by the McClatchy Newspapers, which said the prosecutor would not identify the lawmakers because he feared retaliation. But in that report, he described the contacts as “appalling.”

Justice Department officials said politics was not a factor in Mr. Iglesias’s ouster. “The suggestion that David Iglesias was asked to resign because he failed to bring an indictment over a courthouse construction contract is flatly false,” said Brian Roehrkasse, a Justice Department spokesman. Mr. Roehrkasse added, “This administration has never removed a United States attorney in an effort to retaliate against them or inappropriately interfere with a public integrity investigation.”
17 2007-03-01 The city’s Department of Small Business Services said yesterday that it had awarded about one-third of the $1.5 million it can grant this year to companies for training workers. The department granted a combined $466,324 to five employers, including two manufacturers, Felix Storch Inc. in the Bronx and G.T. Machine and Tool Company in Queens, and two health care operations, Montefiore Medical Center and the Community Premier Plus health plan. The fifth recipient, Soundwriters Inc. of Long Island City, plans to hire 18 workers to create closed captions and subtitles for films and television shows. The grants can be used to cover half of the training costs, to a maximum of $300,000.
18 2007-03-01 WASHINGTON, Feb. 28 (AP) — Amgen said Wednesday that it had received an informal inquiry from the Securities and Exchange Commission seeking more information about a Danish study of the company’s Aranesp anemia drug.

Researchers halted the study to assess Aranesp’s potential as a treatment for head and neck cancer in October after concluding that it probably would not have a positive outcome.

The Atlanta bureau of the S.E.C. asked Amgen to voluntarily provide information and documentation related to the study.

Amgen, which disclosed the request in its annual report filed with the S.E.C., said it would cooperate fully with the request.

In a separate press release Wednesday, Amgen said it intended to provide an update on Aranesp trials at a meeting in May of the Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee.

Last month, Amgen, which is based in Thousand Oaks, Calif., said a separate study of Aranesp showed an increased risk of death in people with anemia possibly caused by cancer, compared with a placebo treatment.
19 2007-03-01 In 8 of the 14 cases, according to court documents and police reports, there was more than one witness; in two of them, off-duty police officers were among those identifying the suspects. But in a DNA era, these are cases with little or no physical evidence, and they often involve witnesses whose credibility could be compromised by criminal history or drug problems, or both.

“No one wants to solve these cases and lock up the killers in these cases more than we do,” the county prosecutor, Paula T. Dow, said in a recent interview. “But we have to weigh the evidence and move forward only if we believe that the witnesses are credible and that they’ll be there to testify at trial.”

The tension between the police and prosecutors here over the evolving standards of evidence required to authorize arrest warrants is a stark example of the profound effect witness intimidation is having on the criminal justice system in New Jersey and across the country.

Surveys conducted by the National Youth Gang Center, which is financed by the federal Department of Justice, have found that 88 percent of urban prosecutors describe witness intimidation as a serious problem.

In both Baltimore and Boston, where “stop snitching” campaigns by rap artists and gang leaders have urged city residents not to cooperate with the authorities, prosecutors estimate that witnesses face some sort of intimidation in 80 percent of all homicide cases.

In Essex County, prosecutors report that witnesses in two-thirds of their homicides receive overt threats not to testify, with defendants and their supporters sometimes canvassing witnesses’ neighborhoods wearing T-shirts printed with the witnesses’ photographs or distributing copies of their statements to the police.

Dozens of New Jersey murder cases have been undone over the past five years after witnesses were killed, disappeared before trial or changed their stories.

In 2004, the Newark police determined that four people found dead in a vacant lot had been killed to silence a witness to a murder; a witness to that quadruple homicide was later shot to death as well.

Ms. Dow, who was appointed in 2003 amid criticism of county prosecutors’ ability to close cases, said she was simply adapting to the evolving code on the streets, where gang violence and widespread distrust of law enforcement have deprived prosecutors of one of the legal system’s most crucial components: dependable witnesses.

The state’s attorney in Baltimore, where witness intimidation is a notorious problem, has taken an even more rigid stand, refusing to file charges in any single-witness case without extensive forensic corroboration.

But that approach differs sharply from those of prosecutors in many other urban areas, like Brooklyn, where the district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, has in recent years taken to reviewing all single-witness cases personally.

In Newark, where the homicide rate has risen in the past few years, the police, local politicians and victims’ relatives are all questioning why prosecutors are holding detectives to a higher standard than the law requires — and letting dangerous criminals remain on the streets.

“How can they leave him out there?” asked Yusef’s mother, Tosha Braswell, referring to the man who shot him. “Are they waiting for him to kill someone else’s son?”

Newark’s mayor, Cory A. Booker, who was elected last year on a promise to reduce crime in the city, recently met with Ms. Dow to ask her to be more aggressive in filing charges. In recent years Newark police officials have accused the prosecutor of being reluctant to take on cases that could be difficult to win because her office was criticized after losing a succession of high-profile trials.

The police director, Garry F. McCarthy, worries that the prosecutor’s approach undermines his crime-fighting strategy of focusing on the small group of criminals responsible for a disproportionate amount of crime.

“The law states the standard for arrest is probable cause, which is different than what is required for conviction beyond a reasonable doubt,” Mr. McCarthy said. “Our goal is to arrest quickly to avoid the potential for additional crime. An arrest does not prevent an ongoing investigation from proceeding.”

Ms. Dow declined to discuss details of any open cases. But she said that she was proud of her office’s performance, and that she hoped her rigorous standards for filing charges would lead investigators to work harder at getting corroboration.

“It’s easy for the police to point fingers when they haven’t done enough detective work to get a conviction,” she said.

In Essex County, the conviction rate for homicides, which includes plea agreements, was 79 percent in 2006, up from 74 percent when Ms. Dow took over three years earlier (but down from 86 percent in 2005 and 83 percent in 2004).

In Baltimore, prosecutors under Patricia C. Jessamy, the state’s attorney, obtained convictions in 65 percent of homicide cases last year, up from 59 percent in 2005 and 52 percent in 2004.

While prosecutors are often measured by such conviction rates, it is difficult to tell through statistics whether they are shying from hard-to-win cases.

What most irks the police is the failure to even file charges in cases in which witnesses have solidly identified a suspect, like the 14 here in Newark over the past three years in which Ms. Dow has declined to authorize arrest warrants. Six of these cases rely on a single witness, including the slayings of Yusef Johnson and Valterez Coley.

Yusef was a football star with a 3.7 grade-point average before he was killed in August 2005. According to police reports, a woman told detectives she had seen the shooting from 30 feet away and was well acquainted with the gunman, a member of the Crips street gang, because he frequently sold cocaine to her.

The case helps illustrate why prosecutors may shy away from single-witness cases: Given the suspect’s status as both a gang member and the witness’s drug supplier, even detectives have their doubts about whether the woman would ultimately testify at trial — or be believed.

On the night Mr. Coley was gunned down near a porch in Newark’s Central Ward, two men told the police they had seen the gunman, whom they identified as a leader of the 252 Bloods street gang. The witnesses said the gunman was looking to settle a score with a young man who had a relationship with his girlfriend, and mistook Mr. Coley for his rival.

But one of the men soon fled the state, leaving the police with a lone witness — and thus no charges have been brought.

Gregory DeMattia, chief of the Essex County prosecutor’s homicide division, said his investigators saw fallout from witness intimidation every day. When they arrive at a crime scene, he said, bystanders scatter so neighbors will not think they are cooperating with the police.

Those who do help often do so surreptitiously — leaving detectives a note in a trash can or asking to be taken away in handcuffs “so that neighbors will think they’re in trouble with the police and not cooperating,” Mr. DeMattia said.

Prosecutors in other cities tell similar stories about their witnesses being pressured, and say they are cautious about pursuing cases based on lone witnesses because of worries about faulty memory, ulterior motives and, as in the Yusef Johnson case, credibility.

That is part of why Ms. Jessamy, in Baltimore, has all but refused to file charges in single-witness situations.

But across Maryland in Prince George’s County, where there is also a serious gang problem, State’s Attorney Glenn F. Ivey has taken the opposite tack. He insists on pursuing single-witness cases even though he was criticized publicly for losing 4 of them in 13 months.

“If you have a single witness and you believe their story, I believe you’ve got to go forward, even if it’s a case you might lose,” said Mr. Ivey, whose office’s conviction rate on homicides is more than 80 percent. “I’m not going to give the gang members, the murderers and the rapists an easy out. And if they know that all they have to do is get your case down to one witness, I think it would encourage them to use even more intimidation.” Here in Newark, even in cases with multiple witnesses — and occasionally even when one of those witnesses is a police officer — the prosecutor has sometimes been unwilling to authorize arrests.

Take the case of Lloyd Shears, an Army veteran killed during a robbery in December. A man told the police he had seen his neighbor fire the fatal shots. A woman who had been standing next to him told detectives she heard the shots, and then turned to see the neighbor running from the scene. But the neighbor has not been charged.

Or consider the killing of Shamid Wallace, an 18-year-old found face down in the street last August with several gunshot wounds in his torso. Detectives found two witnesses who identified the man they said they saw kill Mr. Wallace. An off-duty Newark police officer heard the gunshots, saw a man fleeing with a gun and later picked the suspect out of a photo array. The suspect has not been arrested.

Then there is Farad Muhammad, who was stabbed to death last July. One witness told the police she had seen someone she knew running away from Mr. Muhammad’s body. An off-duty police officer from neighboring East Orange identified the same man, saying he had seen the suspect chasing Mr. Muhammad with a knife. Again, no charges were filed.

Yusef’s parents, who keep a shrine of photographs surrounding his school sports trophies, still hope that his suspected killer will be arrested soon.

“It’s like they don’t care enough,” said his father, Scottie Edwards, a delivery truck driver.

But to those who suggest Ms. Dow is overreacting to the problem of witness intimidation, her supporters point to the death of Steven Edwards, who was shot and killed in a car on South Eighth Street in January 2006. Within a month, detectives had three witnesses identifying the gunman.

One of the witnesses, a gang member, quickly announced he would never testify for fear he would be ostracized for helping the police — or wind up murdered himself. Six months later, another witness was himself charged in two homicides, shattering any credibility.

The third witness picked the suspect out of a photo array, but immediately began to waver when asked about testifying in open court.

“She would not say she was 100 percent sure,” said a police report on the case, “because she was afraid of retaliation.”
20 2007-03-01 The New York City Police Department has commissioned a six-month independent review of the way it stops people on the streets, sometimes searching them for illegal weapons, after the release of statistics that showed the department stopped 508,540 people in the five boroughs last year, officials said yesterday.

The study will focus on the role that race plays in everyday street stops: some critics have suggested that minorities, particularly black people, were unfairly singled out, a claim the police deny. It will be done by the RAND Corporation, a private nonprofit organization that has studied the issue in other cities, including Oakland, Calif., and Cincinnati, officials said.

Nearly two months ago, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly commissioned RAND to review several aspects of firearm use in the department after the fatal police shooting of Sean Bell in Queens in November. That study is still under way.

The issue of stopping people on the streets — known in department parlance as “stop and frisks” — has been a source of occasional tension between the police and residents. As part of the study, analysts from RAND will not only examine last year’s 508,540 stops, but also ride with police officers on duty. The officers will be interviewed about their decisions to make stops.

Analysts will also see firsthand how officers complete forms known as UF-250s, which they are supposed to fill out after all such stops. The form captures several points of data, including the circumstances that led to the stop, whether physical force was used, whether the stop included a frisk, and the race or ethnicity of the person stopped. A factor cited frequently on the forms is “area has high crime incidence.”
21 2007-03-01 Its actions violated campaign laws because it was not registered as a political action committee that would be subject to strict limits on donations. The agency said it circumvented a ban on corporate money and accepted contributions that well exceeded the caps on individual donations.

The group’s most memorable advertisements included “Ashley’s Story,” featuring Mr. Bush hugging a girl whose mother died in the World Trade Center attacks and who said the president kept her safe. That cost $16.5 million and was broadcast in 11 states and on national cable, the agency said.

The group admitted no wrongdoing under the agreement, but promised to register as a political action committee if it decided to keep operating the same way. It also agreed to file disclosure reports listing donors and other information from May 2004 through January of this year. It reported raising $44.9 million in 2004, with nearly three-fourths from 13 donors, the agency said.

Critics and campaign finance reform groups contended in the 2004 election cycle that the 527 groups acted as “shadow parties.” Since then, many have regrouped or closed shop.

Mr. Lenhard warned Wednesday that groups registered under other sections of the tax code — nonprofits known as 501(c)4s or 501(c)3s, for example — would also be subject to scrutiny. “These rules are conduct-based,” he said. “If these organizations engage in these kinds of activities, they become PACs regardless of their tax status.”

For those who continue, Mr. Lenhard said, “I think that they have to comply, and they have to understand if they don’t there’s a significant financial risk associated with it.”

Benjamin L. Ginsburg, a prominent Republican lawyer representing the group in this case, cited the financial stakes as a reason for the agreement.

“Despite Congressional pressure to impose some set of rules or provide guidance for so-called 527 groups, the F.E.C. still refuses to do so,” Mr. Ginsburg said.

“Given the ambiguous nature of this situation and the cost of litigating this dispute,” he added, the group “decided it is a more prudent use of its resources and energy to conclude this proceeding.”

Mr. Ginsburg also represented the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, another 527 group, which attacked Senator John Kerry; it reached a settlement with the F.E.C. in December.

The agency is still engaged in a court battle over its decision to regulate such groups on a case-by-case basis rather than through a uniform rule.

Fred Wertheimer, head of Democracy 21, a group involved in this 527 complaint, said the agency had not acted on complaints against two other groups that were Democratic powerhouses in 2004, America Coming Together and the Media Fund.

Mr. Wertheimer praised the size of the penalty Wednesday, but said, “We don’t want to see a system where people keep making illegal expenditures in campaigns and then two or three years later end up paying a fine that may be large in gross terms but is proportionally very small compared to the amount of illegal funds they spent in the election.”

The Progress for America Voter Fund was created as an offshoot of Progress for America in late May 2004. It solicited money in part by promoting its efforts to counter the Democrats’ distinct advantage in using mega-527 groups through affluent donors like George Soros.
22 2007-03-01 LOS ANGELES, Feb. 28 (AP) — The recording industry’s trade group will give hundreds of college students suspected of illegally sharing music online a chance to reach settlements before being sued for copyright infringement.

The move announced Wednesday comes as the industry seeks to stamp out what it says is rampant music piracy on campuses.

The Recording Industry Association of America said it would send letters offering discounted settlements to 400 computer users at 13 universities.

The group intends to send hundreds of such letters to university computer users every month.

“The theft of music remains unacceptably high and undermines the industry’s ability to invest in new music,” said Mitch Bainwol, chairman and chief executive of the association.

“This is especially the case on college campuses,” he said.

As part of its continuing copyright crackdown, the association has already sued about 18,000 computer users nationwide since September 2003.
23 2007-03-01 TRENTON, Feb. 28 (AP) — Citing strong revenue in the current quarter, Merck & Company released a forecast Wednesday for first-quarter profit well above analysts’ expectations, and also increased its forecast for 2007.

The forecast pushed shares up 97 cents, to $44.15 on the New York Stock Exchange, amid a market rally.

The company, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., said it expected to post first-quarter earnings of 58 cents to 64 cents a share, or 63 cents to 67 cents excluding revamping charges. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial were expecting 60 cents on average, excluding charges.

Merck, which makes the osteoporosis treatment Fosamax and the asthma medication Singulair, also said it expected earnings of $2.55 to $2.65 a share for the full year, excluding overhaul charges. That was up from its Jan. 30 forecast of $2.51 to $2.59 a share, excluding 10 to 15 cents in revamping charges. Analysts were anticipating a profit of $2.62, excluding charges.

Five new Merck vaccines and other medicines were approved last year, but the company lost revenue from its top-selling drug, Zocor, a cholesterol fighter. Zocor, which had $4.4 billion in sales in 2005, lost patent protection last June and faces increasing generic competition.

The newer medicines include Januvia, a new type of diabetes drug, and Gardasil, the first vaccine against the sexually transmitted virus that causes cervical cancer.
24 2007-03-01 If no signal at all is available, the solution may be a powered signal amplifier.

Known as repeaters or boosters, such equipment is now available to consumers. Basically, these devices use a sensitive antenna that is connected by cable to an amplified base station that must be at least 15 feet away from the antenna. The base station in turn uses its own antenna to beam a signal throughout an office or home.

Professional systems installed by cellular services on large corporate campuses have been used for years to improve coverage, but smaller models for consumers are relatively new.

The first repeater I tried was the $299 Spotwave Z1900 indoor wireless coverage system. The Z1900 works only with 1900 MHz wireless services, which include Sprint and T-Mobile and some Cingular coverage areas. (Buyers can see if their areas are covered by entering their ZIP codes on Spotwave’s Web site, www.spotwave.com.)

Setting up the Z1900 is relatively easy. The directional antenna box must be pointed toward the source of your cellular signal. I found the strongest signal near a front window using my phone (only two bars) and then positioned the antenna until its blue light indicated a signal was being received. I then situated the indoor coverage unit about 25 feet away from the antenna.

Initially, the Spotwave delivered solid coverage within the entire room in which it was installed — a big improvement. But when I tried to place a call from my office on the other side of the house, I still could not receive a signal on my Motorola Razr.

Juggling various test phones, I was able to get reception on a newer Samsung Blackjack smart phone from Cingular, which proved to be more sensitive. I was also able to place a call from my office using a T-Mobile BlackBerry Pearl. Neither smart phone yielded crystal-clear reception, but it was better than no reception at all.

For comparison, I tested a repeater from Wi-Ex, the zBoost. At $399, it is more expensive than the Spotwave, but because it operates in both the 800 MHz and 1900 MHz bands, the zBoost works with nearly all the major wireless carriers in the United States, including Verizon Wireless, Alltel and Cingular nationwide. Like the Spotwave, it will not work with Nextel’s service.

The zBoost is more industrial in appearance, with a 16-inch-long tube antenna that can be difficult to position. Further complicating the installation, the indicator lights are only on the base coverage station. That meant I had to run back and forth between the antenna and the base station to find the ideal reception position for the antenna.

The zBoost performed much like the Spotwave, although I was unable to get the Blackjack to work in my office. On the other hand, I had great success with all of the phones in the room in which the repeater was installed, and I was even able to place calls from the basement directly below.

After I tried both repeater systems, the limitations were apparent. Although either can provide coverage for a 2,500-square-foot home, reception areas are significantly reduced if the original signal is weak. In my case, with just two bars showing on the phone, the original signal was weak indeed, and the repeaters could extend coverage only over about 200 square feet.

Furthermore, concrete walls, metal roofs and other construction materials can foil a repeater’s attempts to boost the signal.

Conferring with wireless carriers during the course of my tests, I also learned that while cellular companies install repeaters in corporate settings to improve service, they are not quite so sanguine about allowing individual consumers to install their own boosters. And while the two boosters I tested are approved by the Federal Communications Commission, whether consumers are free to use them wherever they please is a matter of considerable contention.

While repeaters are not illegal to purchase or own, the fact that they operate in the frequencies licensed by the government to the carriers means that individual users are violating the terms of those licenses when they switch them on.

According to a representative of Cingular, the company therefore believes that the Federal Communications Act prohibits the unauthorized use of repeaters by consumers. And wireless companies assert that the use of unauthorized repeaters can cause interference for other customers.

Indeed, CTIA — the Wireless Association, the trade group that represents carriers and manufacturers, asserts that repeaters have sometimes caused temporary service disruptions for adjacent customers.

Christopher Guttman-McCabe, the CTIA’s vice president for regulatory affairs, says the group believes that “some discussion with the carrier” must occur in advance to seek approval of a repeater’s use. He warns that without such authorization, a repeater could even endanger lives by disrupting e911 location-based emergency services. But none of the carriers offer a standard approval process.

There appear to be conflicting F.C.C. regulations as to whether cellular subscribers may use cell boosters. An F.C.C. spokeswoman said the agency was aware of the issue, but it has not issued an official interpretation of the regulations.

John Davis, director of product management for Wi-Ex, conceded that oscillation — a type of interference akin to feedback that can create noise on a carrier’s network — “is a valid concern.” But he says the zBoost will automatically shut down if it detects such interference. The makers of the Spotwave also say that their device reduces its power in such cases.

Passive antennas, like the Freedom Antenna, present no such legal or interference concerns. And it is extremely unlikely that in my rural test location a properly installed, low-powered repeater could cause interference — or be detected by the wireless carriers.

Nevertheless, installing your own repeater is no panacea for poor cellular coverage. So like the adage that you need money to make money, it turns out that you also need a signal to improve a signal.
25 2007-03-01 Converting video for use on an iPod or PlayStation Portable is often time-consuming and complex. The iLuv i182 is meant to change that.

This dock connects to any source with an S-video port and records television (and other video and audio) directly to the iPod’s hard drive. An attachable SD and MemoryStick card reader can also save video for use in the PSP portable game system or other video players.

The i182 will be available this month for $229 at www.i-luv.com and in stores.

It records at 640-by-480 pixel resolution for iPods and 720-by-480 pixel resolution for the PSP and other devices. The device can be set to stop recording at a preset time, so you can turn it on — at, say, the beginning of “Lost” — and let it record for later consumption.

The recordings are encoded specifically for each playback device and are immediately available once recording is complete.

Unfortunately, you still need to initiate the recording manually, so the iLuv i182 isn’t a replacement for a TiVo. JOHN BIGGS
26 2007-03-01 An article last Thursday about stores selling salvaged architectural objects referred incorrectly to the location of the summer home of Alvan T. Fuller, the governor of Massachussetts from 1925 to 1929. It was in the Village District of Little Boar’s Head, North Hampton, N.H. — not in Rye Beach, N.H.
27 2007-03-01 In Washington, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told lawmakers today that the turmoil in the Asian markets and the repercussions on Wall Street are no cause for immediate alarm.

“We are looking for moderate growth,” Mr. Bernanke said before the House Budget Committee. He said that, considering all the new data, including today’s reports showing tepid expansion of the gross domestic product and a sharp contraction in new home sales, “there is really no material change in our view” of the economic outlook.

Mr. Bernanke’s remarks, which briefly pushed the Dow up more than 100 points in the morning, came soon after the government said that the United States economy expanded at much slower rate than previously thought. The Commerce Department reported today that the gross domestic product inched ahead by 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter of last year, just ahead of the 2 percent growth in the third quarter but sharply down from the government’s previous estimate of 3.5 percent growth in the final three months of the year.

Analysts said that today’s rebound probably had more to do with Tuesday’s fall than anything contained in Mr. Bernanke’s remarks or government economic reports.

“You had a substantial shock to the system,” said Henry McVey, chief United States investment strategist for Morgan Stanley. “I think it would have been highly unlikely, unless we’re going into a structural bear market, that the market would be down again today. And I don’t think we’re going into a structural bear market.”

Markets elsewhere in the world continued to slump today, especially in their first hours of trading. In Tokyo, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index quickly plunged 4.1 percent, mostly in reaction to Tuesday’s losses in Europe and New York, but by the close of its trading day, it had recovered a bit to finish with a 2.9 percent decline.

In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index finished with a decline of 2.5 percent; it too pulled back from even steeper losses in the morning. Practically every other stock index in Asia outside of mainland China also fell.

The pattern was the same, though less severe, in the major European markets, most of which finished with losses around 1.5 percent.

Given the rebound today in mainland Chinese stocks, which investors in other markets appeared to ignore, “this morning’s price reaction in Europe shows it is not just China,” said Nigel Richardson, the Hong Kong-based chief investment officer in Asia for AXA Investment Managers.

The managing director general of the Asian Development Bank, Rajat M. Nag, said in an interview in Hong Kong this morning that the economic fundamentals of most Asian economies remained strong. But the region remains dependent on exports to markets, especially the United States, where the growth prospects are cloudy, Mr. Nag said. China is among the most dependent of all, he said, with international trade in goods equal to 65 percent of its economic output last year.

“We are still fairly bullish on the Chinese economy’s growth potential,” Mr. Nag said, but its dependence on exports “is a vulnerability.”

One reason is that China has managed its currency, the yuan, limiting its rise against the dollar to keep exports strong. In doing so, though, Chinese officials may have indirectly help create what some experts say are speculative bubbles in China’s stock and real-estate markets.

The government has been buying dollars from exporters and foreign investors alike on a huge scale, and issuing hundreds of billions of yuan notes to pay for them — currency that may not otherwise have entered circulation.

The government has tried to contain the potential inflationary effect of issuing so much currency by having banks and individuals buy government bonds with them, and then effectively tearing the yuan notes up. Since not all the yuan can be clawed back this way, much of it ends up on the stock and property markets instead, driving up prices.

The plunge in share prices on Tuesday has raised questions about the long-term sustainability of those high prices for Chinese assets. But it remains unclear how much they matter to the rest of the world.

Government regulations have restricted foreign investment in these markets to insignificant levels by international standards, though those rules are to be relaxed a bit under the policy shift announced today. In addition, most Chinese still put their money in bank accounts or in real estate instead of buying stocks, and Tuesday’s plunge, while dramatic, merely returned the Shanghai stock market to where it began the month.

The consensus of economists today was that the volatility in mainland stocks would have little if any effect on the enduring strength of economic growth in China.

The stocks of Asian companies that export to the United States, such as the Toyota Corporation, suffered particularly heavy losses today following the report on Tuesday from the Commerce Department that orders for cars, washing machines and other durable goods fell by 8 percent in January. “There is a worry that U.S. consumption could slow substantially, and that is a much bigger factor than China’s stock market,” the chief Asia economist in the Hong Kong offices of Credit Suisse, Tao Dong, said.

On top of concerns about a slump in American demand, analysts said the prospect of cuts in interest rates by the Federal Reserve to head off such a slump was also worrisome. Many investors in Japan appeared to stay on the sidelines today, watching for signs of whether the sell-off would continue in New York.

“What comes next here really depends on New York, not Shanghai,” said Eiji Kinouchi, chief technical analyst at the research arm of Daiwa Securities in Tokyo. “If Shanghai had been the real cause of the sell-off, it would have happened yesterday, not today.”

Tokyo and Hong Kong markets had barely seemed to blink on Tuesday as Shanghai fell. The Nikkei 225 index slipped a mere 0.5 percent that day; the Hang Seng drop was measured, though slightly more pronounced, at 1.8 percent.

Analysts pointed out that Tokyo and even Hong Kong have rarely taken their cues from Shanghai, a small and highly volatile market that often seems to sit on the fringes of global capital flows and to be prone to big day-to-day movements.

One factor behind the rebound in mainland markets today was a report in the Shanghai media that the government might increase the cap on foreign investment to 10 percent of the market. That report, together with signs the government would not move quickly to impose capital gains taxes, helped offset continuing nervousness about the Chinese central bank’s ongoing campaign to put the brakes on the economy by pushing banks to slow their rapid growth in lending.

Elsewhere in Asia today, the Indian market fell 4 percent, Singapore dropped 3.7 percent, South Korea was down 2.8 percent, Australia dipped 2.7 percent and Thailand crept down by 1 percent.

The worst performer for the day in Asia was the Philippines, the market with the earliest closing time. It fell nearly 8 percent without benefiting from the afternoon rebounds seen elsewhere. Foreign investors were the main sellers in the Philippines and many other markets.

Luz Lorenzo, an economist in Manila at ATR Kim Eng Securities, said that if not for purchases by domestic institutions in the Philippines today, “it could have been worse.”

The broad extent of the decline in Asia underlined the region’s deepening connection to global financial markets and growing reliance on exports to the industrialized world.

“Every morning, most traders will get a fix on how the Asian markets are trading and how did the Nasdaq close — I think people have gotten more globalized,” Sandeep Nanda, head of research at Sharekhan, a large retail brokerage firm in India, said.

Some customers at brokerages in Asia admitted to being mystified by the sharp movements in share prices. “I am buying in the hope that the share price will rise — I really feel like a gambler sometimes,” said Moon Chung-lien, a 65-year-old retiree who wore a puzzled expression and knitted brow as he busily punched stock codes into a computer at the Hong Kong offices of the Shanghai Commercial Bank early this afternoon.

Tim Condon, the head of financial markets research at ING Financial Markets in Singapore, said that the most significant feature of the worldwide drop in stock markets was that it was the first such global shock to financial markets to emerge from mainland China.

“It’s a recognition of the fact that China is a big part of the rally in risky assets,“ Mr. Condon said.

The prospect of lower American interest rates brought a sharp rise by the yen overnight in New York, where it climbed from about 120 yen per dollar to around 117.93 yen. In Tokyo trading, the yen yielded some of those gains, slipping back a bit to 118.32 yen.

The possibility of rate cuts by the Federal Reserve also kindled concerns that American interest rates might eventually fall far enough to significantly close the gap with Japan’s rock-bottom rates. That gap is wide now. Japanese overnight lending rates are 0.5 percent compared to 5.25 percent in the United States.

But if the gap shrinks, it could slow or halt the so-called yen carry trade, in which investors borrow hundreds of billions of dollars worth of Japanese money to invest in stock markets across Asia and around the world in search of higher returns.

If this flow of money stops, or reverses, it could prompt larger sell-offs on Wall Street and drive the yen even higher, hurting Japanese exporters even more, analysts said.

“Bernanke holds the trigger,” said Kiichi Fujita, a strategist in Tokyo for Nomura Securities. “If he cuts interest rates in America, the worry is that the yen carry trade will unwind.”
28 2007-03-01 The city's Department of Small Business Services said yesterday that it had awarded about one-third of the $1.5 million it can grant this year to companies for training workers. The department granted a combined $466,324 to five employers, includi...
29 2007-03-01 Photos of New York Yankees and New York Mets at spring training...
30 2007-03-01 CALM AFTER THE STORM -- Stocks rose modestly in United States markets, a day after a global sell-off. The Dow Jones industrial average, which tumbled as much 545 points on Tuesday, closed yesterday up 52.39 points, or 0.4 percent. [Page C1.]    AN...
31 2007-03-01 B&B Italia, the contemporary furnishings company, is joining the crush of design retailers in SoHo with a new store aimed entirely at the public. Unlike the Midtown showroom, primarily for designers, the downtown store will present furniture in vi...
32 2007-03-01 Stephen Sills and James Huniford, decorators known for their eclectic interiors and their Upper East Side shop, Dwellings, are having a warehouse sale of vintage and modern furniture, accessories and vintage textiles. The stash, which would normal...
33 2007-03-02 In the second major insider-trading case in as many days, federal regulators have charged several unnamed individuals with profiting illegally from advance knowledge of the $45 billion buyout of TXU, the largest L.B.O. ever. The Securities and Exc...
34 2007-03-02 It was the top-tier investment banks that got a lot of the press (the New York Daily News went with the headline "Morgan Scamley"), but three obscure hedge funds were tightly woven into the byzantine insider-trading schemes that authorities descri...
35 2007-03-02 John Thain wants Wall Street to know he is not going anywhere. The chief of NYSE Group, which operates New York Stock Exchange, said during a conference call Thursday that, contrary to rumors making the rounds, he is not planning to leave the comp...
36 2007-03-02 Few deals have been proposed and rejected as many times as the one between music labels EMI Group and Warner Music Group. The latest installment in the saga came Friday when EMI of Britain said it rejected a proposal from Warner Music, of New York...
37 2007-03-02 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
38 2007-03-02 Conservative Political Action Conference attendees complained about "big-government, free-spending coddlers of illegal immigrants." They were referring to Republicans, by the way....
39 2007-03-02 Oracle's deal to buy Hyperion Solutions may spark more deals for business-intelligence software companies, analysts said. The Red Herring pointed to Cognos, which it said might be a good fit for IBM. The Tech Trader Daily Blog mentions Business Ob...
40 2007-03-02 Microsoft could jumpstart its online business through a purchase of Web giant Yahoo , but such a deal could also "open the door to potentially unmanageable risks," analysts at UBS said in a report Thursday. The analysts are just the latest to cons...
41 2007-03-02 Apple is sitting on $12 billion in cash, and the pile is growing by more than $1 billion every quarter. How should the high-flying maker of iPods and Macs spend that money? According to BusinessWeek's Arik Hesseldahl, the company should launch a $...
42 2007-03-02 As private equity bigwigs talks about the need to change the public perception of the industry as a greedy boys' club, some in the hedge fund business have for some time been quietly working to do the same, says The New York Times. To that end, Ro...
43 2007-03-02 Google disclosed in its 2006 annual report on Thursday that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission nearly a year ago had called into question how it accounted for income taxes. In the annual filing, Google said it received a letter from the S...
44 2007-03-02 The European Commission on Thursday threatened Microsoft with millions of euros in new fines in a long-running antitrust dispute, saying the company was demanding unreasonable royalties from rivals seeking to link their software to the Windows ope...
45 2007-03-02 Nortel Networks said Thursday that it would have to restate its results for the fourth time in four years, a move that will delay the filing of its 2006 annual report. The latest restatement involves results from 2004, 2005 and the first nine mont...
46 2007-03-02 Antitrust regulators in Europe said Thursday that they would take a deeper look into the merger of the music units of Sony and BMG, as part of a second review of a union that created the second-largest record company and provoked stiff opposition ...
47 2007-03-02 Recent New York State rules that restrict advertising for lawyers have created headaches for a number of big corporate law firms that are based or have offices in the state. The rule change, which took effect on Feb. 1, comes from a committee of j...
48 2007-03-02 Since 1997, after the first medical marijuana law was passed in California, as many as 20 legal marijuana providers have been killed around the country, mostly in robberies, said Allen St. Pierre, the executive director of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or Norml, a nonprofit advocacy group in Washington.

Some in law enforcement, including Colorado’s attorney general, John W. Suthers, say the Gorman killing illuminates more clearly than ever that crime and marijuana cannot be disentangled.

“Mr. Gorman showed that the law is abused and can be abused,” said Nate Strauch, a spokesman for Mr. Suthers.

Many people in the medical marijuana supply system say the central risk comes down to the fact that they work in the shadows, where law enforcement officials are often either conflicted or hostile and crime is rampant.

At the Colorado Compassion Club, for instance, which opened last year as a storefront support center in Denver, the 200 marijuana patients served there go through as much as a pound of marijuana a day. The club grows as much as it can, said its founder, Thomas E. Lawrence, but must rely on buys on the illicit market for the rest, usually made by one or two caregivers who have volunteered.

Mr. Gorman’s killing, legal experts say, has exposed the paradoxes and ambiguities about medical marijuana that most states have failed to grapple with.

The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, which administers the marijuana program, is not authorized, for example, to provide information about where the 1,100 patients who are certified under the program can obtain their drugs, according to the department’s Web site.

The state also does not license marijuana providers, or inspect the quality of the drug that patients obtain.

Colorado’s law allows patients with certain illnesses, as well their doctors and others who provide care, the right to possess, grow and transport marijuana.

But all those things remain illegal under federal law. And a chief deputy district attorney for Denver, Greg Long, said that anyone selling drugs illegally, even if the final recipient was legally entitled to possess them, could still technically be violating state laws too — though as a practical matter, Mr. Long said, prosecutors do not generally pursue cases in which the drug being sold is marijuana for certified medical use.

The portrait of Mr. Gorman is just as unclear. His friends say he was quixotic and selfless, a man uninterested in financial gain who tilted against the confining rules of society, especially the drug laws.

A merry prankster at a time when marijuana advocacy groups were becoming more adept at politics than protest, he had become an anachronism, acquaintances say, whose counterculture antics embarrassed and angered many people in the medical-advocacy and legal reform movements.

“I have gray hair on my head and I attribute some of it to Ken Gorman,” Mr. St. Pierre of Norml said.

Some critics said Mr. Gorman was caught up in his own image as a rebel, thwarting even the rules about medical marijuana that could further the causes he espoused.

Just one week before his death, for example, the local CBS television news affiliate in Denver broadcast an investigative story in which a young station employee with a hidden camera captured Mr. Gorman happily explaining how to fake the medical card that would make a drug transaction appear legitimate.

The story prompted an uproar in medical marijuana circles, forcing Mr. Gorman to defend himself on a pro-marijuana Internet forum from attacks by people who said he had betrayed them by making medical marijuana look like a cover for old-fashioned drug-dealing.

And he had become an angry, fearful man, his friends and acquaintances said. Though he had served time in prison — five years for a felony drug conviction in the mid-1990s — and often seemed to scoff at the law, he had grown increasingly frustrated about being a crime victim himself.

The Denver police have revealed little about the murder investigation.

A spokesman, Sonny Jackson, said the police responded to reports of shots fired at Mr. Gorman’s home around 7 p.m. on Feb. 17 and found Mr. Gorman with a gunshot wound to the chest. He died shortly thereafter.

Mr. Jackson said that there had been an incident the previous night in Mr. Gorman’s home; someone had been arrested and neighbors reported shots fired. But investigators said they did not believe that incident and the slaying were connected.

Colorado’s medical marijuana law, enshrined in the state’s Constitution by a statewide vote in 2000, protects people from prosecution under state law. Acquiring the drug illegally, however, puts those people in very dangerous company.

Mr. Gorman, his friends say, had no intermediary. The face that was famous on television as Colorado’s most ebullient marijuana advocate was the same one making the buys out on the market.

“It’s dangerous to help people,” said Mr. Tipton, who lives in a suburb of Denver and said he had about 45 marijuana patients. “We’re out there, exposed to abuse from patients, law enforcement, robberies — it’s a long list.”

Lawyers and medical marijuana advocates in California — which has the oldest and by far largest medical marijuana system in the nation, with about 100,000 licensed drug recipients and 200 dispensaries — say that robberies and violence against medical distributors, a problem in the earlier days of the system, have become much less frequent because of improved security.

But many robberies also often go unreported, said Dale Gieringer, the state coordinator for the California chapter of Norml.

“It usually gets hushed up,” Mr. Gieringer said.

Mr. Gorman’s home, still taped off by a police ribbon, has become a kind of shrine to the subculture he celebrated.

On one night a few days after the killing, a group of more than 20 people — young men and teenagers, mostly — sat around a bonfire in Mr. Gorman’s front yard, passing marijuana joints and beer bottles as a Tupac Shakur song blared on a car stereo.

“He was the most compassionate, kind man I knew,” said a young man who identified himself as Vuddah, as thick curls of smoke shrouded the group. “We want to keep this place open so that the patients can keep coming,” he added. “That’s what we’re going to do.

“That’s what Ken would have wanted,” he continued. “To us, he was a medical marijuana freedom fighter.”
49 2007-03-02 The Swiss Reinsurance Company, the world’s largest reinsurer, said profit nearly doubled last year because of fewer claims from natural disasters and gains from investments and acquisitions. The company earned 4.56 billion Swiss francs ($3.74 billion) for the year, up from a restated figure of 2.3 billion francs for 2005. Swiss Re also announced a 36 percent increase in its dividend, to 3.40 francs ($2.79) a share, and said it would buy back shares worth up to 6 billion francs ($4.9 billion) over the next three years. Swiss Re said it would buy half of a stake held by General Electric as part of the buyback. G.E. is selling a Swiss Re stake valued at 3.5 billion Swiss francs ($2.9 billion), half to Swiss Re and the other half on the open market. G.E. acquired the stake last year when it sold its reinsurance units to Swiss Re.
50 2007-03-02 This week, the apartment looked lived in, with a kitchen stocked with pots and pans. There were photographs of Dr. Eugene and his family on the living room walls. Also in the apartment were four or five relatives who had come from out of town for the swearing-in ceremony.

Throughout the short campaign leading to the 10-candidate special vote for the Council seat, which was vacated by Yvette D. Clarke after her election to Congress in November, Dr. Eugene was forthright about the fact that his three-story home in Canarsie was outside the district by a few miles.

He said he had worked for years in the district, where he operates a youth and health center. And he said he would move into the district as the election approached.

That point of contention spurred a fiery debate involving election lawyers, council members and political enthusiasts in the blogosphere. Yet, according to Scott Levenson, Dr. Eugene’s political consultant, there have been no official complaints or lawsuits from anyone that would bar Dr. Eugene from being sworn in.

Though those involved seem to agree that a candidate does not have to live within a particular district to run, the debate has focused on what the residency requirements were at the time of the election or by the time the election is certified.

The City Charter is silent on residency requirements. The state’s Election Law and Public Officers Law are vague enough that Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker, sent a letter last week to Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo seeking help in interpreting them.

According to Maria Alvarado, a spokeswoman for Speaker Quinn, Mr. Cuomo said that under his interpretation a candidate must reside within a district on the date of the election. Ms. Alvarado said that based on the attorney general’s letter, the Council would initiate a process in which any new council members would have to sign an affidavit saying that they meet eligibility requirements, including residency, before being sworn in. She also said that the Council would begin investigating Dr. Eugene’s residency, and that it hoped to have that completed by the vote certification and swearing-in ceremony, tentatively scheduled for next Thursday.

For his part, Dr. Eugene insisted that the legal distinctions were irrelevant in his case. “I moved here before the election and that should be the end of it,” he said. When asked to provide a copy of his lease, he said that his lawyer had advised him not to make that document public.

“For me, there is no residency issue,” he said. “I plan to be sworn in next week and to get busy serving my district. I want to focus on issues like jobs, immigration reform and education for the people in this community. I’m ready to get started.”

The problem has offered a bitter aftertaste to an election that was watched from Brooklyn to Haiti. Dr. Eugene prevailed in a special election in a Council district with a large number of Caribbean-American voters. Haitian-Americans nationwide and residents in Haiti, including President René Préval, have reached out to offer congratulations, Dr. Eugene said.

“I’m not worried about this residency issue,” he said. “I know that the truth will come out and that I will work hard for the people I represent.”
51 2007-03-02 Inuit from Canada’s far north told the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights that greenhouse gases from the United States were ruining their way of life and that the consequent warming had led to having to install air- conditioners. The delegation also told the commission, based in Washington, that the American contribution to emissions, the most in the world, should be considered a human rights violation.
52 2007-03-02 Two Haitians were rescued from the sea in poor condition and as many as 52 others were dead or missing from a sail-powered freighter that caught fire and capsized off Haiti, the United States Coast Guard said. The survivors said their vessel had left from Cap Haitien and was headed for Providenciales, an island in the Turks and Caicos Islands 150 miles away.
53 2007-03-02 Alfonso Soriano stepped into the batter’s box for the first time in a Chicago Cubs’ uniform, with the left-hander Barry Zito on the mound ready to throw his first pitch for the San Francisco Giants.

It took eight tries before Zito struck out Soriano swinging on a chest-high fastball. The Giants went on to win, 9-2, in Mesa, Ariz.

“It was a good matchup, wasn’t it?” Giants Manager Bruce Bochy said. “Great way to start. ”

Soriano left Washington and signed an eight-year, $136 million contract. Zito received a seven-year $126 million deal to cross the Bay Bridge from Oakland.

JOHNSON IS CONFIDENT After a third strong bullpen session, Randy Johnson said he might be ready to make his first regular-season start in April for the Arizona Diamondbacks.
54 2007-03-02 The German space agency is preparing for a mission to the moon, The Financial Times Deutschland reported. The head of the German space program, Walter Döllinger, told the newspaper it would be ready to send a vehicle without astronauts by 2013. “We want to show that Germany has the know-how,” he said.
55 2007-03-02 Michael Devlin, who is accused of kidnapping two boys and holding one of them hostage for nearly four years, has been indicted in federal court on four counts of producing child pornography and two counts of transporting a minor for a criminal sex act, officials said. Mr. Devlin, 41, has already pleaded not guilty to charges in three Missouri counties in the abduction of William Ownby, 13, on Jan. 8, and Shawn Hornbeck, 15, in 2002, when he was 11.
56 2007-03-02 These fears have been simmering on the back burner for much of the last two years. Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman whose comments this week about the possibility of a recession have put him back in the spotlight, highlighted them in several speeches before he stepped down last year.

In May, markets around the world sold off broadly on these same concerns as well as worries that the Fed would raise interest rates to levels that would restrict economic growth significantly. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 7.7 percent in a little over a month beginning in early May, before rallying in the second half of the year to gain 13.6 percent for the full year.

Many market specialists note that the market historically goes through such periods of stress, and that the recent period of relative calm is extremely unusual. Liz Ann Sonders, the chief investment strategist for Charles Schwab, calculates that typically the market moves more than 2 percent — up or down — eight days each year. Before the fall on Tuesday, the market had not had a 2 percent move in more than three years.

Tuesday was a “a healthy reminder, especially to individual investors, that markets don’t go straight up,” Ms. Sonders said.

The VIX index, which measures expectations of future volatility of stock prices based on the prices of options, jumped to 18.31 on Tuesday from 11.35; it has since fallen back to 15.82. By comparison, the index averaged 19.13 during the last six years.

It remains too early to draw any broad conclusions about the current market jitters, whether they will be of a similar short-lived variety as the swoon from last spring or whether they will take a broader and more sustained toll on the markets.

“This is a case of a lot of investors looking for a correction,” said Todd Salamone, vice president for research at Schaffer’s Investment Research. “There was enough news out there to have that prophecy fulfilled.”

Economic reports this week showed that orders for goods that last more than three years fell almost 8 percent in January and that the economy grew far more slowly in the fourth quarter than had been believed.

Yesterday, some of those concerns were alleviated when a monthly survey by the Institute for Supply Management suggested that manufacturing activity picked up speed in February. The report’s release at 10 a.m. bolstered stocks. The S.& P. 500 closed down 0.3 percent, or 3.65 points, at 1,403.17, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 11.94 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 2,404.21.

Unlike the slump last year, the recent drop in stock prices has not been accompanied by any notable movements in the prices of commodities like crude oil or gold, both of which also tumbled in May. Oil futures were up about 1 percent for the week yesterday and the price of gold, which is typically seen as a safe haven during times of uncertainty, was down 2.9 percent.

“A bunch of pieces to the puzzle fit,” said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management who is based in Chicago. “But other pieces — the gold, the oil — don’t really fit together. It causes us to question what’s really going on.”

Other measures of sentiment also suggest that the talk of reassessing risk has not resulted in meaningful changes in investor behavior.

The difference, or spread, between the yields of United States Treasury securities and high-yield corporate bonds, for instance, has not increased significantly in the last few days, said Kingman Penniman, chairman and chief executive of KDP, a bond research firm. Wider spreads suggest that bond buyers are demanding more return for lending money to companies that may not be able to pay back the debt.

Similarly, the spreads on developing country bonds have not widened from historic lows.

“If I’d gone away for the week and looked at prices, I wouldn’t have noticed anything,” said Andrew Feltus, a vice president and bond portfolio manager at Pioneer Investments in Boston.

Certainly, spreads on bonds backed by mortgages to people with weak, or subprime, credit have widened significantly in the last two months, and the cost of insuring the lowest-rated portions of those bonds has jumped this week.

In an indication that the market may be in for a tough road, Countrywide Financial, the nation’s largest stand-alone mortgage company, disclosed in a securities filing that 22.6 percent of the subprime mortgages it services for other lenders were in default or foreclosure at the end of last year, up from 17.2 percent in 2005.

Another strong signal has come through in the value of the Japanese yen, which has risen 2.9 percent, to 117.61 yen to the dollar, this week.

Some market specialists say the increase is a result of investors unwinding the “carry trade,” a trading strategy in which managers borrow money at low rates in Japan and invest it in other markets where returns are greater.

It is unclear how much money has been invested this way, but some suggest it could be in the billions of dollars, given that the difference between short-term interest rates in Japan and the rest of the world is so great.

The rise in the yen would support the idea that investors are indeed becoming more risk-averse, by buying up yen to pay off their debts in Japan. But skeptics say it is just too early to declare the end of the carry trade, because the Bank of Japan’s benchmark rate, even with a recent increase, is 0.5 percent while the Fed’s short-term rate is 5.25 percent.

“I don’t think two days is enough to tell us” that the carry trade is being unwound in a big way, said Douglas M. Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman & Company. But “that’s absolutely something that should flash a yellow light.”

Following are the results of yesterday’s Treasury auction of 13-day cash management bills:
57 2007-03-02 WASHINGTON, March 1 — Senator John McCain joined Senator Barack Obama on Thursday in promising to accept a novel fund-raising truce if each man wins his party’s presidential nomination.

The promises by Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, are an effort to resuscitate part of the ailing public financing system for presidential campaigns.

In every election since Watergate, candidates have received limited sums of taxpayer money on the condition that they abstain from raising or spending any more. But this year, the leading candidates are all sidestepping the system in a competition to raise far more in private donations, more than $500 million each, according to most projections, compared with $150 million in potential public financing.

But there is a chance that the obituaries for the public system may be premature. On Thursday, a spokesman for Mr. McCain said that he would take up Mr. Obama on a proposal for an accord between the two major party nominees to rely just on public financing for the general election.

Such a pact would eliminate any financial edge one candidate might have and limit each campaign to $85 million for the general election. The two candidates would have to return any private donations that they had raised for that period.
58 2007-03-02 OTTAWA, March 1 — Nortel Networks said Thursday that it would have to restate its results for the fourth time in four years, a move that will delay the filing of its 2006 annual report.

The latest restatement involves results from 2004, 2005 and the first nine months of 2006. The company said that the restatements were necessary to correct mistakes in recording income and because errors by an outside actuary firm caused pension liabilities to be misstated by $104 million over several years.

Over all, the company expects that the changes will raise revenue for the first three quarters of 2006 by about $24 million and increase earnings for the period by $15 million. That will be offset by reductions in the earlier years.

“Clearly, I’m not pleased that we need to restate,” the chief executive, Mike S. Zafirovski, said in a conference call with analysts. Mr. Zafirovski, a former Motorola executive, was hired by the Toronto-based company in 2005, in part to help it recover from its financial turmoil.

The first restatements stemmed from an accounting scandal that led to the firing of several top executives as well as criminal and securities investigations in both Canada and the United States.
59 2007-03-02 Damon took the first pitch of the bottom of the first inning. He tore into the second, a low fastball from Carlos Silva, and sent it over the fence in right-center field. Damon said he had not even homered in batting practice for five days.

He is bulkier this spring after spending the winter working out in a new gym he built at his home. He also added a few unwanted pounds around his waist, but that “little pooch,” as he called it, is gone. Damon said that his motivation for adding muscle had nothing to do with power hitting.

“Just to look good with the shirt off so my wife still digs me,” he said. “Simple as that. Got to keep my sexiness at all times.”

Two batters after Damon connected, Jason Giambi drew the first of his two walks. He scored on a single by Jorge Posada, then bashed a two-run homer the next inning to put the Yankees ahead, 5-0. The first through seventh hitters went 7 for 15 with 4 walks.

“That’s our bread and butter, no doubt about it — we can hit,” Giambi said. “We’ve got guys up and down the order. It can’t be much fun for opposing pitchers to look and go, ‘Who’s my out?’ ”

Mientkiewicz may be the answer to that, but even he comes with credentials. Before the game, he saw his old manager with the Twins, Ron Gardenhire. “Ninth?” Gardenhire told him. “You hit third for me.”

The Twins are no pushover; they won the American League Central last season and have the A.L. Cy Young award winner, Johan Santana, and the league’s most valuable player, Justin Morneau. The Yankees’ Chien-Ming Wang finished second in the voting to Santana, as Derek Jeter did to Morneau.

Santana stayed at the Twins’ camp Thursday, but Morneau made the trip and struck out looking on an inside fastball from Phil Hughes in the fifth inning. That was the highlight of a shaky outing by Hughes, the 20-year-old right-hander.

Hughes followed Wang, who retired all six batters he faced despite being up in the strike zone. There were nine photographers clustered behind the plate during Hughes’s warm-ups, and he had never pitched a spring training game at Legends Field.

Hughes played here for the Class A Tampa Yankees, but there were not 10,000 fans watching then. “Maybe 10,” he said.

Of the 38 pitches Hughes threw Thursday, only 18 were for strikes. He walked the eighth- and ninth-place hitters in his first inning, and Michael Cuddyer led off the next with a long double.

“It was frustrating, especially that first inning,” said Hughes, who had trouble staying back in his delivery. “I was anxious, rushing out, leaving fastballs up. I didn’t really seem to have the command that I normally do. But it’s something I can work on.”

Manager Joe Torre seemed most pleased with the performance of Ross Ohlendorf, the starter from Princeton who was acquired from Arizona in the trade for Randy Johnson. Ohlendorf pitched two scoreless innings and got ground balls with ease.

“He had real good sink,” Torre said. “He looks like he’s real polished out there.”

The best defensive play was probably a sliding, backhanded catch by Hideki Matsui near the left-field fence, which ended the third inning for Hughes with two Twins on base. Matsui broke his wrist last season making a catch and missed about four months.

“The wrist is not broken, so don’t worry,” he assured reporters through an interpreter.

Carl Pavano completed his bullpen session with no pain Thursday, and he said he would start as scheduled Sunday. Pavano took a line drive off his left instep last Saturday. ... Closer Mariano Rivera, who eases into the exhibition season, is not yet scheduled to pitch. “He’s throwing the ball good, but we’re not ready to get him in a game,” Manager Joe Torre said. ... First baseman Andy Phillips left the team to go to Alabama, where his mother was involved in a car accident Wednesday. Phillips will be given all the time he needs. “We all hope and pray everything will be O.K., but it’s pretty serious right now,” Torre said. It is another personal hardship for Phillips, whose wife, Bethany, had chemotherapy last year for a rare form of cancer resulting from a molar pregnancy.
60 2007-03-02 LONDON, March 1 — The European Commission on Thursday threatened Microsoft with millions of euros in new fines in a long-running antitrust dispute, saying the company was demanding unreasonable royalties from rivals seeking to link their software to the Windows operating system.

The commission issued a “statement of objections,” asking Microsoft to respond to a complaint that it was still not complying with a decision three years ago that the company had abused its dominant market position.

“In the 50 years of European antitrust policy, it’s the first time we’ve been confronted with a company that has failed to comply with an antitrust decision,” Jonathan Todd, spokesman for the competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, said in Brussels.

Microsoft objected to that characterization, saying it had been trying to cooperate. Microsoft’s general counsel, Brad Smith, said Brussels had given Microsoft no feedback on its proposed royalties for licensing the software “protocols” until the commission’s release Thursday. The 2004 decision included only one sentence on royalty rates, he said.

“We believe we have been fair and reasonable in setting the proposed protocol prices,” Mr. Smith said from Redmond, Wash., where Microsoft is based. “It’s sometimes very difficult to read the tea leaves and know exactly what to do when the decision is so complicated and the directions so brief.”
61 2007-03-02 DALLAS COWBOYS Need defensive help across the board — pass rush from the ends, cornerback and free safety. ... Shoring up aging offensive line is a must. ... Wither Terrell Owens with the new coach, Wade Phillips?

GIANTS Jerry Reese, the new general manager, calls the shots for the first time. ... Need outside linebackers badly, with LaVar Arrington and Carlos Emmons gone. ... A shutdown corner is a necessity and would help the pass rush make an impact. ... Reese caused a stir when he expressed interest in the Bills’ Willis McGahee, and the Giants will take a long look at a trade for him now that Tiki Barber is in broadcasting. ... Kicker Jay Feely a free agent, and the Giants will look around.

PHILADELPHIA EAGLES Need linebackers and defensive tackles to improve poor run defense. ... Jeff Garcia is gone. ... Safety Michael Lewis is expected to leave, but Quintin Mikell has re-signed, and end Juqua Thomas could be next. ... Receiver Donte’ Stallworth will not be re-signed.

WASHINGTON REDSKINS Annual shopping spree begins for team that loves big-name signings, although not as much salary cap space as others. ... Top priority is Buffalo linebacker London Fletcher. ...Will also make push for Buffalo cornerback Nate Clements.

CHICAGO BEARS Running back Thomas Jones could be traded. ... Probably will not pursue Jeff Garcia to challenge Rex Grossman. ... Linebacker Lance Briggs is staying put with the franchise tag, but there will be no contract negotiations for a while.
62 2007-03-02 BUFFALO BILLS Running back Willis McGahee could be on the trading block. ... Likely to lose linebacker London Fletcher and cornerback Nate Clements. ... Need defensive tackles to help rushing defense that was ranked 28th.

MIAMI DOLPHINS Aging defense needs a shutdown corner. ... Is quarterback Daunte Culpepper’s knee healthy enough to make him the starter? Must pursue another quarterback. Might be interested in trading for the Chiefs’ Trent Green.

NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS Must get younger at linebacker. ... Need infusion of firepower at wide receiver. ... Tight end Daniel Graham will be biggest free-agent loss. ... Traditionally do not pursue high-profile free agents, preferring to build through the draft.

JETS Have more than $20 million in cap space, but General Manager Mike Tannenbaum and Coach Eric Mangini prefer the Patriots’ model of building through the draft. ... Need playmakers on defense. ... Will probably enter the race for the coveted Ravens All-Pro linebacker Adalius Thomas, a perfect fit for the Jets’ defense. But his price could be too high, and he will have plenty of suitors. ... With Kevan Barlow’s release, they need a running back. The Chargers’ Michael Turner — LaDainian Tomlinson’s backup — is a restricted free agent. He would cost the Jets a draft pick, but they have two second-rounders this year. Turner and Thomas are two of the best in the free-agent pool.

BALTIMORE RAVENS Will probably lose linebacker Adalius Thomas, to whom they did not apply the franchise tag, creating gaping hole at linebacker. ... Need cornerback to start opposite Chris McAlister. ... Need help at running back.
63 2007-03-02 “You risk getting shunted off to the spam filter or to the garbage,” said Allan Ripp, a New York publicist who represents many large law firms. And if the e-mail makes it past the spam filter, “you might as well have a sign that says ‘ignore this,’ or take ‘this with a grain of salt,’ ” he said.

Marketers complain that the rules restrict law firms in ways not faced by any other business. The Federal Trade Commission has filed comments objecting to the new rules, complaining that many went too far. And the Ralph Nader group, Public Citizen, has filed a lawsuit seeking to block enforcement of the rules, contending that they violate the free speech protections of the First Amendment.

Still, most firms have interpreted the definition very conservatively. Almost every major law firm in New York has decided to add an advertising disclaimer to every page on its Web site.

For instance, if you click on the Web site for Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, the New York firm that is best known for advising the buyout king, Henry R. Kravis, you will find, prominently, in the text of its site, a note that it is “attorney advertising” and that “prior results do not guarantee similar outcome.” The wording, dictated by the new rule, appears directly under the scrolling list of Simpson Thacher deals that have closed recently.

The rules have restricted other Web efforts. For instance, Wilmer Hale had two domain names, IPOLeader.com and M&ALeader.com, that would direct a Web visitor to the law firm’s Web site. The firm has taken those sites down for now because the rules forbid a redirect if the domain name implies an ability to obtain results.

“We are being very conservative about interpreting these rules,” said Nancy Kostakos, Wilmer Hale’s marketing and business development services director. But the firm is keeping the domain names, she said, “because we are hoping this will all go away.”

Another big law firm, Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz — did nothing immediately after the new advertising rules went into effect on Feb. 1. After the firm was contacted by a reporter, it put up a disclaimer.

“I did that in an overabundance of caution,” said Meyer G. Koplow, Wachtell’s executive partner. “Somebody was obviously asking questions.”

Mr. Koplow said that the firm views its site only as a tool in recruiting law students.

“You’re not going to see highlights of our flashy cases,” he said. “This is a law firm that has no marketing department, no marketing director and does not engage in advertising activities.”

To be sure, Wachtell arguably doesn’t need to advertise: It routinely ranks at the top of United States firms in The American Lawyer’s annual survey of revenue at the top 100 law firms.

Another prestigious firm, Cravath Swaine & Moore, has not put the “attorney advertising” notice on its Web site. Evan R. Chesler, Cravath’s presiding partner declined to comment on the firm’s interpretation of the new rules.

An ethics expert, Stephen Gillers, a professor at New York University School of Law, was a consultant to the New York State Bar Association on the new rules.

But he has also advised clients and colleagues that the new rules do not apply to client memos, which he believes are not commercial speech, which has limited protection under the First Amendment.

“If your e-mail is not about the credentials of your firm, but an update on the law,” he said, “then that is news and you are a publisher. And you enjoy the protections of the First Amendment, just like a magazine or a newspaper.”

In the lawsuit challenging the rules, Public Citizen is representing Alexander & Catalano, a firm in Syracuse of eight lawyers with an advertising campaign that aims to be comical, and depicts its lawyers as giants towering above local buildings, jumping over rooftops and providing legal assistance to space aliens and employing special effects that include wisps of smoke. The new rules forbid such creativity.

The Alexander firm calls itself “the heavy hitters,” a name forbidden by the new rules because it cannot be backed up by “bona fide professional ratings.”
64 2007-03-02 “High confidence” generally indicates our judgments are based on high-quality information and/or the nature of the issue makes it possible to render a solid judgment.

“Moderate confidence” generally means the information is interpreted in various ways, we have alternative views, or the information is credible and plausible but not corroborated sufficiently to warrant a higher level of confidence.

“Low confidence” generally means the information is scant, questionable, or very fragmented and it is difficult to make solid analytic inferences, or we have significant concerns or problems with the sources.
65 2007-03-02 Despite a vast search and the wide distribution of a photograph of Jessica, her body was not found until three weeks after she disappeared from her bedroom in the middle of the night. She had been buried in two garbage bags outside the trailer Mr. Couey shared with relatives near the Lunsford home in Homosassa.

Even though they cannot bring up the tape-recorded confession that Mr. Couey made to Citrus County sheriff’s detectives, prosecutors told the jury he made incriminating statements to guards at the county jail, allegedly telling them that he did not mean to kill Jessica.

“He eventually told the story of what had happened,” Mr. Ridgway said.

Daniel Lewan, a public defender representing Mr. Couey, told the jury there was no proof that his client had committed any crime and asked them to stay impartial despite the painful details of the case.

“Emotions, sympathies, prejudices, biases have no part here,” Mr. Lewan said. “I want you to look at how this investigation was conducted.”

Mr. Lewan also said the crime scene had not been properly secured, evidence had been lost and the guards who allegedly heard Mr. Couey make incriminating statements never entered them in log books. He also said Mr. Couey was mentally ill and mentally retarded, which could affect whether he gets the death penalty if convicted.

Jessica’s grandmother, Ruth Lunsford, told the jury how the girl had gone to bed at 10 p.m. on Feb. 23 after eating dinner, attending a children’s church group and watching television in her room. Her father, Mark Lunsford, testified that he had arrived home about 5:45 the next morning to hear Jessica’s alarm going off in her room and discover she was missing from her bed.

Mr. Couey’s sister, Dorothy Dixon, testified that she, her boyfriend and Mr. Couey shared crack cocaine the night Jessica disappeared. She said Mr. Couey had briefly emerged from his bedroom the next morning to watch the search going on in their neighborhood, but that she had barely seen him over the next few days.

His niece, Madie Secord, testified that she had bought Mr. Couey a bus ticket to Savannah, Ga., at his request a few days after Jessica disappeared.

Prosecutors also showed a videotape of Mr. Couey being interviewed by a detective in Savannah, where he was taken in for questioning after the authorities in Homosassa realized he was one of the town’s registered sex offenders. He told the detective that he had been living at a different address in Homosassa — the one where parole officers thought he was — and that he had never worked at a school. In fact, Mr. Couey had worked in construction at Homosassa Elementary School, which Jessica attended.

Mr. Couey had been registered as a sex offender after he was convicted in 1991 of exposing and fondling himself in front of a 5-year-old girl.

Mr. Lunsford’s lawyer, Mark Gelman, questioned after the proceedings why Mr. Couey had not pleaded guilty given the evidence against him.

“If he had a decent bone in his body,” Mr. Gelman said, “he would not be making the family go through all this today.”
66 2007-03-02 When the National Football League’s free-agent signing period begins, Todd France has a basic rule. Never stray far from a cellphone.

France is an agent for N.F.L. players, and one of his clients, cornerback Nate Clements, is expected to be heavily pursued from the start of free agency, which officially began at 12:01 a.m. today. Clements, 27, has made the Pro Bowl twice. In his six seasons with the Buffalo Bills, he has never missed a game and he has returned 5 of his 23 interceptions for touchdowns.

This is an opportune year for Clements — or any coveted free agent — to cash in. The league’s salary cap is at a high of $109 million, 27 percent higher than it was two years ago. Teams like San Francisco, New England, Green Bay and Minnesota have at least $24 million under the salary cap to spend. For a player as good as Clements, who is expected to seek a signing bonus of at least $18 million, being a free agent this year is like having a royal flush in a high-stakes poker game, with millions on the table just waiting to be raked in.

“For an agent, this is the time when you get your rush — the phone ringing, deals to be made, all the homework you’ve done paying off,” France said in a telephone interview Wednesday from his office in Atlanta. “Things move quickly, and anything can happen. The back and forth with teams can get crazy, but that’s what free agency is all about.”

France did not make Clements available to comment.

But among possible suitors for Clements are the Jets, the Giants, Cleveland, New England, Tennessee and Washington. With so many teams in the mix, Clements has leverage, but he also has decisions to make. An Ohio native, would Clements chose the Browns over a Super Bowl contender like the Patriots? If France hears a blockbuster offer right away, will he advise Clements to sign it?
67 2007-03-02 “This is the most philanthropic industry on the planet,” he said, “but you almost never hear about it.”

Hedge Funds Care, whose donors include members of the hedge fund and prime brokerage businesses, is one in a growing number of charities that have arisen within the $1.3 trillion world of hedge funds. The Robin Hood Foundation, founded by Paul Tudor Jones II and perhaps the best-known hedge fund charity, raised $48 million at its annual benefit dinner last year. The Children’s Investment Fund, a London-based hedge fund, has its own $66 million nonprofit arm financed by a portion of the fund’s fees.

The growing charity of hedge fund managers is not surprising, according to Kathleen D. McCarthy, the director of the Center on Philanthropy at the City University of New York’s Graduate Center. Tradition holds that as new wealth climbs the social ladder, she said, those individuals often feel obligated to give back to society. There are, of course, tax benefits as well.

So far, hedge fund charity has been of the traditional sort, giving to establishment causes like ending poverty or supporting the arts. Despite their riches — as shown by the modern-day castles that have arisen around Greenwich, Conn. — hedge funds have not produced a philanthropist on the order of Andrew Carnegie or Bill Gates.

“Have we seen something new?” Ms. McCarthy said. “No, not yet. We haven’t seen a new Rockefeller yet.”

But groups like Robin Hood and Hedge Funds Care fall into what Ms. McCarthy called venture philosophy. Drawing upon the analytic qualities that earned hedge fund managers their wealth, these organizations place a premium on earning good returns for their investments.

From the start, Hedge Funds Care was a partner with Columbia’s School of Social Work, where Mr. Davis’s wife, Kathalynn, was working toward a master’s degree. The school’s associate dean and director of fieldwork, Kathryn Conroy, agreed to work with the fledgling group to identify effective child abuse charities in the New York City area.

Ms. Conroy said that she has been pleasantly surprised by how hands-on the donors have been. The organization mandates that every beneficiary be subject to an onsite visit, and several donors have visited nearly every site in person. As these business leaders have gone to centers in the South Bronx or in deep Brooklyn, Ms. Conroy said she had been impressed by their interest in learning about the extent of child abuse.

“We all have our own preconceptions of people in the business world, but I have been blown away by interest in this issue,” she said. “They’re all fascinated, and they ask great questions.”

The group has since exported to its other chapters that model of working alongside universities to find the most effective charities.

Yet what now is a wide-ranging charity network began as planning for a single benefit dinner, inspired by the $4.8 billion flameout of Long-Term Capital Management in 1998.

Long-Term’s very public implosion prompted hand-wringing within the hedge fund business and polemics from without. In particular, an opinion article in The Wall Street Journal spurred Mr. Davis into action, he said. Then in the prime brokerage unit at Montgomery Securities, he began calling his contacts in the industry, trying to arrange a charity benefit that would help show that hedge funds, well, care.

“I wanted to stand up for the industry even though I was just a service provider, a peon,” he said. “Everybody said that it’s a great idea. We’re in.”

Mr. Davis said that his previous career as a schoolteacher on Long Island suggested an underserved cause: child abuse.

“There are so few big organizations that do child abuse work,” Mr. Davis said. “There’s no poster child for the movement, because it’s such a painful subject.”

Held at the Hotel Pierre ballroom a week before Valentine’s Day in 1999, the first Open Your Heart dinner benefit raised about $550,000. Mr. Davis said those attending raved about the event, praising not only the money it raised but also the business contacts it created. He then undertook the long process of building an organization, first working with existing charities to handle and dispense the money the group raised.

For all the group’s success, Mr. Davis admits that in one way, he has not yet succeeded. Suspicion and cynicism still surround hedge funds.

“We may have failed to change the perception of hedge funds,” he said, “but I think we’ve succeeded in helping children.”
68 2007-03-02 Re “A Fighter for Colleges That Have Everything but Status” (Education page, Feb. 28):

As a high school teacher and parent with two children in Canadian universities, I was happy to see The Times highlighting an alternative to brand-name college shopping. As you pointed out, the status colleges are likely no better than the lesser known brands.

The big names have become like restaurants with lines out the door. Sure, they may be better, but it’s just as likely there are alternative explanations. They could be prestigious colleges because they are riding on a reputation earned many years ago; or attract students because they have a buzz around them; or maybe the famous colleges get elevated rankings year in and year out because they are a part of the old-boy network.

What so many miss is that the college experience is more about who the student is and how she applies herself than the designer brand university label she sports on her chest.
69 2007-03-02 Officials said the case involved two different schemes that were linked through one hedge fund trader.

Federal authorities say that starting in 2001, Mitchel S. Guttenberg, a 41-year old executive director in the stock research department of UBS, tipped a friend, Erik R. Franklin, about upcoming upgrades and downgrades of stocks, which was information that would move the price of the stocks. Mr. Franklin, at different times during the five-year scheme, worked for a hedge fund at Bear Stearns called Lyford Cay Capital, Chelsey Capital, a hedge fund, and Q Capital Investment Partners, as well as trading for his own personal account and that of his father-in-law.

The friends used disposable cellphones and secret codes to try and cover up their activities, the S.E.C. complaint says.

The ties went further than the two friends: each had his own network of tippees and the case was so complex that the United States attorney in Manhattan, Michael J. Garcia, used a large posterboard to explain the inner workings.

For example, Mr. Guttenberg, also passed the tips to David M. Tavdy, 38, a proprietary trader at Andover Brokerage and Jasper Capital, according to investigators. Mr. Franklin, a hedge fund trader, tipped Mark E. Lenowitz, 43, who worked for Chelsey Capital, a hedge fund and was a limited partner at Q Capital Fund.

In a separate scheme, Randi Collotta, a 30-year-old lawyer in the global compliance department at Morgan Stanley, is accused of doling out information about upcoming mergers and acquisitions in return for a share of illegal profits. She worked with her husband, a lawyer in private practice, and they tipped off Marc Jurman, a broker in Florida who shared his profits with the Collottas, according to investigators.

Mr. Jurman in turn passed the information to Robert D. Babcock and Ken Okada, employees at Bear Stearns.

Mark Lake, a Morgan Stanley spokesman, said, “We have cooperated and are continuing to cooperate fully with authorities regarding a former employee who allegedly stole info from Morgan Stanley.”

A UBS spokeswoman, Rohini Pragasam, said, “UBS is assisting the authorities to the fullest extent possible in their investigation into the alleged actions of a single UBS employee.” Mr. Garcia described Morgan Stanley and UBS as victims in the schemes.

Representatives from Bear Stearns could not be immediately reached for comment.

Four of the individuals have pleaded guilty: Mr. Franklin, Mr. Babcock, Mr. Jurman and David A. Glass, 32, who is the owner of Jasper Capital. He is alleged to have traded on illegal information in the UBS scheme.

A lawyer for Mr. Franklin did not immediately return calls for comment. Mr. Babcock’s lawyer declined to comment.

Benjamin Brafman, a lawyer for Mr. Glass, said: “Mr. Glass is a very intelligent, fundamentally honest young man who unfortunately used some very bad judgment but made the decision to accept full responsibility for his conduct at a very early stage of the proceeding.” He declined to comment further.

Lilly Ann Sanchez, a lawyer for Mr. Jurman, said: “We aimed to resolve this case expeditiously. Mr. Jurman is a very minor player in the overall conspiracy.”
70 2007-03-02 It also raised several questions. Did the old Fed chairman, who has been hailed as the maestro of the economy, disagree with the new Fed chairman? For a man who had worked assiduously to keep markets calm while he ran the Fed, why was Mr. Greenspan now using an incendiary word-bomb? At almost 81, did he secretly miss the limelight? Or was he trying to build up advance interest in his new book?

In some ways, the attention given to Mr. Greenspan’s remarks reflects the contrast in personal styles between him and Mr. Bernanke. To many investors, Mr. Greenspan, after 18 years of running the Fed, has star status, and remains the ultimate authority on economic issues. Mr. Bernanke, by contrast, is still an unknown. Where Mr. Greenspan had a fondness for colorful phrases, from “irrational exuberance” to the “frothiness” of the housing market, Mr. Bernanke has brought a plain-speaking openness that is often easier to understand but less catchy.

The difference in style reflects a deeper difference: where Mr. Greenspan guarded his autonomy as a decision-maker and bucked conventional wisdom, Mr. Bernanke has tried to make Fed policy less personalized and more grounded in consensus.

Fed officials declined to comment on the remarks, but noted that Mr. Greenspan has avoided any comment about monetary policy, speaking only about the economy itself.

To be clear: Mr. Greenspan did not, as some analysts incorrectly inferred, predict that a recession was imminent. In fact, he said few forecasters anticipated one. But he did caution that the United States appears to be at the end of an expansion and that such times usually bring with them the seeds of a recession.

His first comments were on Monday, in a private chat over satellite to an investor group in Hong Kong. On Wednesday, he tried to clarify his views while speaking to a group in Tokyo.

“By the end of the year, there is a possibility, but not a probability, of the U.S. moving into a recession,” Mr. Greenspan was quoted as saying by Bloomberg News, which based its report on interviews with people who attended the CLSA Japan Forum in Tokyo.

Several analysts said Mr. Greenspan’s comments, if read in context, did not conflict nearly as much as they seemed with the current Fed’s view. But the comments highlight the delicate line Mr. Greenspan has drawn in defining his post-Fed activities. He has adamantly refused to comment on monetary policy, saying that a Fed chairman has enough problems without being second-guessed by his predecessor.

But he has also restarted his earlier career as an economic consultant and forecaster, speaking to groups of institutional investors, on average, twice a week for a fee of up to $150,000. He is represented by the Washington Speakers Bureau, whose clients include celebrities and political figures like Colin L. Powell, the former secretary of state.

On Thursday, Mr. Greenspan was in Palm Springs for a talk to another conference. He has spoken in cities around the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia, often to institutional investors at conferences sponsored by banks or trade associations.

According to the Speakers Bureau, Mr. Greenspan offers “thoughtful, in-depth question-and-answer sessions.” The sessions are off-limits to the media, and recording devices are prohibited. But in practice, word gets out, and it can have a big impact.

Acquaintances of Mr. Greenspan say he has been puzzled by the reaction to his comments. In his comments on Monday, he restated his long-held caution that investors are in danger of being too complacent and too confident that the benign mix of low inflation and steady economic growth would continue. When asked whether he expected a recession later this year, Mr. Greenspan said it was impossible to rule out the possibility but went on to say that most forecasters did not expect one.

Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle ABN Amro in Chicago and president of the National Association for Business Economics, said Mr. Greenspan’s comments were consistent with a consensus.

The National Association for Business Economics’ most recent survey of members found an average prediction that the United States economy would expand 2.4 percent in 2007 and that the chances of a recession were about 15 percent — not probable, but not impossible.

Some analysts were less charitable, speculating that Mr. Greenspan had intentionally allowed himself to sound more provocative in order to increase his appeal on the lecture circuit and perhaps build excitement for his new book. The book, for which he is to be paid about $8 million, is due out in September and is to be both a memoir and a treatise on economic issues.

To be sure, Mr. Greenspan is hardly the only former Fed official to offer his views on the economy. Laurence Meyer, a former Fed governor, resumed his career as a forecaster for Macroeconomic Advisers and now offers clients detailed interpretation of the Fed’s thinking.

But Paul A. Volcker, who preceded Mr. Greenspan as Fed chairman, has been silent on Fed policy and has only rarely offered his views on the economy.

Mr. Greenspan, according to people who have spoken with him, is intent on remaining active as an economic consultant and forecaster. It is what he has done for more than 50 years, he has told people, and he sees no reason his role as a former Fed chairman should bar him from continuing to earn money at it once again.
71 2007-03-02 The new categories are significant because for the first time, Wal-Mart thinks it finally understands not just how people shop at its stores, but why they shop the way they do.

The recalibration might seem subtle. But when the company is Wal-Mart, whose $345 billion in sales exceeds those of its next four rivals combined, the stakes are unusually high, especially for Mr. Fleming and Mr. Quinn.

After all, these two executives will be responsible for putting into practice the new strategy, which is intended, in many ways, to fix the old strategy they championed.

That idea — to squeeze more dollars out of every shopper by stocking higher-end products and marketing them in sleek ads — was the company’s best hope for correcting its biggest problem: achieving growth by relying on opening new stores, at a rate of more than 300 a year.

Sales growth at Wal-Mart’s older stores, a major measure in retailing, trails those of rivals like Target, and for the first time in a decade, they fell during the most recent holiday season.

But the upscale strategy has not worked, at least not yet.

Wal-Mart has begun remodeling its aging stores and has changed how it schedules employees, to bolster customer service at the busiest times of day. To turn around the United States business, executives said, they must fix merchandise and marketing, the biggest priority of 2007.

Mr. Fleming said that for all the new insights Wal-Mart gleaned from its research into its shoppers, it was also reminded that its most powerful lure was low prices.

“It explains why people who have to shop here do and why there are BMWs in the parking lot,” Mr. Fleming said.

So what does this mean for Wal-Mart’s upscale designer-inspired ambitions, which promised to nudge shoppers who dwelled in the land of $5 shampoo into the territory of $31 trench coats by Mark Eisen?

Those ambitions are still there, Mr. Fleming said, but they are scaled back (the contemporary urban women’s clothing line Metro 7 is in 1,000 stores now, down from 1,500 last year) and proceeding more judiciously. The company is now focusing more on consumers who already shop at Wal-Mart, rather than on people who executives would like to shop at its stores.

From now on, all product decisions will be organized around the three groups — brand aspirationals, price-sensitive affluents and value-price shoppers — that, Wal-Mart says, represent the majority of its business.

What do they have in common? They want deals, of course, but they do not want cheap products. In fact, they all put a high value on names like Motorola and Samsung.

So Wal-Mart is creating teams, each with a marketing executive and a merchandise executive, to tackle five so-called “power” product categories with these consumers in mind — food, entertainment, apparel, home goods and pharmacy.

A model for this is the electronics department at Wal-Mart, where the company improved sales not by merely offering the lowest prices, but by carrying well-known national brands, like flat-screen TVs from Sony and Magnavox.

Customers “really need the assurance of brands,” said Mr. Quinn, the former Frito-Lay advertising executive who succeeded Mr. Fleming as head of marketing. “In the past we were so focused on low price,” he added, “but low price on what?”

A customer in the electronics department, Mr. Quinn said, would see shelves of no-name TVs and think, “I can see it’s low price, but I will not buy that television.”

But having one or two name-brand products scattered in each department is not enough, he said. Wal-Mart must build a reputation for brands in each category, so that when it is time for a customer to make a purchase, they think of Wal-Mart, rather than Best Buy, Macy’s or Home Depot.

Under Mr. Fleming’s direction as chief marketing officer, Wal-Mart deliberately strayed from its single-minded focus on price, opening a design office in Manhattan, staging fashion shows and buying ads in stylish magazines like Vogue.

Mr. Fleming, a former executive at Dayton Hudson, which became Target, based the new strategy on research that showed millions of Wal-Mart shoppers bought only household staples like paper towels and orange juice.

But the research was not deep enough, Mr. Fleming said. For example, the “selective shopper,” as Mr. Fleming labeled such customers, would buy only household staples at Wal-Mart, never clothing.

The response — introducing stylish dresses from Metro 7 and George ME to satisfy this shopper — apparently misfired precisely because Wal-Mart did not know exactly what motivated their clothing purchases.

“Our decision at the time was to take action,” based on the behavior of shoppers, Mr. Quinn said. “It was not perfect.”

He added, “It was not wrong, but it was limited.”

It was, however, costly. In the fall, when sales at Wal-Mart stores open at least a year fell for the first time in a decade, top executives pointed to the new stylish merchandise as the culprit. H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive, said the company “moved too far too fast.”

This time around, Mr. Fleming and Mr. Quinn said, the research is more refined. Wal-Mart knows, for example, what motivates brand-obsessed shoppers. As a result, new advertising, being developed by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., is likely to play up that message with the slogan, “Saving people money so they can live better lives.”

Mr. Quinn said the marketing will be more consistent this year. “Last year represented a lot of experimentation to learn what works and what doesn’t,” he said. “We will narrow the range.”

The head of Wal-Mart’s United States division, Eduardo Castro-Wright, has told executives that after a tough year of store renovations and a new scheduling system in the stores, 2007 will be the Year of Merchandise.

“There is a lot of pressure,” Mr. Quinn said.

“But we like our chances,” Mr. Fleming added.
72 2007-03-02 MOSCOW, March 1 — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on Thursday appointed Ramzan A. Kadyrov, a widely feared young official whose security forces have been accused of kidnappings, torture and other abuses, to be president of Chechnya, the battered southern republic.

The appointment, while expected, cemented Mr. Kadyrov’s position as the dominant political figure in Chechnya, where Russian and Chechen forces have largely quashed a separatist movement after two wars, beginning in 1994.

Mr. Putin announced his decision in his residence outside Moscow during a meeting with Mr. Kadyrov.

In Chechnya on Thursday, Europe’s senior human rights official, Thomas Hammarberg, attended a human rights conference organized by the government and denounced “a real widespread pattern of serious ill treatment and many cases of torture against those who have been arrested,” the British Broadcasting Corporation reported.

Russia’s most prominent advocacy groups boycotted the conference in Grozny, the Chechen capital, saying it was a sham intended to obscure the fact that security forces loyal to Mr. Kadyrov have been blamed for more of the violence in Chechnya recently than have the remaining separatists.

Suspicions about Mr. Kadyrov and his subordinates have also figured in the investigation of the killing of Anna Politkovskaya, a journalist shot to death in Moscow in October, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists, which is based in New York City, whose leaders met with Russian officials in Moscow in January.

Ms. Politkovskaya’s last article, published posthumously, asserted that Chechen police officers routinely tortured people detained as separatist suspects. Speculation about Mr. Kadyrov’s involvement in her killing, which remains unsolved, was so intense that he denied it publicly.
73 2007-03-02 Photo of New York City Councilman-elect Mathieu Eugene at his Brooklyn home with brother Maxi...
74 2007-03-02 COUNT THE REASONS -- A caldron of investors' concerns -- from a slowing American economy to a faltering mortgage market and the tightening of historically easy credit -- has been bubbling up over the last year and appears to have set off the wave ...
75 2007-03-02 To the Editor: ''Spending a Day at the Rockefellers' '' (Feb. 23) notes that ''much of the land still in Rockefeller hands is posted with private-property signs. Instead of saying keep out, they invite the public to use the trails and follow some ...
76 2007-03-02 Ford Motor Company signed a collective bargaining agreement with the union representing its Russian employees, averting a strike in a country that has been a bright spot for the automaker. Sales in Russia are booming; Ford made 60,000 Focus cars i...
77 2007-03-02 When the National Football League's free-agent signing period begins, Todd France has a basic rule. Never stray far from a cellphone.     France is an agent for N.F.L. players, and one of his clients, cornerback Nate Clements, is expected to be he...
78 2007-03-02 ''High confidence'' generally indicates our judgments are based on high-quality information and/or the nature of the issue makes it possible to render a solid judgment.     ''Moderate confidence'' generally means the information is interpreted in ...
79 2007-03-02 Inuit from Canada's far north told the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights that greenhouse gases from the United States were ruining their way of life and that the consequent warming had led to having to install air- conditioners. The delega...
80 2007-03-02 To the Editor:     Re ''A Fighter for Colleges That Have Everything but Status'' (Education page, Feb. 28):     As a high school teacher and parent with two children in Canadian universities, I was happy to see The Times highlighting an alternativ...
81 2007-03-02 Bellwether  134 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, Chelsea  Through March 10       What a different-looking group show João Ribas and Becky Smith have conjured up at Bellwether. Object-based Conceptualism with a spacey lift is one way to...
82 2007-03-02 Mai Ghoussoub, who weaved together elements of her Arab heritage and an avant-garde sensibility to make bold, provocative statements as a publisher, author, sculptor, journalist and playwright, died on Feb. 17 in London. She was 54.     Her death ...
83 2007-03-03 According to the new report, the administration’s climate policy will result in emissions growing 11 percent in 2012 from 2002. In the previous decade, emissions grew at a rate of 11.6 percent, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.

The report also contains sections describing growing risks to water supplies, coasts and ecosystems around the United States from the anticipated temperature and precipitation changes driven by the atmospheric buildup of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases.

Drafts of the report were provided to The New York Times by a government employee at the request of a reporter. The employee did not say why this was done, but other officials involved with producing it said they have been frustrated with the slow pace of its preparation. It was due more than one year ago.

The report arrives at a moment when advocates of controls are winning new support in statehouses and Congress, not to mention Hollywood, where former Vice President Al Gore’s cautionary documentary on the subject, “An Inconvenient Truth,” just won an Academy Award. Five western governors have just announced plans to create a program to cap and then trade carbon-dioxide emissions. And on Capitol Hill, half a dozen bills have been introduced to curb emissions, with more expected.

Ms. Hellmer defended Mr. Bush’s climate policy, saying the president was committed to actions, like moderating gasoline use and researching alternative energy, that limited climate risks while also increasing the country’s energy and national security. She said Mr. Bush remained satisfied with voluntary measures to slow emissions.

Myron Ebell, who directs climate and energy policy for the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a group aligned with industries fighting curbs on greenhouse gases, said Mr. Bush was right to acknowledge the inevitability of growing emissions in a country with a growing population and economy. Mr. Ebell added that the United States was doing better at slowing emissions than many countries that had joined the Kyoto Protocol, the first binding international treaty limiting such gases.

“Since 1990, for every 1 percent increase in emissions the economy has grown about 3 percent,” Mr. Ebell said. “That’s good, and it’s better than the European Union’s performance.”

Several environmental campaigners said there was no real distinction between Mr. Bush’s target and “business as usual,” adding that such mild steps were unacceptable given recent findings by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and other research groups tying recent warming more firmly than ever to smokestack and tailpipe gases.

“If you set the hurdle one inch above the ground you can’t fail to clear it,” said David D. Doniger, the director of climate policy for the Natural Resources Defense Council, which has long criticized the administration and sought binding cuts in greenhouse gases.

The report is the fourth in a series produced periodically by countries that are parties to the 1992 Framework Convention on Climate Change, a treaty signed by the first President Bush. It is a self-generated summary of climate-related trends and actions, including inventories of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, research on impacts of climate change, and policies to limit climate risks and emissions.

The last such report, completed in 2002, put the administration in something of a bind because it listed many harmful or costly projected impacts from human-caused warming. Environmental groups used those findings to press President Bush to seek mandatory caps on greenhouse gases, while foes of such restrictions criticized the findings and criticized the administration for letting them stay in the document.

While that report was approved by senior White House and State Department officials, Mr. Bush quickly distanced himself from it, saying it was “put out by the bureaucracy.”

The new report has been bogged down for nearly two years. In April 2005, the State Department published a notice in the Federal Register saying it would be released for public comment that summer.

Several government officials and scientists involved with preparing or reviewing parts of the report said that the recent departures of several senior staff members running the administration’s climate research program delayed its completion and no replacements have been named. The delays in finishing the report come even as Mr. Bush has elevated global warming higher on his list of concerns. This year, for the first time since he took office in 2001, he touched on “global climate change” in the State of the Union Message, calling it a “serious challenge.”

The draft report contains fresh projections of significant effects of human-caused warming on the environment and resources of the United States and emphasized the need to increase the country’s capacity to adapt to impending changes.

Drought, particularly, will become a persistent threat, it said: “Warmer temperatures expected with increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases are expected to exacerbate present drought risks in the United States by increasing the rate of evaporation.”

Water supplies in the Northwest and Southwest are also at risk. “Much of the water used by people in the western United States comes from snow melt,” the report said. “And a large fraction of the traditionally snow-covered areas of this region has experienced a decline in spring snow pack, especially since mid-century, despite increases in winter precipitation in many places.” Animal and plant species face risks as climate zones shift but urbanized regions prevent ecosystems from shifting as well, according to the draft report.

“Because changes in the climate system are likely to persist into the future regardless of emissions mitigation, adaptation is an essential response for future protection of climate-sensitive ecosystems,” it said.
84 2007-03-03 Hence, the Armory Show marathon is one of about a dozen collecting trips she makes in a year to art fairs and museum shows around the world (Basel, Miami Basel, the Venice Biennale) in addition to buying at auctions.

“When I first started out, none of the galleries would sell to me because they’d never heard of me and I lived in Orlando,” Ms. Hancock says. “They won’t sell to you if they think you’re just trying to flip the pieces to make money.”

She has also hired a series of art consultants — often people who are curators and collectors themselves — to whom she pays a commission based on what she buys.

“Right now we have the convergence of a buoyant market for luxury goods and a heightened mass interest in contemporary art,” said Jeffrey Deitch, who owns the Deitch Projects galleries in Manhattan, and who sold Ms. Hancock some of her first paintings. “A little while ago someone like Sue Hancock wouldn’t have been interested in this.” He went on, “Collecting has allowed her to enter a rarefied social scene and I’m sure it’s been a good investment.” But at the same time, he said, “She really does seem to have connected with the art.”

Ms. Hancock’s background was in business; she has an M.B.A from Indiana University. She and her husband had developed a database-building company and sold it in 2001 to a division of Barry Diller’s business empire.

“I was never interested in art, I never took a course in art history, but I always liked to decorate my apartments,” Ms. Hancock recalled. Her interior decorator took her to a fund-raiser for the Orlando Museum of Art in 1999, and she ended up joining the museum’s collecting committee. “That’s when I realized what collectible art was.”

On the committee’s first collecting trip, to New York, she bought herself 12 drawings by Amy Sillman and hung them in her stairway in Florida. “They made my heart flip-flop,” she said.

Ms. Hancock is 55, a small woman with a youthful shag haircut. She and her husband, from whom she has recently divorced, bought a 3,000-square-foot apartment on the 71st floor of the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle. It had a lot of wall space. She set about building relationships in the art world.

Just before the Armory Show opened last week, about 200 people were already lined up at the registration desks. Although most of them looked fabulous or at least European (women: very bon chic, bon genre; men: full Windsor knots all around), Ms. Hancock, who had on jeans, suede cowboy boots, a leather jacket and a multitier diamond ring, feared the threat of a most ungenteel crush.

“Look at all these people crowding in,” she said. “It’s like, ‘Attention, K-Mart shoppers!’ ” At Basel, the big art fair in Switzerland, “the people actually push to get in front of you — rich people!”

Ms. Hancock surveyed a floor plan of the sale and plotted her course from gallery to gallery. When 11:30 arrived, she was off like a rocket.

First stop: Galerie Emmanuel Perrotin, which is based in Paris and represents the Japanese artist Aya Takano. Ms. Hancock has been collecting Ms. Takano’s paintings, cartoonish and colorful, for two years.

“Cameron Diaz and Megan Mullally collect her, supposedly,” she said. Last fall, she traveled to Lyon, France, for the day to see her newest work in a museum show, and she had already committed to purchasing one large painting.

The piece, “Stuffed Animal Room,” cost $70,000. “I’m in love with all of her paintings, but there were a lot in that show that were very sexually explicit, and I have a bunch of nieces who come to visit,” Ms. Hancock said. “The stuffed animals are a lot safer.”

Next up: Bortolami-Dayan gallery, where Ms. Hancock purchased a sculpture by Gary Webb for $60,000. It resembled a giant painter’s palette.

“You can put your head through it,” she said.

Ms. Hancock doubled back to buy a third piece. It was a painting of a man falling off a bicycle, by a young artist she’d never heard of, Edgar Bryan. It cost $40,000. This was at the urging of one of her consultants.

The fourth piece Ms. Hancock bought was a painting by a Chinese artist, Ya Pei-Ming, that a director of the Milanese gallery Massimo De Carlo was holding for her in a back room. It cost $60,000 and depicted a red skull.

“It just really moved me when I saw it,” Ms. Hancock said. “It’s hard to describe, but it fit my sensibility. It’s not political, it’s not outdoor sculpture. And the artist had a huge book published about him, and I’d looked up his auction prices.”

At 1 p.m., Ms. Hancock sat down for coffee with a couple of fellow collectors. She was $230,000 lighter but thrilled with the morning’s haul.

“Everything good will be gone by 2 p.m. anyway,” she said.

There were six major art fairs in New York over the final weekend in February, and though Ms. Hancock ended up buying only one more piece — and for only $6,000 — her dance card was full throughout. She dropped in on open houses that collectors were holding, gallery openings, events for the Whitney Museum of American Art’s acquisition group (which she was recently invited to join), and a dinner Christie’s was holding in honor of a contemporary-works auction.

For many patrons of the arts, part of the allure of supporting a practitioner in his or her pursuit of great work is the opportunity for face time with the artist. But Ms. Hancock says it is fellow collectors, not the artists they are all buying up, whose company she finds exciting.

“We see each other on the circuit, we talk about what we’re buying and what sold where,” she says. “In my old life, it was all about work.”

Ms. Hancock is too casual about names to be a name-dropper. She often can’t remember the names of the artists she is buying (though she can recognize their work from across 10th Avenue). At the Christie’s dinner she was only vaguely aware of what it meant to be seated next to the collector Jeanne Greenberg Rohatyn, Felix Rohatyn’s daughter-in-law.

“Jeanne has a gallery space on the Upper East Side,” she whispered. “And somebody in her family put up his own money to save New York once when the city was in some kind of trouble.”

The auction, a few nights later, consisted of 74 pieces from the collection of Pierre Huber, a Swiss dealer. Ms. Hancock rode down to Christie’s with Eric Shiner, the consultant with whom she works closest these days. He is a guest curator for the Japan Society and teaches at Pace University.

“Sue and I talk on the phone several times a day and I know her collection intimately,” Mr. Shiner said. “I’m here for emotional support, but she can decide what she wants without any help, and she often does.”

Ms. Hancock had been planning to strike for a large black and white abstract painting by Christopher Wool. It was estimated to go for between $250,000 and $350,000.

“Don’t let me go above 450 on the hammer price,” she told Mr. Shiner when they took their seats in the second row. That meant $450,000 for the total, which would include the auction house’s 20 percent commission.

Ms. Hancock took her paddle out when the Wool piece came up. The auctioneer quickly got the price up to $250,000 before Ms. Hancock jumped in. She bid again at $290,000, and at $320,000, demurred at $360,000, but made another bid, nodding her head, at $380,000. She was quickly outbid.

“Do I have $410,000?” Christopher Burge, the auctioneer, asked. Ms. Hancock looked away. The hammer went down.

The auction was over as far as she was concerned. But the night was young. She had a photography opening to go to, in SoHo, and then a dinner that Mr. Shiner was bringing her to, with one of her favorite Japanese artists. “There is always another art sale,” Ms. Hancock said.
85 2007-03-03 In a rare decision that could overturn Boeing’s victory, the G.A.O. said on Monday that the Air Force should reopen the competition, and, if Boeing’s bid “no longer represents the best value to the government,” the Air Force should “terminate the contract.”

The G.A.O. said the Air Force had violated its own cost-analysis rules when it picked Boeing, and even said that Lockheed and Sikorsky should be reimbursed for their legal expenses in lodging the complaint.

“We promised to take a look at a number of things, and ultimately the cost evaluation pulled up short,” said Michael R. Golden, a procurement lawyer in the G.A.O.’s general counsel’s office. “It’s a large-dollar program. It’s a major weapon system, and it’s a lot of helicopters.”

It is also a stunning reversal of fortune for Boeing, as well as an embarrassment for both the Air Force and the company.

For years, the Air Force and Boeing have been accused of having a cozy relationship — so cozy that the two became enmeshed in a conflict-of-interest scandal that ended last year after Boeing lost billions in Pentagon contracts, paid over $600 million to the government in fines and top Boeing and Air Force officials were sent to prison.

At the heart of the scandal was a former Air Force official who was found to have been steering billions of dollars in contracts to Boeing — some of them now being bid again — while negotiating for employment at Boeing for herself and her family.

Some say the helicopter selection shows that little has changed in the relationship.

“By not enforcing the rules, the Air Force is showing an innate bias to one company,” said Keith Ashdown, who wrote about the Air Force-Boeing scandal for Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonprofit group that follows government spending.

The helicopter program is one of the Air Force’s highest priorities, and the impression of a pro-Boeing bias was further reinforced last Wednesday when the secretary of the Air Force, Michael Wynne, went before a Congressional committee and endorsed the Boeing helicopter.

“I’d like to stay with what we’ve got and get this program going as fast as possible,” said Mr. Wynne, when talking to reporters outside the committee room, according to Dow Jones Newswires. On top of that, the Air Force issued a statement after the G.A.O. decision saying it believed that it could comply with the “intent” of the opinion “narrowly.”

The Air Force and Mr. Wynne’s comments carry weight beyond the helicopter program, especially with an even bigger and more politically charged competition on the horizon. The Air Force is about to accept bids for a far more complex program — a potentially $100 billion program for a new fleet of aerial refueling tankers that was at the center of the scandal.

A previous attempt by the Air Force to award the tanker contract to Boeing collapsed when members of Congress, mainly Senator John McCain, raised questions and it became clear that Boeing had the inside track — and a helping hand from a corrupt official.

Now, two years later, the Air Force is taking up the tanker contract once gain. This time, it has pledged to play fair as it considers bids from Boeing and from a competing team using a tanker from Boeing’s archrival, Airbus, which is seeking to gain Pentagon business.

“Having just exited from a procurement scandal, the Air Force needs to look like it knows what it is doing,” said Loren B. Thompson, an analyst with the Lexington Institute, a military policy research group in northern Virginia.

While the G.A.O. recommendation is nonbinding, it is rare that a government agency ignores its findings. Maj. Brenda Campbell, an Air Force spokeswoman, said she was unable to provide more clarification on what the Air Force meant when it said it would “narrowly” interpret the G.A.O. findings.

The G.A.O. criticized only the financial analysis used to award Boeing the contract and did not comment on the relative merits of the different helicopters. The new rescue helicopters would not go into service until 2012. “We have to map out where we go from here,” Major Campbell said.

Joseph LaMarca, a Boeing spokesman, said that the G.A.O. looked at many elements of the selection process and criticized only one aspect. He also said the company believed that the Boeing helicopter would still be picked “when all is said and done.”

The losers are not so sure. Mr. Caires, the Lockheed spokesman, asserted that his company’s helicopter, the US 101, would win in the end. “We are confident, when fairly evaluated, the US 101 will be selected as the best choice and best value,” he said.

Sikorsky’s president, Jeffrey Pino, said in a statement that he has confidence his company’s Superhawk, the successor to the current Pave Hawk, will prove to be the “best platform for the Air Force’s current and future needs.”

As for the Air Force, it says it just needs a combat search-and-rescue helicopter, and soon. “We need a helicopter that will fly higher, farther and is a more defensive system,” said Major Campbell. “We fly in bad weather. We fly at night. We do things the other services won’t do.”
86 2007-03-03 In the other case, the jury ruled that Merck had given adequate warning by the time the plaintiff, Brian Hermans of Green Bay, Wis., died of a heart attack in September 2002 at the age of 44.

As a result of that decision, the relatives of Mr. Hermans could be entitled to payments only from the consumer fraud verdict, which could be three times his cost of the Vioxx and lawyers’ fees and expenses, but not compensatory and punitive damages resulting from his death.

The difference in the two verdicts apparently reflects the revision made to the Vioxx label in April 2002 to add information about the heart risks, according to lawyers.

For Mr. Humeston, who survived his heart attack, yesterday’s verdict represented a comeback, since he had lost in his first trial against Merck in November 2005.

Judge Carol E. Higbee of Superior Court in Atlantic City, who is in charge of all the Vioxx trials in New Jersey, later threw out the verdict after new evidence came to light. In particular, The New England Journal of Medicine accused Merck of having misrepresented the data on the risks of the drug in a scientific paper in 2000.

“We were given another chance at life, and we’ve made the best of it so far,” Christopher Seeger, who represented Mr. Humeston in both trials, said after the verdict yesterday.

Before this case, Merck had won nine cases that reached jury verdicts, including the original verdict in Mr. Humeston’s case, and had lost four. The company has vowed to fight each lawsuit individually rather than settle suits collectively.

The two-phase format represents an experiment to speed trials by Judge Higbee, who is responsible for about 16,800 of more than 27,000 lawsuits filed against Merck over Vioxx.

The idea is that juries would not have to rule on Merck’s behavior for each plaintiff but could do it one time and then consider only individual circumstances of numerous plaintiffs.

W. Mark Lanier, a Houston lawyer who represented the relatives of Mr. Hermans, asked Judge Higbee to allow Mr. Hermans’s case to proceed to phase 2 anyway, arguing that Mr. Hermans had started taking Vioxx before label was changed.

The judge is expected to rule on that request on Monday.

Mr. Lanier’s request drew a sharp retort from Hope S. Freiwald, an outside lawyer for Merck with the law firm of Dechert in Princeton, N.J. “Lanier lost and he wants a do-over,” Ms. Freiwald said in an interview. “He’s telling the judge the procedure he’s been lobbying for for months and months and months as a great new way to try these cases isn’t fair anymore.”

Merck has argued against the two-phase format, saying that juries should know what a particular patient and his or her doctor knew before reaching any verdicts.

Regarding Merck’s loss in Mr. Humeston’s case, Ms. Freiwald said the more important question of whether Vioxx caused his heart attack has yet to be decided.

In a related matter, the Food and Drug Administration said it would hold an advisory committee meeting on April 12 to consider Merck’s request for approval to market Arcoxia, a pain reliever that works in the same manner as Vioxx.
87 2007-03-03 “Without a doubt, if that happens to you, you now believe in God if you didn’t,” said John F. Timoney, the chief of police in Miami and former first deputy commissioner in New York.

In January, Andrew Taylor, an officer with the Los Angeles Police Department, was shot in the armpit, and another round became embedded in his vest. But two more bullets were deflected, one by his holstered handgun and another by his badge. When he returns to work he will be issued the same shield number, 14671, an L.A.P.D. spokeswoman said.

In Berkeley, Calif., in May 2005, a bullet pierced the sterling silver badge worn by Police Officer Darren Kacalek. The bullet lodged in his bulletproof vest, bruising his heart. It is believed the badge, just an eighth of an inch thick, slowed the bullet’s velocity, according to Sgt. Mary Kusmiss of the City of Berkeley Police Department. Officer Kacalek soon returned to duty, also with the same badge number, 88.

Tales of bullet-defying shields go back decades. In Chicago in the late 1940s, a fresh-faced officer named Jack Muller was caught in a shootout, according to The Chicago Tribune, and a bullet pinged off the shield on his hat. But it became lodged in his skull, and remained there throughout his life. He stayed with the department until 1981.

In New York, too, shields, nameplates, even radios have stopped bullets in their tracks. Chrystel Desposati, a retired detective, was a rookie in 1986 when an assailant fired at her in the dingy stairwell of a Bronx housing complex. She was hit in the center of her bulletproof vest, and the impact left a cigar-shaped imprint on her chest. She later discovered her nameplate was crumpled, and realized a second bullet had glanced off that, too.

In 1991 in the Bronx, a bullet crumpled Officer Alberto Morales’s badge, but failed to penetrate his Kevlar vest. Two years later, also in the Bronx, Detective Jesus Beltran thanked his lucky stars after a bullet fired at him got lodged in the radio hanging off his waistband.

Some officers use their shield numbers to play the lottery. The numbers have also been used like dog tags, to identify officers killed on duty.

In 1980, Police Officer Cecil Sledge was shot and then dragged to his death, caught in the wheel well of a car driven by Salvatore DeSarno on Flatlands Avenue in Brooklyn. Officer Sledge, it was said, was later identified by the number on his scraped and mangled shield.

Shields carry especial resonance in New York City, where they often get passed down through the generations, from grandfather to father to son, even from brother to brother. If an officer is killed in the line of duty, his or her number is retired.

The penalty for losing a shield is severe: officers can be docked five vacation days. For that reason, some officers have duplicates made, and wear the replica, keeping the original safe, although the practice is frowned upon by the department.

“You get taller, shorter, fatter, skinnier, clothing comes and goes,” said Thomas D. Nerney, a retired New York detective. “But you have your one constant, the shield. That’s the thing that stays with you, unless you get promoted, or demoted. It’s the symbol not only of authority, but of ethics.”

The day he retired and had to hand his badge back, in September 2002, Mr. Nerney had trouble letting go.

“The shield wouldn’t leave my hand,” said Mr. Nerney, who still teaches at the police academy. “It’s a hard thing to give up. It becomes the one thing that stays with you from day one until you leave.”

Nowadays, when officers return their shields at Police Headquarters, they place it on a blue velveteen pillow that is embroidered with a police car and the words, “Congratulations on your retirement.”

And though they are known colloquially as badges, Mr. Nerney said, the reasons these metal plates are known as shields is because they were originally meant to be just that: a shield to guard the heart.

The department’s most prized shield is also the one that few will ever see. It belongs to the police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly, and was created out of gold and platinum in 1901, by Tiffany & Company. Every commissioner has had it since.

When Mr. Kelly first served as police commissioner, from 1992 to 1994, he used to keep the badge loosely in his trouser pocket, but it has since been placed under glass in his office, on the 14th floor of police headquarters, for safeguarding.

Even if he wore it around, Mr. Kelly said he doubted his shield would provide any more bullet resistant than the standard issue nickel alloy shields. “I don’t think it would offer much more protection,” he said. “Gold is softer.”
88 2007-03-03 The EMI Group of Britain, which releases music by the Beatles and Bob Seger, rejected a $4.1 billion takeover proposal yesterday from the Warner Music Group, signaling the latest turn in a long merger dance.

EMI said its board decided against Warner Music’s cash offer, which was subject to “numerous assumptions and conditions,” because it was not in the best interests of shareholders and placed too low a value on the company.

EMI, which has issued two profit warnings this year and is undertaking a broad restructuring, also said the offer carried regulatory uncertainty and “unacceptable operational risk at a critical time” for the company, which has been grappling with weak CD sales and sluggish industrywide sales of digital music.

EMI also said the bid of 260 pence a share, or $5.07, represented an “inadequate” offer considering the risks and the potential cost savings of a merger. The offer reflects a 17 percent premium over EMI’s share price at the time it last announced it had been approached by Warner Music.

Wall Street analysts have considered a merger of EMI and Warner Music as inevitable, though many say the risk of antitrust regulators scotching the deal remains high and the companies’ fortunes are uncertain. One analyst, Richard Greenfield of Pali Research, wrote two weeks ago that Warner Music’s stock could be overvalued even if it purchased EMI at 250 pence a share.

Any deal would reshape the architecture of the music business, which is dominated by two giant conglomerates, the Universal Music Group and Sony BMG Music Entertainment, each about twice the size of EMI or Warner Music.
89 2007-03-03 A German citizen who says he was kidnapped and abused by the Central Intelligence Agency cannot seek redress in court because his lawsuit would expose state secrets, a United States Court of Appeals ruled yesterday in Richmond, Va.

There is substantial evidence that the plaintiff in the suit, Khaled el-Masri, a German citizen of Lebanese descent, was subjected to the C.I.A.’s practice of extraordinary rendition, in which terrorism suspects are seized and sent for interrogation to other countries.

In June 2006, a report issued by the Council of Europe concluded that Mr. Masri’s account of having been abducted and mistreated was substantially accurate. In January, a German court issued arrest warrants for 13 people it said were involved in the matter. Prosecutors would not identify the suspects.

The Central Intelligence Agency has never acknowledged any role in Mr. Masri’s detention.

Mr. Masri said in his suit that he was seized by local law enforcement officials while on vacation in Macedonia on New Year’s Eve in 2003. After 23 days, he said, he was handed over to C.I.A. operatives, who flew him to a secret C.I.A. prison near Kabul, Afghanistan.

In Afghanistan, Mr. Masri said, he was held in a small, filthy cell where he was drugged, beaten and interrogated. At the end of May 2004, he was released in a remote part of Albania.
90 2007-03-03 The festival, which began on Feb. 23 and runs through tomorrow, screened Palestinian propaganda films from the 1970s — never previously shown in this country. But many more of them did not arrive, because they were in the Gaza Strip, and Federal Express declined to pick up there.

And the festival did not even bother inviting artists from Iranian cinema. “That’s a territory I no longer want to tread,” Mr. Issawi said. “It’s over. Given the whole thing with Iran — I refuse to approach it.”

“One of the things about this whole experience is that there is no predictability,” he continued. “You can’t say ‘well, O.K., if Fed Ex picks it up, they send it.’ That’s not guaranteed. Or, ‘If he gets a visa, will he get in.’ That’s not guaranteed. It takes its toll.”

For those who work in the realm of cultural exchange between the Arab world and the United States, the festival’s difficulties have been discouraging evidence of a widening gulf between the two sides, despite American efforts to change Arab attitudes about the United States.

In one much-publicized example in 2002, the Iranian director Abbas Kiarostami was denied a visa to attend the New York Film Festival. And last year, Lewis Alsamari, an Iraqi-born actor who played the lead hijacker in the big-budget Hollywood film “United 93,” was denied a visa by United States immigration authorities when he applied to attend the premiere in New York, despite having lived in Britain since the 1990s.

“Surely at this point in our history we should be encouraging as much contact with the Arab and Muslim world as possible, have as many people come and experience the United States as we can,” said Richard Pena, program director for the Film Society of Lincoln Center. “But in fact we are not.”

Jack Shaheen, author of “Reel Bad Arabs: How Hollywood Vilifies a People” (Interlink, 2001), said: “We’re talking about improving cultural relations, the struggle for hearts and minds. Karen Hughes goes to the region and talks about commonality, and here we go against everything we tell them.” He was referring to outreach efforts by Ms. Hughes, the under secretary of state for public diplomacy and public affairs. “We’re saying one thing and doing something completely different,” he said.

The case of Mr. Muheisin is still surprising, considering the close diplomatic ties between Saudi Arabia and the United States. Initially, “Shadow of Silence” was meant to be the festival’s opening-night film. Mr. Muheisin, 59, applied for a visa about three weeks ago, and was first given an interview date for late March. After efforts on his behalf by the festival and Arab-American groups, the interview was moved to last Saturday, and organizers moved the film’s screening to the closing night.

Mr. Muheisin said that he was told after his interview that the visa decision would be issued in about 10 days — too late for him to participate in the festival.

A spokeswoman for the United States embassy in Riyadh, Melissa Ford, said that she was aware of Mr. Muheisin’s case, and that the problem was purely bureaucratic. Embassy officials had been unable to reach him, she said.

“We were trying to help this guy,” she said. “He was not calling us back. Our embassy is happy to accommodate people.” At first Ms. Ford said Mr. Muheisin had failed to show up for his interview, but after checking, said that he might have.

Mr. Issawi and Mr. Muheisin said this was nonsense. “This reached the highest level of the embassy, and they know it,” Mr. Issawi said. He continued: “I understand there’s a bureaucracy, and 100,000 people applying for visas. But there should be some discrimination: 60 years old, a filmmaker — use your judgment.”

Mr. Muheisin, who still hopes to come to the United States in October, said he had long been a supporter of the United States political system; he added that he found the incident difficult to explain to his Saudi colleagues. “My Arab friends who would argue with me over freedom in America, when they were Communist and Socialists, they are laughing at the procedures today,” he said. “They say, ‘Look at what your American friends are doing to you.’ ”

The director will travel to Japan to show the film at a festival there next week, and then take it to Italy, India and Russia.

While careful to point out that his film had a universal message about freedom, Mr. Muheisin acknowledged that his film, with its focus on a repressive Arab government, “could be banned in certain Arab countries. Perhaps that’s why I don’t have distribution.”
91 2007-03-03 ZURICH, March 2 (AP) — What began as a routine training exercise almost ended in an embarrassing diplomatic incident after a company of Swiss soldiers got lost at night and marched into neighboring Liechtenstein.

According to the Swiss daily newspaper Blick, the 170 infantry soldiers wandered more than a mile across an unmarked border into the tiny principality early on Thursday before realizing their mistake and turning back.

A spokesman for the Swiss Army confirmed the story, but said it was unlikely that there would be any serious repercussions for Switzerland, well known for its neutrality.

“We’ve spoken to the authorities in Liechtenstein, and it’s not a problem,” the spokesman, Daniel Reist, said Friday.

Officials in Liechtenstein also played down the incident.

An Interior Ministry spokesman, Markus Amman, said nobody in Liechtenstein had even noticed the soldiers, who were carrying assault rifles but no ammunition. “It’s not like they stormed over here with attack helicopters or something,” he said.

Liechtenstein, which has about 34,000 inhabitants and is slightly smaller than Washington, D.C., does not have an army.
92 2007-03-03 As parents across New York City search to find the appropriate schools for their children, many are struggling to navigate the complex road map for the school admission process (“As School Choice Starts Earlier, So Does the Frenzy,” front page, Feb. 22).

To alleviate the confusion among parents, the New York City Council recently proposed financing a new program of school navigators, individual counselors who would assist parents during the school transition period.

Our plan would have navigators serving every neighborhood and community school district.

The school navigators will specialize in either the elementary, middle or high school level.

These specialists will also have expertise in English language learner services, gifted and talented programs, and other education options.

To ensure that our children are getting the best opportunity for a quality education, we must connect parents with trained specialists who can help them through the school selection process.
93 2007-03-03 Anxiety about his choices as an artist — whether making dances matters; whether any of it matters — runs through a lot of Miguel Gutierrez’s choreography. If he can’t see the answer from where he’s standing, he should hire a substitute one night and sit in the audience. From there it is clear that his work matters a very great deal.

But then, maybe all that anxiety is necessary. At a time when so much art lacks a heartbeat, Mr. Gutierrez’s chest pounds. “Everyone,” his newest dance for his group, the Powerful People, is another adrenaline burst, smart and moving and full of questions, the way only real art can be.

As the title suggests, it’s a group effort, from Chris Forsyth’s steady, and steadily building, music to Lenore Doxsee’s quietly theatrical lighting design. Not to forget Mr. Gutierrez’s seven marvelous co-performers, or the audience, seated in two rows at the back of the stage. From the moment the performers step out, catching and holding the gaze of the audience members, it’s as if they’re making a pact: “We’re all in this together, right?”

This sense of unity is furthered but complicated by a chanted text following a narrator’s meandering thoughts: whether to buy peaches, the tyranny of real estate, the often theoretical terrors of war and loneliness.

Everyone shares such thoughts, and yet is isolated by them. And Mr. Gutierrez’s work is most alive when he probes that charged space between action and analysis. He and his dancers are beautiful to watch, but more important, they’re interesting. You can see them figuring themselves out, whether they’re staring into the rafters or hurling their bodies through the air in leaps both heroic and absurd. As various repetitions and endurance games play out, the dancers exhibit a virtuosity of a far more nuanced but no less dazzling sort than the orthodox understanding of the term.

In one section, as the group tears around in forced raucousness, the dancer Abby Crain holds back. Everyone else is clamoring for attention, but it’s this pensive watcher you can’t stop watching. Mr. Gutierrez must spend a lot of time studying the world like this. How else could he manage to get so many of its delicious, terrible undercurrents into his dances?
94 2007-03-03 Like many other market specialists who share his view, Mr. Stern believes that the outlook for the economy is generally positive, but he worries that investors are paying too much for assets like stocks and bonds in developing countries; securities backed by American mortgages; and junk-rated bonds. He acknowledges that his concerns are neither new nor unique.

These fears have been simmering on the back burner for much of the last two years. Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman whose comments this week about the possibility of a recession have put him back in the spotlight, highlighted them in several speeches before he stepped down last year.

In May, markets around the world sold off broadly on these same concerns as well as worries that the Fed would raise interest rates to levels that would restrict economic growth significantly. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 7.7 percent in a little over a month beginning in early May, before rallying in the second half of the year to gain 13.6 percent for the full year.

Many market specialists note that the market historically goes through such periods of stress, and that the recent period of relative calm is extremely unusual. Liz Ann Sonders, the chief investment strategist for Charles Schwab, calculates that typically the market moves more than 2 percent — up or down — eight days each year. Before the fall on Tuesday, the market had not had a 2 percent move in more than three years.

Tuesday was a “a healthy reminder, especially to individual investors, that markets don’t go straight up,” Ms. Sonders said.

The VIX index, which measures expectations of future volatility of stock prices based on the prices of options, jumped to 18.31 on Tuesday from 11.35; it has since fallen back to 15.82. By comparison, the index averaged 19.13 during the last six years.

It remains too early to draw any broad conclusions about the current market jitters, whether they will be of a similar short-lived variety as the swoon from last spring or whether they will take a broader and more sustained toll on the markets.

“This is a case of a lot of investors looking for a correction,” said Todd Salamone, vice president for research at Schaffer’s Investment Research. “There was enough news out there to have that prophecy fulfilled.”

Economic reports this week showed that orders for goods that last more than three years fell almost 8 percent in January and that the economy grew far more slowly in the fourth quarter than had been believed.

Yesterday, some of those concerns were alleviated when a monthly survey by the Institute for Supply Management suggested that manufacturing activity picked up speed in February. The report’s release at 10 a.m. bolstered stocks. The S.& P. 500 closed down 0.3 percent, or 3.65 points, at 1,403.17, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 11.94 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 2,404.21.

Unlike the slump last year, the recent drop in stock prices has not been accompanied by any notable movements in the prices of commodities like crude oil or gold, both of which also tumbled in May. Oil futures were up about 1 percent for the week yesterday and the price of gold, which is typically seen as a safe haven during times of uncertainty, was down 2.9 percent.

“A bunch of pieces to the puzzle fit,” said Ryan Larson, senior equity trader at Voyageur Asset Management who is based in Chicago. “But other pieces — the gold, the oil — don’t really fit together. It causes us to question what’s really going on.”

Other measures of sentiment also suggest that the talk of reassessing risk has not resulted in meaningful changes in investor behavior.

The difference, or spread, between the yields of United States Treasury securities and high-yield corporate bonds, for instance, has not increased significantly in the last few days, said Kingman Penniman, chairman and chief executive of KDP, a bond research firm. Wider spreads suggest that bond buyers are demanding more return for lending money to companies that may not be able to pay back the debt.

Similarly, the spreads on developing country bonds have not widened from historic lows.

“If I’d gone away for the week and looked at prices, I wouldn’t have noticed anything,” said Andrew Feltus, a vice president and bond portfolio manager at Pioneer Investments in Boston.

Certainly, spreads on bonds backed by mortgages to people with weak, or subprime, credit have widened significantly in the last two months, and the cost of insuring the lowest-rated portions of those bonds has jumped this week.

In an indication that the market may be in for a tough road, Countrywide Financial, the nation’s largest stand-alone mortgage company, disclosed in a securities filing that 22.6 percent of the subprime mortgages it services for other lenders were in default or foreclosure at the end of last year, up from 17.2 percent in 2005.

Another strong signal has come through in the value of the Japanese yen, which has risen 2.9 percent, to 117.61 yen to the dollar, this week.

Some market specialists say the increase is a result of investors unwinding the “carry trade,” a trading strategy in which managers borrow money at low rates in Japan and invest it in other markets where returns are greater.

It is unclear how much money has been invested this way, but some suggest it could be in the billions of dollars, given that the difference between short-term interest rates in Japan and the rest of the world is so great.

The rise in the yen would support the idea that investors are indeed becoming more risk-averse, by buying up yen to pay off their debts in Japan. But skeptics say it is just too early to declare the end of the carry trade, because the Bank of Japan’s benchmark rate, even with a recent increase, is 0.5 percent while the Fed’s short-term rate is 5.25 percent.

“I don’t think two days is enough to tell us” that the carry trade is being unwound in a big way, said Douglas M. Peta, a market strategist at J.& W. Seligman & Company. But “that’s absolutely something that should flash a yellow light.”
95 2007-03-03 IN the fall of 2005, the greatest boom in home prices in America was going on in Phoenix. People stood in line just to get on lists to buy new homes. It was possible to make lots of money selling a place on a list well before the house was actually built.

At the peak of momentum in that market, according to the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller home price index, house prices in Phoenix rose 49 percent in one 12-month period.

That was then. When S.& P. released the final 2006 numbers this week, it reported that Phoenix home prices rose just 0.3 percent in 2006. And it said that home prices peaked in June and fell 2.6 percent in the final six months of the year.

Home prices are notoriously difficult to compare. Every house is different from every other, in location if not in construction. The government compiles national averages of new-home prices, but it is hard to determine what they mean, because regional differences are huge.

The S.& P. indexes, which now cover 20 regions, try to deal with that by recording all sales in an area, and then comparing the price with the price that house fetched the last time it changed hands. They include only single-family homes, not condominiums or cooperative apartments, which can distort the picture in areas where such apartments form a major part of the housing market.
96 2007-03-03 Henry Winterstern, the chief executive and a chairman of the independent film distributor First Look Studios, resigned abruptly on Friday, the company announced. No reason was given for his departure.     Mr. Winterstern was a recent arrival in Ho...
97 2007-03-03 Mitt Romney of Massachusetts and Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York are both Republican presidential candidates who have been voted into office by largely Democratic electorates. They both have a history of taking liberal positions on social issues. ...
98 2007-03-03 To the Editor:     As parents across New York City search to find the appropriate schools for their children, many are struggling to navigate the complex road map for the school admission process (''As School Choice Starts Earlier, So Does the Fre...
99 2007-03-04 In the fall of 2002, Ayaan Hirsi Ali, then ajunior researcher for the social democraticparty in the Netherlands, was invited tostand for election by the rival conservativeparty. She thought about it, and decided that ifshe were to enter politics, she would embarkon a “holy mission” to have the statistics of femalevictims of so-called honor killings aroundthe world officially registered. Honor killingsare common in (but not unique to) Muslim societies,where the shame of adultery, or evenrape, is such that for some men it can be wipedout only by murdering the women involved.

Hirsi Ali’s stated aim was commendable,even if her claim that this “is the largest, mostimportant issue that our society and our planetwill face in this century” is perhaps a trifleoverblown. But her choice of words is curious.Why a “holy” mission? By her own account in“Infidel” she “had left God behind years ago.”Once a devout Muslim, she was nowan atheist: “I was on a psychologicalmission to accept living without a God,which means accepting that I give mylife its own meaning.” Hence the titleof this fascinating account of her life.

I know from having spoken to heron several occasions that she resentspeople attributing her views, includingher conversion to atheism, to her personalexperiences. She insists that shearrived at her opinions intellectually,and not because she was traumatized,say, by being painfully circumcised asa child, or brutally beaten by her religiousinstructor or tormented by guiltwhenever she was touched by a boy.Still, this is a book about her life, not avery long life so far. But what a life!

Born in Somalia, the daughter of apolitician who opposed the Siad Barrédictatorship, she grew up with oppression. Instructed to remain silent whenother children sang Barré’s praises,she was beaten by her teacher. Shewas also bullied by girls at her Koranschool, but not as badly as a fellow pupilwho was beaten mercilessly for beinga kintirleey, that is, “she with a clitoris,”that is, uncircumcised. Femalecircumcision is practiced in certainparts of Africa, among Muslims as wellas others, but is not an Islamic customas such. Hirsi Ali’s strict grandmotherbelieved that girls who were not subjectedto this painful practice would bepossessed by devils. And so Ayaan andher sister had their genitals cut.

Because of her father’s politics,which frequently landed him in prison,the family went into exile, first to SaudiArabia, where Hirsi Ali was confrontedby a harsher, crueler form of Islamthan in Somalia, as well as Arab racialdiscrimination. As dark-skinnedAfricans, Hirsi Ali and her sister werecalled “slaves.” But then, in 1980, when the familymoved to Kenya, after a short sojourn inEthiopia, Hirsi Ali’s own mother called the Kenyansslaves, because they weren’t Muslimsand “looked different.” In Nairobi, a noisy, colorful,squalid city, Hirsi Ali, as a high-school student,fell under the spell of militant Islam andbegan to wear a black hijab, covering herselffrom head to toe. No one forced her. “It had athrill to it,” she writes. “It made me feel powerful.… Weirdly, it made me feel like an individual.It sent out a message of superiority: Iwas the one true Muslim.” Not a bad descriptionof what is becoming an increasingly commonfeeling among young Muslims in many places,including Europe.

At the same time, Hirsi Ali was fascinatedby glimpses of a freer life, mere fantasies really,imbibed from romantic novels by DanielleSteel and Barbara Cartland: “Buried in allof these books was a message: women had achoice.” It was in this spirit that she decidedto flee from a forced marriage with a Somalianfrom Canada. On her way to join him, shestopped off in Germany, took the train to Amsterdamand claimed to be a refugee from theSomali civil war. She arrived in the Netherlandsin 1992, not speaking a word of Dutch. In 2003,she was perhaps the most famous politician inthe Netherlands. In 2004, she wrote “Submission,”a short film about female oppression underIslam that led to the murder of its director,Theo van Gogh. In 2005, Time magazine listedher as one of the 100 most influential people inthe world.
100 2007-03-04 Protesters from Sweden, Norway and Germany joined hundreds of Danish young people, hurling cobblestones at riot police and setting cars on fire.

Violence broke out again after midnight Saturday when protesters gathered near the building in the Norrebro district of Copenhagen. They briefly clashed with the police and erected barricades, which they set on fire along with four cars.

Hundreds of police officers in riot gear used tear gas to disperse the crowd, pushing away demonstrators and onlookers to make way for firefighters scrambling to put out blazes that sent smoke billowing into the night sky.

About three hours later, a bonfire in the street ignited a blaze in a nearby building housing a kindergarten and an adjacent two-story house. The fire was quickly extinguished and no one was injured, the police said.

Across the city, other groups of protesters set fire to trash cans, while protesters ransacked a school and hurled chairs, desks and computers onto the street.

One demonstrator was injured in the clashes, Mr. Munch said, but a hospital official could not immediately be reached for details on the protester’s condition. The Politiken newspaper said on its Web site that the rioter had been hit by a cobblestone.

“After a very hectic night, calm finally has settled over the city,” Mr. Munch said. “We have something like more than 400 people arrested in the past days.”

The clashes were the worst in Denmark since May 18, 1993, when the police fired into a crowd protesting the outcome of a European Union referendum. Ten of the protesters were wounded.

The building at the center of the recent riots, known as the youth house, has been viewed as free public housing by young squatters since the 1980s. The eviction had been planned since last year, when courts ordered the squatters to hand the building over to a Christian congregation that bought it six years ago.

The squatters refused, saying the city had no right to sell the building, which has become a hub for cultural events and concerts, featuring performers like the Australian musician Nick Cave and the Icelandic singer Bjork. They have demanded another building, free, as a replacement.

The police said the protesters were a mix of left-wing extremists and young vandals with no clear political motive.

In the southwestern Swedish city of Malmo, the police arrested three people on Friday in connection with the Copenhagen clashes, the Swedish news agency TT said. They were held on suspicion of planning to participate in violent protests and possession of explosives and flammable material.

Sympathy protests were held in Hamburg, northern Germany, and in Norway, Sweden and Finland.
101 2007-03-04 That day Mr. McGovern said, “I think Tom Eagleton is fully qualified in mind, body and spirit to be the vice president of the United States and, if necessary, to take on the presidency on a moment’s notice.” A few days later, as objections to Mr. Eagleton began to mount, Mr. McGovern insisted that he was “1,000 percent for Tom Eagleton.”

But the pressure from party leaders, campaign contributors and members of McGovern’s own staff was unrelenting. On July 31, the candidates met again, this time in Washington, and Mr. McGovern forced him to withdraw. Mr. Eagleton stepped down after 18 days as the nominee, saying he had done so for the sake of “party unity.”

Mr. Eagleton campaigned hard for the ticket of Mr. McGovern and his replacement, Sargent Shriver, but they failed to carry Missouri or any other state except Massachusetts as President Richard M. Nixon swept to a resounding re-election victory. (The Democrats also carried the District of Columbia.)

McGovern followers said the vice presidential fiasco was to blame for the magnitude of the loss. Mr. Eagleton, however, said he was just “one rock in a landslide.”

Mr. McGovern said he had come to regret his decision in 1972. “If had it to do over again, I’d have kept him,” Mr. McGovern said last April. “I didn’t know anything about mental illness. Nobody did.”

He said that in recent years that he and Mr. Eagleton had been on good terms, and that he regarded Mr. Eagleton as one of the 10 or 12 best senators with whom he had served.

Returning to Congress after he was dropped from the ticket, Mr. Eagleton took a leading role in legislation to halt United States bombing of Cambodia in 1973. When, in 1984, he announced that he would not seek a fourth term two years later, he called the Cambodia legislation his proudest achievement in the Senate.

He was also a leading sponsor of the War Powers Act, which was intended to limit the president’s ability to make war without Congressional approval. In the end, however, he voted against the bill in 1974, contending it had been watered down too much to achieve its purpose.

A chain smoker, Mr. Eagleton fought tobacco subsidies. He was a leading advocate of the 1974 Turkish Arms embargo. In 1982, as the Senate debated ousting Sen. Harrison A. Williams of New Jersey, who had been convicted of bribery and conspiracy in the Abscam influence-peddling scandal, Senator Eagleton said, “We should not perpetrate our own disgrace by asking him to remain.”

A native of St. Louis, Mr. Eagleton was a Navy veteran and a graduate of Amherst and Harvard Law School. He was elected to his first public office, as prosecutor in St. Louis, in 1956 at the age of 27. It was also in 1956 that he married the former Barbara Ann Smith of St. Louis, who survives him. He is also survived by their son, Terence, of Manhattan, and a daughter, Christin Fleming.

Mr. Eagleton’s early political career was a steady march made up of quadrennial strides. After four years as prosecutor, he was elected attorney general of Missouri in 1960. In 1964, he was elected lieutenant governor. In 1968, he was elected to the Senate after defeating the incumbent Democratic senator, Edward V. Long, in a party primary. He was re-elected in 1974, benefiting from a widespread feeling in Missouri that he had been ill-treated by Mr. McGovern, and again in 1980.

When he announced his retirement in 1984, he said he had served “a full and complete career,” adding, “Public offices should not be held in perpetuity.” But he also complained that runaway campaign spending had put “the stench of money” around the Capitol.

After he left the Senate in 1987, he served briefly on the board of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. He resigned in 1989, saying the decisions it made were “by insiders and for insiders,” not the public. He also accused the board of trying to thwart federal fraud investigations.

Mr. Eagleton practiced law in St. Louis, taught at Washington University there and had a central role in bringing professional football back to St. Louis, when the Los Angeles Rams became the St. Louis Rams. In his last years, he was writing a book about how St. Louis had declined and then prospered since he first entered public life.

John C. Danforth, a Republican friend and Senate colleague from Missouri for 10 years, recalled in January that Mr. Eagleton reflected a Senate era far less partisan than the one today. When Mr. Danforth was sworn in as senator in 1977 at a family dinner, Mr. Eagleton attended. The two never campaigned against each other. “There was nothing that was devious about him,” Mr. Danforth said. “He was wonderful to deal with in the Senate. He was funny, and saw the ridiculous in things.”
102 2007-03-04 Yet some of the wounded interviewed in the hospital by news agencies said the only shooting came from the American troops. A hospital official, who asked not to be named, said all the wounded were suffering from bullet wounds and not shrapnel from the bomb explosion.

Hundreds of Afghans blocked the road and threw rocks at police officers in protest afterward, with some demonstrators shouting “Death to America! Death to Karzai,” a reference to President Hamid Karzai, The Associated Press reported.

The shooting is a setback for American forces in Afghanistan, who have been working to contain the continuing insurgent attacks, in particular roadside bombs and suicide attacks, and win the support of the people with reconstruction and development projects. Deadly riots shook Kabul last May after American troops were involved in a fatal car crash and then opened fire on the crowd.

Among the dead this morning were a woman and two children in their early teens, said Dr. Ajmal Pardez, the provincial director of health, speaking by telephone from the Jalalabad city hospital. He said the hospital received 10 dead and 25 wounded people from the incident, with four people in critical condition, he said.

After the suicide attack, the American soldiers treated every car and person along the highway as a potential attacker, though none of the people showed hostile intent, Muhammad Khan Katawazi, the district chief of Shinwar, told The Associated Press.

“They were firing everywhere, and they even opened fire on 14 to 15 vehicles passing on the highway,” said Tur Gul, 38, who was standing on the roadside by a gas station and was shot twice in his right hand. “They opened fire on everybody, the ones inside the vehicles and the ones on foot.”

Some of the wounded interviewed by The Associated Press said the soldiers opened fire indiscriminately on passing cars and pedestrians on the busy main road.

“When we parked our vehicle, when they passed us, they opened fire on our vehicle,” said 15-year-old Mohammad Ishaq, who was hit by two bullets, in his left arm and his right ear. “It was a convoy of three American Humvees. All three Humvees were firing around.”

In other fighting, two British soldiers were killed on Saturday in southern Afghanistan, the British Defense Ministry said today. The men were involved in heavy fighting that has raged for three days in the town of Sangin, said Col. Tom Collins, a NATO spokesman in Kabul. Townspeople have fled the town and abandoned their shops as Taliban insurgents and British troops stationed there have been trading artillery and rockets, according to a resident of the area.
103 2007-03-04 “Today, it is giving Senator Obama the chance to run for president,” Mrs. Clinton told worshippers at the First Baptist Church, to enthusiastic applause. “And by its logic and spirit, it is giving the same chance to Gov. Bill Richardson to run as a Hispanic. And, yes, it is giving me that chance.”

And Mr. Obama, before the commemoration march, praised both Clintons and said of the political campaign under way, “We don’t have time for other folks to divide us.”

Mr. Clinton, arguably the most cadence-blessed speaker of the three, half-joked this afternoon that he had been bested by the other two. “All the good speaking has been done by Hillary and Senator Obama already — I’m just sort of bringing up the rear,” he said.

If Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton had one overarching theme in their remarks, it was honoring the civil rights movement that had contributed to their own rise in politics and quests for the nomination.

“We’re in the presence today of giants whose shoulders we stand on,” Mr. Obama said at the Brown Chapel. “People who battled on behalf not just of African-Americans, but on behalf of all Americans, who battled for America’s soul, that shed blood, that endured taunts and torment.”

In a 35-minute address, interrupted repeatedly by applause and shouts of praise from worshippers, Mr. Obama said it was time for his generation to pick up the work of those who have toiled before. He said it was time for the current generation to urge family and friends to shake their apathy to engage in politics and action.

“I know if cousin Pookie would vote, if brother Jethro would get off the couch and stop watching Sportscenter and go register some people and get them to the polls, we’d have a different kind of politics,” Mr. Obama said, the crowd rising to its feet. “Kick off your bedroom slippers, put on your marching shoes!”

Down the street, meanwhile, the congregation warmly welcomed Mrs. Clinton, who blended personal anecdotes with a fluidly thematic set of remarks, in which she said the civil rights march “is not over yet.”

“We’ve got to stay awake, we’ve got to stay awake because we have a march to finish,” Mrs. Clinton said, “a march towards one America,”

Her voice rising, she said: “Poverty and growing inequality matter. Health care matters! The people of the Gulf Coast matter! Our soldiers matter! Our future matters!”

Both candidates, too, turned to stories from their past to show their connection to the civil rights movement.

Mr. Obama relayed a story of how his Kenyan father and his Kansan mother fell in love because of the tumult of Selma. When asked later, Mr. Obama clarified himself, saying: “I meant the whole civil rights movement.” He was born in 1961 and the confrontation at Selma took place in 1965. He also acknowledged for the first time a recent revelation by a genealogist that his mother’s ancestors in Kentucky owned slaves, something reported by The Baltimore Sun last week.

“It turns out that her great-great-great-great grandfather actually owned slaves,” Mr. Obama said before another audience, over breakfast, at George C. Wallace Community College. “That’s no surprise. That’s part of our tortured, tangled history.”

Mrs. Clinton, meanwhile, recalled going with her church youth minister as a teenager in 1963 to hear Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. speak in Chicago. Yet, in her autobiography and elsewhere, Mrs. Clinton has described growing up Republican and being a “Goldwater Girl” in 1964 — in other words, a supporter of the presidential candidacy of Barry Goldwater, who opposed the 1964 Civil Rights Act.

The two political rivals, followed by large entourages and curious onlookers, came to Selma three days before the anniversary of Bloody Sunday, a violent afternoon near the Edmund Pettus Bridge that became a turning point in the American civil rights movement. Dozens of congressmen and other elected officials also came for the ceremonies; among them was a House leader, Representative Rahm Emanuel, who represents the same state as Mr. Obama, was a former aide to President Clinton, and went to church Sunday with Mrs. Clinton. He has not endorsed anyone in the race.

As they re-enacted the 1965 march, making their way to the Alabama River, the Clintons were at the front of the assembly, while Mr. Obama was two people away, separated by John Lewis and Artur Davis, the Democratic congressmen. They were all linked arm-in-arm throughout as they slowly moved forward on the two-mile walk. Mr. Clinton seemed to be beaming the brightest of all.

After the services, the senators were joined on the steps of the Brown Chapel by Mr. Clinton, who flew to Selma to campaign with his wife and was inducted into the National Voting Rights Hall of Fame.

Indeed, the start of the re-enactment march was delayed as a crowd swarmed around Mr. Clinton, who smiled and hugged his admirers, a few of whom were even wearing Obama buttons.

Mary Broadnax, 52, was walking closely behind, absorbing a moment she would never have imagined growing up in nearby Montgomery. After hearing Mr. Obama speak, she said she would do whatever she could to see him win the presidency.

“I love Bill Clinton, but if he came up to me and asked me to support Hillary, I would have to say I’m sorry,” Ms. Broadnax said, pausing before unspooling a long string of attributes about Mr. Obama. “He’s the right man for our time.”
104 2007-03-04 Frank then wanted a timeout, and he even motioned to the officials for one. But the Nets inbounded the ball, and House’s half-court shot hit the rim as the buzzer sounded, sending the game into overtime.

“Everybody knew that we had to foul,” said Kidd, who made only 1 of 7 field goals and finished with 4 points. “It’s just the foul didn’t happen. And that’s the way it goes.”

The Nets took an 86-83 lead at the start of overtime, then scored only 2 points the rest of the way. The Celtics, who had been stale from the field for nearly the entire game, carried over the offensive rhythm that they gained late in the fourth quarter.

“It’s just a shame,” Frank said. “But we got what we deserved today.”

The day began auspiciously when Richard Jefferson warmed up with the Nets before the game for the first time since having arthroscopic surgery to remove loose fragments from his right ankle Jan. 22. He will travel with the team on its six-game trip, which begins Sunday in Philadelphia, and he may play as early as next week.

“There is no timetable for him to play,” Frank said before the game. “We just want to try to reintegrate him back in with the team. Again, the feeling is that if he wasn’t going to play on the trip, we wouldn’t take him.”

Frank said that an early infection had set back Jefferson’s rehabilitation by about a week. Jefferson did some cutting and took shots Saturday, but he did not dunk.

“It wasn’t 100 percent, but it’s feeling better out there,” Jefferson said after the warm-up.

The excitement about Jefferson was forgotten as the Nets pondered how the Celtics, a team that recently lost 18 consecutive games, were even in position to force overtime. Midway through the second quarter, the Celtics had missed 28 of 32 shots, yet they trailed by only 4 points. Before Pierce’s 3-pointer at the end of the fourth quarter, they were 0 for 13 from beyond the arc.

Pierce, the Celtics’ best player, was awful most of the game, missing his first 11 shots and finishing 8 of 28. But he made two shots in overtime.

“I know I missed a lot of shots, but I never got discouraged,” said Pierce, who finished with 17 points.

The Nets’ shortcomings played a big role in keeping the Celtics in the game. The Nets committed 23 turnovers, leading to 26 points, and missed 12 of 33 free throws.

The Celtics were also greatly helped by Al Jefferson’s career-high 32 points and 18 rebounds.

“This game was real good,” Jefferson said. “It shows you can never give up.”

There were some bright spots for the Nets.

House made two 3-pointers late in the fourth quarter and finished with 14 points off the bench. Vince Carter led the Nets with 25 points and 10 rebounds, but he missed 15 of his 23 shots, including five in overtime. Carter also had 2 of the Nets’ season-high 14 blocked shots, but after the game he was in no mood to dwell on statistics, good or bad.

“It’s just a tough one,” Carter said. “We’re going to have to forget quickly and be ready to play tomorrow.”

Antoine Wright missed his second consecutive game Saturday with an elbow injury. He will probably miss Sunday’s game in Philadelphia, Lawrence Frank said.
105 2007-03-04 RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Sunday, March 4 — President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran met with King Abdullah here in the Saudi capital on Saturday to address the Middle East’s growing sectarian and political crises.

Mr. Ahmadinejad, who arrived in Riyadh in the afternoon, was greeted at the airport by King Abdullah, a rare honor from the aging monarch, and talks began shortly afterward, the official Saudi Press Agency reported. Later, he was the guest of honor at a state dinner put on by the king and attended by top Saudi officials and dignitaries, and he held further meetings with the king.

Without elaboration, Prince Saud al-Faisal, the Saudi foreign minister, told Reuters, “The two parties have agreed to stop any attempt aimed at spreading sectarian strife in the region.”

The trip was Mr. Ahmadinejad’s first official visit to the Saudi kingdom, and is widely believed to have been set up at the behest of the Iranians. It was the culmination of months of diplomatic efforts by the two regional powers, as well as other Arab countries.

The two leaders met just as diplomats from Germany and the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council talked Saturday about tougher sanctions on Iran for its continued uranium enrichment efforts in defiance of the Council. The diplomats, speaking in a conference call, ended their discussion without an agreement.

King Abdullah and Mr. Ahmadinejad were believed to be focused on finding ways to end the political standoff in Lebanon between Hezbollah, backed by Iran, and the government of Fouad Siniora, supported by the United States. Saudi Arabia and Iran have expressed alarm at the sectarian violence in Iraq, worrying that it could fuel similar tensions throughout the Middle East.
106 2007-03-04 “I’m not bitter,” she said in the fall of 1994. “We made mistakes. But I actually feel good about the way we ended up. We got people talking about national health care. People say, ‘Don’t give up.’ So I won’t.”

Thus, people who say that Senator Clinton is too self-righteous to admit fault on Iraq are at least half-wrong. There are plenty of examples of her saying she was wrong. And sometimes she does it quickly, as she did in 1992 to the country singer Tammy Wynette, famous for the 1969 hit, “Stand by Your Man,” after saying that she was not “some little woman standing by my man like Tammy Wynette.”

She can also drag her heels on admitting a mistake — and has regretted it. She says in her autobiography that she did not appreciate the political toll of the Whitewater scandal, and that, as a result, public relations mistakes were made. At a Whitewater news conference in 1994, she said that one of her biggest regrets was that her reluctance to provide information to the news media had fed an image that she was hiding something.

Some of her Democratic rivals are thirstily trying to make a character issue out of her refusal to apologize on Iraq. Twice in the last two weeks, former Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, has said that voters want a president “to tell the truth when you believe you have made a mistake,” as he put it during a visit to New York.

But beyond the fact that Mrs. Clinton says she has nothing to apologize for, she knows, as with Whitewater, that apologizing in the midst of political warfare is risky. Indeed, she has said that she is willing to lose voters rather than make an apology she does not believe in.

“In politics, people demand an apology from an opponent in order to humiliate them,” said Deborah Tannen, a linguistics professor at Georgetown who has written on apologies.

Many Americans don’t love leaders who apologize willy-nilly. In 2004, voters chose a Republican for president who stood his ground on the war against all critics instead of a Democrat who sounded apologetic when he said that he voted for $87 billion in troop funding before he voted against it.

And President Clinton was derided in some quarters as the apologizer in chief, not just for personal foibles (see Lewinsky, Monica) but for a whole history book of national wrongs (from the slave trade to Rwanda).

Graham Dodds, a political scientist at Concordia University in Montreal, who has studied political apologies, said of Mrs. Clinton, “She comes from a household that is well versed in the art of political apology, and, I’m sure, knows the risks in coming off as overly apologetic.” .

On foreign affairs, beyond Iraq, Mrs. Clinton hasn’t been much of a target for apology-seekers. She speaks with precise care on national security matters.

In a review of her history of apologizing, only one mea culpa on the international stage stands out: That she did not immediately reject remarks by Suha Arafat, wife of the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat, at a joint event where Mrs. Arafat suggested that Israel had used poison gas to control Palestinians. Mrs. Clinton denounced the remark a day later, saying she had gotten an incomplete translation.

Conventional wisdom holds that a commander in chief cannot look weak, and a female candidate for the office faces an even stricter standard for toughness.

“We’re a very macho culture, and I think every women in public office has to find her path to negotiate that,” Ms. Tannen said. “To the extent she’s a woman and has to prove she’s tough, standing her ground is the best thing to do. And to the extent she’s a woman and people don’t tolerate toughness in women, she’s going to be faulted for that.”

Professor Tannen sees four elements to a good apology: You admit fault; you express regret; you acknowledge the damage done; and you either promise to make amends, or promise not to make the same mistake again.

On the matter of her 2002 Iraq vote, Senator Clinton has put the fault on President Bush. She has expressed regret that he used the 2002 Senate vote as a means for war, acknowledged that the war was poorly conducted, and promised that she would not vote the same way again. Not exactly a rationale for an apology.

In this regard, Professor Dodds said, she is more like President Bush than her husband.

“It’s a hallmark of Bush that he sticks to his guns no matter what,” Mr. Dodds said. “If she were to apologize now, she would open herself up to the charge of flip-flopping.”

Phony apologies, too, can easily fail the smell test. So do half-way admissions of remorse.

“The thing about an apology is that it can make powerful people look weak, such as if Hillary admitted mistakes on Iraq and Democrats didn’t accept that,” Mr. Dodds said. “An apology does not always work.”
107 2007-03-04 Still, in a town awash in news releases written in magic ink on fairy parchment, Hollywood does not know exactly what to make of the idea of Cruise-as-mogul — or, for that matter, how exactly the fast-moving Mr. Sloan plans to deploy UA and the deep pockets of private equity investors to yank MGM back from the brink of obscurity.

Moreover, Mr. Cruise stands at the end of a long line of creative potentates in Hollywood, including Burt Lancaster, Paul Newman, Barbra Streisand, Sidney Poitier, Steve McQueen and Steven Spielberg, who have tried to follow the original Chaplin-Fairbanks-Pickford blueprint by overseeing their own mini-studios. All of them experienced mixed results as they ran up against the brutal economics of a hit-and-miss industry in which independents often lack the size needed to overcome the financial vagaries of filmmaking.

Though the relationship between studios and stars has grown ever more tangled in modern Hollywood, one thing has stayed the same: what many stars most covet — along with fame and fortune — is creative autonomy from their corporate overlords. For actors like Brad Pitt, Reese Witherspoon, Tom Hanks and Leonardo DiCaprio, that has meant deals as independent producers that give them a stronger hand in developing their pet projects and bestow production fees and credits on them.

Until last year, the gold standard of such deals was an arrangement between Cruise/Wagner Productions and Paramount, the studio where Mr. Cruise, 44, had starred in many of his biggest pictures. But that relationship vaporized in a mushroom cloud last August, after what many critics called Mr. Cruise’s erratic behavior during his promotional tour for the spy thriller “Mission: Impossible III.”

Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman of Viacom, Paramount’s owner, contended that he had fired Mr. Cruise for “inappropriate” behavior that had hurt his studio’s bottom line. Mr. Cruise’s defenders accused Mr. Redstone of grandstanding and said that, actually, both sides had already been planning to part amicably.

Regardless, the media firestorm and scrutiny of Mr. Cruise’s career and conduct only intensified when, two months later, Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner landed at United Artists, which through different owners has hewed in varying degrees to its founding ideals of artistic hegemony.

The producer Jerry Bruckheimer, who worked with Mr. Cruise early in his career on the film “Top Gun,” said that the news of the move “kind of shocked Hollywood.”

Mr. Bruckheimer added: “You have a star and his producing partner actually running a studio. That hasn’t happened in I don’t know how many years.”

BEFORE it became part of MGM in 1981, United Artists spawned the “James Bond,” “Pink Panther” and “Rocky” franchises and, during one prolific run in the 1970s, won three consecutive best-picture Oscars for “One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest,” “Rocky” and “Annie Hall.”

A promotional reel that Mr. Sloan shows investors in MGM’s penthouse screening room makes plain that many of the best-known titles in the current MGM film library — from “The Apartment” to “West Side Story” — were United Artists releases.

The lore is not lost on Mr. Cruise. At a recent party, Peter Bart, the editor in chief of Variety, greeted Mr. Cruise and mentioned that for a two-year period in the 1980s he, too, had been a senior executive at United Artists. “I know,” Mr. Cruise replied instantly, and proceeded to list all the movies made under Mr. Bart’s tenure, Mr. Bart recalled in an interview.

Discussing their fledgling plans to revive one of the more storied names in filmdom — and considering the maelstrom in which the whole idea was hatched — United Artists’ new chieftains acknowledge in interviews that they have stitched together their business plan on the fly because, they say, they are in a hurry and have a lot to prove.

As a result, UA in its new incarnation is a basket of contradictions and question marks: it’s a filmmaking enterprise ultimately owned by a studio, MGM, that had only recently vowed to get out of that line of work to focus on the less risky and more predictable — albeit far less sexy — business of marketing and distribution. Moreover, it’s a small studio co-managed by one of the world’s ultimate “big movie” movie stars.

“UA is in the shadows here,” Ms. Wagner insists. At the new studio, she adds, “It’s the film that’s the star.”

Everyone involved cautions that it is still early and that the studio’s course is not fully set; its first production, a political thriller called “Lions for Lambs,” directed by Robert Redford and starring Mr. Redford, Mr. Cruise and Meryl Streep, is being shot now and is scheduled for a November release. If all goes as planned, United Artists will announce as soon as this week a debt financing of $400 million to $500 million to finance its first slate of pictures, backing that includes $100 million from MGM itself.

Beyond saying that the plan is to live up to the United Artists legacy of making talent feel like partners rather than employees, and a goal of releasing four to six films a year distributed by MGM, Ms. Wagner says that little else is set in stone.

“There are no absolutes,” she says over brunch at the Polo Lounge in the Beverly Hills Hotel. “Under no circumstances am I making any proclamations or declarations — we’re new; we’re 100 days here.”

Ms. Wagner carries herself with the poise of someone who once worked as a theater actress and a talent agent before becoming Mr. Cruise’s collaborator and the public face of his entrepreneurial and filmmaking ambitions. Mr. Cruise declined to be interviewed for this article, because, Ms. Wagner says, he prefers that she speak publicly about their mutual business interests.

As far as those first 100 days go, Ms. Wagner says their new company is on track: it is hiring new employees, has “Lions for Lambs” under way, has just optioned a hot book, “The Birthday Party” by Stanley N. Alpert, and is taking meetings and pitches all over town. The plan is to make films of varying budgets and genres. But anything that is projected to cost more than about $60 million needs a green light from MGM.

Mr. Cruise is not obligated to appear in any UA films, though the incentive of owning a large chunk of the print, as well as the bragging rights and perquisites that entails, is meant to be a strong motivator for him to ply his “day job — or night job,” as Ms. Wagner puts it, at UA.

In the case of “Lions for Lambs,” MGM is providing the film’s $35 million budget. Mr. Cruise, Mr. Redford and Ms. Streep have all deferred their usual upfront fees or percentages of gross revenue in exchange for cumulatively splitting half of the film’s profit with UA.

Ms. Wagner would not discuss the numbers, joking that she “never discusses her budgets or her age.” But she said that the structure was typical of how she envisions UA: as a trusted partner rather than as a big studio with arcane accounting that prompts agents to insist that their most bankable clients are paid up front.

Of course, Ms. Wagner is now something of an expert in the perks and pitfalls of life at a big studio. All she needs to do is flash back to last fall, to the Cruise/Wagner Productions offices on the Paramount lot. Cruise/Wagner was initially fueled by the adrenalin of Mr. Cruise’s star power in the early 1990s, when he anchored hits like “A Few Good Men,” “The Firm” and “Days of Thunder.”

Over nearly 15 years, Cruise/Wagner produced 13 films, aided in the latter years by a plush overhead deal from Paramount in which Paramount provided office space and underwrote their projects in exchange for a first crack at bringing them to the screen. The result of that collaboration was films approaching a gross of $3 billion at the box office, with Cruise/Wagner having particular success in shepherding the lucrative “Mission: Impossible” franchise to the big screen for Paramount.

But last year Viacom was in transition, and the studio’s new overseers, the Paramount chief executive, Brad Grey and the Viacom chief, Tom Freston — like other Hollywood chieftains — believed that they were spending too much money on too many co-producers. Where Cruise/Wagner was concerned, they reasoned that the studio could just as easily work out a deal with Mr. Cruise to shoot another “Mission: Impossible” installment by hiring him and Ms. Wagner as producers, without subsidizing their company.

What’s more, Cruise/Wagner’s track record was strong with films starring Mr. Cruise, but those that did not feature the actor — pictures like “The Others,” “Elizabethtown,” “Shattered Glass” and “Narc” — had “mixed” commercial success, according to an executive with knowledge of the discussions.

“Any producer who makes more than one or two films in their lifetime — with the exception perhaps of Tom Cruise — has a ‘mixed’ thing,” Ms. Wagner says when asked if that was a fair assessment of her partnership with Mr. Cruise. Viacom declined to comment.

As the mood in Hollywood changed and Paramount offered a greatly reduced production deal, Ms. Wagner says that she and Mr. Cruise decided that it was time for a change. Following the lead of other successful producers like Ivan Reitman and Joel Silver, they wanted to tap into the new Wall Street and hedge fund money flowing into Hollywood.

Under these new business arrangements, big-name producers can control nearly every aspect of filmmaking — even the most exalted perk, the ability to greenlight a picture. Big studios remain crucial to a film’s success under this new model, but largely as marketers and distributors.

ONE Wednesday morning last August, Mr. Redstone, in an interview that appeared on the front page of The Wall Street Journal, announced that he had fired Mr. Cruise.

Indeed, while “Mission: Impossible III” grossed close to $134 million at the box office domestically, it fell $81 million shy of the previous installment. And the roughly $70 million that Mr. Cruise took home as his share of the film’s worldwide receipts meant that he probably earned more than Paramount did on the picture, said an executive with direct knowledge of the film’s financial results. Ms. Wagner and Viacom would not confirm that calculation.

Mr. Redstone’s comments came in the wake of Mr. Cruise’s statements about his faith in Scientology, his public declarations of love for his girlfriend — and now wife — Katie Holmes, and his crusade against prescription antidepressants. Ms. Wagner bristles when she recalls the episode. “Tom Cruise, in 10 months, for Paramount Pictures, generated just under $1 billion,” she says, referring to the box office take of his last two films, “Mission: Impossible III” and “War of the Worlds.”

Mr. Cruise’s so-called firing was extraordinary in Hollywood — and nothing personal, Mr. Redstone has said in subsequent interviews. Mr. Cruise’s camp says that his contract had merely expired and that he was already planning to move on. That issue aside, the incident raised a salient question in filmdom: had the pay for talent grown out of kilter with the financial realities of the marketplace?

In the uncertain days that followed, Cruise/Wagner announced a deal to develop films for a company backed by Daniel Snyder, the investor who owns the Washington Redskins, but it was hardly the big move that showed the world that they were unfazed. Friends of Mr. Cruise, meanwhile, advised him to focus less on his production business and more on picking smart follow-ups to “Mission: Impossible III” so he could put the bad publicity behind him.

FOR Harry Sloan, meanwhile, the raging headlines about Mr. Cruise gave him a flash of inspiration. After taking charge of MGM in 2005 at the behest of its main investors, Providence Equity Partners and the Texas Pacific Group, Mr. Sloan set out to revive the company, which also counts Sony and Comcast as investors. The private equity firms had initially backed the Sony Corporation’s $5 billion takeover of MGM from the investor Kirk Kerkorian in 2004, with the strategy that MGM would be largely shuttered and its 4,000-film library fed through the distribution pipeline of Sony Pictures.

But the investors, unhappy with MGM’s performance under the Sony strategy, changed course after a year and installed Mr. Sloan, an MGM director, as the studio’s chief executive. Mr. Sloan, an entertainment lawyer turned entrepreneur, founded SBS Broadcasting in Europe in the early 1990s and sold it three years ago for $2.6 billion. The venture made him a tidy fortune, an undisclosed portion of which he has reinvested in MGM.

In addition to moving the distribution of MGM’s home video business to 20th Century Fox, Mr. Sloan wanted to shore up MGM’s own television channels around the world by cutting deals with various small and independent producers. Mr. Sloan, who once served as chairman of Lion’s Gate Entertainment, also wanted to revive MGM’s movie-making capabilities, but without the expense of layers of creative executives and producers.

In an interview, Mr. Sloan estimated that big studios spent as much as $100 million apiece annually on films that are never released, and he called Hollywood’s film development deals “an enormous welfare project” for writers, agents and producers.

Mr. Sloan considered selling the UA brand name because it was doing nothing more for MGM than gathering dust in a closet. But when he saw Mr. Cruise’s broad smile flashed across the evening news during the Paramount dust-up, he decided to give him and Ms. Wagner the UA shingle to hang.

“You can’t lose,” Mr. Sloan says of the deal with Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner. “There are plenty of things I’m doing that have plenty of risk and downside. This is not one of them.”

So while the news media buzzed with speculation about whether Mr. Cruise’s career would be dented or even destroyed, Harry Sloan placed calls to Mr. Fields, the lawyer. He also phoned Mr. Cruise’s longtime representatives at Creative Artists Agency, whose co-chairman, Rick Nicita, is Ms. Wagner’s husband. (Ms. Wagner herself had been Mr. Cruise’s agent at the firm before becoming his production partner.)

Knowing that Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner would need to exit the Paramount lot in a hurry, Mr. Sloan offered them office space on the 11th floor of the MGM tower. Over the next two months, the three conducted a series of private meetings at Mr. Sloan’s office and home that involved contingents of lawyers and agents.

What emerged was what Ms. Wagner describes as a hybrid between a studio and a production company. Rather than the overhead deal they had at Paramount, Mr. Sloan proposed establishing an autonomous studio within a larger studio — a structure akin to the relationship that Mr. Spielberg’s studio, DreamWorks, now has with Paramount, but with real ownership attached.

“We all answer to somebody about something,” Ms. Wagner says. “It’s really the number of people you answer to. In this structure, Tom and I really answer to ourselves.”

According to people involved in the talks, the question of whether Mr. Cruise, whom Mr. Sloan did not know previously, was past his prime or a loose cannon came up, particularly among MGM’s private equity investors.

But Mr. Sloan concluded that Mr. Cruise was still a bankable star and filmmaker. Kelvin L. Davis, a partner at Texas Pacific who serves on MGM’s executive committee, said he came away from his initial meeting with Mr. Cruise impressed by his business acumen and his curiosity about the financial goals of his prospective backers.

“One of the things Tom said to me that impressed me early on,” Mr. Davis said, “was that he thought his artistic performance, his acting abilities, were best displayed when he felt a real sense of partnership with those who he was doing business with.”

After weeks of preliminary negotiations, Mr. Cruise met with Mr. Sloan in his office for the first time last October. During a meeting that lasted four hours, Mr. Cruise did not jump off the bronze sofa he was sitting on. Rather, he listened intently as Mr. Sloan proposed giving UA some of MGM’s franchise films to produce and suggested that its first project be the next “Terminator.”

Mr. Sloan recalls that Mr. Cruise responded, “Let’s not do something derivative” for a first film. “Let’s do something original.”

Since then, a partnership has been struck and Mr. Sloan has been to Mr. Cruise’s gala wedding in Italy. Mr. Sloan says he is convinced that Mr. Cruise has both the movie-making ability and the work ethic to make a success of UA. “He is driven, professional and a total perfectionist,” Mr. Sloan says. “I thought he was me in a lot of ways.”

Mr. Sloan calls his venture with Mr. Cruise an “interesting experiment” that he might extend to other dormant MGM brands like Orion Pictures. He also says that other artists could unite with Mr. Cruise and Ms. Wagner as equity owners of UA.

ONE of the lingering questions about UA is how well Ms. Wagner will fare in putting out four to six films a year, when she and Mr. Cruise previously averaged just one movie a year as producers aligned with Paramount. It is also unclear how Mr. Cruise will manage his loyalties and time among the many professional roles he juggles both inside and outside of UA. Last month, for instance, the Hollywood trades reported that he plans to make a comedy with Ben Stiller as the co-star at 20th Century Fox.

Mr. Cruise isn’t saying. But the answer to questions about his commitment may lie in another meeting he and Ms. Wagner held in Mr. Sloan’s office just a few days before the deal was announced last November.

The centerpiece of the meeting was a four-hour pow-wow with Jonathan M. Nelson, the chief executive of Providence Equity, whose 29 percent stake in MGM makes it the studio’s single largest shareholder. According to two people who would not agree to be named because it was a private meeting, Mr. Nelson was there to scope out Mr. Cruise’s intentions for UA before signing off on the deal.

At the meeting, Mr. Nelson declined an invitation to read the script for “Lions for Lambs,” these people said. But he was reassured by other things he saw. Like Mr. Sloan, Mr. Nelson was impressed by Mr. Cruise’s sense of purpose and the fact that the star had never responded publicly to Mr. Redstone’s lambasting. Instead, it became clear that Mr. Cruise had chosen a different way to fire back at the Viacom chairman: he was determined to let his results be his revenge.
108 2007-03-04 Elizabeth Royte’s “On the Water Front” (Feb. 18), about the perils facing New York City’s drinking water and water supply system, leaves two important factors out of the equation.

First, the Bloomberg administration has demonstrated that it is less interested in protecting the water at its source than it is in appeasing the construction unions clamoring for jobs on an unnecessary chemical filtration plant in the Bronx — one that employs antiquated dissolved air floatation technology, with costs far higher than that of a comparable membrane filtration plant in San Diego County, and deprives an underserved area of its parkland.

Second, if New York City is serious about protecting the high quality of its precious drinking water, it will need to strongly challenge upstate real estate and development interests in the regulatory process to protect our water at its source.

Elizabeth Royte’s informative article on the current state of New York City’s water supply provided an occasion to reflect on just how it has remained in such good repair.

Since 1837, the city-owned entity has been run with the best interests of the public in mind (with some Tweed-era exceptions). It might have become a very different story if the system had been sold to a corporate owner in a myopic fire-sale back in 1996. That it has remained in public hands is something for which we should be very grateful.
109 2007-03-04 This week private preschools will send out their coveted acceptance letters to anxious parents. Once again, the number of available spots is shrinking as the city continues to experience a baby boom.

DEAR [insert first name of preschool admissions director here],

We wanted to thank you for considering our daughter Bethanie for your 2’s program. We’ve enjoyed every step of the admissions process over these last six months — from the speed-dial excitement of the post-Labor Day calls for an application to camping out on the sidewalk overnight for the open house. We see it as a real testament to the strength of your program that 98 percent of your spots for next year will be filled with siblings. And, since we’re a glass-half-full kind of family, [insert preschool name here] is absolutely our first and only choice for Bethanie.

Given that there are probably 20 other Bethanys applying for the 2’s program next year, we wanted to point out that our daughter’s name is spelled Bethanie, with an ie not a y, after her paternal grandmother, Bethanie Beezley, an unsung teacher’s aide under Maria Montessori, who was evidently quite instrumental in developing the theory of the moderately gifted child. We hope this little tidbit about our family’s abiding commitment to progressive education helps clarify things on your end administratively.

The open house was spectacular! We were so impressed to hear your current 3-year-olds articulating your mission and responding to all those complex questions about your lottery, endowment and zoning issues and how they had an impact on the inspired vertical layout of your playground.

Please know that my husband was only kidding when he asked whether Deloitte & Touche oversaw the lottery drawing. Being selected to attend the parent tour was really meaningful for us. Not just because it was the first time in ages that we had done something together outside of couple’s counseling, but because we learned a lot about our values as parents.
110 2007-03-04 THE Juniper Park Civic Association, a 69-year-old community group that represents the Queens neighborhoods of Maspeth and Middle Village, has never been shy about speaking out on local issues. In the last two decades, the group has made its voice heard on drag racing, collectors of recyclable cans, poor drainage on local ball fields, Wal-Mart, 7-Eleven, inaccurate local ZIP codes and a proposed truck tunnel to New Jersey, not to mention drive-by robberies, illegal basement apartments, and hours at the local library.

Yet few battles have preoccupied the group more than its nine-year campaign against leashless dogs in city parks. The Juniper Park Civic Association has been more vocal than any other group in the city in opposing the Parks Department’s “courtesy hours,” allowing dogs off the leash in city parks from 9 p.m. to 9 a.m. Following a public hearing on the matter two weeks ago, the department is poised to make the policy official this month.

Although the civic group lost a lawsuit involving the policy late last year, it has in no way lost its taste for battle.

“We did our job — we warned the city,” said Robert Holden, a professor of graphic design at the New York City College of Technology, who serves as the group’s president. “We will be proven right. Unfortunately, it’ll take a tragedy like somebody getting mauled.”

The association first took notice of the issue in 1998, when one of its members, Frank Catapano, was “harassed,” Mr. Holden said, by several off-leash dogs in the park early one morning. The incident prompted a letter-writing campaign to the parks commissioner as well as articles in the group’s quarterly magazine, The Juniper Berry.

Six years later, after multiple letters and protests, and at least one recorded case of a woman’s being attacked by a dog in the park, the civic group sued the Parks Department, saying the leash policy was illegal because the city’s Health Code requires that dogs in public places be restrained. Though the organization lost in court last November, the fight has, if anything, grown more raucous.
111 2007-03-04 “Inside the House of Money” by Steven Drobny (Wiley, $29.95) pulls back the curtain, slightly. This is less a book of sustained narration or explanation than a notebook of interviews developed from exclusive confabs sponsored by the author’s consulting firm, Drobny Global Advisors. Still, the ruminations of supposedly hush-hush hedge fund operators are richly illuminating, and much less expensive than the fees they charge.

Nowadays, “hedge fund” signifies a legal and performance compensation structure, not an investment strategy. Mr. Drobny focuses on the style of “global macro,” which he defines as investing in any asset class anywhere in the world. He dwells little on crucial differences in investment time horizons.

But today, he says, all investments, even mutual funds, “are subject to changes in the world economy, the U.S. dollar, global equities, global interest rates” and other factors, not to mention wars. “Global macro,” Yra Harris, the Chicago-based trader, tells Mr. Drobny, “used to be called ‘geopolitics.’ ”

The author shows us human beings, not forces of darkness. Many of the 13 interviewees reveal getting a head start from friends of friends and fellow alumni. Some draw inspiration from “Reminiscences of a Stock Operator” by Edwin Lefèvre (1923). Several acknowledge harvesting ideas from The Economist. Most now run their own funds, but few enjoy managing people or even portfolios. They love managing risk.

A number of themes emerge. First, despite prodigious research, their brilliant ideas can go awry.

“If I’ve gotten better at it,” the industry legend Jim Rogers tells Mr. Drobny, echoing others, “it’s because I’ve made enough mistakes.”

Another says that “my favorite trades are when I’m wrong and I get out without losing too much money.”

Second, trading and analysis entail different mojo. Mr. Drobny’s business partner, the analyst Andres Drobny — no relation — says the crucial skill is not just reading a crystal ball on the world, but translating an insight into a trade.

Third, incentives have become perverse. In a $10 billion hedge fund, one purist complains, the 2 percent management fee amounts to $200 million, whatever the performance, and as soon as the fund goes up 10 percent, that’s another $200 million (20 percent of the $1 billion profit), meaning that the manager can “close out positions and take the rest of the year off.” So much for absolute return.

Full-blooded characters enliven the text. Jim Leitner, a former graduate student in international finance and Russian studies who grew up in Germany and Turkey, bounced from one trainee position to another before landing at Bankers Trust in 1985. In 1997, he founded Falcon Management, behind a gas pump in Wyckoff, N.J., where he apparently amassed 10 percent of the international market in Turkish lira.

In 1999, when an earthquake caused Turkey’s stock market to collapse, Mr. Leitner bought shares in Turkish glass companies, anticipating replacement demand. He still follows megatrends and aggregated country data, but he also bores deeply into specific companies abroad. Good global macro has become global micro.

Dwight Anderson, a commodities specialist and an alumnus of Princeton’s history department (where this reviewer teaches), started as a manufacturing consultant, visiting factories. Then he was hired by Tiger Management, Julian Robertson’s firm, to help run a commodities desk. After crunching the numbers on palladium, Mr. Anderson staked out mines in Arctic Siberia and subtropical South Africa, confirming what the data indicated — a looming supply deficit. Tiger bet that prices would climb. Prices fell.

“Julian would always ask, ‘Are we right in this situation?’ ” Mr. Anderson recalls. “ ‘If so, we should be bigger. It doesn’t matter that prices moved against us.’ ” They doubled down. Eventually, the price of palladium exploded to more than $1,000 an ounce, from $120.

Successes like that allow you to be wrong a lot and still trounce the Street. But, Mr. Anderson says, “as Tiger got to be upwards of $25 billion, positions had to be massive to be meaningful.” Size helps until it hurts.

What is this select group’s collective prognosis? Shakeout.

Peter Thiel, whose Clarium Capital charges no annual fee but takes 25 percent of any profits, maintains that “we are living in a world distorted by the biggest financial bubble ever seen,” adding that “there has to be a deleveraging of the world’s financial system.”

Scott Bessent, who ran Mr. Soros’s London office when it “broke” the Bank of England, shorting the pound in 1992, suggests that what has changed is that now “your biggest risk can be how your competitor is positioned.” Welcome to game theory.

Yra Harris concurs that “global risk is way out of line right now” and that “there’s not enough liquidity to absorb a blowup.” But he also says that it can be costly anticipating that something ugly is bound to happen, because it may not happen for a while. “If you’re right at the wrong time,” Mr. Harris says, “you’re wrong.” So they’re all in.

Whatever may befall us, many hedge fund types will be O.K. After all, Keynes invented their profession during the Great Depression.

“One of these days,” concludes Sushil Wadhwani, a Keynes devotee and former Bank of England analyst, “the chickens will come home to roost, and when they do, there’ll be huge opportunity.”
112 2007-03-04 Mr. Ulsch noted that some states might offer protections for employees who work from home and use work computers for personal purposes after business hours.

Q. How common is monitoring of e-mail?

A. While companies in many European countries are not allowed to monitor employee e-mail, a vast number of companies in the United States currently do in some form. A joint study released last year by the American Management Association and ePolicy Institute said that 55 percent of 526 responding companies indicated that they had monitored e-mail in 2005.

Jeanniey Mullen, a founder of the Email Experience Council, an e-mail marketing organization in Upper Montclair, N.J., said the extent of the monitoring varied by industry. Many companies monitor only e-mail with attached files, while others may monitor every single message, she said.

The reasons for monitoring e-mail differ. Some companies say they do it to control the information that employees send through the corporate network. Other companies do it to make sure employees stay on task, or as a measure of network security. Other companies monitor e-mail to see how employees are communicating with customers.

Still, logistics make it nearly impossible for companies to police every note. Kevin Kalinich, national managing director for professional risk at Aon Financial Services, an insurance company in Chicago, says that many companies establish these policies because they believe that simply having them reduces the possibility of misuse.

“For many companies, it gets to a point where the threat of monitoring is actually more beneficial than monitoring itself,” he said. “If you thought someone was watching, would you forward that silly note to your friends?”

Q. To what degree is personal e-mail acceptable at work?

A. Personal e-mail messages are like personal phone calls — even the most stringent companies may allow them in moderation. But Cherie Kerr, founder and president of ExecuProv, a consulting company in Santa Ana, Calif., who has helped clients deal with e-mail issues, said that as soon as personal e-mail begins to take more than a few minutes a day, employees may need to reorganize their priorities.

“The secret is to do it sparingly,” Ms. Kerr said. “If you have to wonder whether you’re writing too many personal e-mails on company time, you probably are.”

Whatever kind of e-mail you are writing at work, it is important to consider the content before you hit the send button. Obviously, pornography should be off limits. Employees should also avoid distasteful jokes and sentiments that could be construed as a form of harassment.

Q. Can you be fired for what you write in personal e-mail?

A. Yes. Because companies in most states offer employment at will, they can terminate employees at any time, and may do so if they decide that an employee has misused corporate e-mail.

Soon, one exception to this rule may be messages about organizing labor unions. This winter, the National Labor Relations Board was hearing oral arguments on a new interpretation of the law that would prohibit employers from firing employees for using corporate e-mail to plan union meetings. A decision is expected soon.

Q. Are there any ways to protect personal correspondence from an employer’s eyes?

A. Perhaps. E-mail systems like Hotmail, Gmail and Yahoo Mail all operate through a standard Web browser, meaning that employees may be able to send and receive messages free of corporate watchdogs.

Still, depending on the employer, use of even these sites might lead to trouble. Some companies monitor all outgoing Internet traffic for personal use, meaning that they can read messages from these sites as easily as they can read regular e-mail. Other companies restrict the Internet addresses to which employees have access through the company network, banning Web-based e-mail services completely.

David Ries, a partner at the law firm Thorp Reed & Armstrong of Pittsburgh, said that with so many roadblocks, employees might be safest saving personal e-mail for personal time. “The messenger doesn’t matter; it’s all about the message,” he said. “You have plenty of time to send personal e-mails when you get home.”
113 2007-03-04 Your article about the bridge that connects Newark with Jersey City (“Pulaski Skyway’s Years May Be Numbered,” Feb. 18) does not mention the possibility of preserving the 75-year-old span for nonmotorized use if and when a new bridge is built. The recycling of this 3.5-mile bridge for bicyclists, skaters, joggers, commuters and tourists ought to at least be studied before millions of state and federal dollars are committed for demolition.

The Pulaski Skyway is just one of many bridges throughout the nation considered to be structurally deficient — for motor vehicles — that could be preserved and restored as valuable landmarks for just a fraction of the demolition costs. Exemplary is the preserved, 2.6-mile Friendship TrailBridge over Tampa Bay in Florida. Scheduled for demolition in 1997, Tampa Bay’s communities and planners rallied to save it, and did. Today the bridge accommodates annually a quarter-million thankful users.

The skyway could be a vital segment of the Maine to Florida East Coast Greenway, and deserves a thorough review and estimate for potential reuse.

I applaud your Feb. 18 editorial “The Do-Nothing Housing Council,” which criticizes New Jersey’s Council on Affordable Housing and most of our municipalities for failing to respond to the critical need for low-income housing.

The question is: do we see the poor as ne’er-do-wells taking advantage of a generous people, or as unfortunate victims of a competitive system for which they are not trained?

If the answer is the former, then we must tell our children and ourselves that we will be stepping over the bodies of growing numbers of homeless on America’s streets for the rest of our lives. But if the answer is the latter, then we still have an opportunity to leave a rich legacy of justice and compassion to the next generation. Which will it be?
114 2007-03-04 THE honeybee, whose regimented hives and thick swarms resemble miniature military forces, is battling for survival against two enemies in New Jersey: a mysterious disorder that has killed millions of bees in 20 states, and the consequences of an unusually warm fall and early winter.

Bob Hughes, 73, of Yardville, said the current threat to bees was greater than others he had faced in 20 years as a beekeeper, or apiarist. While parasite infestations in the past killed thousands of his bees, he said, the 125 colonies on his farm are confronting a different peril: The bees are starving to death.

Warm, wet weather persisted much later in the season than normal, Mr. Hughes said, which prevented bees from collecting the dry nectar from flowers that is necessary to make honey. Warm weather also led to increasingly active bees, so hives consumed too much of their honey reserves too early in the season to make it through the winter.

Mr. Hughes, the president of the New Jersey Beekeepers Association, estimates that he has lost 30 percent of his hives. But bee starvation is not his biggest worry.

Instead, he fears the effects of what is called colony collapse disorder, or hive dwindling, an affliction that is leading to unheard of numbers of deaths of bees throughout the country and threatening farmers who rely on bees to pollinate crops. He said the disorder, not bee starvation, “is the big thing that all the researchers are looking at.”
115 2007-03-04 And the health of hospitals has a big effect on the health of the state as a whole. According to the American Hospital Association, the hospital industry is the fifth-largest in New Jersey, providing 150,000 jobs and $7.7 billion annually in salaries and benefits and contributing $34.4 billion to the state’s economy.

Gov. Jon Corzine’s Commission on Rationalizing New Jersey’s Health Care Resources, formed late last year, looks promising. Its mandate to ensure that the right services are in the right places is the best approach to distributing health care efficiently throughout the state.

Perhaps new federal priorities will produce better reimbursement rates and thus healthier hospitals. Perhaps Washington will take into account the factors that especially disadvantage New Jersey in the current formulas and correct them. But there are many things that the state can do.

As the commission members begin to decide which hospitals are to survive and how to distribute scarce state money, they must take into account factors that vary widely among hospitals. For example, here at Jersey City Medical Center, 77 percent of the people we treat in the emergency room are either Medicaid or charity patients. Our colleagues in more affluent areas have a mix of patients, more of whom can pay for their care.

Sure, some hospitals have too many beds and some are in such antiquated buildings that keeping them open would merely be throwing money away. But in some parts of the state, hospitals are major economic engines and closing them could be disastrous for communities. Many hospitals also provide important services like ambulances and home health programs that are in short supply.

Because I am in the business of running hospitals, I have some specific suggestions for the commission to consider. First, the commission must ensure that every hospital in the state is doing the best it can with what it has. That means strict and continuous audits of everything from fiscal practices to a patient’s length of stay and the kind of services offered. Tax money must be spent wisely, and the state needs to have medical and accounting professionals making sure that it is.

Second, reimbursement must be distributed fairly — without regard to politics — to well-run institutions with a patient population that includes large numbers of the old, poor, chronically ill and underserved. Those hospitals cannot be profitable if they lose money on most of the patients they treat. Too many hospitals are getting aid not because they need it but because they have elected representatives who want a share of the pot. That needs to stop.

Sick people deserve care, no matter where they live or how much money they have. Medical care is a public responsibility. Unless and until there is universal health care in the United States, hospital survival will depend on compassion for those who cannot pay, combined with flinty-eyed attention to where we send the money to take care of them.
116 2007-03-04 Ms. Greenberg and Mr. Slonim met in July 2003, and within two years they had begun having what Ms. Greenberg described as “heated discussions” about how and when he would propose to her. “He told me, ‘I will hand you a ring over dinner,’ and I said, ‘You have to say nice stuff, too. You can’t just hand me a ring,’ ” she said, recalling her frustration with the pace of the relationship. “He acted like he didn’t understand the process.”

What Mr. Slonim had actually planned was a carefully engineered hunt for a set of clues that would culminate in a trip to North Carolina.

When Ms. Greenberg woke up on April 29 last year, she found an envelope, entitled “The Quest for Yes,” tucked into her cellphone.

The note instructed her to pack a bag, take a glass of orange juice to her doorman and ask him for the mail.

The mail revealed another clue: Go for a jog to the park bench in Central Park that had been donated by his parents. At the bench was a clue that sent her back home “to the place where George Foreman rests his head.”

Behind a George Foreman grill was a bag containing her favorite cupcakes and another note. Next, she was directed to shower, dress and go down to the street where a driver waited to take her to “a major destination named after a dead president.”

On the way to Kennedy Airport, Mr. Slonim had instructed her to look inside the travel backgammon set she had been told to pack. It contained a confirmation number for a Delta Airlines flight.

“The driver said, ‘Where are you going, ma’am?’ and I said, ‘I don’t know,’ ” Ms. Greenberg said. She guessed it was a domestic flight and asked the driver to drop her at the terminal.

It wasn’t until she put the number into the ticket dispenser that she learned that the plane was headed to Charlotte, N.C. Once there, Ms. Greenberg was picked up by a driver who took her to the assisted-living home where her 94-year-old grandfather, Ted Greenberg, lives.

“I thought I had been sent to visit my grandfather and then get another clue,” she said.

When she walked in, she found her grandfather with Mr. Slonim, who had arrived a few hours earlier to chat with him.

“It was very important to her that I meet her grandfather, but I wanted to wait until I was ready to propose,” Mr. Slonim said, adding, “I dropped to one knee and said, ‘Which one of you am I proposing to?’ ”

“All the effort and work that went into the planning gave me the most wonderful, secure feeling,” she said, adding, “it made me fall even more deeply in love with Matt. I was amazed he could pull it all together.”
117 2007-03-04 The prospect of large units that would put power directly into an electric grid is especially tantalizing in the Northeast, where the grid is congested and the power sources dirty. These so-called stationary fuel cells are at the core of Connecticut’s industry.

Representative John B. Larson, a Democrat from East Hartford who helped found the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus in 2004, says fuel cells could become Connecticut’s No. 1 export, but adds: “I don’t think the state is as aggressive as it should be. We probably have the biggest cluster of fuel cell companies than any state in the union. How long will that last?”

In January, the coalition released its preliminary plan for the industry’s development in Connecticut. The plan estimates that the companies involved in the fuel cell industry in Connecticut — about 100 — employ more than 2,100 people and had revenues of $400 million in 2005.

Those numbers could grow in the next decade to 120,000 jobs and $18.6 billion in annual revenue, according to the plan. But a blueprint for how to reach those goals is still nearly a year away, and some see opportunities slipping because, they say, the state has not been aggressive enough in demonstrating its own products.

“I have more jobs pending in South Carolina than in Connecticut, and at the moment, in Connecticut, I have zero,” said Robert J. Friedland, senior vice president of hydrogen technology at Proton Energy Systems in Wallingford, the state’s third-largest fuel-cell-related company. “The state isn’t taking the threat of losing fuel cell companies or losing fuel cell technology seriously enough.”

But that does not mean that Connecticut has been idle. In addition to participating in the coalition and establishing the Global Fuel Cell Center several years ago, the State Department of Transportation is studying the potential use of fuel cells to power Metro-North trains and stations.

And in 2003, the legislature created Project 100, which requires the development of long-term clean energy generation to put power into the grid. Industry experts say they believe that one of those generation units will be a fuel cell.

“It will show the world that fuel cells can work on a larger scale, which would be a huge boost to the industry,” said Lise Dondy, president of the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund, which oversees Project 100. “In effect, we’re going to be a laboratory for the world for the fuel cell industry.”

But many say progress is not happening fast enough. Bidding problems have delayed the awarding of Project 100 contracts, in turn frustrating investors (a meeting to discuss the contracts is scheduled for March 26). In December, Citigroup cited Project 100’s lag in a bleak assessment of FuelCell Energy of Danbury, the second-largest fuel cell company in the world, founded in 1969.

“The stock market is exhausted with these companies,” said David Redstone, editor of Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Investor, a newsletter. “With every passing day, I’m more doubtful.”

He and others said an early influx of investment money made fuel cell companies overly ambitious when neither the technology nor the cost was ready for prime time.

“There’s a general ‘Let’s be careful with this industry’ attitude, mainly because the industry made a lot of promises and didn’t keep them,” said Jan van Dokkum, president of UTC Power in South Windsor, the world’s largest fuel cell company and a division of United Technologies, which pioneered the modern fuel cell for the Apollo space program.

UTC Power has about 260 fuel cell units in 19 countries and continues to develop fuel cells for NASA and the military. A fuel cell bus developed for Hartford by UTC is expected to be ready in April.

But what many analysts see as the most lucrative market for fuel cells — batteries for small electronic devices — is not part of Connecticut’s fuel cell profile.

At FuelCell Energy, the average price per kilowatt for a small fuel cell unit has fallen to about $4,800 from about $20,000 10 years ago, but the goal is $2,000 per kilowatt to make it competitive with conventional energy. Most people familiar with the industry say major cost decreases and industry growth require a more concerted effort by government at all levels.

While President Bush and Gov. M. Jodi Rell have mentioned fuel cells as important potential energy sources, some question whether they have been forceful enough. “It would need to get the same kind of broad policy support as solar has gotten,” said R. Dan Brdar, president and chief executive of FuelCell Energy.

“It’s like we’re the Detroit of the automotive world in the 1920s,” said Mr. Rinebold, of the Hydrogen-Fuel Cell Coalition. “Much of it could happen here, if we do it right.”
118 2007-03-04 It was harsh, but it was the biggest favor anyone could have done me.

It was with real sadness that I read “A Daughter’s Death, and the Quest for Answers.” It was a terrible loss for everyone. Why did this family go first to the lawyers and not directly to the people who cared about their child?

I was reminded of an incident that occurred with one of my patients. A husband trying to comfort his distraught pregnant wife said, using an expletive, “Don’t worry honey, we’ll sue Dr. Deb if anything bad happens.”

Obstetricians are not the enemy. Disease is the enemy.

George A. Goens was remarkable and very understanding about the loss of his daughter and the retribution that he sought.

He must be a wonderful person to understand that he might have gotten some kind of money for the lawsuit, yet that would not bring his daughter back. He was touched by the feelings of her doctors, and he realized that they too were hurt by the death of their patient.

I do not know if Mr. Goens got enough closure on the day that he met the doctors — but he certainly can hold his head up high to his grandchildren that he honored their mother the way that he did. He did honor her by taking the high road in a situation where there really are no winners.

My wife, Deborah Sorkin, died in childbirth on Oct. 1, 1994, because of catastrophic complications caused by placenta increta/percreta. Our second child, a little girl, was premature and died as well. To this day, the doctors involved never have told me what happened.

I also filed a medical malpractice complaint in order to find out why this happened to Debbie. In the various depositions I sat through, I heard the typical responses to many questions: yes, no, I do not recall. I, too, heard that all that could have been done was done. One doctor involved questioned whether he wanted to continue in medicine after this happened. But the same doctor said in his deposition that he was not even present at the time of birth, when I recollect that he was.

I eventually settled with the hospital, and the doctors also never admitted doing anything wrong, despite the fact that other doctors who reviewed Debbie’s records called her a most classic case of placenta increta/percreta that should have evoked the highest degree of suspicion that something was wrong prior to birth. This of course never happened.

It has been many years since all this happened, but I do not go through one day when I do not have some thoughts about those two terrible days. Yes, there will never be peace.

Local officials are not the problem when it comes to illegal immigrants (“Anger and Incompetence,” editorial, Feb. 11). What is truly maddening is the refusal of officials in Washington to enforce our immigration laws and address the illegal immigrant situation in towns like Farmingville.

Illegal immigrants have been gathering on the streets of that community, loitering, violating immigration laws and bringing down the quality of life of the neighborhood since at least 1998. It has been left to local officials to do what they can to make sure people illegally in the United States respect our laws because the federal government has failed to do so.

“Dead in Our Backyard” (editorial, Feb. 25) commented on the death of a homeless man during a frigid night, and mentioned that the “Suffolk police make it a practice to give people who appear to be homeless the number for social services.”

That is a laudable practice, but I wonder where the homeless can go to make a phone call — public phones are increasingly hard to find — and whether they have the coins needed to do so.

Perhaps the police could expand their good works by offering to make the appropriate phone call for the individual. Or maybe there are better ways. But we should not think that merely providing a phone number is the answer.

Re “Snooping on Your Tech-Savvy Teenagers,” by Michael Winerip (Parenting, Feb. 25):

Mr. Winerip is an excellent essayist and no doubt a responsible parent, but he just doesn’t get it! The whole point of the Internet is that you have left your “safe place” and there is no such thing as just “a little dangerous.”

The era in which Mr. Winerip grew up in is over. The teenager’s thrill of looking at a Playboy magazine in a friend’s basement is a pale comparison to accessing pornography online. There are more than 100,000 Web sites instructing thousands of pedophiles where to find children. Accessing porn is an open invitation to all of them.

Today’s parents need to talk to their children about responsible use of the Internet. While children’s curiosity should be encouraged, they are after all minors, and it is good parenting to keep your children safe.

As professional educators and national bullying-prevention experts, we endorse a combination of age-appropriate filtering software and ongoing conversations with your children regarding their activities in cyberspace.

Roni E. Benson 

Ginger Lieberman 

Plainview

The writers are co-directors of the Long Island Professional Education Network and the Bully Frog Program.

I have worked with Angel’s Gate before, and it has helped me care for a sick pet. Susan Marino and Victor LaBruna need to keep doing what they are doing because unfortunately most people don’t care half as much as they do. They will not even charge you if you cannot afford it.

Shouldn’t sick and terminal animals have the right to the same care as people? Where else would these animals go if they don’t have a place to finish out their life with the proper medical care they need?

Angel’s Gate needs to remain open and let poor animals get a break.

As the mother of two underprogrammed children, I was delighted to read about Aaron Isenstadt and his wise decision to enjoy time relaxing with friends (“An Underprogrammed Life,” Parenting, Feb. 18).

As for his mother’s concerns that Aaron is not building a résumé for college, she need not worry. College admission officers counsel that successful applicants write entrance essays detailing how they overcame adversity. Aaron can describe how he overcame the demands of our too competitive society and enjoyed his life in high school — just as a kid should.
119 2007-03-04 Many more buildings have stopped short of prohibiting open houses outright but have instituted a range of restrictions, like limiting when and how many open houses can be held or requiring brokers to escort potential buyers to and from the apartment that’s for sale. Real estate agents estimate that only about 5 percent of the buildings in the city prohibit open houses completely, while about 35 percent have some restrictions.

“Every building decides how careful it wants to be,” said Mark Mahler, an agent with Brown Harris Stevens. “I’ve seen some very upscale buildings that don’t have rules, and I’ve seen some middle-of-the-road ones that don’t allow open houses at all, and you want to say: ‘Who do you think you are? You’re not on Fifth Avenue.’ ”

Real estate agents differ on the impact that a ban on open houses can have. Some say that since so many buyers now do much of their apartment hunting on the Internet, scheduled appointments can easily replace an open house. But others say that for apartments that don’t show well online, open houses may be the only way to generate enough interest to make a sale.

Brokers said that many buildings introduced open-house restrictions after Sept. 11, 2001, as the entire city reconsidered the meaning of security. “This was a psychological reaction, but not a pragmatic one,” said Anthony vanEyck Miller, a vice president of Bellmarc Realty. “It was like when the police started searching bags in the subways, it let the public feel that measures were being taken.”

But in 2002, as the market heated up and big crowds at open houses became the norm, residents started saying they felt displaced in their own buildings.

Mr. Miller had vivid memories of a 2002 open house that drew about 90 people in an hour and a half in a Greenwich Village building that had an escort rule. “When I went down and saw the first horde of people, I didn’t know whether to laugh, cry or call the police,” he said. “I was alone. I felt helpless. I felt like Pauline having a peril.”

Co-op board members complained about the crowds, and the doorman eventually started sending people up unescorted. “It wasn’t like someone was having a party and everyone arrived at one time — it was a constant stream of people,” Mr. Miller said. “It was that kind of craziness that caused a lot of the restrictions.”

It also led some buildings to require brokers to have at least two people on hand at every open house, which Mr. Miller noted can become expensive for a listing broker who must pay for the added help out of pocket, especially if a property stays on the market for a while and has many open houses.

Anthony Angelico, director of operations at Goodstein Management, which manages about 50 Manhattan apartment buildings, says that open-house policies are specific to individual buildings but that his company urges co-op boards to require real estate agents to escort buyers at all times. “Our concern isn’t the remote possibility of terrorism, but the slightly less remote possibility of criminal activity,” he said. “You protect against the probable, not the possible.”

Stephen Adler, the chief executive of Charity Brands Inc., a Manhattan company that brings corporations and charitable groups together, experienced the probable about 15 years ago when someone attending an open house at his Midtown apartment stole most of the jewelry. “I just happened to be in the apartment during this open house, and we’re pretty sure it was this gentleman who looked like he came out of Bergdorf’s window,” Mr. Adler said.

The man seemed friendly enough and even picked up their baby before wandering into their bedroom. “We had so many people in the apartment we didn’t know what was going on,” Mr. Adler said, adding that the thief was never caught.

Not surprisingly, Mr. Adler is glad that his current building, the Trump Parc, on Central Park South, does not allow open houses. “We don’t even allow go-sees, people who are just coming to look but aren’t financially qualified to buy in the building,” he said. “I respect that kind of supervision. I sleep at night.”

At Plymouth House, a postwar building on East 87th Street with about 140 apartments, the co-op board decided late last year to prohibit open houses. “There was just too much going on in the building,” said Paul Herman, the director of property management services for Brown Harris Stevens, which manages the building. “Shareholders and staff complained, and they decided it wasn’t necessary to allow public open houses anymore.”

He added that the building still allows open houses to which brokers are invited, sometimes one firm at a time; these are typically held on weekdays during business hours. “That’s a very quick process, and brokers are in and out of a building in two minutes,” he said. “But at the public open houses, you get people who linger, and you tend to draw more people from within the building that just want to look at the competition anyway.”

Allison Friedland, who just sold her apartment at Plymouth House, said that open houses didn’t bother her in the three years she lived there. “I thought it was a bit extreme to stop them completely,” she said. “But obviously it was an issue for some people in the building.”

A memo announcing the ban appeared under her door about a week after she put her apartment on the market last December. She worried that her broker would have a harder time selling her apartment, but it went to the fourth buyer who came to see it.

In addition to security and crowd-control issues, some building boards may see a ban on open houses as a way to distinguish their buildings, particularly since the bans originated in white-glove buildings.

Paul Gumbinner, the co-op board president at Southgate, a complex of five prewar buildings on East 51st and 52nd Streets, said that his board stopped allowing open houses about 10 years ago mainly for security reasons. “We don’t want strangers walking around in the buildings,” he said. “But I also think — and I don’t mean to sound snobby — that really nice, upscale buildings don’t allow open houses.”

Open-house restrictions in buildings can be as varied as the buildings themselves. Some allow only one open house at a time and only two on any given Sunday. Some even restrict scheduled appointments for buyers to weekdays between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Some allow “open house by appointment,” which means that in the ad, a broker lists his or her availability at certain times and a cellphone number, but no address. Consequences for breaking the rules include banning a broker from working in the building again and fining the sellers.

One co-op in Park Slope recently started limiting the number of open houses any one unit can hold to five per year. “If you happen to have three weekends that have snowstorms or rain and nobody shows up, that can be tough,” said Eileen Richter, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens. “But the co-op cares more about the people who are staying than the ones who are leaving.”

Julie Friedman, a senior associate broker at Bellmarc Realty, says one of the harshest policies she has come across is at the Corinthian, a 57-story tower on East 38th Street with more than 800 apartments. Not only does the building prohibit open houses, she said, but it also makes brokers wait outside.

When she sold an apartment in the building two years ago and she was meeting clients for the first time, she tried signaling people as they approached the building, but she wound up flagging down the wrong people, so she decided to hold up a sign with her name and the apartment number written on it. “I felt like a limo driver at the airport,” she said. “It was humiliating, and it wasn’t exactly the best presentation.”

The Corinthian’s managing agent confirmed that open houses were not permitted but would not comment further.

Mel Lisiten, a senior vice president at Halstead who lives in the Corinthian and sells many apartments in the building, says that open houses have never been allowed because the building is so large and there are as many as 20 to 40 apartments on the market at any given time. He acknowledged that living in the building gave him an edge. “The doorman calls me whenever someone walks in looking for an apartment.” he said. “I never have to wait in the lobby or outside.”

For the most part, brokers agree that properties that have open houses tend to sell more quickly. Visiting open houses enables buyers who are just starting their house hunting to learn about the market. Many real estate agents also use them as a way to introduce themselves to buyers and possibly to pick up new clients.

“I have seen it take three months longer to sell a property when you can’t do an open house,” said Carolyn Levitan, a senior vice president at Bellmarc. “It’s all part of the psychology of ‘everybody wants the same thing.’ A busy open house creates energy and interest in a property.”

Selling without open houses can also cost the owner money. “It all depends on how impatient the seller becomes,” said Mr. Miller of Bellmarc. “If the seller has to move and the broker can only run through seven to eight people a week as opposed to 25 or more at an open house, the seller is going to become more anxious as they get closer to their departure date, and they’re going to make a deal.”

Real estate agents also said that restrictions tend to hurt smaller, less expensive apartments more than larger, higher-priced ones. “Open houses are really almost required for anything under $1 million,” said Mr. Mahler of Brown Harris Stevens. “Who wants to go back and forth to show a studio? It’s just more efficient, because you’re making things accessible to people who are working very hard during the week and who don’t want to make special appointments to look at real estate.”

He cited a recent sale he brokered for a postwar apartment in Greenwich Village. After six months and no offers, Mr. Mahler persuaded the owner to get co-op board permission to hold an open house.

“About eight people showed up at the open house, and the apartment was sold that weekend to a buyer who said he would not have wanted to come during the week,” Mr. Mahler said. “It was difficult to sell because it was vacant, and it clearly needed the energy of an open house to make the sale.”

Private showings can even make some buyers uncomfortable. “When you show an apartment to one person, they often are very self-conscious,” Mr. Mahler said. “They’re dealing with you, but at the same time they want to be left alone, and they want their own emotional space. An open house gives them that freedom.”

Since many buyers also feel that open houses are a way to see a wide range of properties without wasting people’s time, they may often venture into neighborhoods or look at apartments beyond their primary criteria.

“You might think you don’t want to be in a certain location,” said Ms. Kory of Corcoran, “but you’re out on a Sunday afternoon, so you go because there’s an open house. Then you see it, and you fall in love. It happens.”

Hall F. Willkie, the president of Brown Harris Stevens, said that since buyers who visit open houses are educating themselves about the market, “that helps all sellers in that price range, so it’s good for the market in general, even if it doesn’t benefit that seller at that moment.”

Most of the problems that arise from open houses are easily addressed with proper management, he added. “Like anything,” he said, “you can do it right and make everybody happy.”
120 2007-03-04 Successful teams like Ms. Genovesi’s are actively courted by big national agencies, which are only too happy to encourage their local, personalized approach. Ms. Genovesi says she has had many corporate suitors but has opted to stay with a parent company, William Raveis Real Estate and Home Services, because its founder and chief executive, William Raveis, “allows you to unleash your personality in the business.”

“He’s not fearful of you growing and branding yourself,” she says.

Mr. Raveis said: “Michelle is a mega-agent. We’re in negotiations for her to double that sales volume, expand her territory and her team.”

To that end, Ms. Genovesi is shopping for her own office building, where she will add to her current team— two “buyer specialist” agents and a six-person staff that provides administrative, Web, mortgage and marketing support.

“Most people in our industry are reactive to the market,” Mr. Raveis said. “She’s very proactive. She branded herself and created this team approach before anyone else out here thought of it. Now there are lots of Michelle wannabes.”

Among the more visible branded teams in the region are Mike Luchen’s in Westchester County, N.Y., whose ads promise, “Team Mike Luchen Realtors speak English, Italian, Spanish, Polish and German.” There are married teams and sister acts, like the Twin Team in Westchester, identical sisters whose Web site trumpets “A Shared Synergy.”

In Essex County, the Baldwin Dream Team, a ReMax quartet of former freelance writers and administrators, will be one of three teams featured on a new reality series, “Bought and Sold,” on HGTV in late April. Roberta Baldwin, lead agent of the team, which did $40 million in sales in 2006, explained why she set up her own shop within the ReMax penumbra: “I wanted to be more entrepreneurial, and I found people to help me grow my business that I can absolutely trust to have our interests at heart. It’s pretty cutthroat in real estate, either on your own or in a big company. Clients also like the idea that they’ll be taken care of even when I’m busy elsewhere.”

Mr. Raveis, whose business has 55 offices in Connecticut and Massachusetts with 1,700 agents and claims $5 billion in annual sales, has big producers besides Ms. Genovesi. Most notable is Jean Ruggiero, who, embedded in Greenwich, Conn. — a hedge-fund capital — can bring in $110 million in yearly volume by selling executive castles.

The rich do shop differently, Mr. Raveis said, and he especially values Ms. Genovesi for her ability to reel in and placate corporate titans and their families — and their decorators. “To deal with the high-end seller and high-end demands and be sane ... well, she’s amazing,” he said.

Selling white-glove service requires a statelier pace, and no visible pressure. Ms. Genovesi’s presentation to the couple with the Westport property takes more than an hour and includes a customized, meticulously researched portfolio on their home and others in the area, prepared by her staff. She is the third agent the couple have interviewed.

As the spring real estate market gets off to a brisk start — Ms. Genovesi says you can peg it, reliable as the first robin, to the first weekend after the Super Bowl — they want to be ready.

The last agent the couple interviewed left a brochure and dashed off after a few words about installing a lockbox.

“Under no circumstances do we do a lockbox here,” Ms. Genovesi says. “You do not walk in and out of an exceptional property at will.” She will show the home herself, and only to those prequalified with a discreet questionnaire and mortgage preapproval.

“If buyers decide after a tour it’s not right, I’ll introduce them to my buyer team members, who will share with them whatever else is in the market,” Ms. Genovesi says. “That’s where I pass the baton. My focus is on selling my properties.”

She says she will sell the home three times: to other agents, to a buyer and to the bank appraiser. She will invite other agents in for a look and a catered lunch, but there will be no open house. “Too many people just want to check out the granite counters and get some ideas,” she says.

Calling Ms. Genovesi, the wife says, was “almost automatic,” given her reputation and visibility. According to a competing agent, “No one would think of listing a high-end property without having Michelle at least do an appraisal.”

For her part, Ms. Genovesi does not want to know the competition. “I have 23 years’ experience here,” she says, “and I can say that I own the high-end market.”

As conversation deepens, Ms. Genovesi’s pronouns subtly slide from “your” to “our,” as in “Our appliances and renovations are mint.” Finally, the sensitive part — the number — comes up. Ms. Genovesi routinely turns down listings if the asking prices are unrealistically high. Sometimes sellers come back to her — and her number — after other agents fail to move the house. “The number is just a suggestion based on my experience and market education,” she says. It can be fine-tuned. She tells the couple her number and commission. They nod.

One more big question hangs: Are things moving? “There’s lots of inventory now,” Ms. Genovesi says, “but in some segments, only 50 percent sold last year, in others only 25 percent. Statistically, the high end hasn’t taken as big a hit as the rest of the market — especially with this year’s Wall Street bonuses. We’re definitely feeling those bonuses now. We find that when the market turns, it’s the lower and higher ends that still do well. It’s the middle market that suffers the most.”

AS part of her presentation, she explains her career path: “In the late ’80s, no one was really taking any part of the business and owning it. So I decided to focus on listing and marketing exceptional properties. To do that I needed to brand myself. I started to spend money to make money. I put my photograph in my ads. Back then, everyone said, ‘What’s with the picture?’ But people remembered. I started getting calls.”

Ms. Genovesi does business in expensive but understated clothes and in two BMWs: a 5 Series S.U.V. for ferrying clients, and a sportier 3 Series convertible she just bought as a 50th birthday present to herself. She had considered indulging in a Maserati but rejected it as “too pretentious.”

Nothing, not even a well-earned midlife toy, should interfere with the image she has honed carefully, some might say obsessively, since she arrived in Connecticut as a fiancée looking for a house and got her real estate license “on a whim.” After two long engagements, she is “single and fine with it.”

As the eldest of five children born into an Air Force family, “I’m a habitual caregiver,” she says. A mobile childhood, much of it in Europe — five moves during the last two years of high school — made her an extrovert of necessity. Her brief modeling career was fun, chiefly for the travel, but she found fashion confining.

By taking the long view in her next endeavor, she says, she has carved herself a posh, Scalamandré-upholstered niche here on Connecticut’s Gold Coast. “Exceptional properties” translates to $2 million to $15 million. Most of Ms. Genovesi’s listings have names, like Pier Way, Lord’s Manor and the Hermitage. They will appear on premiere Web sites with detailed virtual tours. Qualified buyers will get custom portfolios including a CD-ROM virtual tour of the property, its photo imprinted on the disc.

Some homes, like Judith Paixao’s riverside compound, a property once owned by the prima ballerina Tanaquil Le Clercq, have exceptional provenance. Ms. Le Clercq and her husband, the choreographer George Balanchine, also owned a summer residence across the road. “It’s a singular property that needs the right buyer,” Ms. Paixao said. “I needed someone who could think way outside the box, and that was Michelle. She gets it. She arranged to have two Chico’s holiday catalogs photographed there — and showed the place right in the middle of the shoot.”

MS. GENOVESI has other ideas for the 1730 antique property. “Weather permitting, I can have an aerial photographer here by the weekend,” she tells the couple. From the air, the manicured grounds will show to estate-like advantage. “People are starting to look now,” she tells the owners. “Our biggest binding month, when offers are written, is March.” The couple have one more agent to see; they promise a prompt decision and see her out warmly.

“I’m sure I’ve got it,” Ms. Genovesi says as she heads to her car.

Even perfect properties require an alternative mind-set. On another day, Ms. Genovesi demonstrates her house-showing technique at a modernist masterwork in Saugatuck Shores — waterfront, private dock, $8.8 million. This is not a home to perfume with the smell of baking cookies. But the automatic shades will be raised to the view when buyers stroll in. Cool jazz — appropriate to the modern art, the custom leather floors in the library — will provide a chic soundtrack. “We’re not selling a house,” Ms. Genovesi instructs. “We’re selling a lifestyle.”

This is how she was able to price the home next door to this one at an audacious $9 million — almost $2 million over what she said the Westport market was bearing at the time.

“In exceptional properties you have to market outside the town you’re in,” Ms. Genovesi says. She researched waterfront prices all the way to Greenwich and sent e-mail messages to more than 500 potential customers. A Darien agent saw it and brought her clients, who had been looking at waterfront in Greenwich, where the prices are higher. They bought it for the asking price.

Thus, in so many ways, Ms. Genovesi is not what Mr. Raveis calls a “maintenance” Realtor — that diligent professional who tucks so many suburban families into center-hall colonials. Nor does she fit the voracious, blonde-in-a-gold-Lexus cliché of the go-go ’90s. At the weekly team meeting at Michelle & Company, six women come and go, talking of corporate “relo.” Mobility is the agent’s bread and butter: corporate relocations, divorce, remarriages with blended families, empty nesters.

Audrey Demetres, one of the two agents who concentrate on buyers, says this is an especially fluid market. “I came from a house where my teenage wallpaper is still on the wall,” Ms. Demetres says. “But I don’t think I’ve ever sold anyone a house that was thinking in terms of a lifetime home. They’ll either upsize, downsize. They never think of staying in that 30-year-mortgage house. I have one family that couldn’t move up fast enough — a two-bedroom cottage, then a colonial, then new construction, all before they were 34.”

Ms. Demetres’s counterpart, Suzanne Dodge, left a high-profile career in real estate marketing in Manhattan after she had her third child, but she wanted “a serious career” in the suburbs. The high-tech embrace of Ms. Genovesi’s team was perfect. “Internet was just cranking up,” Ms. Dodge says. “That was a huge expense to take on as a sole agent. I was advertising, trying to get listings, staying up all night answering e-mails, writing ads.”

Signing on with Ms. Genovesi after a stint at another agency, “I was just dazzled,” Ms. Dodge says. “Everything is smooth. I never do paperwork after I sell a house. They handle everything. And I can go out and sell another house.”

A few days after Ms. Genovesi’s presentation to the couple with the 1730 home, she is sitting in a Westport Starbucks. Above the cellphone cacophony of other recaffeinating brokers, she confides, “I got the listing.” The aerial shots are done, the number is firmed up, the virtual tour is being shot. She is talking about the office buildings along the Post Road that she has been looking at for her expansion when a lawyer, Joseph C. Maya, strides over and says hello. She is friendly, but quizzical until he explains that she found him a house in 2001 when he wanted to move his family to a quieter, safer street.

Ms. Genovesi had forgotten Mr. Maya’s first name, but she could summon the precise transaction details.

He is pumping her hand. “Since then I’ve sent over 20 people to you,” he says. “I’ll probably send 20 more.”

She thanks him with a big grin. “Bring ’em on,” she says.
121 2007-03-04 The act of hitting a baseball is an energy transfer: from the body to the bat to the ball. Just before Hudson rocks into his wind-up, Howard, a lefty, uses his right hand to point his 34-ounce bat at a 45-degree angle directly over the pitcher’s head. This is a timing device, although, as Howard has become one of the game’s most prodigious home-run hitters, it can easily be taken as a boast. Follow the angle of the bat and it suggests a trajectory straight out over the center-field fence.

He brings the bat back as Hudson readies, grips it with both hands and cocks his left (back) elbow. His focus now is on “staying quiet,” as he puts it — being still. He wants no energy to leak out until it can be put to its proper use. His knees are flexed, his weight set back in his stance. Only his wrists are moving, just slightly, causing the top of the bat to wave like a flag in a limp breeze.

The first pitch is a slider, bearing in on Howard’s shoe tops. He explodes out of his stance and brings the barrel of the bat down solidly on the ball — sending a towering drive over the right-center-field wall. Home run No. 50.

Hudson stands at the back of the mound and looks toward the outfield long after the ball has cleared the wall. He stares at the replay on the scoreboard, as if thinking to himself, He hit that pitch where?

Second at-bat: Hudson throws his first pitch near Howard’s head, which he casually avoids by leaning back. “No big deal,” Howard tells me later. “You kind of have to expect that.” After a foul ball, he sends Hudson’s third offering — a fat pitch about belt high — deep over the center-field wall, in the same general direction as the first one, only quite a bit farther. Home run No. 51.

Third at-bat: With the count at one ball and two strikes Hudson throws a sinker that veers low and away, a pitch that is meant to tempt Howard to swing at something he can’t reach — or, if he does, can’t hit solidly. Howard extends his massive arms and hits a line drive to left field, which clears the wall nearly as quickly as a spectator can locate it with his eyes. Home run No. 52.

Out on the mound, Hudson looks more bemused than angry. He had put that last pitch right where he intended. “You kind of scratch your head after that,” he tells reporters gathered at his locker after the game. “What the hell are you going to do next?”

Ryan Howard felt a surge of pleasure when he connected on those three swings. He heard the crowd’s roar, knew for sure that the second two balls would clear the outfield walls. (The first just cleared the fence, and Howard had taken off hard toward first base out of the batter’s box.) But there was a lack of actual physical sensation, or at least one that is easily described — that weird nothingness of hitting a ball, with force and perfect timing, right on the sweet spot of a baseball bat.

It is an odd neurological loop: job well done, but you know it only because there’s no unpleasant message to the contrary. “You feel a lot more in your hands if the pitch gets in on you and busts you in the handle,” Howard says. “It stings. But when you catch it square, it doesn’t seem like you feel it as much.”

Last season, Howard had 58 home runs, a total exceeded by only five men in baseball history — Barry Bonds, Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa, Roger Maris and Babe Ruth. Twenty-eight of Howard’s home runs either tied the game or put the Phillies ahead, and he knocked in a major-league-leading 149 runs — including 42 in August, the most r.b.i. by a player in a single month in 34 years. He was the National League player of the month in both August and September, and after the season, he was voted the league’s Most Valuable Player.

As every baseball fan knows, the game is awash in statistics, some more telling than others. One esoteric stat is particularly enlightening in Howard’s case: his home-run-to-fly-ball ratio of 39.5 percent. What that means is that of every 10 fair balls he hits in the air, about 4 end up as home runs. The player with the next highest ratio last year, Travis Hafner of the Cleveland Indians, had a ratio of 30.2.

There is a feast-or-famine aspect to Howard’s hitting: he strikes out a lot — 181 times last season, the second most in the majors — so he doesn’t put as many balls in play as others do in the same number of at-bats. But as his teammate Aaron Rowand says: “When he hits it, he hits it. Ryan doesn’t hit a lot of bloopers.”

The majority of Howard’s home runs went to left or center field, the mark of a hitter who is powerful enough not to have to pull balls to reach the seats, and several landed in places rarely reached by batted balls. Last April in Philadelphia, Howard hit a dead-center-field home run that was measured at 496 feet.

It is impossible, of course, to think about power hitting these days without wondering about performance-enhancing drugs. Bonds, McGwire and Sosa all played in what is now commonly called baseball’s Steroid Era, and suspicion has fallen on each of them. On the subject of sports and chemical enhancement, the first rule is never to assume guilt — or innocence. Surprises lurk. But Howard, big from the womb, a lifelong slugger, is generally assumed around baseball to be clean. (Howard is subject to Major League Baseball’s drug-testing policy, which calls for players to be tested for steroids, amphetamines and certain other substances once in spring training and at least one other time during the season. He was also tested in the minor leagues.)

In mid-September, a ball hit by Howard at Minute Maid Park in Houston caromed off the glove of a 10-year-old fan in the left-field seats and fell back into the outfield. Television replays clearly showed that it should have been called a home run, but the third-base umpire ruled the ball in play. After the game, Astros first baseman Lance Berkman had an interesting reaction, telling reporters, “I hope it doesn’t cost him the steroid-free home run record.”

It didn’t. Howard would have fallen short of Maris’s 61 home runs, anyway — mainly because he became so terrifying to opposing managers that they started walking him at every possible opportunity. He was second in the majors with 37 intentional walks, several of them issued in situations that rarely call for such a move.

For example, in a late-September game, Frank Robinson, then managing the Washington Nationals, twice ordered Howard to be walked in extra innings — once with the bases empty and two outs, another time with a runner on first who then moved into scoring position as a potential game-winning run. After a game the night before, during which Robinson challenged Howard in a key spot, Robinson told me: “Every hitter has vulnerabilities. No reason not to attack them.” When I asked him the next night why he seemed to lose courage, he said: “Didn’t want to press my luck. Ryan is a very strong young man.”

Physicists who have studied hitting toss around terms like “bat speed,” “torque” and “rotational mechanics.” It is fair to say that strength generally promotes bat speed and home-run power. Howard comes from a family of big people and, by appearance, is what used to be called “country strong.”

Howard and I met one day near his off-season home, in suburban St. Louis, amid a landscape of tract houses and what looked like an endless expanse of strip shopping centers and chain restaurants. He had just finished one of his three-hour, five-times-a-week workouts, which consist mostly of weight training. He had been dieting, too, eating more vegetables and fewer fried foods.

We took a seat at the restaurant he chose, a place called O’Charley’s, which featured an oversize menu of American favorites. When his grilled chicken was put down in front of him, he looked displeased and immediately lifted it with his fork. “I sure hope they put my mashed potatoes under there,” he said. When he came upon a mound of them, he brightened up. He continued stabbing at a bowl of tortilla chips, loading them up with salsa. “Do me a favor,” he told me. “Eat some of these. Help me out. I’m trying to be good.”

Howard’s power surge at the end of last season brought about something unprecedented in recent baseball history. By July, the Phillies had surrendered the season — and sort of the next one, too. The general manager, Pat Gillick, had traded off important players — the starting right fielder and third baseman, a starting pitcher, a key left-handed relief pitcher — and told the team’s fans not to expect the Phillies to be contenders until 2008. Such housecleaning happens every season in baseball: lesser teams build for the future by trading veterans for prospects.

What doesn’t happen is what the Phillies did next, which was to climb back into the playoff race, largely on the back of Howard, who in the season’s second half hit .355 with 30 home runs and 78 r.b.i. By August, Gillick had reversed course and was acquiring veteran talent for the stretch run. (The Phillies were finally eliminated from the wild-card playoff spot on the last weekend of the season.)

Howard, respectful of baseball custom, strives for modesty. Understatement is a much-admired quality in baseball. When I talked to him about the home-run-to-fly-ball ratio, he had no idea what his was (or that anyone even kept such a stat). But when I asked him to guess how many of his fly balls cleared the fences, his answer seemed like a true measure of his estimation of his own abilities. “I don’t know,” he said. “Six out of 10? Seven out of 10?”

In some ways, Howard is the anti-Barry Bonds, who looms over the coming baseball season like an unwelcome guest at a dinner party. Bonds, an outfielder with the San Francisco Giants, is 22 home runs from surpassing Hank Aaron’s record of 755. For a great many baseball fans, his grim pursuit will be a cause for dismay more than celebration. Even before the steroid allegations, Bonds was one of the game’s sour personalities, unloved by fans outside his home city and often reviled by his own teammates.

Howard, by contrast, is cordial with the press, well liked in the clubhouse and much more likely to offer fans a smile and an autograph than a scowl. He arrives early for games and can usually be found with his big frame folded into an easy chair or couch in front of a large TV, watching videos with teammates. He gets high marks for his “demeanor.” Baseball people use the word constantly, and it serves as a catchall for many things: a player’s work habits; his ability to stay on a steady emotional keel whether he has hit a couple of home runs or struck out four times; his relationships among teammates and coaches.

“Ryan is just a very easy guy to be around,” the Phillies’ manager, Charlie Manuel, says. “You couldn’t ask for a guy with a better demeanor.”

Howard, though, does share one similarity with Bonds, a significant one within the context of baseball’s changing sociology: he is an African-American player at a moment when the number of American-born blacks in the major leagues has dropped strikingly. In 2005, the National League champion Houston Astros had no black players on their World Series roster, the first time that was the case for a team in half a century. At one point last season, six teams in Major League Baseball did not have a single black player on their rosters. Below the professional level, there are so few blacks in the game that many of the nation’s historically black colleges are fielding baseball teams made up mostly of white and Hispanic players. (The Washington Post reported that Coppin State University in Baltimore had 30 white male students enrolled in 2006; roughly half of them were on the baseball team.)

Black players now make up about 9 percent of big-league rosters — down from 19 percent in 1995 and 25 percent in 1975. Hispanics, at 29 percent, have become the dominant minority in the game.

So how did Ryan Howard become a baseball player? Part of the answer is that he comes from where many of the game’s white players do — a largely white suburb. He grew up in Wildwood, Mo., on the outer edge of St. Louis’s western sprawl. His mother, Cheryl, now retired, worked in marketing, and his father, Ron, is a manager for I.B.M. He has three siblings, including a fraternal twin, all of whom are college-educated professionals.

Ron and Cheryl Howard don’t consider themselves particularly athletic. “I could play everything, just not well,” Ron told me. Cheryl Howard added: “I’m from the pre-Title IX days, so I didn’t get a chance to play organized sports. But my father played sandlot baseball with Willie Mays in Birmingham, so we’ve decided Ryan’s baseball talent comes through my side.”

When Ryan Howard was 2, his father walked into a room where a TV was showing a baseball game and saw his son intent on the action and swinging a little red bat. “It was such a natural swing,” Ron Howard says. “At that moment I knew he’d be some kind of baseball player. How far? I didn’t know. But that feeling came over me.”

To be blessed with hand-eye coordination and the strength to mash a baseball 500 feet ought to fill a man with self-assurance. But pro sports are full of gifted players with cracks in their psyches who on some career-killing level do not fully believe in themselves. Howard’s upbringing seems to have imbued him with a sense of self that extends well beyond his abilities on the ball field.

As his parents describe it, their household was a mix of old-time Southern values and middle-class aspiration. “All our kids were taught to say ‘Yes, sir,’ ‘Yes, ma’am’ and so on,” Ron Howard says. “We valued hard work and taught them: believe in oneself, believe in each other and believe in the Almighty.”

There were, as well, some quirkier rules. For example, Ron taught everyone to drive using a standard shift, which he considers an essential life skill, and made them take their driving tests in a car with a stick shift. “No, they weren’t pleased about it,” he recalls, “but it was a binary situation. You do it this way if you want to drive — or the other way if you don’t want to drive.”

Howard played a lot of soccer as a kid. He was a good high school basketball player. He also played the trombone in the school band. He played a little football, but his mother insisted he give it up because she believed he risked injury by being such a large target.

Ryan Howard says that he was one of just a handful of black players on most of his youth baseball teams. His sports heroes were Barry Bonds, Ken Griffey Jr., Tony Gwynn. “I guess you can throw Michael in there,” he adds, meaning Michael Jordan, but he makes it sound like an obligation. He was focused on baseball.

In Philadelphia, Howard faces the particular challenge of playing for a team with famously demanding (and sometimes abusive) fans — and in a city with a particularly shameful history of mistreating black baseball players. The Phillies were the last team in the National League to sign a black player — in 1957, a full decade after Jackie Robinson’s debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers. Robinson himself suffered such abuse from the Phillies that he later wrote that they were “a Northern team that I had come to associate with the Deep South.”

Other than Howard, the Phillies have had just one black superstar: Dick Allen, then known as “Richie,” a fearsome slugger but a rebel and a turbulent soul who endured such mind-bending abuse from the home crowd that after six years in Philadelphia he was scratching cryptic messages with his spikes in the infield dirt. (Among them, “Mom,” “Boo” and “Oct. 2,” the date of the last game of the 1969 season.)

Sometimes, though, a certain athlete and a city just seem like a good match. Howard drives a GMC Yukon with 100,000-plus miles and is not much for fancy clothes or late nights. His Everyman persona has appeal in a city where even white-collar, well-heeled season-ticket holders are apt to describe themselves as blue-collar fans. During the season, he lives in a condominium in South Philadelphia not far from the ballpark.

“I’m cool with everybody,” says Howard, who is single and has a 6-year-old son from a former relationship. “The fans have been nothing but nice to me. I’ll walk around the city and people will come up to me and say ‘Hi’ or ‘Keep up the good work’ or whatever, and I’ll stop and talk to them.”

Baseball is the most hidebound of American sports. It manufactures and honors tradition, myth and superstition. And it probably also has a greater share of ignorance than other sports. The entire movement toward once-obscure and newly developed statistics, after all — begun by Bill James and others, some of them now in the employ of big-league teams — came about because professional baseball people drew erroneous conclusions from the same old numbers they loved so much.

A certain amount of ignorance, on the part of baseball executives, most likely impeded Ryan Howard’s baseball progress. A man his size is not easily overlooked. But his career trajectory strongly suggests that his talent was underappreciated. He was not a coveted prospect out of high school and went to Southwest Missouri State to play baseball. After the Phillies selected him in the fifth round of the 2001 draft, he began a slow, four-and-a-half-season climb through the minor leagues, making stops in five different minor-league towns and hitting for power and a decent average in each of them.

In 2004, splitting time between Double A and Triple A, he hit 46 home runs and knocked in 131 runs, the kind of performance that ought to bring about a promotion to the big leagues — especially considering that Howard was already 24. But the Phillies had a veteran at first base, Jim Thome, to whom they had paid millions as a free agent, and Howard began the 2005 season in Scranton, Pa., back in Triple A.

Thome was signed after Howard had already been a Phillies minor leaguer for two seasons; another team, recognizing what it had in Howard, might have spent its free-agent money elsewhere to avoid a logjam at first base. But the Phillies, with no postseason appearances since 1993, have not been the canniest of franchises.

From his parents, who lived through the civil rights struggle in Birmingham and often talked to their children about that era, Howard already knew something about patience and perspective. He didn’t much like being stuck in the minor leagues, but knew it wasn’t the worst thing that could happen to a person. “I learned what I could,” he says of his years in the minors. His father says: “We didn’t see a frustration on Ryan’s part. We saw a strong determination.”

After Thome suffered a season-ending injury, Howard finally secured a full-time spot with the Phillies in 2005 — and hit 22 home runs and earned the National League Rookie of the Year award while playing just a little over half a season. A player who can accomplish that at age 25 — then follow it up with the season Howard had last year — almost certainly could have held his own in the big leagues a couple of years earlier. And Howard’s extended time in the minors cost him money. His salary last season was $355,000, a pittance by baseball’s current economics. He is still a year from arbitration, and can’t become a free agent until after the 2011 season, when he will be 32. He has not publicly made an issue of his contract, but recently he switched to a more prominent agent.

In one sense, though, Howard was probably lucky to end up with the Phillies, whose manager, Charlie Manuel, while not much admired for his in-game strategy, is widely considered to have a deep knowledge of hitting. Howard was still in the low minor leagues when Manuel, then an assistant in the Phillies’ front office, first saw him bat. Manuel noticed something unusual about Howard’s style: he stood way off the plate, and his posture was oriented toward foul ground in left field, like a golfer who compensates for a wicked slice by aiming wide of the fairway.

In Howard’s case, he did not like to handle pitches inside, in on his hands, and his strength still allowed him to hit outside pitches a long way. So he took a stance that forced pitchers to throw the ball about a foot inside the plate to jam him. Manuel saw Howard hit a home run to left field and concluded that because of the way he was standing, it was more like a center- or right-field home run — he had to pull the ball just to keep it fair.

“We got him straightened out a little bit, so it wasn’t so extreme,” Manuel says. “He was the type of kid you always could talk to.”

All hitters, though, have a way they want to hit, a style that feels natural. Howard’s left-field orientation is still a large part of his approach. When he hits the ball to the left of second base, he almost always lifts it, which is what pitchers specifically try to avoid with home-run hitters: fly balls. When he pulls the ball, he hits more ground balls and low line drives with top spin — the type that do not carry over fences. “The amazing thing is, even with all those home runs, Ryan’s still learning to pull it,” says Milt Thompson, the Phillies’ hitting coach. “When he learns to clear his hips out of there and get the ball in the air, you’ll really see something.”

Pitchers defeat hitters with good pitches, of course, but all hitters have a way they get themselves out, the most common being a lack of patience. Instead of hoarding their energy — their “load” or “power load,” as it is called in baseball — they commit to a swing too soon, particularly on off-speed pitches, and by the time the bat meets the ball they have expended much of their power.

Howard is different. When he gets himself out, it is more often the result of an overabundance of patience. He lets the ball get too close to his body and does not get the barrel of the bat fully around it. “It’s unusual in any player, let alone a big strong kid just into the league,” Manuel says. “But that’s why Ryan hits the ball the way he does. He’s rarely out in front of where he wants to be. He’s got his full load intact when he does make contact.”

Howard takes a slight uppercut, quick and compact. “Ted Williams used to say, The longer the arc, the farther the ball will go,” Manuel says. “I say, The longer the arc, the slower the swing. Ryan has all the power he needs with that shorter arc.”

After Howard and I were finished eating at O’Charley’s and the table was cleared, I unpacked my laptop and we watched a sort of greatest-hits collection, a compilation of his home runs that the Phillies had copied onto a DVD. He enjoyed it — what player wouldn’t? — but what struck me was how much he remembered. He came to the plate 704 times last season and saw 2,859 pitches, yet now he recalled pitch sequences from months before. He doesn’t keep a notebook, as some hitters do, but it seems he doesn’t have to.

“This is a pretty good AB,” he said as we watched him step in for his at-bat against the New York Mets’ Guillermo Mota. “He was mixing it up pretty good. Fastballs, change-ups, inside, outside.” After eight pitches, including several foul balls, the count was full. Mota threw a change-up, and Howard barely managed to foul it off. “That was a tough pitch — nasty,” he said. “Here comes the fastball now.” The next pitch was indeed a fastball, which Howard hit over the center-field fence for his 47th home run.

Not surprisingly, considering he is the son of a computer programmer, Howard talks about hitting as if each at-bat is a problem to be solved: “If the pitcher is one you’ve faced before, you have to be thinking, How did he try to get me out? He might try something different this time, but you have to have that in the back of your mind. Each at-bat and each pitch you have a game plan that comes about from processing all the information you have.”

Mike Arbuckle, who is in charge of the Phillies’ minor-league system, told me: “Ryan has the aptitude and the intelligence to maximize all that natural ability he has. To be honest with you, there are more guys who aren’t that way than are. And he also has the inner drive to want to apply all that intelligence, and that’s not always the case, either.”

The DVD included Howard’s big game against Tim Hudson. After we watched the last home run, the line drive to left field, Howard said he would have had no idea, as he swung, that the pitch was outside. “That’s the point at which you can’t be thinking about anything,” he said. “You have a game plan, but then it’s instinct. You just see the pitch and go after it.”

The camera followed Howard into the dugout after that last home run, then back out onto the top step, where he waved to acknowledge the home crowd’s standing ovation. Together, we were watching him at a moment of maximum glory — the Slugger in full — but he seemed to want to deflect attention from himself, to display, as always, proper baseball demeanor.

In the background, we caught a glimpse of Phillies shortstop Jimmy Rollins, who seemed to be laughing with a kind of wide-eyed, can-you-believe-this expression on his face. “Look at Jimmy,” Ryan Howard said, his own face breaking into a grin. “He seems like he got a big kick out of that, doesn’t he?”
122 2007-03-04 “We want to get her on the right path,” he said.

From his rolling medical suite, Dr. Thundercloud, 36, provides free health care to about 3,000 young patients a year, mostly under 18, mostly Spanish-speaking immigrants in one of the Island’s poorest areas.

From 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays, working with a staff of nurse practitioners, medical technicians, social workers and a driver who doubles as a computer expert and phlebotomist, Dr. Thundercloud gives physicals and immunizations, does hearing and vision screenings, blood work, pap smears and pregnancy tests, and makes sure the children and adolescents, many of whom face complex health problems like asthma, diabetes, H.I.V. and AIDS, are enrolled with Child Health Plus, a state-financed insurance program.

“We like to think of ourselves as a one-stop shop,” said Dr. Thundercloud, whose mobile clinic has served for six years as an oasis in Hempstead Village in the midst of what he calls a dangerous neighborhood, citing gang violence and substance abuse.

“These families have enough things to think about,” he said. “They need a place where they can go to deal with mental health issues, deal with insurance issues, get medicines and see a doctor.”

The mobile clinic, one of 21 nationwide affiliated with the Manhattan-based Children’s Health Fund, is tightly outfitted with a waiting area, procedure room for laboratory work, two examining rooms, touch-screen computers for keeping electronic medical records and televisions and VCRs to show videos about asthma or healthy eating habits.

Dr. Thundercloud, who lives in Manhattan, grew up on a reservation near Black River Falls in Wisconsin belonging to the Ho-Chunk (formerly Wisconsin Winnebago). There was neither electricity nor running water. His grandfather was a medicine man, but modern health care was inaccessible.

“I saw what a lack of health care did firsthand,” Dr. Thundercloud said. “Diabetes runs rampant on the reservation, and alcoholism runs rampant.”

When he entered the University of Wisconsin on a scholarship at 16, Dr. Thundercloud experienced culture shock. Entering “mainstream American society,” he said, was like “being an immigrant to a new country.” After medical school at the University of Minnesota, he trained at mobile clinics in Washington and New York similar to the one he operates now.

Dr. Thundercloud said he found in Hempstead the “small-town feeling” of the reservation.

The community has “come to trust us,” he said. “Some kids have never had a doctor that they could call their doctor. It makes me very proud and very blessed.”

The clinic has a budget of about $500,000 a year from a variety of sources, including the North Shore system, grants and insurance reimbursements; it operates “paycheck to paycheck,” Dr. Thundercloud said. Until financing ran out in February, it had also been providing medical services every other Sunday to migrant workers outside Grace Episcopal Church in Riverhead.

By April 1 it will begin rolling to the Mary Brennan Inn, a soup kitchen in Hempstead, where Dr. Thundercloud hopes to treat homeless adults off the streets, in addition to the homeless families from shelters that already come to the mobile clinic.

By midyear he will also be overseeing a new dental clinic being set up in a separate vehicle.

Marian Viviano, a social worker at the North Shore system who works part time on the mobile clinic, said Dr. Thundercloud was compassionate and attentive. “He gives them the highest standard of care,” she said. “He tends to them like they are the most important person.”
123 2007-03-04 In everyday talk, storytelling is ubiquitous: “You’ll never believe what happened to me today. ” “I’ll never forget the time when. ...” “Did you hear the one about ...?” When in doubt — or at loose ends or in need of attention — we narrate. I have only anecdotal evidence to support this hunch, but it seems to me that this conversational propensity to share stories is somewhat neglected by novelists. More often than not, characters in fiction are inclined to get right to the point, to speak their minds, to engage in verbal exposition. Their authors, perhaps reluctant to share the prerogatives of plot-making with imaginary beings, tend not to indulge the digressive impulses that, in the world beyond the page, consume so much time and breath.

Of course there are exceptions to the rule, though few are quite so prodigious as Jane Smiley’s new novel, “Ten Days in the Hills.” And none that I can think of illustrate so richly why the rule exists in the first place. How many times have you stood and smiled as someone recounted a dream, the plot of a movie, a childhood memory or a funny incident at work — all things the chatty men and women who inhabit this novel do with some frequency. Chances are that you listen out of a certain sense of obligation. This is your spouse, your friend, your client, your grandmother, and it would be rude to give voice to the boredom that, most of the time — be honest — haunts you. One reason we have professional novelists is that tales told by amateurs are frequently pointless, dull and inconclusive.

Jane Smiley is a justly esteemed professional whose narratives are paragons of well-applied craft. Proof that she has also thought seriously about the technical challenges and historical development of her vocation can be found in “Thirteen Ways of Looking at the Novel,” one of the livelier recent books of criticism by a practicing fiction writer. And like “A Thousand Acres,” still her best-known novel (though far from her best), “Ten Days in the Hills” wears its literary pedigree on its sleeve.

In the earlier book, “King Lear” was adduced to a tale of Midwestern family dysfunction, the Shakespearean plot functioning mainly as a decorative element to assure consumers (and prize-giving juries) that this was not run-of-the-mill dirty realism but bona fide literature. And so, in “Ten Days in the Hills,” we have not just the potentially diverting spectacle of 10 residents and sojourners in the city of Los Angeles engaging in promiscuous verbal intercourse, punctuated by bouts of the other kind, but also a modern recasting of “The Decameron.” In that book, 10 privileged Florentines — seven women and three men — took refuge from their plague-ravaged city in the accursed year 1348 and passed the time telling stories, a hundred in all. In Smiley’s version, the genders are brought into parity and the catastrophe is the war in Iraq.

The novel begins on the morning of March 24, 2003, the Monday after the Academy Awards, an event shadowed by tension and anxiety and overshadowed, to some degree, by the start of the war the previous week. Max and Elena, a middle-aged couple, wake up in Max’s bedroom, and the afterglow of the previous evening is marred by thoughts of faraway violence and intimations of geopolitical and ideological uncertainty. Over the next 10 days, Elena’s sense of political impotence will occasionally be juxtaposed with Max’s more literal variety. At the start, in any case, their sweet, affectionate talk sets a promising tone for the pages to come. These are comfortable, articulate, nice people, and you don’t mind being in their company. He is a movie director (also a Vietnam veteran) who hasn’t worked much lately, though he did win an Oscar some years back. She is a Midwesterner, a single mother, and the author of a series of popular how-to and self-help books. Their conversation is relaxed and easy, but they’re at an early enough stage in their relationship and an advanced enough stage in life — Max is 58; Elena is 50 — not to take the consolations of intimacy for granted.

Before long, though, the quiet of Max’s mansion is broken by the arrival of the rest of the ensemble: Max’s daughter, Isabel, a 23-year-old with all the correct postmodern postgraduate attitudes; his ex-wife, Zoe Cunningham, a “pop icon and sex goddess” whose mother, Delphine, shows up with a neighbor named Cassie. Zoe is currently attached to Paul, who is also her guru, or healer, or something. Isabel, meanwhile, is continuing the clandestine affair she began as a teenager with Stoney, the 37-year-old son of Max’s longtime agent, who has recently died, leaving his son to fill his old-school Hollywood shoes. Rounding out the ménage are Charlie, a childhood friend of Max’s whose hawkish views on the war drive Elena crazy, and Elena’s 20-year-old son, Simon, a college student with a healthy sexual appetite.
124 2007-03-04 What can a child know about totalitarianism? In Hisham Matar’s exceptional first novel, this question transcends the psychological to yield something rare in contemporary fiction: a sophisticated storybook inhabited by archetypes, told with a 9-year-old’s logic, written with the emphatic and memorable lyricism of verse.

The wonderfully original is anathema to most marketing campaigns, so don’t let anyone tell you, as publicists in Britain did last summer when “In the Country of Men” first appeared, that this is a Libyan “Kite Runner.” Matar’s fictional creation could be set anywhere: Libya, his homeland, has been pared here of most of its idiosyncrasies, honed into the totalitarian Ur-state. And unlike Khaled Hosseini’s best-selling account of two boys in Afghanistan, Matar’s work is free of both cliché and padding. What he renders goes beyond topicality. He has produced a timeless portrait of the infantilism of evil.

“In the Country of Men” brings to mind “1984,” “Fahrenheit 451” and the other great science fiction of totalitarianism in the way it posits a cruelly simplified and nonsensical universe. The young boy who is its first-person narrator can only sometimes make this world coherent. Why does his mother take her “medicine” and become sick? His best friend informs him that all women are sick. Can this be so? He has his doubts. How is it that his parents insist his father has gone on a business trip, when the boy has just spotted him walking in the town square? Why, since his father loves books, does the narrator’s mother suddenly burn them? Why does she react so violently when she sees him with the pockmarked man who sits outside their house in a white car, a man who gives him candy and asks for the names of his father’s friends?

Throughout, the narrator turns his questioning in on himself. It is here that one of Matar’s most powerful themes, the convoluted roots of betrayal, slowly takes shape. The boy betrays his best friend, his mother and his father’s closest friend — and would, if not for developments elsewhere, also betray his father. Alongside his faithlessness, his capacity for sadism particularizes. He throws a rock, and although he denies he aimed at a seriously impaired friend, a boy he respects, he nonetheless badly injures him. He tries to save the neighborhood beggar from drowning, then inexplicably finds himself kicking the man in the face.

The boy interrogates himself after each episode, weak with shame. But then morning comes, what he experienced recedes, and its lessons fail to take hold. Gradually, we begin to apprehend the ways in which any despotic system is like any boy’s inner life. Short-lived in their affections, easily offended, impressed with showboating stadiums of cheering automatons, blindly vicious, the boy and the system embody a topsy-turvy puerility. As in Orwell’s famous formulation — “war is peace, freedom is slavery, ignorance is strength” — the world has lost its definitions, or, in Matar’s formulation, it has yet to learn them.

The adult reader naturally sees what the boy cannot. The sick mother he fantasizes about is actually something else — the victim as drunk. His father’s friend, a classicist, refuses to betray the boy’s father; his nobility and knowledge of history are intimately connected. The all-knowing Guide, whose portrait hangs everywhere, is, of course, Muammar el-Qaddafi. The neighbor across the street, called an “antenna” because he works for the domestic intelligence service, is “able to put people behind the sun.” The self-numbing survivor, the moral chronicler, the guide and the spy are all fixtures of totalitarian society.
125 2007-03-04 Fifteen years ago, when P. R. S. Oberoi, the chairman of the Oberoi Group of hotels, would travel to the royal city of Jaipur, one of India's most legendary tourist destinations, there was no place, he recalled, that he could confidently call a five-star hotel. He would stay at the choicest property in town, but so lacking were its amenities that he remembered taking “my own cook, my own toilet paper, sometimes my own towel.”

From Indian hoteliers, including the Oberoi chain, have lately come a new menu of options for the pampered class, from resorts built from the crumbling palaces of erstwhile maharajas to plush detoxifying spas to sumptuous inns along the coast and in forests.

My husband suggested Wildflower for a weekend getaway last fall, when Delhi was so hot and parched that I had become one unbearable crank. From the Web site, he gleaned that Wildflower would offer outdoor activities to cure my restlessness and opulence to keep me from complaining. And yes, there was high-speed Internet in the rooms so I could remain chained to my employer in New York.

As always in a rush, we passed up the leisurely option of a train journey (at least eight hours). Instead, we flew midway to Chandigarh (45 minutes) from where a hotel car picked us up, snaking 80 miles uphill to the lodge. The drive took more than three hours, including a tea break.

Wildflower Hall is perched at around 8,300 feet, amid a forest of cedar and pine, roughly eight miles outside Simla, which had become by the mid-19th century the official summer retreat for India's British rulers. We arrived at dusk, and made a beeline for the spa, only to find a man holding court inside the swimming pool. He was resting on his elbows at the edge of the pool and gabbing at full throaty volume on his cellphone, apparently oblivious to a sign posted at the door: “Please maintain the serenity of the spa.”

We got out of the pool in less than five minutes, at which time our loud cohabitant offered to evacuate his friends from the hot tub outside in case we wanted privacy. “I've brought them all here,” he boasted. We thanked him and left. Upstairs, the Cavalry Bar was empty. A fire roared in the fireplace. We ordered a bottle of Montepulciano and were happy for the serenity of dusk.

The morning began gloriously gray-blustery — perfect, we figured, for a six-mile guided trek through the forest. The forest floor was covered with star-moss fern and flowers that had clung on from summer. The cedars, also known as Himalayan deodars, were the beauties of the forest. They held out their wide arms, and the wind, which howled so ferociously that we could hardly hear each other on the trail, made them dance a spectacular dance.

We climbed down into valleys, and up again into dark woods. The villages on our path were a sobering lesson in isolated living: two long houses here, four long houses there, their slate roofs still glistening from a recent rain. We passed several accommodating cows, groves of famous Simla apples and, nestled in a grove of tall cedars, a pointy-roofed Tibetan-style temple that our guide, John, said was once Buddhist and is now Hindu. All morning, cloud and mist came and went as they pleased, revealing new faces of the Pir Panjal range.

No sooner had we reached the hotel than the sky burst with rain. And how lucky we were for it. From our room, we had a spectacular view of the eastern Himalayas, with layer upon layer of gray mountain spreading before us, all the way to Tibet. The storm raged, and the cedars, arms outstretched, danced like dervishes in praise of rain. We watched the storm from the stillness of our room. A card on the table instructed us not to open the windows, on account of the monkeys dawdling outside.

Food at Wildflower is pricey and mostly good, although not particularly memorable. The European food was better than the Indian, although at times, as in the paneer tikka marinated with basil, the distinction seemed to melt. After a six-mile climb in the hills, the warm chocolate cookies that had been placed in our room were a tasty reward.

The best reward, on our last night at Wildflower, was evening in the empty hot tub (the gentleman of the pool having departed with his crew). We slipped into the water, our ears perfectly cold, our toes perfectly warm, as night fell on these ancient mountains.

In 1981, when the hotel was run by the state tourism agency, an article in this section reported that two-room suites cost $20 a night. A suite today will set you back about $625 plus 10 percent tax, unless you have a special off-season package, as we did, at $450 a night. A standard room normally goes for $390 a night for double occupancy. (Rates here and below are for nonresidents of India, which are generally higher than for residents.)

Ananda in the Himalayas, at Narendra Nagar, an hour's drive from the nearest railhead at Haridwar (91-1378-227-500; www.anandaspa.com).

Rooms begin at $475 plus a 7 percent tax. A variety of spa packages are available, including a six-day stress management retreat, which, with scrubs, workouts, massages and meals, ranges from $3,670 to $3,925 for double occupancy.

Devi Garh Fort Palace, at Delwara village, an hour's drive from Udaipur (91-2953-289-211; www.deviresorts.com).

As self-consciously ancient outside as it is modern inside, Devi Garh's rooms begin at about $400 plus tax. The palace was built in the mid-18th century and reopened as a resort in 2000, taking full advantage of its maze of courtyards and alcoves and transforming it with an eye for quiet, restrained un-Rajasthanian hues.

Marari Beach Hotel, about 40 miles from Cochin, is one of eight properties run by the Casino Group of Hotels in Kerala (91-478-286-3801; www.cghearth.com). Marari Beach is ostensibly fashioned after a traditional Kerala fishing village, never mind that its thatched-roof cottages are air-conditioned. Prices begin at $235 plus tax. At its sprawling restaurant, the chef offers cooking lessons in the afternoon. The fish is as fresh as in a real fishing village.

The Leela Goa, in Salcette, about 45 minutes' driving distance from Dabolim Airport, Goa (91-832-287-1234; www.ghmhotels.com).

Lagoons, garden, golf course, beach: It's all here on this expansive south Goa resort. Prices start at about $400, including taxes.
126 2007-03-04 MANY people would jump at the chance to invest in hedge funds, which have mainly been available to only the very wealthy. But a new study finds that the funds’ high fees make it unlikely that investors will improve their long-term performance by putting money into hedge funds.

The study, “Portfolio Efficiency With Performance Fees,” was written by Mark Kritzman, president and chief executive of Windham Capital Management, a money management firm in Boston. Mr. Kritzman also teaches a graduate course in financial engineering at the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and his article grew out of work begun by a few of his graduate students there. The article appeared in the Feb. 1 issue of Economics and Portfolio Strategy, a newsletter for institutional investors, published by Peter L. Bernstein.

Hedge funds are largely unregulated and therefore are free of the restrictions that keep most mutual funds from pursuing untraditional investment strategies like selling short and investing in complex derivatives. As a result, hedge fund managers argue that they can produce impressive returns regardless of whether the stock and bond markets are going up or down or are trendless — a feature that would be particularly welcome in turbulent weeks like the last one. But because hedge funds typically become subject to greater regulation once they have more than a small number of investors, in most cases they are limited to a few very wealthy individuals.

Mr. Kritzman’s article focuses on the effect of the fees that hedge funds charge. In addition to a percentage of assets under management, hedge funds typically also charge a percentage of their profits. The standard fee arrangement in the industry, known as “2 and 20,” is to charge 2 percent of assets under management and 20 percent of profits above a predetermined benchmark, like the London Interbank Offering Rate, or Libor. Mr. Kritzman found that the combined impact of such fees is so high as to greatly reduce the attractiveness of hedge funds.

Consider a hypothetical portfolio that Mr. Kritzman put together. He divided it equally among 10 imaginary hedge funds, each of which he assumed would earn a long-term annualized return of seven percentage points above Libor, before fees — an assumption that he says is realistic. Mr. Kritzman calculates that the 2-and-20 arrangement would cost this portfolio 3.8 percentage points a year. Given Libor’s current level — about 5.4 percent — this implies that the hedge-fund basket would have an after-fees return of 8.6 percent, annualized.
127 2007-03-04 “Her timing speaks for itself,” said Mr. Davis, who supports Mr. Obama.

It will be the first time Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama share the same campaign turf, and curiosity was building Saturday evening as hundreds gathered in the historic district for the weekend festival. Aides to Mrs. Clinton dismissed suggestions that they were following Mr. Obama, but members of Congress traveling to Selma said they were encouraged by her allies to attend her speech, not his.

Mr. Obama also adjusted his schedule, a spokesman said, postponing a fund-raiser in Boston on Sunday evening after learning that the Clintons would be attending the daylong series of events here.

Mr. Edwards declined an invitation. He plans to be in California on Sunday to deliver a speech — about Selma and civil rights — at the University of California, Berkeley.

Black voters are a crucial component of the Democratic electorate. In 2004, despite intensive efforts by President Bush to break the Democratic dominance, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts won about 89 percent of the black vote.

In contested primaries, particularly in South Carolina, black support could be vital to the Democratic nominee. About 50 percent of the primary voters in South Carolina are black, and the state is fourth in line on the nominating calendar. Alabama, where about 60 percent of the primary voters are black, is making plans to move its contest to Feb. 2. And at least 16 states are considering voting on Feb. 5, including Florida, California, Illinois, New York and Texas, all states where black voters could hold considerable sway.

But the weekend appearances also offer a window into a broader struggle among the candidates to define themselves to the country and to associate themselves with the legacy of the civil rights movement in a way that could help them appeal not only to blacks but also to white Democratic voters who are proud of their party’s role in that struggle.

Mr. Obama, who was born in 1961, four years before the Selma march, grew up in Hawaii and Indonesia, far from the civil rights battles that played out in the American South. While he plunged into racial issues as a young adult, he has traveled to the region only in recent years, beginning to build relationships with older leaders of the movement.

Mrs. Clinton, who was born in 1947, had her political sensibilities forged during the tumult of the late 1960s. She has benefited from her husband’s immense popularity among black voters, built gradually during their years in Arkansas and then the White House. Mr. Clinton will be in Selma to be inducted into the Voting Rights Hall of Fame.

Mr. Edwards, who was born in 1953 and raised in North Carolina, often discusses growing up in the segregated South and the obligation that brings him to address issues of race and class. He has courted black support in both of his presidential campaigns.

For Mrs. Clinton, the Selma appearance could be a test of her ability to connect with black audiences, and of Mr. Clinton’s ability to transfer his political aura to his wife.

It also gives Mr. Obama a chance to show he can compete with the Clintons, both in connecting the language and themes of the civil rights movement to the politics of today and in keeping the spotlight on himself in the middle of a head-to-head political spectacle.

“President Clinton remains popular and Senator Clinton will benefit a lot from that, but there are a lot of African-Americans who see the possibility of this,” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, who supports Mr. Obama. “People say, ‘He’s like my son or my grandson, and before I die, I’d like to have a chance to vote for someone who can win.’ ”

Clinton advisers said they were not concerned about polls showing some early signs of a tightened race for black support. They have been honing both a public message and a private political strategy to deal with what they acknowledge is the unmatchable personal appeal of Mr. Obama as a black candidate courting black voters.

“African-Americans historically align with people based on issues, not personality,” said Minyon Moore, a senior Clinton adviser who, among other things, has focused on building support in the black community. “People will look at her record, look at her biography, look at her experience, and support her as a real champion of their issues.”

Asked how Mrs. Clinton would compete for black votes with Mr. Obama Ms. Moore said: “It’s probably a proud moment for us all. But there’s so much history to be made this time around — having the first woman president, having the first African-American nominee, having the first Latino nominee.” The latter was a reference to Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, another Democratic candidate.

Ertharin Cousin, a senior adviser to the Obama campaign, said Mr. Obama needed to introduce himself to all voters, including blacks. “We have a responsibility to tell his story, to paint his narrative,” Ms. Cousin said. “He may not be of the civil rights era, but he is definitely an extension of the work that was done of that era.”

While Mr. Obama must appear credible to civil rights leaders, he is also looking beyond the establishment of black political leaders. He is seeking to give voters a deeper look at him, advisers said, hoping to drive home the notion that a black candidate can win the presidency.

For Mrs. Clinton, the strategy for reaching black voters at this early stage of the campaign involves strong outreach to black elected officials, business leaders and others, followed by phone calls to reinforce her candidacy from her husband and supporters like Robert L. Johnson, who founded Black Entertainment Television.

Mrs. Clinton is seeking to deepen her own relationships with black voters, Mr. Johnson said. “When she’s running for president, it’s far more important that someone say, ‘Gee, it’s Hillary Clinton on the phone,’ and not, ‘President Clinton’s calling to ask if we can support his wife,’ ” Mr. Johnson said. “Hillary knows the black community’s attachment to her husband doesn’t transfer to her.”

It may, however, buy her time to win over voters on her own.

Mr. Lewis, one of the few icons of the civil rights era still active in politics, has been enamored with Mr. Obama since he arrived in Washington. Long before Mr. Lewis knew Mr. Obama would run for president, he invited him to headline a 40th anniversary gala of the Voting Rights Act, saying, “I think the hopes and dreams and aspirations of so many of us are riding on this one man.”

Nevertheless, his strong sentiment toward Mr. Clinton has been enough for him to remain neutral in the presidential race.

“I talked with President Clinton. I know him a little better than I know Mrs. Clinton,” Mr. Lewis said. “Some of us are caught in between, but isn’t it healthy that we have the luxury to choose between two wonderful, gifted politicians?”
128 2007-03-04 While I am a feminist who believes in abortion rights, this was not the choice I had in mind. To spend years and tens of thousands of dollars trying to conceive a baby only to end with discussions of an abortion seemed to me an especially cruel twist of fate. But what would we do if the triplets were born with serious handicaps? It seemed an impossible choice.

As we drove away, my gut told me that I could not reduce the pregnancy, but I had promised our doctor that we would talk with other specialists before making our decision.

She would prove to be the only one who fully understood our dilemma. Most everyone else burst out laughing and hollered in joy at the news. All they could say was, “Well, you got it all over with in one shot.”

My husband and I laughed along with them. We couldn’t share what the doctor had advised. It felt like our dirty secret.

Over the next couple of weeks, we consulted various specialists, including one who told us the odds in plain terms: The chances of having severe complications in a triplet pregnancy, he explained, are only 2 percent greater than with twins once you pass the 26-week mark. Babies born earlier than 26 weeks, which happens in roughly 14 percent of triplet pregnancies, almost always suffer serious handicaps, and many die. Then again, the reduction procedure itself carries the risk, however small, of terminating the entire pregnancy.

Focusing on those cold numbers, we made our decision: we would not reduce.

The following months were uneventful except that my stomach at five months was as large as a single full-term pregnancy. I still went to work every day at a public relations firm and kept my full load of clients. But as I neared 19 weeks, a routine check-up revealed that my cervix had drastically shortened and showed signs of bulging. It seemed about to open. The doctor sent me to the hospital to have my cervix sewn shut and ordered me on bed rest for the rest of the pregnancy.

Every morning, my husband would prepare food for the day and leave it on the TV table beside my stacks of books and my laptop, kiss me goodbye and head to work.

My grandiose plans of writing, reading and needlepoint would fall by the wayside by late morning when my daylong headaches would begin, a side effect of the medicine to reduce the contractions. To mark time, I listed the hours and days in a notebook and then crossed them off. This process, and knowing the importance of not going into labor, is all that kept me going.

The contractions increased, and at 22 weeks I was admitted to the hospital, where the doctors raised my legs above my head to keep gravity on our side and pumped IV fluid into my veins, hoping the extra hydration might help. I was not allowed to leave my bed for any reason — no bathroom break or shower. But I was delirious from the medication anyway and the days passed in a blur.

In the 25th week, my body continued to break down, and a doctor from the neonatal intensive care unit came to my bedside for a serious pep talk: “Susanne, you do not want to have these babies now. Every day, every hour, is critical. You have to hang in there until 26 weeks.”

As the contractions grew stronger, all the doctors could do was stand back and hope. They had no other drugs to give.

On Christmas Eve, the day I was exactly 26 weeks pregnant, my body gave way and the boys were born, each weighing less than two pounds.

They looked like miniature monkeys wrapped in plastic tape and wires. Their arms and legs were the size of my fingers. With striped hats pulled down past their foreheads and foam masks shielding their eyes, it was impossible to see their faces. Each had a thick tube protruding from his mouth, wires covering his tiny torso, an IV line hanging from his umbilical cord and a sensor with a red light wrapped precariously around one foot. They did not move or cry.

Back in my hospital room, I cried. How could these little creatures, barely clinging to life, be my children? My husband sat stiffly on the edge of my bed trying to console me, but I wanted nothing of it. I had not kept my babies safe. I had failed as a mother.

In the evening, when my husband announced that he was going back to the neonatal intensive care unit to see the boys, I told him to go alone. I was afraid to be involved, to fall in love with my babies. In my mind, science had taken over, and like a mother bird that loses a chick from her nest, my instinct was to stay away, to keep my distance.

At seven the next morning, the nurse marched into my room and pulled back my bedsheet. “O.K., time for you to get out of bed,” she said. “You have to get strong for those babies. They need you. Let’s start by having you walk to the bathroom.”

AS much as I wanted to lie there feeling sorry for myself, I knew she was right. I swung my legs toward the floor and, for the first time in five weeks, I walked. Thirty minutes later, I was ready to return to the intensive care unit. My husband smiled, excitedly adjusting my feet in the wheelchair before rushing me down the hallway.

At the incubator, I stared through the plastic cover, unsure if I was allowed to put my hand through the side window. A nurse appeared, urging me on: “It’s O.K., you can touch them. Just be gentle and don’t rub. And talk to them — they definitely recognize your voice.”

I opened the window and placed my finger on Baby A’s leg. His knee was the size of an acorn.

The nurse also told me the boys needed my highly nutritious colostrum and pending breast milk and that she would return with bottles and suction cups.

Finally I allowed myself a smile. Despite all the nurses, monitors, medications and respirators, the boys did need me. I was no longer a bystander, staring at my children in horror. I was their mother.

But our problems were just beginning. Soon Nicolas was diagnosed with a grade 3 brain bleed, which had the potential of causing lifelong complications or death. At least once a day, Benjamin would stop breathing and turn blue, triggering alarms and causing the nurse to shake his foot or bag him with oxygen. Sebastian had been born with a hole in his heart that would have required surgery had it not finally closed with medication.

During their second and third months, the boys grew from scrawny, fragile beings into fully formed little babies. We rejoiced at each milestone — the first time we could hold them (2 weeks), the day they could breathe without the ventilator (4 weeks), the first real bath in a plastic tub (8 weeks), the move out of the incubator and into a joint crib (10 weeks), when they could drink my breast milk comfortably from a bottle (11 weeks), and, finally, the day they were discharged (3 months).

Once home, we carried our 4 ½-pound babies into their nursery and laid them in their crib, one beside the other. With my hands placed across their beautiful little bodies, I rejoiced, though I knew what difficulties were ahead. Two would have to remain on oxygen and monitors.

FOR the first month, their bedroom, with all the wires and machines, would look more like an extension of the intensive care unit than a home nursery. Endless visits to the pediatrician, ophthalmologist, cardiologist, gastroenterologist and neurologist would fill the boys’ first calendar year.

But with a good insurance plan and Medicaid’s coverage for babies under 2 pounds 10 ounces, we were relieved that we did not have to pay the million-dollar hospital bill. This was not the time to pontificate on how our quest to have a family resulted in a significant financial drain on society’s resources, though that knowledge has weighed on me.

What hasn’t weighed on me, as our boys have grown healthier and bigger (they’re now 4 and thriving in preschool) is our decision not to reduce. I often look at them and ask myself that impossible question: Which one wouldn’t be here?

But I feel no righteousness about our choice, only luck. Time and again I run into mothers at the playground with twins who notice my triplets (it’s hard not to) and gently ask whether I faced that decision, only to then confess their deep guilt at having reduced from triplets themselves.

“Look, don’t,” I tell them. “We could have lost all of ours. We almost did.”
129 2007-03-04 After many years of double-digit appreciation in residential real estate around New Jersey, home values did not rise significantly last year and may have slipped, according to real estate market analysts.

While the New Jersey Association of Realtors says the median home price climbed 2 percent, another industry analyst says it actually fell 10 percent.

Whether there has been a correction or not, everyone agrees on some things: The years of rapid housing inflation are over, but there has been no crash. And houses are selling now, especially at the more affordable end of the spectrum.

“We’re seeing things under $300,00 or $400,000 starting to move again,” said Bill Hanley, president of the state Realtors association. “The days of double-digit appreciation are over, but there are still multiple offers on homes when they are priced right.”

Jeffrey G. Otteau, the president of the Otteau Appraisal Group Inc., an East Brunswick company that studies industry trends for real estate agents, said his analysis, which matches comparable segments of the market over time, indicates that prices have dropped substantially in 2006. He said the Realtors association overstates the actual market prices in the current year because it fails to account for the larger size of newer homes.
130 2007-03-04 Signs of renewed optimism in Westchester’s housing market are being spotted in real estate offices throughout the county these days, even though — or perhaps because — median home prices have fallen and are likely to decline even more in the months to come.

“In 2006, buyers sat on the sidelines and waited for prices to adjust,” said Christopher Meyers, the chief operating officer for Houlihan Lawrence, a privately owned agency with 25 offices in Westchester. “Now it looks like they’re moving ahead.”

The median sales price for a single-family home in the county dropped 3.4 percent at the end of the fourth quarter of 2006 — the first time since 1994, when the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service began compiling quarterly sales figures, that the median decreased during the fourth quarter compared with the same quarter a year earlier. The median price for a single family home in Westchester as of Dec. 31 was $630,000, down from $652,250 on Dec. 31, 2005.

Also, the number of sales for single-family homes fell almost 15 percent — to 1,121 — at the end of last year, and the dollar volume of sales for that category was down 11.5 percent, to $987 million, according to numbers compiled by the listing service.

But the declines in such sales figures actually may be good news in disguise, according to Mark Boyland, a leader of a sales team for Keller Williams Realty, an Austin, Tex.-based real estate franchiser with offices in White Plains and Yorktown.
131 2007-03-04 After many years of double-digit appreciation in the value of single-family homes on Long Island, the median price for homes dropped 6.25 percent in Nassau County in January and increased only slightly in Suffolk County, compared with the same month last year, according to real estate market analysts.

The number of sales increased, however, creating optimism among real estate agents that this year’s spring market would be stronger than last year’s. Real estate agents said the market “bottomed out” in the last quarter of 2006 and has started to recover.

The median price of a home in Nassau was $450,000 in January, a decline of 6.25 percent from a year before, when it was $480,000, according to the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island. In Suffolk, the average price of a home was up 1.9 percent, to $397,500 from $390,000.

Across Long Island, the median price was $437,500, down 1 percent from last year, even though sales staged a considerable comeback, increasing 25 percent over January 2006.

“It’s a strong market,” said Donald Scanlon, president of the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island. “When people are used to seeing 15 or 20 percent increases, they say we are losing money. But I’ve seen bidding wars on houses. If it’s priced right, it sells. If it’s overpriced, it sits.”
132 2007-03-04 THE young couple are seated together awaiting another real estate agent's appraisal in what is called the ''English pub room'' of their 1730 antique home in Westport. Theirs is the kind of property that ads typically limn as ''historic charmer wit...
133 2007-03-04 To the Editor:     Re ''Escape From New York,'' by Abigail A. Frankfurt (New York Observed, Feb. 25):...
134 2007-03-04 To the Editor:     Re ''Appeal Goes Against Couple's Animal Shelter'' (Feb. 25):...
135 2007-03-04 THE young couple are seated together awaiting another real estate agent's appraisal in what is called the ''English pub room'' of their 1730 antique home in Westport. Theirs is the kind of property that ads typically limn as ''historic charmer wit...
136 2007-03-04 What would it feel like to inhabit the role that so many have auditioned for across the decades, on ballfields in all 50 states and beyond? Back foot dug into the batter's box, the grip on the bat firm but relaxed. The baseball approaches as if in...
137 2007-03-04 Three months after canceling a bear hunt, the State Department of Environmental Protection received $850,000 in Gov. Jon S. Corzine's proposed budget for researching and initiating nonlethal methods of controlling the black bear population.      T...
138 2007-03-04 INFIDEL     By Ayaan Hirsi Ali.     Illustrated. 353 pp. Free Press. $26....
139 2007-03-04 What would it feel like to inhabit the role that so many have auditioned for across the decades, on ballfields in all 50 states and beyond? Back foot dug into the batter's box, the grip on the bat firm but relaxed. The baseball approaches as if in...
140 2007-03-04 To the Editor:     I applaud your Feb. 18 editorial ''The Do-Nothing Housing Council,'' which criticizes New Jersey's Council on Affordable Housing and most of our municipalities for failing to respond to the critical need for low-income housing. ...
141 2007-03-04 What would it feel like to inhabit the role that so many have auditioned for across the decades, on ballfields in all 50 states and beyond? Back foot dug into the batter's box, the grip on the bat firm but relaxed. The baseball approaches as if in...
142 2007-03-04 THE young couple are seated together awaiting another real estate agent's appraisal in what is called the ''English pub room'' of their 1730 antique home in Westport. Theirs is the kind of property that ads typically limn as ''historic charmer wit...
143 2007-03-04 ROSEN--Emily H., age 49, died on March 1, 2007. Wonderful daughter of Hoby and the late Norma Rosen; adored and playful younger sister of Andy Rosen and Julie Bowman; cherished sisterin-law of Paula Rosen and Tom Bowman; devoted aunt of Sam Rosen,...
144 2007-03-05 In Tuesday's column, I write about Barack Obama and argue that it's a canard that he is too inexperienced to be a good president. I quote briefly in the column from an interview I did with him in his Senate office on Feb. 27, but here are highligh...
145 2007-03-05 You might think that someone who decides where to invest billions of dollars could bend an equity analyst's ear with no problem. But as Bloomberg News tells it, some mutual fund managers are getting snubbed by stock researchers at investment banks...
146 2007-03-05 Shares of Palm jumped 11 percent Friday amid speculation that the company, which makes the Treo smart phone, could attract a takeover offer. Palm has been working with Morgan Stanley to consider its strategic options, people close to the company t...
147 2007-03-05 It's not uncommon for companies to offer product discounts to executives and directors. But there aren't many companies whose perks include a fixed amount of money specifically for buying wine. In a recent regulatory filing, UST, which makes wine ...
148 2007-03-05 Many people would jump at the chance to invest in hedge funds, which have mainly been available to only the very wealthy. But a new study finds that the funds' high fees make it unlikely that investors will improve their long-term performance by p...
149 2007-03-05 A new book on hedge funds pulls back the curtain slightly on an industry that is gaining increasing attention from lawmakers, regulators and the media. The New York Times says that "Inside the House of Money" by Steven Drobny is less a book of sus...
150 2007-03-05 Hedge funds are positioned to profit from the forthcoming sale of Landesbank Berlin regardless of who buys the bank, The Financial Times reported. As the closely watched auction of Landesbank Berlin continues, hedge funds have snapped up much of t...
151 2007-03-05 Clint Dolezel was 21 of 28 for 249 yards and 7 touchdowns, leading the Dallas Desperados to a 60-7 rout of the New York Dragons yesterday in Uniondale, N.Y., in the teams’ Arena Football League opener. The Desperados led at halftime, 33-0, before 13,783 at Nassau Coliseum.
152 2007-03-05 Lleyton Hewitt of Australia defeated Jürgen Melzer of Austria, 6-4, 7-6 (10), to win the Las Vegas Open yesterday, his first tournament victory in eight months. Hewitt trailed by 4-1 in the second set but saved four set points before winning the tie breaker to clinch his 26th career title.
153 2007-03-05 All nine will probably make at least three more appearances before Manager Willie Randolph, the pitching coach Rick Peterson and the staff begin making a decision. Under Peterson, pitch counts for starters rise to 45, from about 35, for second appearances.

Randolph, in discussing the starting candidates, has been careful not to say anything that indicates who may be leading or trailing. Maine’s Game 6 performance against the St. Louis Cardinals in last year’s National League Championship Series, in which he pitched five and a third scoreless innings in a 4-2 victory, may give him an edge, but Randolph gave no hint of that Sunday.

“We’re just learning, just like everybody else,” Randolph said of Maine. “We’ll watch him pitch and see where he falls into camp.”

Maine needs to keep pitching the way he did Sunday against his former team. Baltimore’s Brian Roberts led off the game by smacking a comebacker off Maine’s lower right leg. Maine scrambled to make the play at first, and after Randolph and the trainer Ray Ramirez checked on him, he kept pitching.

“It stiffened up a little bit, but that’s normal,” Maine said. “I’ll be doing drills tomorrow.”

Maine went on to face the minimum six batters, allowing one hit. Miguel Tejada hit a bloop single leading off the second, but Ramón Hernández grounded into a double play. Maine has been working on the changeup, which sinks, to complement his rising four-seam fastball and cut down on the long fly balls and home runs he gives up.

“Every spring training, there’s competition,” Maine said. “I can’t worry about what somebody else did or worry about what you do before you pitch. You have to just throw, basically.

“I’d like to come here and prove I can pitch effectively. That’s the goal for me.”

Humber’s attempt at the same thing began badly when the first six Orioles he faced reached base. Humber walked two, gave up three hits, threw a wild pitch and hit a batter as the Orioles batted around. The most damaging hit was the former Met Melvin Mora’s three-run double, on the first pitch after Peterson had visited the mound.

“He told me to just focus on getting the ball down, which obviously was a problem,” Humber said. “When I was missing, I was missing up. And when I got it down, it wasn’t down enough.”

Randolph played down Humber’s performance. “When it’s a young guy like that, I don’t take much from early starts because they’re a little hyped up,” Randolph said. “They need to settle in a little bit. It’s not something he needs to be concerned about.”

The former Met STEVE TRACHSEL, who signed a one-year contract with Baltimore as camp opened, spoke cryptically Sunday about why other teams did not pursue him. “I know exactly what happened, but I’m not going to talk about it,” he said. “It’s out of my control.” Trachsel, 15-8 with a 4.97 earned run average last year, was anonymously criticized by some Mets officials when he left Game 3 of the N.L.C.S. in the second inning with a bruised right thigh, further burdening an already strapped bullpen. He never pitched again in the seven-game series. General Manager OMAR MINAYA said the Mets let Trachsel go because they liked OLIVER PéREZ and JOHN MAINE and chose to spend free-agent money on position players. ... WILLIE RANDOLPH said he expected ORLANDO HERNáNDEZ (neck arthritis) to make his spring debut Wednesday or Thursday. ...TOM GLAVINE, who was excused from camp Saturday and Sunday for personal reasons, is expected back Monday.
154 2007-03-05 Yet the difficulty of recalibrating China’s soaring economy was also evident in Mr. Wen’s remarks. Economic growth reached 10.7 percent last year, and while Mr. Wen predicted a more modest 8 percent growth rate for 2007, he acknowledged that such projections are merely goals for budgeting purposes. China has repeatedly exceeded growth projections in recent years, and the government has struggled to keep a lid on the economy.

Mr. Wen described serious structural problems in the economy, but he emphasized that nothing was more important than maintaining the nation’s boom, which many experts consider essential to the Communist Party’s continued rule.

Environmental protection and energy conservation have earned an higher profile from government leaders in recent years as it has become evident that China’s economy is devouring its resources and polluting its land and air. The most recent five-year plan calls for a 20 percent reduction in energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product.

But Mr. Wen acknowledged that China had already failed to meet the reduction goals in the first year of that program. It also failed to meet a goal of reducing the overall discharge of pollutants by 2 percent last year, he said.

He blamed the setbacks on the slow pace of industrial restructuring, the growth of heavy industry and the failure of some local governments to abide by environmental laws.

Mr. Wen spent little time discussing the usually volatile issue of Taiwan and placed only passing emphasis on the country’s military modernization efforts. He did not mention this year’s large 17.8 percent increase in military spending, but said the People’s Liberation Army was in the midst of changes to transform it into a force capable of fighting the high-tech wars of the 21st century.

He called for continued overhauls of banking, currency valuation and the financial sectors and also addressed the trade issues that have become so contentious in the United States. “We must optimize the mix of imports and exports, change the pattern of China’s foreign trade growth and strive to reduce our excessively large trade surplus,” he said.

Mr. Wen spent more time expanding upon last year’s theme of building “a new socialist countryside,” the slogan for the government’s efforts to enliven the lagging rural economy. He said the economy had lifted incomes for both city and rural residents but acknowledged that an array of problems pressed down on common citizens, particularly the rural poor.

He warned that illegal land confiscation had to be stopped. He praised the real estate industry as an essential part of the national economy, but he called on developers, who have built expensive projects all over China, to also focus on building affordable housing and not to threaten “primary farmland.”

In the past, Mr. Wen has used his speeches before the National People’s Congress to announce plans to repeal the agricultural tax on farmers and to extend free schooling to students in the poorest regions. This year, he said the government would stop collecting tuition and fees from all rural students. He said the government would also expand pilot projects to build a rural cooperative health care system and would begin establishing the equivalent of a welfare program for the poorest people.

Corruption, meanwhile, has become a dominant concern in recent months, as President Hu Jintao has ordered a nationwide crackdown that many political analysts consider as much about purging political enemies as cleaning up the government.

Mr. Wen repeated demands that government officials act within the law and mentioned the need to end official extravagance. The two-week legislative session that opened Monday is usually a rubber-stamp gathering to approve initiatives already vetted by top leaders in Beijing. Delegates are expected to approve a major law protecting private property rights, as well as a new law equalizing corporate tax rates on foreign and domestic companies.

The property law, debated for years, was tabled at last year’s congress after it sparked an unusually public ideological debate about the merits of capitalism and socialism. Detractors have warned that the law would provide legal protection for officials who have misappropriated state assets and would also deepen the country’s income divide. Advocates say China’s embrace of market economics makes legal protections for private property a necessity.
155 2007-03-05 In each of these calls, said Brian Roehrkasse, a Justice Department spokesman, Mr. Domenici expressed general concerns about Mr. Iglesias and questioned whether he was “up to the job.” Mr. Roehrkasse added, “At no time did they discuss the public corruption case.”

A Justice Department official said Mr. Domenici’s criticism of Mr. Iglesias was a factor in the decision to remove the prosecutor, adding that the decision was also based on an internal evaluation at Justice Department headquarters regarding his handling of the job.

Mr. Iglesias, who is among five of the ousted prosecutors scheduled to testify in Congress on Tuesday, has said he interpreted the call from Mr. Domenici, and another from an unidentified federal lawmaker, as an effort to pressure him into bringing indictments before the November elections in an effort to embarrass Democrats.

He said that his unwillingness to be pressured into moving more quickly led to his removal.

The identity of the other lawmaker who contacted Mr. Iglesias remains unknown. Mr. Domenici is one of three Republican members of the state’s Congressional delegation. One of the others, Representative Steve Pearce, has said he did not contact Mr. Iglesias. The third, Representative Heather A. Wilson, has said she will not comment on the matter.

Justice Department officials have said Mr. Iglesias did not report the call to the agency’s headquarters and have insisted that none of the eight dismissed United States attorneys were removed because of their action or inaction in any political corruption cases. They have also said that the prosecutors were placed on the dismissal list for a variety of reasons, but have denied that any were removed because of political pressure from outside the Justice Department.

But repeated complaints from a veteran lawmaker like Mr. Domenici, who has been in the Senate since 1972 and is influential on law enforcement and border issues, would be unlikely to be easily dismissed by the Justice Department.

Mr. Domenici said that several months before his call, he recommended to the Justice Department “that New Mexico needed a new United States attorney,” even though he had recommended Mr. Iglesias’s appointment in 2001.

Mr. Domenici said that by 2004 and 2005, he and his staff had “expressed my frustration with the U.S. Attorney’s Office to the Justice Department” because it was moving too slowly on prosecutions.

Justice officials have said that F.B.I. officials complained that Mr. Iglesias was not bringing corruption cases fast enough, but have not mentioned Mr. Domenici’s efforts to remove him.
156 2007-03-05 Reaching out to millions of aspiring game developers around the world, Microsoft plans today to announce a contest that will award $10,000 and the opportunity to entice millions of eyeballs to the next great digital diversion for the company’s Xbox 360.

In addition to the game console’s snazzy graphics, the Xbox Live online service has been the most important component of the Xbox 360’s success since its debut in 2005. And perhaps the most popular aspect of Xbox Live has been the service’s arcade component, which allows users to download and play smaller, relatively simpler games like Uno and Geometry Wars that usually cost less than $10. (By contrast, top-end games can sell in stores for around $60.)

The popularity of Xbox Live Arcade has in turn attracted the attention of game developers looking to create the next Tetris or Minesweeper. Late last year, Microsoft introduced a suite of software tools for making so-called casual games called XNA.

And so at a game makers’ convention in San Francisco, Microsoft plans to announce a contest akin to the television show “Project Greenlight” that will award a cash prize and a potential slot on Xbox Live Arcade to the best new game created with XNA tools. The company intends to announce the winner of the contest, called “Dream-Build-Play,” in August.

“This competition highlights the power of XNA and the popularity of the Xbox Live Arcade service with its millions of users,” Aaron Greenberg, Microsoft’s group product manager for the Xbox 360 and Xbox Live, said in a telephone interview.

To help increase the popularity of casual games, Microsoft will also announce the introduction of a new 512-megabyte portable storage device for the Xbox 360. The previous portable storage unit contained only 64 megabytes of data, and so Xbox Live Arcade games had been limited to an official size of 50 megabytes. With the new unit, Microsoft will also raise the official size limit on Xbox Live Arcade games to 150 megabytes, allowing enhanced graphics, sound and artificial intelligence. SETH SCHIESEL
157 2007-03-05 LOS ANGELES, March 4 — Parents looking for role models for teenage daughters: Finally there is a show for you.

“Pussycat Dolls Present: The Search for the Next Doll,” which is to have its premiere on Tuesday night on the CW network, may look like just another reality show with attractive, slinkily dressed women preening for the camera in the hope of a shot at stardom.

But “Pussycat Dolls Present” is about female empowerment, the show’s producers explained to a group of television writers and critics here in January,

“Everything the Pussycat Dolls are is everything that I’ve developed myself into being,” said the rap star Lil’ Kim, who is a judge on the show and who served a prison sentence for lying to a federal grand jury about a shooting outside a radio station.

For the uninitiated, the Pussycat Dolls are a female singing group whose six members slither through their music videos dressed like Barbie’s nasty cousins. In their best known song they ask the musical question: “Don’t cha wish your girlfriend was a freak like me?”

Dismiss immediately whatever pornographic inferences such a performance might bring to mind, said McG, the music producer and film director who is an executive producer of “Pussycat Dolls Present.” The Dolls, McG said, are simply making a heartfelt inquiry: “It’s just like saying, ‘Don’t you wish your girlfriend could be free and comfortable in her own skin and do her own thing, like me?’ ”
158 2007-03-05 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:

Clearwire Corp., an initial public offering of 20 million class A shares. Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and J.P. Morgan Securities.

Sourcefire, an initial public offering of 5.8 million shares. Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers.

Xinhua Finance Media Ltd., an initial public offering of 23.1 million American depository shares, each representing 2 common shares. J.P. Morgan Securities and UBS Securities.
159 2007-03-05 The euthanasia of more than 1,000 dogs and cats at the main animal shelter in Las Vegas is surely a major tragedy in the sheltering field (news article, Feb. 16), and the rapid spread of diseases at a facility packed with 1,800 animals required swift action to prevent even more suffering and loss of life.

The Humane Society of the United States’ recommendation to euthanize animals after 72 hours at the shelter was specific to this situation and does not apply universally, as your article might suggest.

Shelters across the country are required to hold animals to let owners reclaim lost pets. For the Lied Animal Shelter, 72 hours is the standard hold period.

Our recommendation is that shelters determine which animals are adoptable during those hold periods, with those animals made available for adoption or placed in foster care or with rescue organizations.

The best though regrettable option for unadoptable (ill or aggressive) animals is to euthanize them to avoid prolonged suffering and confinement.

In Las Vegas, housing unadoptable animals for too long contributed to the overcrowding and allowed parvo, distemper and other diseases to incubate and rapidly spread through the shelter’s animal population.
160 2007-03-05 They teach you in law school that only a decision’s holdings count. Holdings are the narrow legal propositions on which decisions turn. Everything else — all the observations and footnotes and erudition — is dicta.

But the Supreme Court may be different, and judges on lower courts should probably listen to it with particular care. The court, after all, hears only a few cases, considers them thoroughly and, in painstaking and detailed decisions, often gives the lower courts broad guidance.

The dissenting appeals judge in the 2-to-1 decision in Boumediene, Judith W. Rogers, said her colleagues were thumbing their noses at the Supreme Court. She said they were “ignoring the Supreme Court’s well-considered and binding dictum” concerning the historical roots and geographical scope of the prisoners’ basic rights, and she cited a case from her own court that said that such statements “generally must be treated as authoritative.”

The question sounds academic, if not impenetrable, but it matters. The Guantánamo docket has been moving with geological speed. If another Supreme Court reversal is inevitable, and if the court has already signaled how it will rule in Boumediene, it does the detainees a profound disservice for appeals court judges not to anticipate what the justices will do.

Almost three years ago, the Supreme Court ruled in Rasul that the detainees possessed an ancient and fundamental right — the right to challenge the justness of their confinement in court by filing petitions for writs of habeas corpus.

In the crucial aside in Rasul, Justice John Paul Stevens, writing for the majority, said this right was not just a result of a law passed by Congress but was grounded in the Constitution. “Application of the habeas statute to persons detained at the base,” he wrote, “is consistent with the historical reach of the writ of habeas corpus.”

If that is right, a new law pushed by the Bush administration, the Military Commissions Act, could not have cut off the detainees’ rights to habeas corpus. In a footnote, the appeals court majority basically acknowledged that. But it ruled that the Supreme Court’s historical analysis was wrong and that Justice Stevens’s dictum could be ignored. It upheld the new law.

Instead of looking to Rasul, which was recent and concerned Guantánamo, the appeals court justified its decision by citing a 1950 Supreme Court decision, Johnson v. Eisentrager. That case involved German citizens convicted of war crimes in China and held at a prison in Germany. The court ruled that they had no right to habeas corpus.

The court’s reliance on Eisentrager was curious. Both Justice Antonin Scalia, dissenting in Rasul, and John Yoo, an architect of the Bush administration’s post-9/11 legal strategy, have written that they understood Rasul to have overruled Eisentrager.

The Eisentrager court had, moreover, listed six factors supporting its conclusion that the German prisoners there had no habeas rights, among them that they were citizens of a country we had been at war with, that they had been tried and convicted by military tribunals and that they were imprisoned outside the United States.

All of these points, Justice Stevens wrote in Rasul, counted in favor of the Guantánamo detainees.

“They are not nationals of countries at war with the United States,” Justice Stevens wrote, “and they deny that they have engaged in or plotted acts of aggression against the United States; they have never been afforded access to any tribunal, much less charged with and convicted of wrongdoing; and for more than two years they have been imprisoned in territory over which the United States exercises exclusive jurisdiction and control.”

The detainees will ask the Supreme Court to put Boumediene on a fast track, and it may not be long until we hear from Justice Stevens again.
161 2007-03-05 EASY COME, UNTIL RECENTLY -- Just as the technology boom of the late 1990s turned twenty-something programmers into dot-com billionaires, the explosive growth in subprime lending in recent years turned mortgage bankers and brokers across the count...
162 2007-03-05 To the Editor:     The euthanasia of more than 1,000 dogs and cats at the main animal shelter in Las Vegas is surely a major tragedy in the sheltering field (news article, Feb. 16), and the rapid spread of diseases at a facility packed with 1,800 ...
163 2007-03-06 After Virginia Commonwealth's 65-59 victory against George Mason in Monday night's Colonial Athletic Association final, a few Rams bounded around the court wearing huge chain-link gold-colored necklaces. They were not trying to bring back the '80s...
164 2007-03-06 Speaking to county officials today, Senators John McCain and Joe Biden warned that failure in Iraq now could mean going back in the future....
165 2007-03-06 In a National Review cover story headlined "The Coming McCain Moment," [$] Ramesh Ponnuru argues that there are only "three substantial issues between McCain and conservatives": global warming, taxes and immigration. With Mitt Romney stumbling, Po...
166 2007-03-06 J.P. Morgan Chase overtook Goldman Sachs to become the largest hedge-fund manager in the United States, according to a new survey, as its flagship fund gained almost 25 percent while Goldman's fell for the first time in seven years. Hedge-fund ass...
167 2007-03-06 The financing arm of the Chrysler Group, the American division of DaimlerChrysler, could be sold as its parent company considers options, DaimlerChrysler's chief executive said Monday. On Feb. 14, DaimlerChrysler said it was keeping all options op...
168 2007-03-06 As exchanges around the world consolidated in recent months, shareholders of the TSX Group have apparently had one big question: How would their company get into the lucrative and fast-growing derivatives business? The answer came Monday when the ...
169 2007-03-06 Not everyone is making a bundle selling commercial real estate these days. The Boston Globe reports that in his latest deal, Alan Leventhal, head of Beacon Capital Partners, lacked the Midas touch of his deals past. The Boston real estate executiv...
170 2007-03-06 NBC Universal has agreed to back a production company started by two former heads of network entertainment programming, Gail Berman and Lloyd Braun. The company signed a deal Monday with NBC's chief executive, Jeffrey Zucker, at Fresco by Scotto i...
171 2007-03-06 BP said it had agreed to buy Chevron's manufacturing company in the Netherlands, Texaco Raffinaderij Pernis, for about $900 million, excluding working capital and hydrocarbon inventory. BP will acquire Chevron's 31 percent minority shareholding in...
172 2007-03-06 In court papers that the attorney general’s office filed on Monday to obtain the search warrants and to freeze Mr. Leggiero’s assets, investigators claim that V.I.P. was a “sham entity” that Mr. Leggiero created in order to defraud the state.

“Leggiero used V.I.P. funds to pay for expenses related to the recreational soccer activities of himself and his family, his mortgage, child care for his family, telephone bills and other personal uses, and provided funds to family and friends,” the attorney general’s office wrote in a complaint filed at State Supreme Court in Rensselaer County.

The investigation opened a new front in the activities of the public integrity unit that Mr. Cuomo expanded this year. The unit has already begun scrutinizing the “member item” pork barrel spending of lawmakers, moved to create a Web site where the public can more easily track campaign donations and lobbying, and voided the attempts of members of a state housing agency to award themselves post-retirement health benefits.

Now the unit is turning its attention to state operations, and the contracting operations of a state government whose annual budget will soon be $120 billion a year. “That’s where the money is,” said a senior official in the attorney general’s office.

Investigators said they were troubled that the scheme went undetected for more than eight years. “This wasn’t a very sophisticated scam,” the official said.

Ellen Nachtigall Biben, the deputy attorney general in charge of the public integrity unit, said, “This case is a complete breakdown in internal control mechanisms.”

The case was referred to the attorney general’s office in January by the state comptroller’s office, which noticed during a routine audit that V.I.P. had only a post office box, but no physical address — raising a red flag. Investigators from the attorney general’s office quickly uncovered a number of surprising things, which they detailed in a series of court papers that they filed in order to get the search warrants.

They reviewed dozens of payments, from a few hundred dollars to more than $99,000, that Mr. Leggiero approved to V.I.P. in order to conduct “feasibility studies” to identify sites for residential treatment centers for people with mental illness. Mr. Leggiero signed a line that said, “I certify that this claim is correct and just, and payment is approved.” Over all, the state has paid $1,232,072.42 to V.I.P, investigators said.

But V.I.P. had no listed telephone number, and does not appear to be incorporated, investigators said. The accompanying paperwork listing the sites that they claimed to study listed incomplete addresses that made it impossible to determine whether any of the sites the company claimed to have studied even existed.

And in letters to the Office of Mental Health, V.I.P. claimed that someone named “Michael Raymond” had prepared architectural feasibility reports on the sites. But investigators found no one by that name on the list of licensed architects and engineers maintained by the state, and no payments from V.I.P.’s bank account to anyone by that name.

Officials at the attorney general’s office said that the investigation in continuing.
173 2007-03-06 The report listed a series of “sobering realities” affecting rights in countries including Russia and China. But it called genocide “the most sobering reality of all.”

“The Sudanese government and government-backed Janjaweed militia bear responsibility for the genocide in Darfur,” the department said.

An estimated 200,000 people have died as a result of the turmoil in Darfur, a region in western Sudan. The report cited “serious abuses, including widespread killing of civilians, rape as a tool of war, systematic torture, robbery and recruitment of child soldiers.”

Two senior American diplomats — Mr. Lowenkron and Andrew Natsios, the special envoy for Sudan — are scheduled to visit Khartoum in the next week, where they are each expected to meet with President Omar al-Bashir.

American diplomats are also due to meet with Iranian envoys soon at multinational talks on that country’s nuclear program. The report found that an already poor human rights record had worsened in Iran in the last year.

The report devoted 44 pages to Iraq, dealing largely with the dynamics of the continuing violence there.

As in last year’s report, serious accusations were leveled of extensive police involvement in disappearances and torture of prisoners in Iraq. Corruption was said found to be widespread at “all levels of government.”

Death squads affiliated with the Interior Ministry “targeted Sunnis and conducted kidnapping raids and killings in Baghdad and its environs, largely with impunity,” the report said.

The rights situation in Afghanistan was also said to have remained poor — violence there increased sharply last year — but the nation’s police were being more closely monitored and better trained, the department found.

The North Korean record also remained poor, the report said, including reports of executions of political prisoners and government opponents. American diplomats are meeting in New York this week with envoys from North Korea to disuss normalizing relations, an outgrowth of a six-nation agreement intended to halt the North’s nuclear weapons program.

Asked whether human rights issues would be part of the negotiations flowing from that agreement, Mr. Lowenkron said he would find it “inconceivable” if they were not.

A sweeping array of Russian abuses was noted, including the “contract-style killings of pro-reform Central Bank Deputy Chairman Andrei Kozlov and journalist Anna Politkovskaya,” as well as “political pressure on the judiciary,” corruption and “alleged government involvement in politically motivated abductions, disappearances, and unlawful killings in Chechnya and elsewhere.”

China’s record, the report said, included increased high-profile cases of harassment, detention or imprisonment of journalists, activists and defense lawyers and a tightening of restrictions on free expression. There were reports of extrajudicial killings, torture and the use of forced labor.

“Against the backdrop of 30 years, they certainly have made progress,” Mr. Lowenkron said of China, but “against the backdrop of last year, I am disappointed.”

Problems noted in Pakistan included including extrajudicial killings, torture, and an increase in disappearances of activists and political opponents.

The State Department also took note in the report of progress by some countries, notably Liberia, where the new government of President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf moved to rehabilitate the justice system and oust corrupt officials; Morocco, where the government was dealing increasingly actively with rights complaints; Congo, which held its first democratic elections in decades; and Ukraine, which last March held parliamentary elections deemed “the freest in 15 years of independence.”
174 2007-03-06 The Louvre Abu Dhabi, designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel as a 260,000-square-foot complex covered by a flying-saucer-like roof, is expected to cost around $108 million to build. Planned as a universal museum, it will include art from all eras and regions, including Islamic art.

The project will be overseen by a new International Agency for French Museums that is to include the Musée d’Orsay, the Georges Pompidou Center, the Musée Guimet, the Château de Versailles, the Musée Rodin, the Musée du Quai Branly and the Louvre among its members. This agency is also expected to seek new international partners in the coming years.

Still, it was inevitable that the focus of attention would be the renting of the Louvre’s name. It was this that upset many French traditionalists, including 4,700 signers of an online petition objecting to the accord. But it was also the Louvre brand that Abu Dhabi most coveted to add prestige to its ambitious Saadiyat Island plan.

“It’s a fair fee for the concession of the name,” Mr. Loyrette told Agence-France Presse in Abu Dhabi. “This tutelary role deserves reward. It’s normal.”

Apart from paying $520 million to the French agency for the use of the Louvre name for 30 years, with $195 million to be paid within one month, Abu Dhabi has also agreed to make a direct donation of $32.5 million to the Louvre to refurbish a wing of the Pavillon de Flore for the display of international art.

This gallery, to be ready by 2010, will carry the name of Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahayan, the founder and longtime ruler of the United Arab Emirates, who died in 2004.

Abu Dhabi will also finance a new Abu Dhabi art research center in France and pay for restoration of the Château de Fontainebleau’s theater, which will be named after Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahayan, the current president.

For a government-owned cultural institution in France to carry the name of a corporate or foreign donor is also a first and may well raise eyebrows here. In the past, for instance, the Louvre has turned down offers of financial help from philanthropists who asked that galleries be named after them in return.

France is profiting handsomely from this deal: in exchange for $247 million, it will rotate between 200 and 300 artworks through the Louvre Abu Dhabi during a 10-year period; it will be paid $214.5 million over 20 years for the management expertise provided by its new museums agency; and it will provide four temporary exhibitions a year for 15 years in exchange for $253.5 million.

In a telephone interview from Abu Dhabi, Mubarak Al-Muhairi, the deputy chairman of the emirate’s tourism authority, dismissed rumors that the new museum would reject loans or exhibitions from France including Christian religious art or depicting, say, nudity. “In principle, there are no restrictions,” he said, “but both sides will agree on what is shown.”

He said that the authority’s hope was that the Louvre Abu Dhabi and the Guggenheim Abu Dhabi, which is being designed by Frank Gehry, would open by or soon after 2012, with the other parts of the cultural center to follow.

He added that while Abu Dhabi is expected to spend around $520 million during the next decade on assembling its own art holdings, “it is our intention to build the collection gradually so as not to disturb the market.” In this, the French museums agency is also expected to play an advisory role.

In a statement, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan said the accord reinforced Abu Dhabi’s vision of becoming “a world-class destination bridging global cultures.”

In a message read at Tuesday’s ceremony, the French president, Jacques Chirac, said the arrangement “sealed a partnership with the world’s most visited and well-known museum.”
175 2007-03-06 Bush administration officials pledged today to move swiftly to correct the problems uncovered at Walter Reed Medical Center and in the overall system of providing treatment and assistance for military people wounded in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Speaking before the American Legion, a leading veteran’s group, President Bush said today that he was appointing a presidential commission to investigate what he called “unacceptable” treatment of wounded veterans. He said the commission would be led by Bob Dole, the former Senate majority leader and Republican presidential candidate, and by Donna Shalala, a former Secretary of Health and Human Services in the Clinton administration.

Mr. Dole served in the Army during World War II and was grievously wounded in combat in Italy.

Mr. Bush said the present system is “unacceptable to me, unacceptable to you, its unacceptable to our country — and it’s not going to continue.”

“We have an obligation, we have a moral obligation,” Mr. Bush added, “to provide the best possible care and treatment to the men and women who have served our country. They deserve it. And they are going to get it.”

Leaders of the Defense Department and the Army, in testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee this morning, said they were beginning a program to correct the problems at Walter Reed and other military medical treatment centers.

The pledges to correct the system came a day after soldiers testifying before a House panel said that they had fallen through the bureaucratic cracks as out-patients, and had been forced to try to make their own arrangements for continuing care for their serious war wounds.
176 2007-03-06 The underlying economies of most countries in Asia, and in fact of most important world markets, are sound, many economists believe, and they say that growth will continue.

Still, strategists reiterated today that Asian markets over the next few weeks could still be a roller coaster.

“There is no fundamental reason pointing to a sustained meltdown, but volatility will remain with us for a while” as investors remain nervous, said Yipang Huang, head of economic and market analysis for Citigroup Global Markets Asia.

Various economic statistics due out in coming days could trigger other drops, he said. “The sentiment is very unstable,” he added.

Strong performers on Monday included Sony, which gained more than 4 percent, Japan’s Kobe Steel, which gained more than 7 percent, and Australian miner BHP Billiton, up 2.73 percent. Commodities including oil were hard hit on Monday, but oil stabilized in today’s trading in Asia.

The dollar rebounded against the yen after hitting three-month lows on Monday, a sign that investors were no longer unwinding the popular “carry trade” that uses low interest yen loans to invest in riskier Asian markets.

The yen hit 116.47 against the dollar, versus 115.53 on Monday.

Analysts increasingly blame the severity of the latest slide in Asia’s markets on the activity of hedge funds and the relatively risky nature of the trades that many hedge funds make.

Hedge funds have been active participants in the carry trade, borrowing yen in Japan, where interest rates are still less than 1 percent, to buy stocks and bonds in emerging markets where the rates of return have been in double digits.

Many of these same funds, analysts say, are also likely to have invested in the U.S. market for sub-prime mortgage debt, meaning losses there can put pressure on them to reduce their exposure to emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere.

But selling securities bought with borrowed yen comes with its own set of problems that can hasten market declines.

During the recent market falls, carry traders who sold emerging market positions tended to pay off their yen-denominated debts, helping to push the yen higher. This trend then prompted even more furious selling by carry traders, as the rising yen raised the cost of their loans and they rushed to cut their losses as their holdings in emerging markets fell.

The five-day Asian stock slide was begun last Tuesday, when China’s main index dropped about 9 percent, unnerving investors in the region and dragging down European and American markets as well.

Investors in European and United States markets may need to brace themselves for more of the same, some analysts think. The drop “is the first time that China has had a material impact on the financial markets outside Asia,” Citigroup analysts said in a report, “and it probably will not be the last time.”
177 2007-03-06 Still, strategists reiterated today that Asian markets over the next few weeks could still be a roller coaster.

“There is no fundamental reason pointing to a sustained meltdown, but volatility will remain with us for a while” as investors remain nervous, said Yipang Huang, head of economic and market analysis for Citigroup Global Markets Asia.

Various economic statistics due out in coming days could trigger other drops, he said. “The sentiment is very unstable,” he added.

Strong performers on Monday included Sony, which gained more than 4 percent, Japan’s Kobe Steel, which gained more than 7 percent, and Australian miner BHP Billiton, up 2.73 percent. Commodities including oil were hard hit on Monday, but oil stabilized in today’s trading in Asia.

The dollar rebounded against the yen after hitting three-month lows on Monday, a sign that investors were no longer unwinding the popular “carry trade” that uses low interest yen loans to invest in riskier Asian markets.

The yen hit 116.47 against the dollar, versus 115.53 on Monday.

Analysts increasingly blame the severity of the latest slide in Asia’s markets on the activity of hedge funds and the relatively risky nature of the trades that many hedge funds make.

Hedge funds have been active participants in the carry trade, borrowing yen in Japan, where interest rates are still less than 1 percent, to buy stocks and bonds in emerging markets where the rates of return have been in double digits.

Many of these same funds, analysts say, are also likely to have invested in the U.S. market for sub-prime mortgage debt, meaning losses there can put pressure on them to reduce their exposure to emerging markets in Asia and elsewhere.

But selling securities bought with borrowed yen comes with its own set of problems that can hasten market declines.

During the recent market falls, carry traders who sold emerging market positions tended to pay off their yen-denominated debts, helping to push the yen higher. This trend then prompted even more furious selling by carry traders, as the rising yen raised the cost of their loans and they rushed to cut their losses as their holdings in emerging markets fell.

The five-day Asian stock slide was begun last Tuesday, when China’s main index dropped about 9 percent, unnerving investors in the region and dragging down European and American markets as well.

Investors in European and United States markets may need to brace themselves for more of the same, some analysts think. The drop “is the first time that China has had a material impact on the financial markets outside Asia,” Citigroup analysts said in a report, “and it probably will not be the last time.”
178 2007-03-06 SEATTLE, March 5 (Reuters) — The Microsoft Corporation, the software giant, has prepared a blistering attack on rival Google, arguing that the Web search leader takes a cavalier approach to copyright protection.

In remarks prepared for delivery on Tuesday to the Association of American Publishers, the associate general counsel of Microsoft, Thomas Rubin, argues that Google’s move into new media markets has come at the expense of publishers of books, videos and software.

Mr. Rubin’s comments echo arguments at the heart of a 16-month-old copyright lawsuit against Google brought by five book publishers and organized by the Association of American Publishers, an industry trade group.

“Companies that create no content of their own, and make money solely on the backs of other people’s content, are raking in billions through advertising revenue and I.P.O.s,” said Mr. Rubin, who oversees copyright and trade-secret law.

“Google takes the position that everything may be freely copied unless the copyright owner notifies Google and tells it to stop,” Mr.Rubin said. Microsoft, he said, asks the copyright’s owner for permission first..
179 2007-03-06 BP said it had agreed to buy Chevron’s manufacturing company in the Netherlands, Texaco Raffinaderij Pernis, for about $900 million, excluding working capital and hydrocarbon inventory. BP will acquire Chevron’s 31 percent minority shareholding in the Netherlands Refining Company as well as Chevron’s stake in the jointly owned wind farm located at the refinery; shareholdings in the nearby crude oil terminal and storage facility; and a number of associated pipelines. The deal, which is expected to be completed during the first half of the year, would make the refinery a 100 percent BP- owned asset.
180 2007-03-06 A team searching for five British citizens kidnapped in Ethiopia found three of their vehicles near the disputed border with Eritrea. One bore eight shrapnel holes in the driver’s door and a small explosion appears to have occurred in the passenger’s seat of a Land Rover, the BBC reported. A third car was more badly damaged, it said. The vehicles were found abandoned near Berhale, in the northeast Afar region that borders Eritrea, according to The Associated Press. The Britons, embassy staff members and their relatives, were sightseeing when they were seized by gunmen on Thursday along with local guides. Eritrea has denied claims that its forces seized them, and no group has claimed responsibility. “This is a matter of serious concern,” said the British foreign secretary, Margaret Beckett. A group of French tourists also missing since Thursday arrived in the Afar city of Mekele on Sunday and said they had not been kidnapped, as was believed.
181 2007-03-06 “This is ongoing, ridiculous and stupid,” Schofield said of the N.C.A.A.’s decision. “It’s a waste of my time.”

He said he did not know about the latest decision until a reporter showed him the N.C.A.A.’s news release Monday. He said that the school changed locations and that the person at the community center where it used to be was throwing away its mail. Lennon said Lutheran should have informed the N.C.A.A. of the move.

Lutheran Christian Academy and numerous other prep schools came under increased scrutiny last year after investigations by The New York Times showed that athletes were receiving high grades for little or no work. Four players told The Times that Schofield was their only teacher and that they were not required to attend classes.

Students from Lutheran Christian Academy have gone on to play at Georgetown, Mississippi State, Temple, Texas-El Paso and numerous other universities. Schofield said that in the past year he had taken in students with better grades than those in previous years. Most of his new students, Schofield said, have graduated from other high schools and qualified to play in college but need another year of exposure as players.

He said that he expected Lutheran Christian to become a “model” or “quality” school soon and that he planned to attend an Accelerated Christian Education convention in Texas. A customer service representative at ACE, Daniel Branscum, said that a key element in receiving “model” status was attending one of the group’s conventions.

While a reporter listened, Schofield called ACE. After the telephone conversation, he said someone was scheduled next week to inspect the school’s new site, which Schofield proudly pointed out included a library.

Schofield said the N.C.A.A.’s badgering of him and his school stemmed from a tide of negative publicity and the organization’s inability to manage transcripts from secondary schools.

“They’re only doing this because they can’t govern what’s going on,” Schofield said. “They know the people paying money for players. They know what’s going on.”

Prince Avenue Prep has sent basketball players to such universities as Auburn, Tennessee and Marshall and recently had a football player sign with the Citadel. Mark Knight, the principal and coach at the school, did not return calls for comment last night.

For the N.C.A.A., the past year has been an education in navigating the tricky waters of determining the credibility of secondary schools. Lennon said that the organization felt good about its process so far, having removed schools it said had no academic integrity, and was working on determining the credibility of other schools.

“The storefront operations, those are easy,” he said. “We’ve sniffed those out. It’s a little more challenging in these instances. In this case, these aren’t up to the standard of what even the curriculum providers indicate should be done.”

Lennon said that while the N.C.A.A. would not accept courses completed at the two schools, the athletes at those schools were not eliminated from N.C.A.A. eligibility. He said that each individual’s academic portfolio would be reviewed without the courses from Lutheran Christian or Prince Avenue Prep. He said the N.C.A.A. would look strongly at each student’s standardized test scores.

“We’ll look at their SAT or A.C.T. scores and get a full sense of the student’s academic readiness,” Lennon said. “We’ll see if there’s enough in the record to say that they should be a qualifier.”

Monday’s news was met with little reaction in the prep and college basketball world. St. Joseph’s Coach Phil Martelli applauded the N.C.A.A. for its diligence and for not overreacting. He added that there had been little talk of Lutheran Christian in Philadelphia basketball circles the past few months.

“I think that they’ve attempted to be thorough, fair and exact,” Martelli said of the N.C.A.A. “That’s all we can ask for in anything that they do.”

Mike Byrnes, the coach at the Winchendon School, a traditional prep school in Massachusetts that opened in 1926, said there were still unanswered questions at the prep school level.

“Obviously it’s a step in the right direction that they’ve been proactive and done something,” Byrnes said. “I have not lost out on kids to any of those schools. But there are other schools out there where I told people I don’t feel comfortable that I can get a kid qualified. I’d like to figure out how those other schools are getting people qualified when I can’t.”
182 2007-03-06 The New York Police Department has been going fishing. Not content to nab criminals when they break the law on their own, the department has been planting unattended bags in subway stations to see who might take them, at which point waiting officers pounce.

As NY1 News reported last week, 220 people were arrested last year in the sting, known as Operation Lucky Bag. In dismissing one of these cases, a Brooklyn judge said the police “do not need to manipulate a situation where temptation may overcome even people who would normally never think of committing a crime.” This program bothers us for that and many other reasons and should be discontinued immediately.

Civil libertarians have argued that the program is entrapment. That is a legal distinction for the courts to decide, but it certainly looks like that to a layperson. It is clearly a poor use of resources. People wandering off with lost property ranks far down the list of law enforcement priorities.

There is also the question of whether the sting does actual harm. In an era of terrorism, when the police have to rely on the help of average people to notice anything suspicious — including apparently abandoned bags — the last thing New York needs are cynical operations that encourage mistrust between the police and subway riders.

And of course, there is the effect on neighborliness. It is remarkable how many people in this city are willing to track down the owners of lost cellphones, wallets or bags. Arresting good Samaritans is bad enough, but encouraging them not to help in the future through this kind of overly aggressive policing is a downright shame. The best thing to do with this misbegotten program would be to end it.
183 2007-03-06 A casino spokeswoman, Courtney Birmingham, declined to comment except to say that Mr. Rennich was not the only person let go last weekend. Mr. Rennich said that 17 other long-time employees were laid off in what the casino — which was bought last year by Columbia Sussex, a Kentucky-based company — described to them as “restructuring.”

Mr. Rennich’s dismissal came a week after he spoke before the Senate Health Committee here in favor of a bill to eliminate the smoking exemption for casinos.

And a month ago he addressed the City Council in Atlantic City — at times emotional and darkly humorous — vainly urging the rejection of a compromise ordinance that allows smoking in 25 percent of the gambling areas in the city’s 11 casinos.

Mr. Rennich, 48, learned that he had lung cancer by chance when he was hospitalized after an automobile accident. He underwent surgery to have a portion of his right lung removed, and returned to work five months later.

“This is all I’ve done,” he said in explaining why he returned to his $55,000-a-year job. “I personally didn’t think they would fire me considering how high profile and public I have been in the antismoking effort. But now I’m all in.”

State Senator Joseph F. Vitale, a Democrat from Middlesex County, who is sponsoring legislation that would end the smoking exemption, said it appeared that in letting Mr. Rennich go, the casino’s new owners made a business decision to replace several longtime employees with part-time workers who earn less.

“It’s more than just fundamentally unfair,” Mr. Vitale said. “It is a pathetic way to design a business model.”

Mr. Rennich said he was determined to keep pressing his lawsuit against the Tropicana, which he noted would not benefit him personally “because I’ll be dead.” For now, he said, his main concern was how to pay for private health insurance that he estimated would cost $800 a month.

“If I was the worst employee in the history of gaming,” he asked, “how could they get rid of me at this point?”
184 2007-03-06 BATON ROUGE, La., March 5 (AP) — The former clerk of the criminal court in New Orleans improperly handled more than $364,000 in evidence-room money, failed to document her office’s credit card spending and used public money on her own nonprofit group, a possible violation of the Louisiana Constitution, according to an auditor’s report released Monday.

The report, from the Office of the Legislative Auditor, included some of the same accusations against the former clerk, Kimberly Williamson Butler, as those cited earlier by the New Orleans district attorney, including that she misused public money and signed an $8 million contract for cleanup work after Hurricane Katrina that was never done.

These were among the accusations in the auditor’s report:

¶Ms. Butler signed the $8 million contract with BioDefense America, a little-known Florida company, for cleanup of flood damage, but no evidence exists that work was performed. The contract provided for an initial payment to BioDefense of $200,000 or $350,000; separate documents signed by Ms. Butler do not agree on the amount. BioDefense abandoned the project, and another company was hired last year for $4.3 million.

¶Ms. Butler used $364,665 in evidence-room money without the required approval from the city, which legally controls such money.

¶She failed to keep records when she and her employees used her office’s credit cards. For 279 purchases, totaling $41,804, Ms. Butler’s office had receipts or documentation for 75, or fewer than a third.
185 2007-03-06 Bob Hattoy, who drew wide attention with a nationally televised speech about AIDS at the 1992 Democratic National Convention and then became a forceful advocate for gay and lesbian issues in the Clinton White House, died on Sunday in Sacramento. He was 56.

The cause was complications of AIDS, said Adrianna Shea, special assistant at the California Fish and Game Commission, where Mr. Hattoy was the newly appointed president.

“President Clinton learned a valuable lesson when he appointed Bob Hattoy to work in the White House: Never hire a dying man; he has nothing to lose,” Richard L. Berke wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1993. Mr. Hattoy himself joked that he had gotten the job only because everyone thought he would die in no time.

As it turned out, he outlived the Clinton presidency by more than six years.

Mr. Hattoy had just learned he had AIDS when he took the stage at the Democratic convention at Mr. Clinton’s behest. “We are part of the American family,” he said, addressing himself to the incumbent president, George H. Bush. “And, Mr. President, your family has AIDS, and we are dying, and you are doing nothing about it.”

“I don’t want to die,” he said. “But I don’t want to live in an America where the president sees me as the enemy. I can face dying because of a disease, but not because of politics.”
186 2007-03-06 In the months before the American invasion of Iraq, Zbigniew Brzezinski, former national security adviser to President Jimmy Carter, was one of the few members of the foreign policy establishment (along with Brent Scowcroft, former national security adviser to President George H. W. Bush) to speak out strongly about the dangers of going to war unilaterally against Saddam Hussein, and to warn, presciently it turns out, of the possibly dire consequences of doing so without a larger strategic plan.

In August 2002, as the current Bush administration was already hurrying toward an invasion, Mr. Brzezinski cautioned that war “is too serious a business and too unpredictable in its dynamic consequences — especially in a highly flammable region — to be undertaken because of a personal peeve, demagogically articulated fears or vague factual assertions.” In February 2003, just weeks before the invasion, he added that “an America that decides to act essentially on its own regarding Iraq” could “find itself quite alone in having to cope with the costs and burdens of the war’s aftermath, not to mention widespread and rising hostility abroad.”

In his compelling new book, “Second Chance: Three Presidents and the Crisis of American Superpower,” Mr. Brzezinski not only assesses the short- and long-term fallout of the Iraq war, but also puts that grim situation in perspective with the tumultuous global changes that have taken place in the last two decades. He dispassionately analyzes American foreign policy as conducted by the last three presidents — George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George H. W. Bush — and he gives the reader a sobering analysis of where these leaders’ cumulative decisions have left the United States as it now searches for an exit strategy from Iraq, faces potentially explosive situations in Iran and North Korea and copes with an increasingly alienated Europe and an increasingly assertive China.

Mr. Brzezinski’s verdict on the current president’s record — “catastrophic,” he calls it — is nothing short of devastating. And his overall assessment of America’s current plight is worrying as well: “Though in some dimensions, such as the military, American power may be greater in 2006 than in 1991, the country’s capacity to mobilize, inspire, point in a shared direction and thus shape global realities has significantly declined. Fifteen years after its coronation as global leader, America is becoming a fearful and lonely democracy in a politically antagonistic world.”

“Second Chance” is, in some respects, a continuation of the author’s earlier books “The Choice: Global Domination or Global Leadership” (2004) and “The Grand Chessboard: American Primacy and Its Geostrategic Imperatives” (1997), which examined the responsibilities and perils of global leadership facing America as the one superpower in a post-cold-war world. As in those books, Mr. Brzezinski employs a brisk, no-nonsense style here, using his erudition in history and foreign policy to lay out his views succinctly. A confirmed realist (a school of thinking willfully dismissed by the idealists and ideological hawks in the current Bush administration), the author writes with a keen understanding of the ways in which military or political actions in one part of the world can affect developments in another region, as well as a shrewd appreciation of the fallout of a global zeitgeist that is increasingly anti-imperialist, anti-Western and anti-American.
187 2007-03-06 Analysts in Europe said that the sell-off of assets considered risky was likely to continue for some days. But they said that the decline was probably not a sign of a new recession and that it was unlikely to set one off.

One fund manager noted that there is still enough liquidity in the market and companies are still reporting higher profits, so the stock slump is not likely to be more than a market correction.

“This is the way that corrections work,” said Garry Evans, a strategist with HSBC in Hong Kong.

The markets are “spooked,” he said. “A week ago, everyone was very excited about the markets and now no one wants to buy stocks,” he added.

Some were a bit less sanguine: “There is a genuine fear that the correction will be more than 10 percent globally for the developed markets,” said Michael Hughes, chief investment officer at Baring Asset Management in London. “We had such a good run that there is a sense that money has been made too easily.”

The pan-Asian and European declines extended a downward trend that began last Tuesday when the Shanghai stock market dropped nearly 9 percent. Investors in Europe said they are closely watching the American bond markets and the performance of safer stocks, such as banks and healthcare, for any signs that the recent market jitters worsen.

Many economists and strategists predicted that volatility could increase sharply in Asian markets for weeks to come, as investors pull back from speculative investments and redirect assets to more mature markets, and as other investors look for buying opportunities.

This flight from risky assets has become particularly evident in currency markets. The Japanese yen has been rising even as other Asian currencies decline because many investors are unwinding some of their transactions, called “carry trades.”

In this trading strategy, hedge funds and other investors have been borrowing yen at low interest rates and then converting into other currencies to buy stocks in markets with higher returns, such as Australia, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. But they are now reversing many of these trades.

The retreat of investors from carry trades is now exacerbating the speed of regional declines, analysts said.

The more the yen rises, the more expensive it becomes for carry traders to pay off their Japanese debt, and the faster they try to sell their holdings, the more they feed a vicious cycle of selling as they unwind their positions.

Banking stocks have suffered as profit at financial institutions took a hit on the back of bad loans especially in the American mortgage market. But bonds have still performed well. “If bond markets stop performing well then it is more difficult for equity markets to recover,” Mr. Hughes said.

On Monday, the yen rose to a three-month high of 115.37 to the U.S. dollar.

Lucy MacDonald, chief investment officer of global equities at RCM in London, said: “There is a lot of volume behind the sale now, but we still see it as a correction, and it’s possible that we will see another two weeks of this, wiping as much off the markets as it has already last week. We still believe that there is quite a lot of value in equities as an asset class.”

Economists around Asia continue to maintain that the outlook for the region’s economies remains sound despite the market sell-off. Many are comparing it to the sharp sell-off in emerging markets last May, a fall that had been mostly reversed by October.

Some countries today published positive economic data, including strong capital expenditure figures in Japan, and positive news about pension funds in Taiwan. Strategists said psychological factors were driving investors rather than any hard news.

This panicked trading, however, is taking place as the outlook grows slightly more uncertain in the United States. Many economists are predicting slowing growth and higher interest rates, which could put pressure on the cooling housing market, particularly sub-prime borrowers and their lenders.

That scenario is likely to make it harder for investors in Asia to interpret the latest turmoil in the markets, and this could suggest even more bumps ahead. The recent drops are coming after spectacular rises in some stocks and rapid growth in local economies.

Fears of overheating have been especially pronounced in India, where a growth rate of more than 8 percent has been accompanied by rising prices for some consumer goods, and equities are among the most expensive in Asia.

India’s central bank recently acted to temper inflation, and those moves could act as a drag on markets.

“The central bank has been attempting to reduce inflation by an interest rate hike and liquidity constraints,” said Dr. Subir Gokarn, chief economist with CRISIL, a credit rating agency in Mumbai.

“The effect of monetary compression will start to show up in the coming year, and we expect growth to decline slightly,” he said.

So far, though, no one is predicting a bear market.

Even after the latest stock market declines, economists said there was still a surfeit of assets in global financial markets created by strong Asian growth, high Asian savings and historically low global interest rates.

That bulge of capital, which some refer to as a liquidity bubble, is likely to provide support for emerging markets once the uncertainty dies down.

“There’s still a lot money available that’s going to be able to chase assets,” said Amy Auster, a regional economist at ANZ Bank in Melbourne.

The decline in Asian stock markets that started last week is the third such correction in three years, Mr. Evans, of HSBC, said.

Some investors who missed the last rebound may rush back into the market this time, he predicts. “Some clients are already asking us if there are some stocks that are buyers,” he said.

Even if the U.S. does slow, Mr. Auster and some other economists argue, Asian economies are less susceptible than they were in the past.

While exports to countries outside the region still play a crucial role in economic growth, the growth of China and India has sent trade within just the region skyrocketing. Together with Japan’s recovery and the revival in the economies of the European Union, a slowdown in the U.S. may have a minor impact in Asia, they say.

That knowledge didn’t stem the bleeding on Monday, though.

Sydney’s ASX All Ordinaries index dropped 2.3 percent to 5642, and analysts believe it could have further to fall.

“Our market was looking a little bit expensive when it hit 6044 early last week. Even ignoring what has been happening in Asia and the U.S., it was due to come off a bit,” said Martin Duncan, chief equity strategist at JP Morgan in Australia.

Mr. Duncan said that the bank’s calculations last week valued the market at 5560, indicating that it could continue to drop. He said that he couldn’t rule out the market continuing to fall even beyond that point if the bearish sentiments in New York and Tokyo persisted.

Philippine stocks tumbled on Monday, dropping by almost 5 percent, as the market continued a consolidation that analysts said demonstrated the volatility of domestic equities.

The Philippine Stock Exchange composite index fell 4.54 percent, or 142.46 points, to 2,997.88 points. It dropped to a low of 2,972.97 points during the day, which was worse than the index’s lowest closing level of 2,982.54 points last year.

“The market’s consolidation, I think, is overdone,” said Joseph Roxas, president of Eagle Equities Inc. “It shows the market is very volatile considering that we are not heavily traded compared to other equities in the region,” he told the Xinhua Financial News Service.

Last week, the 30-company index dropped by nearly 8 percent, the worst performer in Southeast Asia after the decline in China.

Some market experts blamed the most predictable market scapegoat: hedge funds.

Analysts in Malaysia, for example, see hedge funds behind that market’s sharp declines over the past week. “That’s the primary reason,” said Kaladher Govindan, head of research at TA Securities in Kuala Lumpur, of the hedge funds. “We believe the bull cycle is still intact and we believe this correction should be taken as a buying opportunity.”

The benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index fell by more than 5 percent today.

It has now fallen by nearly 14 percent since Feb. 23, when it touched its highest point in more than five years.

Overseas retail investors have also been investing in Asian stocks and strategists worry that the recent volatility could mean they will retreat from Asian equity markets.

“One worry is that people panic a bit and pull their money back home, to the United States or Europe, and then don’t put it back quickly,” said Mr. Evans of HSBC.
188 2007-03-06 One fund manager noted that there is still enough liquidity in the market and companies are still reporting higher profits, so the stock slump is not likely to be more than a market correction.

“This is the way that corrections work,” said Garry Evans, a strategist with HSBC in Hong Kong.

The markets are “spooked,” he said. “A week ago, everyone was very excited about the markets and now no one wants to buy stocks,” he added.

Some were a bit less sanguine: ``There is a genuine fear that the correction will be more than 10 percent globally for the developed markets,” said Michael Hughes, chief investment officer at Baring Asset Management in London. ``We had such a good run that there is a sense that money has been made too easily.”

The pan-Asian and European declines extended a downward trend that began last Tuesday when the Shanghai stock market dropped nearly 9 percent. Investors in Europe said they are closely watching the American bond markets and the performance of safer stocks, such as banks and healthcare, for any signs that the recent market jitters worsen.

Many economists and strategists predicted that volatility could increase sharply in Asian markets for weeks to come, as investors pull back from speculative investments and redirect assets to more mature markets, and as other investors look for buying opportunities.

This flight from risky assets has become particularly evident in currency markets. The Japanese yen has been rising even as other Asian currencies decline because many investors are unwinding some of their transactions, called “carry trades.”

In this trading strategy, hedge funds and other investors have been borrowing yen at low interest rates and then converting into other currencies to buy stocks in markets with higher returns, such as Australia, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. But they are now reversing many of these trades.

The retreat of investors from carry trades is now exacerbating the speed of regional declines, analysts said.

The more the yen rises, the more expensive it becomes for carry traders to pay off their Japanese debt, and the faster they try to sell their holdings, the more they feed a vicious cycle of selling as they unwind their positions.

Banking stocks have suffered as profit at financial institutions took a hit on the back of bad loans especially in the American mortgage market. But bonds have still performed well. ``If bond markets stop performing well then it is more difficult for equity markets to recover,” said Mr. Hughes.

On Monday, the yen rose to a three-month high of 115.37 to the U.S. dollar.

Lucy MacDonald, chief investment officer of global equities at RCM in London, said: “There is a lot of volume behind the sale now, but we still see it as a correction, and it’s possible that we will see another two weeks of this, wiping as much off the markets as it has already last week. We still believe that there is quite a lot of value in equities as an asset class.”

Economists around Asia continue to maintain that the outlook for the region’s economies remains sound despite the market sell-off. Many are comparing it to the sharp sell-off in emerging markets last May, a fall that had been mostly reversed by October.

Some countries today published positive economic data, including strong capital expenditure figures in Japan, and positive news about pension funds in Taiwan. Strategists said psychological factors were driving investors rather than any hard news.

This panicked trading, however, is taking place as the outlook grows slightly more uncertain in the United States. Many economists are predicting slowing growth and higher interest rates, which could put pressure on the cooling housing market, particularly sub-prime borrowers and their lenders.

That scenario is likely to make it harder for investors in Asia to interpret the latest turmoil in the markets, and this could suggest even more bumps ahead. The recent drops are coming after spectacular rises in some stocks and rapid growth in local economies.

Fears of overheating have been especially pronounced in India, where a growth rate of more than 8 percent has been accompanied by rising prices for some consumer goods, and equities are among the most expensive in Asia.

India’s central bank recently acted to temper inflation, and those moves could act as a drag on markets.

“The central bank has been attempting to reduce inflation by an interest rate hike and liquidity constraints,” said Dr. Subir Gokarn, chief economist with CRISIL, a credit rating agency in Mumbai.

“The effect of monetary compression will start to show up in the coming year, and we expect growth to decline slightly,” he said.

So far, though, no one is predicting a bear market.

Even after the latest stock market declines, economists said there was still a surfeit of assets in global financial markets created by strong Asian growth, high Asian savings and historically low global interest rates.

That bulge of capital, which some refer to as a liquidity bubble, is likely to provide support for emerging markets once the uncertainty dies down.

“There’s still a lot money available that’s going to be able to chase assets,” said Amy Auster, a regional economist at ANZ Bank in Melbourne.

The decline in Asian stock markets that started last week is the third such correction in three years, Mr. Evans, of HSBC, said.

Some investors who missed the last rebound may rush back into the market this time, he predicts. “Some clients are already asking us if there are some stocks that are buyers,” he said.

Even if the U.S. does slow, Mr. Auster and some other economists argue, Asian economies are less susceptible than they were in the past.

While exports to countries outside the region still play a crucial role in economic growth, the growth of China and India has sent trade within just the region skyrocketing. Together with Japan’s recovery and the revival in the economies of the European Union, a slowdown in the U.S. may have a minor impact in Asia, they say.

That knowledge didn’t stem the bleeding on Monday, though.

Sydney’s ASX All Ordinaries index dropped 2.3 percent to 5642, and analysts believe it could have further to fall.

“Our market was looking a little bit expensive when it hit 6044 early last week. Even ignoring what has been happening in Asia and the U.S., it was due to come off a bit,” said Martin Duncan, chief equity strategist at JP Morgan in Australia.

Mr. Duncan said that the bank’s calculations last week valued the market at 5560, indicating that it could continue to drop. He said that he couldn’t rule out the market continuing to fall even beyond that point if the bearish sentiments in New York and Tokyo persisted.

Philippine stocks tumbled on Monday, dropping by almost 5 percent, as the market continued a consolidation that analysts said demonstrated the volatility of domestic equities.

The Philippine Stock Exchange composite index fell 4.54 percent, or 142.46 points, to 2,997.88 points. It dropped to a low of 2,972.97 points during the day, which was worse than the index’s lowest closing level of 2,982.54 points last year.

“The market’s consolidation, I think, is overdone,” said Joseph Roxas, president of Eagle Equities Inc. “It shows the market is very volatile considering that we are not heavily traded compared to other equities in the region,” he told the Xinhua Financial News Service.

Last week, the 30-company index dropped by nearly 8 percent, the worst performer in Southeast Asia after the decline in China.

Some market experts blamed the most predictable market scapegoat: hedge funds.

Analysts in Malaysia, for example, see hedge funds behind that market’s sharp declines over the past week. “That’s the primary reason,” said Kaladher Govindan, head of research at TA Securities in Kuala Lumpur, of the hedge funds. “We believe the bull cycle is still intact and we believe this correction should be taken as a buying opportunity.”

The benchmark Kuala Lumpur Composite Index fell by more than 5 percent today.

It has now fallen by nearly 14 percent since Feb. 23, when it touched its highest point in more than five years.

Overseas retail investors have also been investing in Asian stocks and strategists worry that the recent volatility could mean they will retreat from Asian equity markets.

“One worry is that people panic a bit and pull their money back home, to the United States or Europe, and then don’t put it back quickly,” said Mr. Evans of HSBC.
189 2007-03-06 UNDER PRESSURE -- Three women who control more than $1 trillion in China's foreign exchange reserves are facing some huge challenges in the wake of last week's sharp decline in Chinese stocks. [Page C1.]    TRADE DEALING -- Republicans are beginni...
190 2007-03-06 NEW DELHI, Mar. 5 -- Asian stock markets continued to fall today as nervous investors shunned the region despite strong economic signals from some Asian countries. The trend spread to Europe, where stocks also slid in morning trading. But on Wall ...
191 2007-03-07 The Democratic senator and potential 2008 contender responds to questions about possible conflicts in stocks he bought and sold through a blind trust....
192 2007-03-07 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
193 2007-03-07 We thought it was dead, but the controversy over a widely used database of Wall Street research has popped up again. The debate began last fall when a group of researchers questioned the integrity of Thomson Financial's I/B/E/S service, a clearing...
194 2007-03-07 Microsoft attorney takes jab at Google over protection of intellectual property... hoo boy!...
195 2007-03-07 Activist and dissident shareholders, particularly hedge funds, are increasing corporate legal work as boards of directors cope with demands from sophisticated investors and proxy contests when those investors seek a board seat, according to The Na...
196 2007-03-07 A group of venture capital firms in the United States, including the investment arm of the Walt Disney Company, was set to announce Wednesday that it had invested $23.5 million in UUSee, a major Chinese site for Web video, The Associated Press rep...
197 2007-03-07 The chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, Dieter Zetsche, said on Tuesday that it would be difficult to break up Chrysler, as analysts and other experts have speculated recently, because of an integrated production system that binds together its var...
198 2007-03-07 Glu Mobile, the publisher of mobile phone games such as Deer Hunter and Diner Dash, set a price range of $10 to $12 a share on Tuesday for its proposed initial public offering and said it plans to offer 7.3 million shares. The company's backers in...
199 2007-03-07 But, he added: “It wouldn’t be surprising to me that he was recommending stocks similar to me that he would be recommending to others.”

Mr. Obama faced a barrage of questions about his financial investments after a Capitol Hill news conference about immigration. Mr. Obama said he “did not see any potential conflict in getting advice, in terms of a stockbroker,” from Mr. Haywood. The senator said he told the broker he wanted an “aggressive strategy” for investing, but he did not identify stocks.

“I went to that stockbroker and indicated to him that I wanted to set something up. I did not want to know what stocks were involved that we were going to initiate a process to set up a blind trust,” Mr. Obama said. “And he could direct those funds based on a more aggressive strategy than the normal mutual fund.”

In the fall of 2005, Mr. Obama said, he received a prospectus in the mail from a health care company or a satellite technology company. That was the first time, he said, he knew what companies he was investing in.

“It was at that point that I became concerned that I might not be able to insulate myself from knowledge of my holdings, that this trust instrument wasn’t working the way I wanted it to,” Mr. Obama said. “So it was at that point that I told my attorneys to go ahead and liquidate the stock and put it into mutual funds.”

The stocks were sold at a net loss of $13,000.

Before he arrived in the Senate in January 2005, Mr. Obama signed a $1.9 million book deal. He established a quasi-blind trust rather than a standard blind trust, he said, so he would be able to avoid investing in companies he did not wish to be associated with.

“I determined that based on the traditional notions of how you should invest — although traditionally I haven’t had a lot of money to invest — that some of it we could put into something more high risk at least for a while,” Mr. Obama said. “I asked a friend of mine, George Haywood, for the recommendation of a stockbroker.”

Until signing the book deal, Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, have said that they were paying back law school loans and had little extra money to invest. After signing the book deal, the family purchased a $1.6 million house and began looking for other investment options.

“I thought about going to Warren Buffett, but I decided it would be embarrassing with only $100,000 to invest, to ask his advice,” Mr. Obama said, referring to the billionaire investor who is a close adviser and supporter.

Mr. Obama has made ethics a centerpiece of his agenda in the Senate and he is declining contributions from registered lobbyists in his presidential campaign. To avoid the appearance of future conflicts, he said he had instructed his financial advisers to change his investment practices.

“At this point, I’m only invested in mutual funds or cash or money market accounts,” Mr. Obama said. “That’s my instruction to my accountant that we are not going to own any individual stocks precisely because it raises potential questions like this.”
200 2007-03-07 Assemblyman James Whelan of Atlantic City has asked the state’s attorney general, labor commissioner and Casino Control Commission to investigate the firing over the weekend of a longtime Tropicana casino employee who is suing the casino, contending that he developed lung cancer from exposure to secondhand smoke on the job. The employee, Vincent Rennich, 48, a nonsmoker who in 25 years at the casino had risen to floor supervisor, had become a figure in the statewide antismoking movement before his firing. Mr. Whelan wants the state officials to determine whether his firing was “an intimidation tactic” and “a corporate strategy to push out” senior employees. The casino had no comment yesterday.
201 2007-03-07 In business cycles, productivity slowdowns can be a difficult time for workers because employers typically respond by letting employees go. New labor statistics released yesterday showed that productivity is indeed slowing faster than first thought, raising the question of whether layoffs are soon to follow.

A report yesterday by the Labor Department said productivity in the final three months of 2006 was about half the rate first reported. And for the year, it grew at the slowest pace since 1997. The government also said that companies compensated employees at a much higher rate than first calculated, which could add to pressure on businesses.

The combination of rising labor costs and wilting productivity is potentially troublesome for the nation’s economic outlook and for the Federal Reserve, which is trying to temper inflation while maintaining a healthy rate of growth.

Productivity among nonfarm businesses in the fourth quarter was 1.6 percent, compared with the initial reading last month of 3 percent, the Labor Department said. Unit labor costs, a measure of compensation that factors in worker productivity, jumped 6.6 percent, compared with an initial estimate of 1.7 percent. For the year, unit labor costs rose 3.2 percent, the most in six years.

“If unit labor costs are rising you have a choice as a company,” said Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at the advisory firm ITG. “You can raise prices to recoup those losses, or you can cut back on employment. The Fed is fearful of A. My assertion is that we’re much more likely to get B.”
202 2007-03-07 A second tool demonstrated, called Web Assistant, is intended to improve the relevance of search results and help resolve ambiguities in results that, for example, would give a user sites for both Reggie Bush and George Bush.

“This is a prototype of a browser that aims to change the way we interact with information,” said Silviu Cucerzan, one of the researchers who designed the new tool.

So far, Microsoft has failed to gain ground against the dominant search provider Google. Data released by Nielsen/NetRatings last week showed Google fielding 53.7 percent of all search queries, while Microsoft had an 8.9 percent market share. Moreover, in the past year, the number of queries Google handled has risen by 40 percent, while Microsoft’s figure increased by only 2.5 percent.

“Microsoft people are really passionate about search, and we want to compete and to win,” said Dan Liebling, a member of the Microsoft Research staff working on techniques to improve the relevance of results in Microsoft’s Live Search service.

Among other things, the results can be refined based on records of earlier searches by thousands of others and the ways those users changed search terms when they did not get the results they were seeking.

Susan Dumais, a veteran Microsoft search expert, has built a tool to help determine relevance called Personalized Search. It pulls together several hundred results and then compares them with the index that Windows users can build of the documents on their hard drives, a feature called Desktop Search.

She demonstrated the effectiveness of the program by searching for Michael Jordan. By culling through local information on her hard drive, the program was able to discern that she was interested in finding the Michael Jordan who is the machine-learning expert at the University of California, Berkeley, not the basketball player.

Search in the future will look nothing like today’s simple search engine interfaces, she said, adding, “If in 10 years we are still using a rectangular box and a list of results, I should be fired.”

Microsoft researchers are exploring other ways to exploit clues about the context of a search as well as conversational-style interfaces that will be more powerful than the way users now enter and modify search terms, Ms. Dumais said.

The sessions on Tuesday opened a three-day event, Techfest, for reporters and business partners and for up to 7,000 of the company’s 70,000 employees. The projects shown on Tuesday were mostly ones that Microsoft may turn into products within a couple of years.

About half of Microsoft’s 750 researchers from around the world have come to take part in the event, according to Richard Rashid, a former Carnegie Mellon computer scientist who founded and leads Microsoft Research.

He acknowledged that he had originally opposed the idea of Techfest when it began six years ago, but was struck by how enthusiastically it was embraced by Microsoft employees.

“We realized we were clearly tapping an underserved community,” he said. Now the company uses the event to move technology from its research division into products.

That includes monitoring which employees visit which lectures and booths and looking for patterns, he said.
203 2007-03-07 The Jets said they thought Jones was capable of being the consistent runner they lacked last season without Curtis Martin, who is likely to retire because of a serious knee injury.

Only once during Jones’s seven-year career in the N.F.L. has he carried more than 300 times in a season. Early in his career, with the Arizona Cardinals, Jones shared time in the backfield with Michael Pittman.

“As his career has evolved, he’s become more and more productive,” Jets General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said during the conference call. “He’s a complete back in terms of he can be on the field all three downs.

“Over the last 10 years, there are 14 players that are 30 years or older that have rushed for 1,000 yards. That’s not to say that we expect him to rush for 1,000 yards or 1 yard. But that’s just to illustrate the point that at 30 years old, they can still be productive. We think he has a number of years to be productive. This was not something we did looking for him just to be here for a year.”

Despite helping the Bears reach the Super Bowl last season, Jones and Benson both wanted more carries, and their relationship was sometimes uneasy. With the Jets, Jones is likely to compete for carries with Leon Washington, a smaller back who is quicker than Jones, but who is less powerful.

The Jones-Washington combination could give the Jets a productive one-two punch, but Jones said he was more interested in winning games than worrying about who would have more carries.

“Competition makes everyone better,” said Jones, who had his best season in 2005, rushing for 1,335 yards for Chicago.

“Obviously, you want to get as many opportunities as possible,” Jones added. “But that will be proven in practice. Leon Washington is a great back. I watched him last year and he made some great plays for the Jets, helped them get to the playoffs. I have a lot of respect for him.

“Unfortunately, I’ll be 29 years old this year, but I haven’t had a lot of carries for a 29-year-old back. I’m a workout warrior. I love taking care of my body. The way I feel right now, I could play for a long, long time, and I’m just happy that the Jets showed an interest in me.”

The trade set up a reunion of sorts for Jones and Jets quarterback Chad Pennington. Jones, who played college football at Virginia, and Pennington, who played at Marshall, worked out together while preparing for the 2000 draft. Jones was selected seventh over all, by the Cardinals. Pennington was drafted by the Jets at No. 18.

The acquisition of Jones addressed one of the Jets’ primary off-season needs, freeing them to draft a cornerback, a linebacker or a tight end with their first pick in April.

“We still have four picks on the first day,” said Tannenbaum, referring to the Jets’ first-round pick, two second-round picks and a third-round selection. “I’ve always studied the result of the draft, and the teams that can go in there having as many needs filled as possible leaves you the most flexibility. We’ve added a good piece to the puzzle.”

Also yesterday, the Jets signed defensive end Kenyon Coleman, who played the previous four seasons for the Dallas Cowboys, and re-signed defensive end Bobby Hamilton, who had been released on March 1.

BUCCANEERS SIGN PETITGOUT The Tampa Bay Buccaneers signed the free-agent tackle Luke Petitgout, who spent the last eight seasons with the Giants. The 30-year-old Petitgout, a first-round draft pick in 1999, appeared in 113 games for the Giants, starting 106.

He started nine games at left tackle before breaking his left leg against Chicago on Nov. 12 and missing the rest of the season. (AP)

DOLPHINS SIGN PORTER Joey Porter, the former All-Pro linebacker who played eight seasons for the Pittsburgh Steelers, has agreed to a five-year deal with the Miami Dolphins that guarantees him $20 million. The contract, worth $32 million over all, was agreed to late yesterday.

Porter, released by the Steelers last week in a salary-cap move, has 60 career sacks. He joins the Dolphins linebacker corps, which that includes the Pro Bowler Zach Thomas and Channing Crowder. They combined for 269 tackles in 2006. (AP)

WEINKE RELEASED The Carolina Panthers released the backup quarterback Chris Weinke yesterday. Weinke, 34, a former Heisman Trophy winner from Florida State, struggled when he replaced the injured Jake Delhomme in three games late last season. (AP)GREEN MAY LEAVE CHIEFS Kansas City could be close to parting with quarterback Trent Green. Green’s agent, Jim Steiner, said that the Chiefs were seeking to restructure Green’s contract, which will pay him $7.2 million next season. The Chiefs are also entertaining offers for Green, who missed eight games last season with a concussion. Damon Huard, who filled in when Green was hurt, signed a three-year deal with the Chiefs last month. (AP)

AROUND THE LEAGUE The New England Patriots re-signed linebacker Larry Izzo, their special-teams captain. ... Linebacker Napoleon Harris, who went to Minnesota from Oakland in the Randy Moss trade in 2005, signed a six-year contract with the Kansas City Chiefs. (AP)
204 2007-03-07 In court papers that the attorney general’s office filed on Monday to obtain the search warrants and to freeze Mr. Leggiero’s assets, investigators claim that V.I.P. was a “sham entity” that Mr. Leggiero created to defraud the state.

“Leggiero used V.I.P. funds to pay for expenses related to the recreational soccer activities of himself and his family, his mortgage, child care for his family, telephone bills and other personal uses, and provided funds to family and friends,” the attorney general’s office wrote in a complaint filed at State Supreme Court in Rensselaer County.

The investigation opened a new front for the public integrity unit that Mr. Cuomo expanded this year. The unit has already begun scrutinizing the “member item” spending of lawmakers, moved to create a Web site where the public can more easily track campaign donations and lobbying, and voided the attempts of members of a state housing agency to award themselves post-retirement health benefits.

Now the unit is turning its attention to state operations, and the contracting operations of a state government whose annual budget will soon be $120 billion a year. “That’s where the money is,” said a senior official in the attorney general’s office.

Investigators said they were troubled by the fact that the scheme went undetected for more than eight years. “This wasn’t a very sophisticated scam,” the official said.

Ellen Nachtigall Biben, the deputy attorney general in charge of the public integrity unit, said, “This case is a complete breakdown in internal control mechanisms.”

The case was referred to the attorney general’s office in January by the state comptroller’s office, which noticed during a routine audit that V.I.P. had a post office box but no physical address — which raised a red flag. Investigators from the attorney general’s office quickly uncovered much surprising information, which they detailed in a series of court papers that they filed to get the search warrants.

They reviewed dozens of payments, from a few hundred dollars to more than $99,000, that Mr. Leggiero approved for V.I.P. to conduct “feasibility studies” of prospective sites for group homes and residential treatment centers for mentally ill people. Mr. Leggiero signed at a line that said, “I certify that this claim is correct and just, and payment is approved.” Over all, the state has paid $1,232,072.42 to V.I.P, investigators said.

But V.I.P. had no listed telephone number, and did not appear to be incorporated, investigators said. The accompanying paperwork listing the sites it claimed to be studying had incomplete addresses that made it impossible to determine whether any of the sites even existed.

And in letters to the Office of Mental Health, V.I.P. claimed that someone named Michael Raymond had prepared architectural feasibility reports on the sites. But investigators found no one by that name on the list of licensed architects and engineers maintained by the state, and no payments from V.I.P.’s bank account to anyone by that name.

Officials at the attorney general’s office said that the investigation was continuing.
205 2007-03-07 Chris Rhatigan, a spokeswoman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security, said the delay reflected what she called the agency’s commitment “to ensuring that the U-visa regulations are well thought out.”

“It’s a very complex process,” she said. “This is a visa for undocumented immigrants who are victims of a long list of crimes. We’re working with federal, state and local law enforcement agencies, and the visa applications have not only to reflect the needs of our law enforcement partners, but to offer protection to those who are in the United States who are victims of criminal activities.”

One plaintiff, Constantina Campos, 35, began seeking a U-visa in 2002, after her husband was prosecuted in Brooklyn on charges of kicking and punching her and throwing her down the stairs.

With the help of Sanctuary for Families, Ms. Campos, who came from Mexico illegally with her oldest child in the 1990s, was eventually granted interim relief from deportation and a one-year work permit. But unlike a U-visa, which is good for three years, her status leaves her in legal limbo, she said, with no way to legalize her eldest daughter, Luz Maria, a 16-year-old high school student in New York who is worried that without papers she will be unable to work or go to college.

“I’ve already renewed my work permit three times,” said Ms. Campos, who planned to speak at a news conference with lawyers outside City Hall today to urge victims of domestic violence to seek help.

“I want to feel that I won’t get arrested or deported, to be able to work freely.”

And to Michael Chertoff, the secretary of Homeland Security, who is a defendant in the suit, she added:

“Please, please give us something more — the U-visa and the residency, so we can be more secure in the United States, and so my daughter can study and be eligible for scholarships.”

Another would-be U-visa applicant, Myriam Florez, 36, of Colombia, credited the New York City police with saving her life when her abusive husband broke into her apartment in violation of an order of protection in 2001. But she said that many women like her were afraid to complain for fear of deportation.

Ms. Florez, a nurse’s aide with two children in New York and one, a 15-year-old daughter, in Colombia, said she was unable to attend her brother’s funeral in Colombia last year. On Sunday, she said, her daughter called her, crying, to say “I can’t make it any more. I want to be with you.”

“Many days, many months, many years I was crying for her,” said Ms. Florez, who left when her daughter was a year old. “I say, how much time, God, how much time do I have to wait to see my daughter?”

The charged debate over immigration since 9/11 has undoubtedly complicated the politics of devising regulations for U-visas. Supporters of more restrictions on immigration and stricter enforcement of immigration laws call the “alphabet soup” of special visas enacted by Congress loopholes that do more harm than good. Other critics of immigration policies say the visas are no substitute for comprehensive overhaul.

But Peter Schey, a lawyer at the Center for Human Rights and Constitutional Law in Los Angeles, one of the organizations that filed the suit yesterday, said the failure to issue rules for U-visas was unlawful and had discouraged hundreds of thousands of crime victims from coming forward.

He said that after a similar suit was filed in federal court in Los Angeles in October 2005 , Congress gave the Department of Homeland Security until last July to issue U-visa application forms and regulations.

Originally, he said, “the intent of Congress was to help put violent criminals behind bars, and for this to sit there for six years without action is outrageous. It not only thwarts the will of Congress, it helps violent criminals stay out of jail.”
206 2007-03-07 WASHINGTON, March 6 — The Bush administration acknowledged Tuesday that its treatment of terrorism suspects was being questioned, even as it used an annual report to criticize the human rights records of Iraq, Afghanistan and a long list of other countries.

“Our democratic system of governance is accountable, but it is not infallible,” Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said in releasing the Congressionally mandated report. It weighs the human rights situation in 193 countries — but not the United States, and Ms. Rice did not specifically cite any American violations.

But Barry Lowenkron, an assistant secretary of state, said the State Department was “issuing this report at a time when our own record, and actions we have taken to respond to terrorist attacks against us, have been questioned.” He referred to American laws “governing the detention, treatment and trial of terrorist suspects.”

Officials from countries that are often cited in the report have complained that the United States is quick to criticize others for violations that sometimes occur in America, and the remarks on Tuesday, one White House official said, were an attempt to answer those charges. In particular, the administration has come under fire from human rights groups for its treatment of prisoners at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.

The report described serious problems in countries with close ties to the United States, and cited worsening sectarian violence in Iraq. “On one side, predominantly Sunni Arab groups such as Al Qaeda in Iraq, irreconcilable remnants of the Baathist regime, and insurgents waging guerrilla warfare violently opposed the government and targeted Shi’a communities,” the report said. But on “the other, predominantly Shi’a militias with some ties to the Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) targeted Sunnis in large-scale death squad and kidnapping activities,” it added.
207 2007-03-07 “Not only do we have to have equity and close the famous achievement gap,” said Leon M. Lederman, a Nobel-winning physicist who is co-chairman of the Commission on 21st Century Education in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. “We also have to have innovation if we’re going to survive, so you have to nurture the gifted kids.”

The contest, which began in 1941, has been monopolized by New York schools because it had its roots in a local science fair and a cluster of New York personalities. Bronx Science and Stuyvesant eventually figured out the magical formula: Teach your kids to do research; don’t just offer cookbook experiments. Pair them with mentors at hospitals and universities, perhaps working on a small piece of the mentor’s puzzle, so the projects are more than garage-built contraptions. Assign high school teachers as enforcers to help students through rough patches and make sure they meet deadlines.

Bronx Science produced roughly 120 finalists in the contest’s first 50 years, and it lined a hallway with glittering plaques. In recent years Stuyvesant began catching up. While the two schools continue to produce many of the 300 annual semifinalists, two dozen other schools — some outside the city, like Ward Melville in East Setauket, N.Y., and Paul D. Schreiber High School in Port Washington, N.Y., and some far afield, like the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy in Aurora, the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics in Durham, and Montgomery Blair in Silver Spring, Md. — regularly penetrate the Top 40.

In the early years, New York City dominated in part for the banal reason that it had a subway system that allowed students to get to professional labs. But e-mail and the Internet have reduced the need to travel. And more institutions like the State University of New York at Stony Brook, where Miriam Rafailovich, a professor of material science, has supervised many winners on Long Island, have made themselves available to nearby schools.

In addition, many rural and Southern states have started high school research programs, often building dormitories to attract distant students, as part of efforts to jump-start themselves as incubators of technological innovation. Stanley Teitel, Stuyvesant’s principal, said that he thinks Intel judges are increasingly recognizing this wider spectrum.

“They are not going to allow me to monopolize this competition,” he said, “and I think that’s wonderful.”

Bronx Science and Stuyvesant may have been hurt in the contest by the loss of a few zealous and inspiring teachers like Science’s Carole Greene, who shepherded winners year after year.

But more significant may be something pointed out by Milton Kopelman, who retired as Bronx Science’s principal in 1990. Middle-class families from the five boroughs moved to the suburbs, he said, then clamored for programs like those they remembered that might give their children an edge in the cutthroat competition for college admission. The contest is still top-heavy with New York State winners, one of every three semifinalists this year, but many live outside the city.

This year, Byram Hills High School in Armonk, N.Y., had four semifinalists. It has been a regular contender for a while as a result of a battle plan started in 1989 by Robert Pavlica, a teacher and scholar of cell biology who died on Jan. 15. Although he visited Bronx Science, he tailored his own program for Byram Hills and became a research pied piper, prodding 170 schools to emulate Byram Hills’s method.

Sometimes a quarter of the sophomore class at Byram Hills signs up for research, said David M. Keith, the school’s research director. This year, 21 seniors handed in original manuscripts to Intel even before learning what college they would attend.

JOHN GRANATA worked on software that allows severely disabled patients to communicate by using brain waves to signal letters on an electronic board.

Ashley Bahnken, working with a mentor at the University of Texas, tried to prove through a survey of 177 college students that first-born children tend to make friends with other first-born or only children. “As an only child,” she said, “I was interested in how siblings affect you.”

Daniel Mark, who is heading to Harvard, imagined himself as an alien on a distant solar system. He used mathematical formulas to conclude that current technology would not permit that alien to observe the Earth.

At Bronx Science, every freshman takes a course in research literacy. Sophomore volunteers then begin the three-year research projects program run by Jean Donahue, a Science alumni who worked on cancer research before starting to teach 10 years ago.

This year, Forrest Anderson studied a way to use physical therapy to reduce falls by patients with Parkinson’s disease, learning how to analyze data with mentors at the University of Florida and at Columbia University’s Teachers College. He said a biology teacher, Allison Wheeler, “edited these papers a hundred times to find holes in the research.”

Natalya Kvetnaya, whose mother is a cancer survivor, studied the effect of a drug, Taxotere, on breast cancer cells in a lab at Montefiore Medical Center near her home in the Bronx. She was a semifinalist but scarcely looked crestfallen that she would not be at the banquet.

“We might have started off the Intel roller coaster, but more schools are jumping aboard,” she said. “It doesn’t matter. All of us love to do research.”
208 2007-03-07 “Lasting friendship between the peoples of China and Japan is the path we should stay firmly on, and no one can stop us from doing this,” Mr. Li said at a news conference held as part of the meeting of China’s National People’s Congress, the Communist Party-run legislature.

Mr. Li noted that 2007 is the 35th anniversary of the resumption of diplomatic relations between the countries. Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China is set to visit Japan next month for a meeting with Mr. Abe, the first such visit in seven years.

“We should take in hand this important opportunity to develop China-Japan relations,” Mr. Li said of the anniversary. He said China would welcome an amicable settlement of its dispute with Japan over oil and gas rights in the East China Sea.

“We’re willing to strengthen cooperation with Japan in every sphere,” Mr. Li said.

Japan conquered large swaths of China in World War II and maintained a brutal occupation until its ultimate defeat. The two countries have extensive economic ties but otherwise relations have been tense, in large part because of Japan’s wartime legacy, of which sex slaves are one chapter.

Historians say about 200,000 women from Korea, China, Taiwan, the Philippines and other countries worked in Japanese military brothels. Japan had denied that the military was involved in the brothels until 1992, when a Japanese historian unearthed official documents revealing that soldiers had coerced women into prostitution.

But the issue remained in dispute in Japanese political circles, and Mr. Abe’s statements suggested that he was siding with conservatives who argued that there was no evidence that proved the military had forced women into sexual slavery. He spoke during a debate in the United States House of Representatives over a resolution demanding that Tokyo apologize and acknowledge the military’s role in prostitution.

On Tuesday, Mr. Li said Japan “should stand up to this part of history, take responsibility and seriously view and properly handle this issue.” He called the “forced use” of the women a “historical fact” and “one of the most serious crimes committed by the Japanese imperialists in World War II.”

Yet Mr. Li’s tone was measured and not provocative. He described his warm reception in Japan on a recent visit to prepare for the trip next month by Mr. Wen. He predicted that visit would be a success.

On other matters, Mr. Li urged a peaceful resolution to the Iranian nuclear issue and called on Iran to expand cooperation with inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency. “We welcome, support and call upon Iran to step up cooperation” with the agency he said.
209 2007-03-07 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 18.82 points, at 778.88.

Overseas, stock indexes also posted healthy gains. The Nikkei 225-stock index in Japan gained 1.22 percent yesterday. The FTSE 100 index of Britain jumped 1.32 percent. The DAX index, Germany’s benchmark stock index, rose 0.92 percent. The CAC-40 index in France was up 0.97 percent.

The dollar was up versus the yen, but was mixed against other major currencies, recovering after several days of steep declines.

Oil prices rose as strategists pointed to robust demand for gasoline and falling petroleum inventories. The price of a barrel of light sweet crude for April delivery rose 62 cents, to $60.69, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

Economic data continued to show weakness in housing and production, and drew some talk of inflation.

The Labor Department reported that worker productivity rose at a modest annual rate of 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter while wages and benefits soared. The Commerce Department said factory orders fell 5.6 percent in January.

Scott Fullman, director of investment strategy for Israel A. Englander & Company, said the market was not shrugging off the pair of government reports. He said he believed that investors had just had enough, and that the sell-off was overdone.

“I’m not convinced the bull market is over, I just think the bull is tired and needs to take a break,” he said.

“There are opportunities out there so long as we don’t see a major slip in the economy,” Mr. Fullman said. “We have to concentrate on that, how earnings are going to go, and obviously what the Fed does.”

Financial stocks as a whole trended higher after being battered last week. The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., said credit difficulties linked to the American housing slump would be limited, easing concern about the potential of rising defaults in subprime loans.

The mortgage lender New Century Financial, which shed almost 70 percent of its market value on Monday, rose 46 cents, to $5.02. Fremont General added 89 cents, to $6.78.

Citigroup rose $1.33, to $50.58, after it offered $10.8 billion to buy Nikko Cordial of Japan in a deal that would rank as the largest acquisition of a Japanese brokerage firm by a foreign company.

The gain in equities and lingering inflation worries sent bond prices down. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note declined 9/32, to 10024/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 4.53 percent, from 4.49 percent.

Following are the results of the Treasury auction of four-week bills:
210 2007-03-07 WASHINGTON, March 6 (AP) — The Senate voted Tuesday to give 45,000 airport screeners the same union rights as border patrol, customs and immigration agents, despite a White House threat to veto it.

The vote, 51 to 46, rejected an amendment by Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, which would have removed the union rights from a broad antiterrorism bill to carry out recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission previously rejected by Congress.

The House passed a similar bill with the same union provision for airport screeners in an indication of organized labor’s strength with Democrats now running Congress.

Republicans vowed to remove the provision when negotiators sit down to merge the House and Senate bills.

“We’re not going to let big labor compromise national security,” said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky.
211 2007-03-07 In its Tuesday ruling, the court, in Luxembourg, said Italy could not use the threat of criminal charges to try to stop three people who operated gambling shops where customers could place bets that were transferred to a British gambling company, Stanleybet International.

But the court left some gray areas.

The ruling applies only to sports betting, and it stops short of explicitly endorsing the idea that holders of a betting license in one European country should be able to operate without borders, lawyers said.

The German federation of state lottery systems, Deutscher Lotto- und Totoblock, said the decision vindicated its position, noting that Germany was in a different situation than Italy, where the government recently allowed some private gambling operators to compete with the state-run provider.

“The situation in Italy is completely different from the one in Germany,” said Friedhelm Repnik, head of the gambling organization in the state of Baden-Württemberg, which is part of the national grouping.

“There, there is a partial opening of the market; here, a clear state monopoly, whose central justification is the protection of gamblers and the prevention of addiction,” Mr. Repnik said.

Mr. Arendts said the decision could cast doubt on efforts by the authorized lottery operators in the individual German states to try to enshrine their monopoly status.

European governments say they want to maintain control over online gambling because they can best protect consumers from possible problems linked to Internet betting, even if they do not object to gambling in principle.

But they have generally stopped short of the approach in the United States, where last year President Bush signed into law a prohibition on financial dealings with Internet gambling companies.

Amid the American crackdown, executives of several online gambling companies and related businesses have been arrested during stopovers in the United States.

The European Commission in Brussels, however, is on a track that could put it at odds not only with the United States approach but also with the governments of member states. It has warned France, Germany and Italy, among others, that they are potentially violating rules seeking to create a single market in goods and services across the European Union.
212 2007-03-07 The one we got was gigantic, insanely moist and tremblingly tender, and it quickly proved to be the most compelling meat on the table, although it faced serious competition from a super-smoky slab of brisket so tender that I’m sure it would have shredded itself if I had stared at it long enough.

Fifty-four dollars bought us a “For the table” sampler that also included a full rack of pork ribs and a pound of pulled pork. It was a perverse amount of meat — enough to slay a tableful of hungry eaters and send everyone home with a to-go pack of smoky ’cue — and even with gas money figured in it was wildly cheaper than anything in the city.

There’s not a bird back in town that approaches Big W’s slow chicken, but if pulled pork is what you’re after, then make your way to Pies ’n’ Thighs, a closet of a kitchen in the back of a grungy bar in the shadow of the Williamsburg Bridge. Settling in with the best pulled-pork sandwich in the city and a side of greens (also the best in the city, at least in the realm of barbecue joints) might first require you to kick broken beer bottles and cigarette butts out of the way to get a berth at the bar, as it did for me on a recent Saturday morning.

If you do you’ll find that smoky meat, which spends eight hours over hickory chunks in an offset smoker and is then pulled into ropy strands, sauced with a North Carolina-style vinegar sauce and served on a white bread bun that does its very best to dissolve and get out the way of the pork. A minced cabbage slaw and a couple of crinkle-cut slices of neon green pickles add texture.

Pies ’n’ Thighs devotees may notice that the aggressiveness of the vinegar sauce has been tempered since the restaurant opened last summer, an adjustment attributable to the departure of one of the partners, Stephen Tanner, who sold his share in the restaurant to Carolyn Bane. Ms. Bane left the Spotted Pig to join forces with Sarah Buck, who still oversees the restaurant’s top-notch selection of pies, cookies and more.

For my money Daisy May’s BBQ USA is the most consistent and distinctive of all New York barbecue spots. Adam Perry Lang, the pit master and a partner, has a talent for concocting alluring but unusual riffs on classic sauces and rubs for his “production” barbecue (as some folks who have spent too much time inhaling around the pit call the smoked meat that’s available all day, as opposed to the made-to-order or “competition” barbecue).

There’s nothing Carolina about Daisy May’s Carolina Pulled Pork, other than how it takes a South Carolina template — a little chili heat, some mustard — and affectionately stands it on its head, adding molasses to the mix and a portion of Sriracha hot sauce in addition to cayenne pepper. But just because it’s not traditional doesn’t mean it’s not cravable. It most definitely is.

There is a significant step up between the good-to-very-good production barbecue and the excellent barbecue made to order for the reservations-only 8 p.m. seating, called the Big Pig Gig. Mr. Perry Lang eases up on the sauce and spice and turns out a roster of gently seasoned and perfectly smoked meat. Half and whole pigs are the most impressive offerings, served with a Chimayo chili powder and honey-based sauce that nimbly adds sweet, sour and spicy notes to the sweet flesh without getting in the way of its porcine goodness (though if he crisped the skin, those pigs would be even better).

If the untraditional barbecue at Daisy May’s doesn’t resonate with you and super-smoky barbecue does, Righteous Urban Barbecue, in Chelsea, is your place. R.U.B. has gone from a neighborhood asset to a contender in less than two short years. Its burnt ends — twice-cooked nuggets of the fattiest part of the brisket — offer the most deliciousness, ounce for ounce, of any meat the restaurant smokes.

A load of burnt ends goes into each batch of barbecued beans, pushing the beans out in front of the competition elsewhere. Each bite delivers an uppercut of deep, soulful smokiness that washes over you like a gauzy burst of smoke rushing out of a grill at a summer cookout.

If the combo of burnt ends with a side of burnt-end-spiked beans strikes you as overkill, the go-to dish at R.U.B. has to be the Baron’s Sampler, a $45.75 platter that includes eight smoked meats and two sides. (Beans and more beans would be my choice.) Though the menu says it feeds any number of people from “one to a gang,” in my experience it’s better when you’re not alone and it’s better earlier in the day, when a greater selection of meats is available. (When R.U.B. runs out of something, it doesn’t come back until the next day.)

I tried the sampler with only one friend to help me and, for the first time in my life, felt some kinship with those titans on the World’s Strongest Man competition. (Meals at R.U.B. come with a free side order of televised sports, particularly of the ESPN2 variety.) I imagined that there was a close parallel between my gluttonous flailing and ultimate failure to finish the platter and the strong man’s struggle to drag keg after keg out of the ocean, each trip more labored until, finally, he grimaced in surrender.

But barbecue tastes better the next day than the bitterness of defeat. Sampling the sampler — a tactic I’ve employed everywhere one was offered — didn’t always pay off, as when I visited Dinosaur Bar-B-Que, a popular place tucked under a stretch of the West Side Highway in Harlem. Dinosaur is definitely the barbecue place to take the kids to: a waitress was infinitely patient when I visited with a friend, his wife and their two rambunctious youngsters.

As for the eating, there’s no question that the pork spareribs at Dinosaur are significantly better than everything else (and certainly good enough to warrant a visit). Order them by the rack and skip the menu’s other distractions.

The most refined of New York’s barbecue emporiums is Blue Smoke, but don’t let the fresh-faced servers and comfortable dining room fool you. Serious barbecue is practiced here. I found my sticky fingers most eagerly reaching for the Texas-style salt-and-pepper beef ribs and the smoky sweet Kansas City spareribs. Blue Smoke’s beef ribs are a little bit beef jerky, a little bit corned beef. How much more elemental does it get than meat, salt, pepper and smoke?

Though the beef ribs will be the ones that lure me back to the restaurant, the Kansas City pork ribs, glazed with a slick of the restaurant’s Kansas City-style sauce, are no mere consolation prize. Both styles outshone the St. Louis variety that rounds out the rib sampler, rendering that platter a waste of time: order the other ribs by the rack, skimp on the lackluster sides, have a nice bottle of wine and be done with it.

If you want your rib fix in less dandified settings — and sometimes that’s just the case — the city isn’t short on places to get it. For pork ribs cut in the St. Louis style, dusted with spice rub and grill-crisped with a touch of sweet, dark sauce, there’s Mo Gridder’s BBQ in the Hunts Point section of the Bronx, where the dining room doubles as the office for an auto body shop that looks like the place cars go to die. The pit is outdoors, tacked to the back end of a competition-ready barbecue trailer.

The owner, Fred Donnelly, an avid amateur pit master before he opened Mo Gridder’s, drew up plans for a modest 10-foot-long trailer, but somewhere along the way it stretched out another 25 feet, big enough to house a fully equipped kitchen and a massive smoker. Though a rig of that size is wild overkill for the light foot traffic it attracts in Hunts Point, Mr. Donnelly said it handled its maiden voyage — catering a party for “800 hungry Teamsters” — without a hitch.

For beef ribs, there’s Ranger Texas Barbecue in Jackson Heights. The Stars and Stripes and a P.O.W.-M.I.A. flag dominate the front of the room. On a recent weekend a group of regulars were talking back to the televisions and loudly making fun of a hockey player’s last name for, I think, having too many consonants. In the back, Angel Dominguez and a small cooking crew turn out the only real pit-cooked commercial barbecue in Queens.

I can’t help thinking that the place’s odd locale and low profile contribute to some of the shortcomings of the meat: there’s clearly not enough turnover. But the beef short rib — a fantastically fatty and flavorful cut that almost no place in the city has found a way to mishandle — was absolutely spot on.

The Smoke Joint, a modest restaurant in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, also does a very respectable short rib. Judging by the early going (it opened this past fall), with care and time it is bound to get better and better.

And if it does, and as the barbecue scene in New York continues to improve, will the other places that have opened in the past couple of years do the same? Barbecue being the slow-cook business it is, time will tell the answer to that question and more.

Will Fette Sau, a long-delayed barbecue spot in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, be as compelling as the bar Spuyten Duyvil, its bottled-beer sibling across the street? Will Joe Mizrahi finally convert his Smokin’ Joe’s True-Blue Texas Barbecue catering service into a pit stop and give Staten Island its first real pit-cooked meat?

We know that Justin Timberlake, who is putting his name on a barbecue-theme restaurant that will open in Manhattan this year, managed to get up close to Scarlett Johansson in his last video, a feat that I can’t imagine many pit masters pulling off. But can he ’cue?

And the last one: What’s the best? Barbecue is all about blue ribbons, and it would feel like a cop-out not to slap one on something. Something like the improbably amazing whole rack of lamb that’s part of Daisy May’s Big Pig Gig.

Over a dinner of three of those meaty whole racks of lamb (that four of us came within two ribs of finishing), a friend related a story of visiting Kreuz Market in Lockhart, Tex., one of the high holy shrines of Texas barbecue. He tried to describe the vibe in the room while he was eating: a low, throbbing, violent, ready-to-rumble hum that he felt and felt part of. (As he’s a long-haired Southern boy with a peacenik streak, he didn’t indulge it.)

I had never made that connection: when a barbecue place proclaims that its product is good enough to make you “slap yo’ pappy” or some other hokum, it’s alluding to a visceral reaction that only truly great barbecue can elicit. I have never had ruckus-worthy barbecue at any of the places that brandished that kind of sentiment.

After we’d finished the lamb, we headed back to my friend’s room at the Mercer hotel to digest in front of a Kenneth Anger DVD. Once we were in the elevator, he confessed that he had been struck by an urge to tackle someone, anyone, when we were walking through the lobby.

Sure, it could have just been the weekend crowd at the Mercer. But I knew better, because I felt the urge, too. It was the lamb, rubbed with a simple chili-inflected and mustard-based paste, cooked to a perfect tenderness, gently flavored with smoke.

Seeing things for the first time, I knew I had found the real deal: great barbecue in New York. And though in my mind that lamb has run away with the crown for the single best barbecue in the greater metropolitan area, it sits atop a heap of great ’cue the likes of which New York has never known before.

These were the best barbecue places in a sampling in and near New York City:
213 2007-03-07 Businesses spent more compensating their workers in the final three months of the year but got less productivity out of them, revised government data showed today.

Taken together, rising labor costs and wilting productivity are potentially troublesome for the nation’s economic outlook and for the Federal Reserve, which is trying to temper inflation and create a healthy rate of growth.

The Labor Department said today that productivity among nonfarm businesses in the fourth quarter was about half the amount first reported, slipping to 1.6 percent from 3.0 percent. Unit labor costs, a measure of compensation that factors in worker productivity, jumped 6.6 percent, compared with an initial estimate of 1.7 percent.

“Even as signs of weakness in the economy accumulate, it is clear that the underlying rate of inflation, as measured by unit labor costs, is rising,” said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist for Global Insight. He added that he thinks the chance the Fed could cut interest rates later this year has diminished. “The Fed’s room to maneuver is becoming much more limited.”

Some economists see the slowing rate of productivity as a troubling sign. Productivity growth is a necessary force to maintain the momentum of an economic expansion, and without it, the economy is more vulnerable to stalling. The annual rate of productivity for 2006, 1.6 percent, was the lowest since 1997. By comparison, productivity advanced by 2.1 percent in 2005 and 2.9 percent in 2004.

“While the jump in unit labor costs will no doubt spark talk of lingering inflation pressures,” said Richard F. Moody, chief economist with Mission Residential, “the bigger story is the ongoing slowdown in productivity growth.”
214 2007-03-07 For Mr. Zetsche to be scrutinized as a deal maker rather than a “car guy” is a new and somewhat awkward role for him. He normally relishes these shows as a chance to indulge in some showmanship. A few years ago, he shattered a glass wall with an electric guitar to promote a new Chrysler model.

On Tuesday, however, Mr. Zetsche kept his inner rock star under wraps. Sitting with his hands folded on a table, as two public relations executives monitored his remarks, he stuck to formulaic pronouncements about seeking “the most promising future for the Chrysler Group.”

Yet there were hints, in his answers, of the flurry of activity that is taking place behind the scenes, as DaimlerChrysler scouts for potential buyers, which have been reported to include General Motors, auto parts suppliers like Magna International and private equity investors.

Mr. Zetsche also showed palpable frustration with Chrysler’s union, the United Automobile Workers, which refused last fall to grant DaimlerChrysler the same concessions on health care that it granted to Ford and General Motors. It said the company’s profitability did not warrant such a giveback.

“The union decided to treat Chrysler differently than G.M. or Ford, as far as health care was concerned, which was a disadvantage for Chrysler,” he said. “That was one fact we had to take into consideration in trying to understand the current situation and the potential options.”

Still, he said the disclosure of a potential sale, at a news conference at Chrysler’s headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich., was not intended to give DaimlerChrysler leverage in coming labor negotiations.

He declined to comment on recent reports that two private equity firms, Cerberus Capital Management and the Blackstone Group, had contacted DaimlerChrysler about Chrysler. But he obliquely challenged fears one union leader expressed about a private equity buyout of Chrysler.

Buzz Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Auto Workers union, said in an interview in The Washington Post on Tuesday that a sale to private equity investors would be the “worst-case scenario” for Chrysler.

In a separate interview on Tuesday, Mr. Hargrove repeated that sentiment and said that private equity buyers would most likely impose plant closings and layoffs to turn around Chrysler for a quick resale. “We need someone who wants to build the company, not cut and run,” he said. “I have a real concern about the whole concept of private equity firms.”

Mr. Zetsche said, “While I will not comment on the pros and cons of different options, I have heard different comments on different options, which are not necessarily the same as this quoted statement from Buzz.”

Some investment bankers said private equity firms were the most likely buyers for Chrysler, given the weakness of other carmakers and the health care and pension liabilities that Chrysler carries. Several automakers, including Renault, Volkswagen and Toyota, have said they are not interested.

That is why Mr. Zetsche’s comments about Chrysler’s financing arm, which he made at a Merrill Lynch conference here Tuesday, pricked the ears of industry people.

Last year, General Motors sold a majority stake in its giant financing arm, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, for $7.4 billion to an investment group led by Cerberus.

Mr. Zetsche, who ran Chrysler from 2000 until the end of 2005 and even appeared as a character in its advertising, said he was troubled by the upheaval that the sale rumors had caused at Chrysler. “I am personally not a guy who is cool and numbers-oriented and doesn’t care about people,” he said. “I have gone through a lot of emotions in the past six years — and many positive emotions as well.”

After Mr. Zetsche presided over the rollout of two new models by Mercedes-Benz, he appealed to visitors to watch Chrysler’s presentation, which was led by its executive director for international sales and marketing, Thomas Hausch, not its chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda.

Noting that Chrysler’s sales increased 15 percent outside North America last year, Mr. Hausch insisted that the unit’s financial problems would not crimp its introduction of new cars and trucks.

For his part, Mr. Zetsche said Chrysler’s future would be worked out together by him and Mr. LaSorda. “There is no we and them,” he said, “but us together who are looking for the best future for Chrysler and DaimlerChrysler, either combined or potentially — and that’s the new bit of information — potentially not.”
215 2007-03-07 Vermont ranks 46th in the nation for its tax climate for business, according to the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit, nonpartisan research group. State officials said that across-the-board tax breaks were not being considered, and that they preferred a tailored approach, offering cash incentives tied to increasing employment and capital investments. The state also plans to adapt perks to individual businesses. For example, if water rates are a sticking point, the state will lower them. It is focusing on businesses with 20 to 100 employees for now.

What makes Vermont’s pitch unusual is that officials view the state itself as a lure for moving a company here or enlarging an existing one. Officials are trying to use the clean air, open space and connection to the earth, which brought early environmentalists here in the 1970s, to attract businesses.

“The values of Vermonters are so environmentally conscious, and globally this is what we’re known for,” said Frank Cioffi, the president of the Greater Burlington Industrial Corporation, an economic development group. “It’s a natural fit.”

The state program, which Lt. Gov. Brian E. Dubie started in 2004 and Mr. Douglas has made the centerpiece of his administration, is also intended to cultivate homegrown brainpower in Vermont, which has been losing young people at a rapid clip. The state has the lowest birthrate in the nation, and the number of 20- to 34-year-olds has shrunk by 19 percent since 1990.

To help stem the tide, Mr. Douglas is proposing opening new math, science and technology high schools across the state and offering scholarships to students who stay in Vermont for college. Officials are also considering the feasibility of providing cellular and broadband access statewide by 2010.

The state is looking for help from the University of Vermont, where the Center for Emerging Technologies has been an incubator for environmental companies. “There really wasn’t a regional economy,” said Daniel Mark Fogel, the university president, “and the more we asked, the more we were confident that we really wanted to put a stake in the ground as a leader in environmental and sustainable technology.”

While that stake has been planted, it is not fixed. Just under 1,000 people are employed in the 69 engineering firms that work in environmental fields statewide, with 27 of them dealing exclusively with alternative energy, according to the state office of business and economic development.

Two large environmental engineering companies opened offices in Vermont last year: the URS Corporation, which is based in San Francisco, and Leggette, Brashears & Graham of Shelton, Conn. The Vermont Environmental Consortium, a nonprofit association of businesses, is growing.

Some of the state’s dairy farmers have also been turning into alternative energy entrepreneurs, harnessing the methane gas from cow manure and selling it as clean energy. Vermonters call it “cow power,” and think it can help the farmers, who are struggling with low prices.

Still, the state has been losing jobs, and there are tangential costs to doing business in Vermont.

Northern Power Systems, an environmental engineering firm founded here in 1974, was recently merged with Proton Energy Systems; both were subsidiaries of the Distributed Energy Systems Corporation of Wallingford, Conn., which announced in January that it was cutting 60 jobs. Most of those were in Vermont, said Rob Smart, the director of marketing for Northern Power.

The Bowles Corporation, which makes equipment to clean up industrial oil spills, has operated here since 1983, expanding from two employees to 16. Its president, David Bowles, has become involved in helping the state’s environmental companies market their products. But he said there were problems in how the state does business, and he, too, felt hemmed in. He also said Vermont suffered because of tourists and others who opposed development.

“It’s not easy, but I’m here,” he said. “The tax burden is high, and the costs of health insurance have just risen and risen. And there’s a sort of philosophical disconnect between people who love this view of Vermont as an unspoiled place where business doesn’t mix. But if we don’t have jobs, this place doesn’t work.”

Joel Makower, the executive editor of GreenBiz.com, said that Vermont was jumping on the bandwagon, trying to capitalize on a rapidly growing industry. “You can certainly see that there’s a bubble potential, but at the same time you’re talking about a trillion-dollar market for clean energy and alternative transportation,” he said.

Mr. Makower said the state needed to build on its academic and financial resources and tap its entrepreneurs for help. While Northern Power has gone through setbacks, he said, it was well regarded and has had ample investment.

“I see them as a good anchor company, showing what can be done in the Green Mountains,” he said.

Mr. Cioffi, of the Greater Burlington Industrial Corporation, and others involved in the effort to make Vermont a center for green business say they are confident that their vision will take shape.

“This is orchard planting,” Mr. Cioffi said. “It’s not an annual garden. We’re nurturing seedlings and making sure they’re healthy.”
216 2007-03-07 “I am overwhelmed by how this has evolved,” Dr. Esty said recently.

Students still gravitate toward nongovernmental organizations, advocacy groups and government, but a large plurality of the current generation interested in environmental work are looking elsewhere, particularly to financial firms, small businesses and even corporations. They seek employment there because, among other things, they think that is where they can have the greatest impact.

“It’s extraordinary how many students see themselves as going into business as a place to have leverage on the issues,” Dr. Esty said.

Take Samantha Unger, 27, a graduate of Barnard College and the school of engineering at Columbia University. She started with a summer job in a California program, trading state-issued pollution-emission credits. Now she trades credits for greenhouse gas emissions at Evolution Markets, a company in White Plains.

“I would call myself a corporate hippie,” she said. “I’m in the business of definitely caring for and supporting environmental growth and change for the better, but I also believe in the growth of business. And from the beginning I have believed there should be a cost associated with pollution.”

Ms. Unger and her colleague Jason Patrick, 34, are examples of what Charles F. Mason, a professor of economics at the University of Wyoming, describes as a new driving force. “The person who knows how to play the financial markets, the middleman looking for someone who has something to sell and can anticipate who will buy it,” he said — they will make a real difference.

None of the academics, employers or young professionals would call these boom times for environmental employment; plenty of graduates with degrees in environmental science must work at finding a job. But all say they are witnessing both an upward trend in the number of jobs and a change in the definition of environmental work.

“The issues themselves have changed — climate change is far and away an example of that,” said Kevin Doyle, the national director of program development for the Environmental Careers Organization, a nonprofit group that places recent graduates in environmental internships at federal agencies, businesses, nonprofit groups and state and local governments.

“Businesses as businesses are becoming actors of environmental sustainability, either because they want to, or they feel they can do good public relations, or because they have to,” Mr. Doyle said. “The axis of influence is starting to shift from a more exclusive focus on activists and government. You can work in business because you’re an environmentalist.”

Mr. Doyle and others named several paths to environmental work: law, government, nonprofit groups and, increasingly, management and finance, often in alternative energy.

Private employers providing environmental jobs include Goldman Sachs, General Electric, Nike, Timberland, engineering consultants and philanthropic foundations. Some workers bounce among the various subgroups, adding skills as they go.

Jesse Johnson, 36, graduated from Princeton in 1993 and worked in finance in Hong Kong. He said that he loved the intensity of finance and the intellectual caliber of his co-workers, but missed “the things that motivated me in college — the environment, the outdoors.”

He returned to Yale and graduated in 2002 with joint master’s degrees in environmental management and business. When he finished, he and a friend started a furniture business, the Q Collection, in Manhattan.

“It took a while to get it up and running,” Mr. Johnson said of the company, which is not yet profitable. “It’s home furnishings, furniture, textiles, baby furniture. But we add a whole new layer. We are thinking about sustainability.”

Right now, the horizontal expansion of environmental careers is most evident among the 20- and 30-something age groups. They have been trained in what Mr. Doyle called the “sustainable ecosystems” mind-set of this generation’s environmental policy makers, blending scientific understanding with concerns like economics or social justice.

Many switch among environmental jobs — starting out, say, at a nonprofit, then getting a master’s degree and ending up at a business.

While Jill Gravender was an undergraduate in economics and taking an ecology class at Arizona State University, she said, “It became apparent to me that when you’re thinking about economics, environmental issues are all considered to be market externalities.” The two disciplines, she said, “were talking past one another; I realized I wanted to be that facilitator.”

After college, she got policy jobs with the New America Foundation and the nonprofit California Climate Action Registry, which collects data on various companies’ greenhouse gas emissions. She went back to get a master’s degree in environmental science and management at the University of California at Santa Barbara and now, at 33, is director of water programs for a small foundation called Environment Now.

It is not just industrial concerns that are adding environmental jobs. In 1992, Shelley Billik started as a recycling coordinator at Warner Brothers. Now she is vice president for environmental projects. “When I started in 1992, it was just me,” she said. “Now we have a staff of four in the office and a recycling crew of seven.”

“The place where the department fits” has changed as well, she added, becoming part of corporate strategy.
217 2007-03-07 On his trip to Washington last month, Mr. Rogers testified before a Senate subcommittee on energy, met with members of the House and Senate and spoke at a conference on energy efficiency.

As a coal-utility executive who is a champion of carbon control legislation, Mr. Rogers can be considered an enlightened progressive or a calculating opportunist.

“To some degree, I understand the criticism,” he said. “There is an inherent tension that seems contradictory in trying to deliver affordable, available and clean energy.”

Clean technology, efficiency programs, federal caps on carbon emissions and regulation to shape market incentives, he said, are all vital in any program combating global warming without hobbling the economy.

“There is no silver bullet here,” Mr. Rogers said. “What we need is more like silver buckshot, a lot of things working together.”

Mr. Rogers does not see contradictions or hypocrisies, but trade-offs and consensus-building to make progress. “We’ve got to find common ground among the stakeholders — consumers, industry, regulators, policy makers and environmental groups,” he said. “They won’t all be entirely satisfied, but there has to be enough common ground so each of them can buy in.”

Mr. Rogers brings an eclectic résumé to the task, not merely as an industry executive but also as a former regulator and one-time utility critic. One of his first jobs after law school was as a public advocate in Kentucky. “I fought electricity rate increases,” he recalled.

The framework for curbing carbon-dioxide emissions, Mr. Rogers said, is essential. “We need to know what we’re shooting for long term,” he said. “And we need to start now, because the longer we wait the more difficult and expensive this is going to be.”

By all accounts, Mr. Rogers has made a career of being ahead of his industry on environmental issues. Over the years, policy makers and colleagues said, he has consistently tried to shape regulatory ground rules instead of instinctively resisting regulation. His background helps: he served two stints on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. In Washington, Mr. Rogers also became a partner at the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, where he worked with Robert S. Strauss, the former Democratic Party chief and diplomat. “It was a very sophisticated political environment,” Mr. Rogers observed.

Mr. Rogers said he enjoyed the political bargaining and the intellectual challenge of public policy. For years, he has been a regular at the Aspen Institute and the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

“Jim Rogers is someone who, frankly, gets ahead of where the markets and policy are headed,” said Philip R. Sharp, the president of Resources for the Future, a nonprofit research group, and a former representative from Indiana. (Mr. Sharp was a board member of Cinergy, the Midwest utility Mr. Rogers headed before it was acquired last year by Duke.) “And in getting ahead of the curve, he’s being pragmatic, of course,” Mr. Sharp added.

Fred Krupp, the president of Environmental Defense, recalled that he first met Mr. Rogers in the late 1980s, when Mr. Rogers was chief executive of Public Service Indiana. Mr. Rogers endorsed federal legislation to control smokestack emissions of sulfur dioxide, a pollutant that causes acid rain. The sulfur dioxide curbs were included in amendments to the Clean Air Act of 1990.

“He was about the only utility executive supporting acid rain controls,” Mr. Krupp said.

By 2000 or so, Mr. Krupp said, Mr. Rogers had begun speaking publicly about setting limits on carbon dioxide emissions. “Utilities are now coming around to where Jim Rogers has been for years,” Mr. Krupp said.

Today, Mr. Rogers is a vocal advocate for mandatory carbon controls, a position that he developed after much study.

In 2000, when the utility industry tended to dismiss global warming as an implausible cause célèbre for tree-huggers, Mr. Rogers took another path. He invited Robert N. Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at Harvard University, to the Cincinnati headquarters of Cinergy.

Mr. Stavins brought along an expert on climate change from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and they spent a day briefing the company’s senior management team on the science, policy and economics of global warming.

“That was most remarkable at the time, and even now it would be unusual,” Mr. Stavins said.

The same year, Mr. Rogers hired Kevin Leahy, a trained engineer, former Peace Corps program manager and graduate of Harvard’s Kennedy School of Public Policy, to investigate the issue of climate change on the company’s behalf. Mr. Rogers told him, as Mr. Leahy recalled: “We’ve got to figure out what it means to us. And what our response to it should be.”

Duke’s current position is that mandatory carbon dioxide emissions should apply to the entire economy, not just the utility industry. The company supports a cap-and-trade system, capping carbon dioxide emissions and then giving or selling allowances to companies, effectively permitting them to generate a certain amount of emissions.

In the early years at least, Mr. Rogers said, power companies heavily dependent on coal should be given more allowances — pollution permits — than other companies. Otherwise, he said, regions heavily dependent on coal, mainly the Midwest and Southeast, would take an economic battering.

A cap-and-trade system, in theory, would set a price for a ton of carbon dioxide emissions. Companies that clean up quickly could sell their allowances to others. And the market would stimulate investment and innovation in cleanup technologies and energy sources like wind and solar power.

Mr. Rogers and his company are not yet supporting any of the global warming bills being introduced in Congress. Some climate change measure, industry and environmental lobbyists agreed, stood an excellent chance of passage in this Congress or the next. The most contentious issues, they said, would be the levels set for carbon dioxide emissions and the division of pollution-permit allowances.

In North Carolina, Mr. Rogers is seeking state approval to build two 800-megawatt coal-fired generators at a plant west of Charlotte. Duke says that it is needed to meet electricity demand, and that it will be cleaner and more efficient than conventional units, allowing Duke to retire some older, dirtier plants. The proposed plant, using so-called supercritical technology, has qualified for a $125 million federal tax credit to encourage cleaner coal generators.

Environmentalists oppose the plant, saying the state’s power requirements could be met with efficiency programs and investments in renewable energy. Duke is trying to get approval for the coal plant, the environmentalists say, to get more pollution allowances once climate change legislation is passed, and to avoid the higher cost of the cleanest technology — coal gasification and carbon capture.

“Jim Rogers is saying one thing, but Duke is doing something very different locally,” said Marily Nixon, a senior attorney for the Southern Environmental Law Center.

In testimony before the state utility commission in January, Mr. Rogers said: “We’re going to argue that we ought to have an allocation here. I think it gets grandfathered because it’s perceived by the government as we perceive it, as a clean coal plant.”

Mr. Rogers said the proposed North Carolina plant was another calibrated balancing of interests. The plant also reflects his commitment to coal. Half of America’s electricity comes from coal, and, he said, he did not think the alternatives could replace coal. Pointing to the estimates that America has a 250-year supply of coal, he said, “It’s a cliché to call us the Saudi Arabia of coal, but I do think there is an energy security issue.”
218 2007-03-07 The Louvre Abu Dhabi, designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel as a 260,000-square-foot complex covered by a flying-saucer-like roof, is expected to cost around $108 million to build. Planned as a universal museum, it will include art from all eras and regions, including Islamic art.

The project will be overseen by a new International Agency for French Museums that is to include the Musée d’Orsay, the Georges Pompidou Center, the Musée Guimet, the Château de Versailles, the Musée Rodin, the Musée du Quai Branly and the Louvre among its members. This agency is also expected to seek new international partners in the coming years.

Still, it was inevitable that the focus of attention would be the renting of the Louvre’s name. It was this that upset many French traditionalists, including 4,700 signers of an online petition objecting to the accord. But it was also the Louvre brand that Abu Dhabi most coveted to add prestige to its ambitious Saadiyat Island plan.

“It’s a fair fee for the concession of the name,” Mr. Loyrette told Agence-France Presse in Abu Dhabi. “This tutelary role deserves reward. It’s normal.”

Apart from paying $520 million to the French agency for the use of the Louvre name for 30 years, with $195 million to be paid within one month, Abu Dhabi has also agreed to make a direct donation of $32.5 million to the Louvre to refurbish a wing of the Pavillon de Flore for the display of international art.

This gallery, to be ready by 2010, will carry the name of Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahayan, the founder and longtime ruler of the United Arab Emirates, who died in 2004.

Abu Dhabi will also finance a new Abu Dhabi art research center in France and pay for restoration of the Château de Fontainebleau’s theater, which will be named after Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahayan, the current president.

For a government-owned cultural institution in France to carry the name of a corporate or foreign donor is also a first and may well raise eyebrows here. In the past, for instance, the Louvre has turned down offers of financial help from philanthropists who asked that galleries be named after them in return.

France is profiting handsomely from this deal: in exchange for $247 million, it will rotate between 200 and 300 artworks through the Louvre Abu Dhabi during a 10-year period; it will be paid $214.5 million over 20 years for the management expertise provided by its new museums agency; and it will provide four temporary exhibitions a year for 15 years in exchange for $253.5 million.

In a telephone interview from Abu Dhabi, Mubarak Al-Muhairi, the deputy chairman of the emirate’s tourism authority, dismissed rumors that the new museum would reject loans or exhibitions from France including Christian religious art or depicting, say, nudity. “In principle, there are no restrictions,” he said, “but both sides will agree on what is shown.”

He said that the authority’s hope was that the Louvre Abu Dhabi and the Guggenheim Abu Dhabi, which is being designed by Frank Gehry, would open by or soon after 2012, with the other parts of the cultural center to follow.

He added that while Abu Dhabi is expected to spend around $520 million during the next decade on assembling its own art holdings, “it is our intention to build the collection gradually so as not to disturb the market.” In this, the French museums agency is also expected to play an advisory role.

In a statement, Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan said the accord reinforced Abu Dhabi’s vision of becoming “a world-class destination bridging global cultures.”

In a message read at Tuesday’s ceremony, the French president, Jacques Chirac, said the arrangement “sealed a partnership with the world’s most visited and well-known museum.”
219 2007-03-07 Scampi are in fact tiny, lobster-like crustaceans with pale pink shells (also called langoustines). One traditional way of preparing them in Italy, Ms. Bastianich writes, is to sauté them with olive oil, garlic, onion and white wine. Italian cooks in the United States swapped shrimp for scampi, but kept both names. Thus the dish was born, along with inevitable variations like adding tomatoes, breadcrumbs, or, as Ms. Bastianich does, tarragon.

As I saw it, this meant I was free to interpret shrimp scampi pretty much any way I wanted. And I wanted my scampi to be something buttery and rich, with pan drippings intense enough to act as a sauce for pasta, or to make a tasty bread sop reminiscent of the other dish I associate with melted butter and garlic: escargots à la bourguignonne. If I could come up with a scampi sauce as addictive as snail butter, I’d be one very happy cook.

So I started with shrimp sautéed in butter, garlic and parsley. Taking Ms. Bastianich’s cue, I decided to add white wine, just a little bit of something really good that I could also drink with dinner. The acidity would help balance out the richness and lighten the sauce. Upon reflection, I also decided that since most of the recipes I came across used olive oil, maybe I should include that too, for more complexity.

Gathering my ingredients, I started to cook. I melted the butter with the olive oil and added the garlic, which released its heady scent as soon as it hit the hot fat. It smelled comforting and familiar, and reminded me of the other ingredient I often add to a pan of garlicky olive oil — crushed red pepper flakes. On a whim, I threw some in with the wine, then tossed in shrimp that I had shelled but not deveined.

A quick digression. Unless my shrimp are jumbo-size, with perilous, inky stripes running down their backs, I never bother deveining.

I learned this from my mother, who also doesn’t clean out the goop from under flaps of soft-shell crabs. When you’re the cook, you get to do what you like.

You could even leave on the shrimp shells and heads, as that 1970s photograph attests. It will make some pretty greasy work for your guests, but the shrimp will have an especially deep, saline taste.

Either way, once the shrimp are added to the pan, the trick is to cook them just long enough that they turn pink all over, but not until their bodies curl into rounds with the texture of tires. This took about 3 minutes. Meanwhile, I tasted the sauce and decided that more acidity was required. A squeeze of lemon perked everything up without diminishing the essential butteriness.

And there I had it, my version of shrimp scampi, a classic Italian-American dish as interpreted by a Jewish-American cook. What could be more authentic that that?
220 2007-03-07 THE TOP EUROPEAN COURT prohibited Italy from prosecuting bookmakers based in other European countries, a ruling that may move European betting markets away from government-run monopolies.    ERIC PFANNER...
221 2007-03-07 SHRIMP scampi is a dish so entrenched in the Italian-American vernacular that until the day I decided to make it, I did not realize that I didn't know what it was.      I got the idea to make scampi for dinner while researching recipes circa 1970 ...
222 2007-03-07 Willie was a mutt who loved hot dogs. His owners, Ellen Lutter and Tom Anderson, decided to honor his memory by naming their sliver of a hot dog store after him. At Willie's Dawgs, 351 Fifth Avenue (Fourth Street), in Park Slope, Brooklyn, Ms. Lut...
223 2007-03-07 JUST DON'T CALL IT SODA -- Coca-Cola and PepsiCo will soon introduce new carbonated drinks that are fortified with vitamins and minerals: Diet Coke Plus and Tava. But remember, they are healthy ''sparkling beverages,'' not soft drinks. [Page A1.] ...
224 2007-03-07 Assemblyman James Whelan of Atlantic City has asked the state's attorney general, labor commissioner and Casino Control Commission to investigate the firing over the weekend of a longtime Tropicana casino employee who is suing the casino, contendi...
225 2007-03-07 Few running backs have their most productive seasons after age 29, but the Jets say that Thomas Jones can do just that.     The team completed a deal yesterday to acquire Jones from the Chicago Bears. He agreed to a four-year contract worth $20 mi...
226 2007-03-08 The Mountain West Conference men's tournament is about to open (not counting Tuesday night's play-in game) the way most conference tournaments open: In the middle of a weekday, in front of a smattering of fans. Top-seeded Brigham Young faces eight...
227 2007-03-08 Most hedge funds made money in February but some trend-following strategies and managers focused on the financial-services sector were hit by the sharp market sell-off late last month, Hedge Fund Research, a firm that tracks industry performance, ...
228 2007-03-08 Private equity bidders are reportedly lining up to do battle over the generics business of Germany's Merck, said to be worth at least 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion). The Financial Times Deutschland reported that Bain Capital and Apax Partners are ...
229 2007-03-08 Goldman Sachs named Gregg Lemkau chief operating officer of investment banking. He had been co-head of healthcare investment banking at the firm. Go to Article from Financial News »...
230 2007-03-08 Some lawmakers are questioning the Justice Department's recently revised guidelines on combating corporate fraud, asking whether they do enough to protect the confidentiality of legal communications and the right to legal counsel. At a hearing Thu...
231 2007-03-08 Inflation fears and volatility are not dampening the expansion plans of stock exchanges in India. The Bombay Stock Exchange sold a 5 percent stake Wednesday to the Singapore Stock Exchange for 1.89 billion India rupees, ($42.6 million), and the ex...
232 2007-03-08 United States securities regulators obtained an emergency court order freezing $3 million of proceeds in a Latvian account suspected of being used to hack into online brokerage accounts and manipulate stock trading. Account intrusions were made at...
233 2007-03-08 It marked the third time in six months that the Treasury Secretary has traveled to China to press the leadership here to open up its economy further, a highly unusual display of American pressure.

The Bush administration’s effort so far has yielded few results, despite growing concern at the Treasury that if China does not take more significant steps to help ease trade frictions between the two countries there will be legislation from Congress requiring American economic retaliation against China.

Shortly after taking office last summer, Mr. Paulson vowed to increase pressure on China by establishing a “strategic economic dialogue” between high-level officials in both countries.

In December, Mr. Paulson headed a delegation of Bush administration cabinet members, along with Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, which urged China to open its economy and in particular to allow its currency, the yuan, to appreciate in value.

A yuan appreciation would, many economists say, help ease the American trade deficit with China by making Chinese goods expensive in America and American goods cheaper in China.

Many analysts doubt that China will allow the yuan to appreciate rapidly, or that doing so would make a substantial dent in the trade imbalance in the next few years. Still, there has been growing frustration over the size of the American trade deficit with China.

The Bush administration and Congress hope that China can move more quickly on economic and financial reforms so setting the stage for more balanced trade between the two countries.

Last year, China reported a $177 billion trade surplus with the rest of the world, mostly with the United States.

Mr. Paulson stopped in Beijing Wednesday and met with his counterpart in the strategic dialogue, the vice prime minister, Wu Yi, amid indications from the Bush administration that Mr. Paulson was trying to impress on the Chinese leadership the importance of taking concrete steps to ease economic tensions before May.

The May deadline is seen by administration officials as important because Ms. Wu is due to lead a high-level delegation of Chinese officials to Washington as a counterpoint to Mr. Paulson’s visit in December. The Chinese officials are also expected to meet with Congressional leaders from both parties, nearly all of whom have been critical of China’s economic policies.

A senior Treasury official traveling with Mr. Paulson said the Treasury Secretary’s intention Thursday had been to make as big a publicity splash as possible by addressing an influential audience in Shanghai, the country’s booming financial center.

The goal, the official said, was to get across to an elite business-oriented audience the current sense of urgency in the Bush administration.

Attending Mr. Paulson’s speech today was Zhou Xiaochuan, the head of China’s central bank. Mr. Zhou and Mr. Paulson had met on several earlier occasions when Mr. Paulson traveled to China as the head of Goldman Sachs, the investment bank.

Indeed, today, Mr. Paulson sounded much like an investment banking chief executive, calling on Beijing to remove restrictions that have barred or restricted western financial institutions from doing business here.

Although China’s economy is booming, many western financial institutions operate largely from Hong Kong and are often restricted from dealing directly with Chinese consumers.

Mr. Paulson pressed Beijing to open its domestic market to foreign bankers, insurance and mutual fund companies; to improve regulations; strengthen accounting standards; and develop a bond and derivatives market.

He said stepping up such financial reforms would create a more efficient economy and allow Chinese consumers to put their money to work better, at home and abroad.

“The longer China waits, the more difficult it will be to create robust capital markets and reach your goal of more balanced, harmonious and innovation-based growth,” he said.

Mr. Paulson made clear in his speech that he was pressing China as a friend who has traveled here for 15 years to do business.

“As I have said many times,” he said, “our policy disagreements are not about the direction of change, but about the pace of change.”
234 2007-03-08 The Microsoft executive who had led the effort to close the gap on Google, the dominant search engine, is leaving the company, executives close to Microsoft said last night.

The executives, who asked not to be identified, said Chris Payne, 38, who was corporate vice president of Windows Live search, was leaving Microsoft and planned to start his own company in Seattle. A Microsoft spokesman declined to comment.

Mr. Payne’s departure comes as Microsoft continues to struggle against Google in the Internet search area even though it has tried to restructure its search site.

He has led the company’s search efforts since the engine was released three years ago.
235 2007-03-08 SHANGHAI, Thursday, March 8 — Hoping to shift the debate in United States-China trade relations away from currency reform and the growing American trade deficit, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said Thursday that China needed to quicken the pace of its economic reforms and do more to open its financial markets to foreign competition.

In a speech here at the Shanghai Futures Exchange, Mr. Paulson outlined a detailed set of capital market reforms that he said would help strengthen China’s sometimes volatile capital markets, bolster the country’s economy and also help rebalance the global economy.

The speech, which came on the final leg of a three-nation trip through Asia and just over a week after China’s stock markets rattled the global financial markets, also called for allowing foreign investors, including big Wall Street firms and Western financial giants, better and quicker access to China’s restricted markets.

The risks for China are greater in moving too slowly than in moving too quickly toward transparent, liquid, stable capital markets, he said.

Though the speech did not contain any new points, it was significant because it reflected the mounting tensions in the United States-China relationship. It was the third time in six months that the Treasury secretary has traveled to China to press the leadership to open up its economy, a highly unusual display of American pressure.
236 2007-03-08 The new director of the domestic intelligence agency MI5 will be its current deputy, Jonathan Evans, a veteran counterterrorism officer. He will take over next month from Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller, who is stepping down. Mr. Evans, 49, faces what Dame Eliza said in a rare public pronouncement in November was a largely homegrown Islamist terrorist threat that was “serious, is growing and will, I believe, be with us for a generation.”
237 2007-03-08 All three — Ms. Wu, who is now 90; a 78-year-old South Korean from Seoul; and an 84-year-old Dutch-Australian from Adelaide — were participating in an international conference for Japan’s former sex slaves here. Now, just days after Mr. Abe’s remarks, the three were united in their fury.

“I was taken away by force by Japanese officers, and a Japanese military doctor forced me to undress to examine me before I was taken away,” said Ms. Wu, who landed here in Sydney on Tuesday night after a daylong flight from Taipei. “How can Abe lie to the world like that?”

Mr. Abe, a nationalist who had built his career partly on playing down Japan’s wartime past, made his comments in response to a confluence of events, beginning with the Democratic victory in the American Congressional elections last fall. That gave impetus to a proposed nonbinding resolution in the House that would call on Japan to unequivocally acknowledge and apologize for its brutal mistreatment of the women.

Even as Mr. Abe’s closest allies pressed him to soften a 1993 government statement that acknowledged the military’s role in forcing the women into sexual slavery, three former victims testified in Congress last month.

On Monday, Mr. Abe said he would preserve the 1993 statement but denied its central admission of the military’s role, saying there had been no “coercion, like the authorities breaking into houses and kidnapping” women.

He said private dealers had coerced the women, adding that the House resolution was “not based on objective facts” and that Japan would not apologize even if it was passed.

The resolution calls for Japan to “formally acknowledge, apologize and accept historical responsibility in a clear and unequivocal manner for its Imperial Armed Forces’ coercion of young women into sexual slavery.”

“Prime Minister Abe is in effect saying that the women are lying,” Representative Mike Honda, the California Democrat who is spearheading the legislation, said in a telephone interview. “I find it hard to believe that he is correct given the evidence uncovered by Japanese historians and the testimony of the comfort women.”

Japanese historians, using the diaries and testimony of military officials as well as official documents from the United States and other countries, have been able to show that the military was directly or indirectly involved in coercing, deceiving, luring and sometimes kidnapping young women throughout Japan’s Asian colonies and occupied territories.

They estimate that up to 200,000 women served in comfort stations that were often an intrinsic part of military operations.

Yet although Mr. Abe admitted coercion by private dealers, some of his closest allies in the governing Liberal Democratic Party have dismissed the women as prostitutes who volunteered to work in the comfort stations. They say no official Japanese government documents show the military’s role in recruiting the women.

According to historians, the military established the stations to boost morale among its troops, but also to prevent rapes of local women and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases among soldiers.

Japan’s deep fear of rampaging soldiers also led it to establish brothels with Japanese prostitutes across Japan for American soldiers during the first months of the postwar occupation, a fact that complicates American involvement in the current debate.

In 1995 a private fund was set up to compensate the women, but many refused to accept any money because they saw the measure as a way for the government to avoid taking direct responsibility. Only 285 women have accepted money from the fund, which will be terminated at the end of this month.

The most direct testimony of the military’s role has come from the women themselves.

“An apology is the most important thing we want — an apology that comes from the government, not only a personal one — because this would give us back our dignity,” said Jan Ruff O’Herne, 84, who testified to a Congressional panel last month.

Ms. Ruff was living with her family in Java, in what was then the Dutch East Indies, when Japan invaded in 1942. She spent the first two years in a prison camp, she said, but Japanese officers arrived one day in 1944. They forced single girls and women to line up and eventually picked 10 of them, including Ms. Ruff, who was 21.

“On the first night, it was a high-ranking officer,” Ms. Ruff said. “It was so well organized. A military doctor came to our house regularly to examine us against venereal diseases, and I tell you, before I was examined the doctor raped me first. That’s how well organized it was.”

In Japan’s colonies, historians say, the military worked closely with, or sometimes completely relied on, local people to obtain women.

In Pyongyang, now the capital of North Korea, Gil Won-ok said, she lined up outside a Japanese military base to look for work in her early teens. A Korean man, she said, approached her with the promise of factory work, but she eventually found herself in a comfort station in northeast China.

After she caught syphilis and developed tumors, Ms. Gil said, a Japanese military doctor removed her uterus.

“I’ve felt dead inside since I was 15,” said Ms. Gil, who was 16 when the war ended.

Like many comfort women, Ms. Gil was unable to bear children and never married, though she did adopt a son. She now lives in a home with three other former comfort women in Seoul.

Ms. Wu married twice, each time hiding her background. Somehow the husbands found out, and the marriages ended unhappily. Her adopted daughter is now angry with Ms. Wu for having spoken in public about her past, she said.

As for Ms. Ruff, she returned to the prison camp in Java after her release from the comfort station. Her parents swore her to silence. A Roman Catholic priest told Ms. Ruff, who had thought of becoming a nun: “My dear child, under these circumstances it is wise that you do not become a nun.”

It was at the camp that she met her future husband, Tom Ruff, one of the British soldiers who had been deployed to guard the camp after Japan’s defeat. She told him her story once before they were married — long before they had two daughters and migrated to Australia.

“But I needed to talk about it,” Ms. Ruff said, sitting at the kitchen table in her daughter Carol’s home here. “I could never talk to my husband about it. I loved Tom and I wanted to marry and I wanted a house. I wanted a family, I wanted children, but I didn’t want sex. He had to be very patient with me. He was a good husband. But because we couldn’t talk about it, it made it all so hard.”

“You could talk to Dad about it,” said her daughter Carol, 55.

“No, this is what I keep saying,” Ms. Ruff said. “I just told him the story once. It was never talked about again. For that generation the story was too big. My mum couldn’t cope with it. My dad couldn’t cope with it. Tom couldn’t cope with it. They just shut it up. But nowadays you’ll get counseling immediately.”

“You don’t know how hard it was to carry this enormous burden inside you, that you would like to scream out to the world and yet you cannot,” Ms. Ruff said. “But I remember telling Carol, ‘One day I’m going to tell my story, and people will be interested.’ ”
238 2007-03-08 A poisonous piece of legislation is quickly making its way through the Nigerian National Assembly. Billed as an anti-gay-marriage act, it is a far-reaching assault on basic rights of association, assembly and expression. Chillingly, the legislation — proposed last year by the administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo — has the full and enthusiastic support of the leader of Nigeria’s powerful Anglican church. Unless the international community speaks out quickly and forcefully against the bill, it is almost certain to become law.

Homosexual acts between consenting adults are already illegal in Nigeria under a penal code that dates to the colonial period. This new legislation would impose five-year sentences on same-sex couples who have wedding ceremonies — as well as on those who perform such services and on all who attend. The bill’s vague and dangerous prohibition on any public or private show of a “same sex amorous relationship” — which could be construed to cover having dinner with someone of the same sex — would open any known or suspected gay man or lesbian to the threat of arrest at almost any time.

The bill also criminalizes all political organizing on behalf of gay rights. And in a country with a dauntingly high rate of H.I.V. and AIDS, the ban on holding any meetings related to gay rights could make it impossible for medical workers to counsel homosexuals on safe sex practices.

Efforts to pass the bill last year stalled in part because of strong condemnation from the United States and the European Union. Now its backers are again trying to rush it through, and Washington and Brussels need to speak out against it. Nigeria is Africa’s most populous country and one of the most politically influential. If it passes a law that says human rights are not for every citizen, it will set a treacherous example for the region and the world.
239 2007-03-08 WASHINGTON, March 7 (Dow Jones) — United States securities regulators obtained an emergency court order freezing $3 million of proceeds in a Latvian account suspected of being used to hack into online brokerage accounts and manipulate stock trading.

Account intrusions were made at seven brokerage firms, the Securities and Exchange Commission said. The federal authorities said the trading manipulation appears to have begun in December 2005 and continued for at least a year.

The S.E.C. said Wednesday that it had obtained a court order late Tuesday to freeze assets in an account at JSC Parex Bank, based in Riga, Latvia, and at Pinnacle Capital Markets in Raleigh, N.C., which handled United States trading for the Latvian account. The action is the third brought by the S.E.C. in recent months related to suspected market manipulation through intrusions in online brokerage accounts.

The S.E.C. said that in the latest case, intruders hacked into online accounts of unsuspecting brokerage customers, placed unauthorized orders to buy shares in tiny companies, and then sold those shares from their own accounts once the stock prices rose.

Accounts at E*Trade Securities, Scottrade, TD Ameritrade, Vanguard Brokerage Services, Fidelity Investments, Merrill Lynch and Charles Schwab & Company were broken into, according to the S.E.C. complaint.

Hackers attacked computers used by online brokerage customers, not the brokerage firms’ systems. About 40 accounts were raided, and it appears the brokerage firms absorbed all the losses, said John Reed Stark, chief of the S.E.C. office of Internet enforcement.
240 2007-03-08 A state auditor who is being investigated for approving more than $1.2 million in payments to a company he owned was suspended without pay yesterday, officials said. The auditor, James L. Leggiero, is being investigated by the office of State Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo for approving dozens of state payments to what investigators described as a “sham entity” that he then used to make mortgage and car payments. Mr. Leggiero was suspended from the state’s Office of Mental Health yesterday, and officials there were preparing to fire him, said Jill Daniels, an agency spokeswoman. Mr. Leggiero did not return a telephone call yesterday.
241 2007-03-08 WASHINGTON, March 7 (Bloomberg News) — JPMorgan Chase & Company and Citigroup, two of the nation’s largest credit-card issuers, told Congressional lawmakers on Wednesday that they were changing some cardholder rates and fees that lawmakers say unfairly hurt consumers.

JPMorgan will stop charging customers who exceed their credit limit a penalty after 90 days, Richard Srednicki, chief executive officer of Chase Card Services, told a Senate subcommittee in Washington. A Citigroup executive said his company decided last week to stop raising interest rates on cardholders who miss payments to other lenders.

The hearing is the second the Senate has held on the credit-card industry this year, a sign that Democrats who control Congress are putting increased emphasis on consumer issues. The recent policy changes suggest the pressure is having an effect.
242 2007-03-08 The Abraj al Bait housing and hotel complex, a 1.5-million-square-yard development that will include a towering hotel, has begun to redraw the skyline of this ancient religious city.

When the project is completed in 2009, it will include the seventh tallest building in the world, its developers say, with a hospital, hotels and prayer halls. A public-announcement system pipes in prayers from the Grand Mosque across the way, and worshipers can join the masses simply by opening their draperies.

In nearby Jabal Omar, an entire mountain is being flattened to make way for a huge hotel and high-rise complex. And elsewhere, cranes dot the skyline with up to 130 new high-rise towers planned for the area.

“This is the end of Mecca,” said Dr. Irfan Ahmed in London. He has formed the Islamic Heritage Foundation to try to preserve the Islamic history of Mecca, Medina, the second holiest city, and other important religious sites in Saudi Arabia. “Before, even in the days of the Ottomans, none of the buildings in Mecca towered higher than the Grand Mosque. Now these are much higher and more disrespectful.”

Money is certainly one of the motivators in the building boom. Every year, up to four million people descend on this city during the pilgrimage, while a stream continues to flow through here during the year, spending an average $2,000 to $3,000 to stay, eat and shop.

Billboards along the way to Mecca remind investors of the potential earnings from owning an apartment here; some claim a 25 percent return on investment. Advertisements on Arab satellite television channels remind viewers that “you, too, can have the opportunity to enjoy this blessed view.”

Muhammad al-Abboud, a real estate agent, recounts tales of Pakistani businessmen plunking down $15 million to buy several apartments at a time. Saudi princes own entire floors.

A three-bedroom apartment here runs about $3 million, Mr. Abboud said. One directly overlooking the Grand Mosque can reach $5 million.

Critics of the development complain that the result is gated communities where worshipers can separate themselves from the crowds, thereby violating the spirit of the hajj, where all stand equal before God.

“All of Mecca is a sanctuary,” Mr. Abboud said. “So how could something like this not be snapped up?” But some groups say the building boom also has religious motives. They accuse the archconservative Salafi, who hold great sway in Saudi Arabia, of seeking to eliminate historic spots, fearing that these sites would become objects of worship themselves.

Dr. Ahmed of London has cataloged the destruction of more than 300 separate antiquity sites, including cemeteries and mosques. He says the house where the Prophet Muhammad lived was razed and today a dilapidated library, with its windows and doors shuttered, stands in its place.

“It is not respecting the Kaaba, not respecting the house of God or the environment of the sanctuary,” Sami Angawi, a Saudi architect who wants to preserve Mecca’s heritage, said of the development. “You are not supposed to even cut a tree in this city, so how could you blow up a mountain? The Islamic laws have been broken.”

Progress has exacted a heavy price in Mecca. More pilgrims than ever can come here, thanks to billions spent on tunnels and infrastructure to accommodate them. But in exchange, the city’s once famed night market, where pilgrims brought their wares to sell, is gone. The Meccan homes and buildings that filled the area near the mosque were demolished in the 1970s to enlarge the mosque. The neighborhoods and families who lived near the mosque and welcomed pilgrims have long since moved away.

Mecca has long been a commercial as well as a religious center, but increasingly global brands dominate here.

Mr. Angawi, the Saudi architect, has led a lonely campaign within the kingdom to bring attention to the destruction of the historic sites. Dr. Ahmed has worked to lobby Asian and Arab governments to press the Saudis to stop such demolitions. And Mr. Ahmed, in Washington, has built a database of the historic spots now destroyed. Many Muslims inside and outside Saudi Arabia have remained silent about the issues, they say, fearing the loss of financing from Saudi Arabia for religious institutions and projects.

Saudi officials say they have been painstakingly preserving the Islamic artifacts they find, and operate two small museums in Mecca. In all, they say, more than $19 billion has been spent on preserving the country’s Muslim heritage. They dismiss their critics as cranks who have no following.

Developers and real estate agents, meanwhile, say the construction makes room for even more Muslims to take part in the hajj, and therefore serves the greater good.

That suggests that the changes are far from over.

“Mecca has never been changed like it has now,” Mr. Angawi said. “What you see now is only 10 percent of what’s to come. What is coming is much, much worse.”
243 2007-03-08 The company also said that sales at stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales and an important retail measure, gained nearly 25 percent in February.

The company, operator of Saks Fifth Avenue stores, earned $21.5 million, or 14 cents a share, in the fourth quarter, which ended Feb. 3, in contrast to a loss of $2.2 million, or 2 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. The latest quarter included an extra week.

Excluding items, profit in the latest period came to 19 cents a share. Analysts had expected 22 cents a share, according to Reuters estimates.

The company, which is focusing on its high-end Saks stores after selling off more traditional chains, said results were helped by a 9.9 percent rise in sales at stores open at least a year, gross margin improvement and expense control.
244 2007-03-08 Among several major rule changes, the open skies accord would scrap restrictions that for decades have given four airlines — British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, United Airlines and American Airlines — the exclusive rights to fly between the United States and Heathrow, Europe’s busiest airport.

Despite their lobbying efforts, British carriers could find themselves isolated on the issue. Major airlines on the Continent have publicly welcomed the accord.

Air France-KLM, the largest European carrier, praised the deal this week as creating “a more harmonized regulatory framework.”

The German flag carrier Lufthansa also said it was in favor of the deal, describing it as an “important first step” toward fully deregulated trans-Atlantic air travel.

Mr. Alexander’s remarks followed a steep 6.6 percent slide in British Airways shares Monday as investors worried that the deal would cut into the carrier’s profits. British Airways earns about 60 percent of its revenue on trans-Atlantic routes.

As a sign of how aggressively British Airways is opposed to the agreement, the company’s chief executive, Willie Walsh, sent letters Tuesday both to Mr. Alexander and Mr. Barrot, urging them to rethink the deal, which he said gave away too much to American carriers and offered little in return.

The British Airways chairman, Martin Broughton, also appealed to the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, calling the draft agreement a “dead end that we would be stuck with for many years to come.” Mr. Broughton asked Mrs. Merkel to use her influence as the current president of the union’s Transport Council to block the deal.

Virgin Atlantic has joined British Airways in criticizing the accord.

Paul Charles, a Virgin Atlantic spokesman, called on Europe and the United States to be “bold enough” to open air travel markets fully so that any carrier on either side of the Atlantic would be free to fly to any destination.

“That would be a template that could be used to create opportunities for consumers worldwide,” Mr. Charles said.

Virgin Atlantic flies to around 20 destinations from Heathrow, 8 of them in the United States.

Opponents of the deal have hinted at the possibility that it might be derailed by a legal technicality. A Reuters report from Brussels quoted an unnamed European diplomat Wednesday as saying that the accord would require unanimous backing by all 27 European member states, raising the possibility of a British veto.

Officials at the European Council’s legal office could not be reached for comment. But Mr. Cercone disputed the diplomat’s claim. In the past, he noted, aviation agreements have been treated as community issues requiring passage by a qualified majority of member states representing at least two-thirds of the total European Union population.
245 2007-03-08 He asked the department to provide the documents by March 31.

In a follow-up letter, Mr. Kennedy asked yesterday whether the department had received a necessary approval from the Justice Department before reaching the agreement.

A spokeswoman for the Education Department, Katherine McLane, said the agency was reviewing the letters.

The letter from the 10 Democrats on the House committee was sent on Wednesday to Education Secretary Margaret Spellings. It also asked for a description of actions that the department might take toward other companies that might be receiving similar payments.

“The Nelnet example represents a serious misuse of federal funds, and it is likely that this is not an isolated case,” the letter said. “It is critical for you to conduct full oversight.”

In their letter sent on Tuesday, the bipartisan group of lawmakers — seven Republicans and three Democrats, none of whom signed the Wednesday letter — criticized the decision to settle with Nelnet, of Lincoln, Neb., as fiscally irresponsible and warned that it set a poor precedent.

The letter asked the department to revisit this decision and give an explanation if it did not try to recover the money.

The guaranteed interest rate was established in the 1980s, when rates were high, to keep lenders in the loan business. Congress tried to rein in the program in 1993, but the loans ballooned as lenders found ways to increase portfolios that they said were eligible for the guarantee.

A spokesman for Nelnet, Ben Kiser, said, “We reached an amicable agreement with the department on this issue in January and consider this issue resolved.”

Representative Thomas E. Petri, a Wisconsin Republican who signed the group letter, said in a telephone interview, “I don’t think any of us think we should sit idly by and let people just game the system.”

Mr. Petri noted that the overpayments could help finance efforts to make college more affordable, perhaps by increasing grants for poor students. “That’s not liberal or conservative,” he said. “That’s just a basic responsibility that we have.”

Advocates for students hope the letters may be the first step in a broader review of the loan industry, and hailed the pressure on the department.

“The fact that you have requests from Democrats, but then also people like Jeff Flake, who is one of the most fiscally conservative members of the Republican Party — that breadth is significant,” said Luke Swarthout, higher-education associate with U.S. Public Interest Research Group in Washington.

Senator Kennedy sent letters to Education Department officials and contractors involved in Reading First, a $1 billion-a-year program in which he demanded to see all correspondence and contracts between Reading First and the White House, the department and other entities.

The letters went out hours after the department’s inspector general found that the program’s main contractor had failed to screen for conflicts of interest.
246 2007-03-08 Some lawmakers are questioning the Justice Department’s recently revised guidelines on combating corporate fraud, asking whether they do enough to protect the confidentiality of legal communications and the right to legal counsel.

Those concerns will be voiced at a hearing today of a House Judiciary subcommittee.

Two former federal prosecutors and other prominent lawyers are expected to tell the House panel and its chairman, Representative Robert C. Scott, Democrat of Virginia, that the new guidelines, known as the McNulty memorandum, are inadequate and do not protect basic legal rights.

In December, the Justice Department placed new restraints on the conduct of corporate investigations by federal prosecutors. The shift came after pressure from lawyers and a prominent federal judge who had said the old guidelines, written in 2003 after the collapse of Enron and other corporate scandals, were coercive and unconstitutional.

The revised nonbinding guidelines are named after the deputy attorney general who wrote them, Paul J. McNulty, and replace the Thompson memorandum, written by a predecessor, Larry D. Thompson.

The new guidelines suggest that prosecutors ask for private legal communications only in exceptional circumstances. They also prohibit prosecutors from considering, when weighing whether to seek the indictment of a company, whether it is paying the legal fees of an employee caught up in the inquiry.
247 2007-03-08 BOTH the House of Representatives and the Senate have recently passed bills raising the minimum wage. The Senate bill includes tax breaks for businesses, based on the following logic: While a minimum wage increase is popular, the resulting higher labor costs will translate into fewer jobs, more expensive products or both. The solution, the senators concluded, was to subsidize companies that hire disadvantaged workers, in order to reimburse them for these higher wage costs.

Does this reasoning hold up? A look at one of the key pieces of this business tax package — the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, which has been in place since 1996 and would be extended for five years under the proposal — suggests otherwise.

First, most eligible companies don’t take the credit, which averages about $1,000 for each employee who belongs to one of the specified categories of workers (for instance, recent recipients of welfare or food stamps). Even though national surveys show many such workers being hired, employers claim the credit for less than a third of them.

Second, there is no evidence that employers have hired more eligible workers as a result of the program. Indeed, according to a number of studies — including one by the Department of Labor, another surveying 101 temporary help agencies, and a statistical analysis of welfare recipients in Wisconsin — the credit seldom influences hiring decisions of participating firms. Many companies wish to avoid preferential hiring, even though the policy is explicitly intended to give disadvantaged job seekers an advantage in the labor market.

Is it a good idea to extend this program, even though it hasn’t meaningfully improved the employment picture for disadvantaged workers? But suppose such a program had even a small effect. Would it undo the negative consequences of a minimum wage increase? The answer is no, for two reasons.

First, data from Wisconsin show that fewer than 25 percent of workers claimed under the credit are earning the minimum wage. Second, large corporations are the most active participants in the program. In 1999, the average participating corporation received more than $100,000 in credits. The Senate bill, however, is supposed to support small businesses, which have never taken advantage of the Work Opportunity Tax Credit in large numbers, but are the most likely to suffer under the proposed minimum wage increase.
248 2007-03-08 Computer hardware manufacturers predict that most people will buy new computers rather than try to upgrade older ones to run Windows Vista. But with all of those files and customized settings on the old computer, switching over is no simple task.

Belkin is offering a solution to the transfer problem with its Easy Transfer cable for Windows Vista, designed for people with computers running Windows XP. The package sells for less than $40 at most retail and online outlets.

The transfer is done by loading the supplied software onto the old computer and attaching the cable to U.S.B. ports on both computers. The Easy Transfer Wizard is run on the XP side — the Vista side has it as part of the operating system — and after some fine-tuning to identify which files will be moved, the files and settings make the Vista leap.

The package includes a copy of Laplink’s PCsync. Belt-and-suspenders types could mirror the two PCs by running the PCsync software regularly. STEPHEN C. MILLER
249 2007-03-08 The suggestion that Christopher Cox, the Securities and Exchange Commission chairman, is caving to business interests because he is appearing at a U.S. Chamber of Commerce conference is absurd (“Is the S.E.C. Changing Course?,” Business Day, March 1).

Should Mr. Cox be considered a pawn of shareholder activists because he addressed the Council of Institutional Investors, an organization friendly to their interests? Of course not!

As the world’s largest business federation, the U.S. Chamber seeks the viewpoints of people from across the political and ideological spectrum on the critical issues of the day, especially how to ensure that our capital markets and capital formation system are the most competitive, transparent, liquid and modern on earth.

Which is why Mr. Cox, Barney Frank, the House Financial Services committee chairman, and Christopher J. Dodd, the Senate Banking Committee chairman, have agreed to speak at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.

The health of our capital markets is too important to businesses and investors alike to settle for anything less than a real debate on the issues.
250 2007-03-08 Your March 2 editorial “Ground Zero Victims” is both a clarion call for a national response to address the health needs of responders who helped New Yorkers in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center and a reminder that the entire nation was attacked on 9/11, not just New York.
251 2007-03-08 NEW DELHI, March 7 — Inflation fears and volatility are not dampening the expansion plans of stock exchanges in India.

The Bombay Stock Exchange sold a 5 percent stake Wednesday to the Singapore Stock Exchange for 1.89 billion India rupees, or $42.6 million, and the exchange in Calcutta said it planned to sell 51 percent of its shares to partners and strategic investors in roughly 5 percent increments.

The Bombay exchange said it would collaborate with Singapore on listings and new products, planning to capitalize on Singapore’s position as a regional hub for derivatives and international listings.

“This alliance will position B.S.E. to be an important player in the increasingly globalized marketplace,” said the managing director and chief executive of the Bombay exchange, Rajnikant Patel.

The Singapore deal comes after the Bombay Stock Exchange sold another 5 percent stake to Deutsche Börse earlier this year, and the National Stock Exchange of India sold a 20 percent stake to investors, including the New York Stock Exchange. The diversification comes as some economists and strategists warn that Indian stock prices are in danger of becoming a bubble.
252 2007-03-08 To the Editor:     The suggestion that Christopher Cox, the Securities and Exchange Commission chairman, is caving to business interests because he is appearing at a U.S. Chamber of Commerce conference is absurd (''Is the S.E.C. Changing Course?,'...
253 2007-03-08 TAKEOVER PLOT AT TAKE-TWO -- A consortium of investors disclosed that it intended to oust the board and possibly the top management of Take-Two Interactive Software, a video game publisher that has been plagued by legal, regulatory and accounting ...
254 2007-03-08 A court ordered the YouTube Web site blocked throughout Turkey because of a video deemed insulting to Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey. The ban followed a week of what the news media termed a ''virtual war'' of videos between Gr...
255 2007-03-08 A state auditor who is being investigated for approving more than $1.2 million in payments to a company he owned was suspended without pay yesterday, officials said. The auditor, James L. Leggiero, is being investigated by the office of State Atto...
256 2007-03-08 Annie Miller came seeking a pass on a parking ticket. Ed Wadood needed a mayoral blessing for a local golf tournament. Roberta Ware, driven by a religious vision, beseeched Mayor Cory A. Booker to spread the Gospel to the city's wayward youth. Ras...
257 2007-03-08 To the Editor:     Your March 2 editorial ''Ground Zero Victims'' is both a clarion call for a national response to address the health needs of responders who helped New Yorkers in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center an...
258 2007-03-09 New shows in New York include "My Trip to Al-Qaeda" and "Howard Katz."...
259 2007-03-09 The senator talks about the war and new proposals for withdrawal from Iraq....
260 2007-03-09 Chaos spells opportunity on Wall Street. So it is no surprise that the meltdown of the subprime mortgage market is producing a who's who of winners and losers among hedge funds. In a report in The New York Times, Jenny Anderson gives a run down of...
261 2007-03-09 Applebee's International said that the activist hedge fund run by a former Securities and Exchange Commission chairman that has hounded it for months has rejected an offer of two board seats. Breeden Capital Management, run by Richard Breeden, dec...
262 2007-03-09 Shares in Sourcefire, a network security company, priced at $15 a share Thursday evening, exceeding its pricing range and raising more than $70 million for the company, the Baltimore Sun reported Friday. That price now values the company at $346.7...
263 2007-03-09 Much of Wall Street is feverishly asking whether the recent stock-market selloffs were a blip or the start of a trend. The mergers and acquisitions market might offer some important clues, according to a report from Tobias Levkovich, chief United ...
264 2007-03-09 Wireless messaging and entertainment software developer Gemini Mobile Technologies has received $20 million in new funding, intended to support continued global expansion and product development. The internationally focused company, which splits i...
265 2007-03-09 Citigroup and Morgan Stanley agreed to invest in the National Stock Exchange of India, the nation's largest, after volumes doubled in four years. Morgan Stanley will take a 3 percent stake, Citigroup will take 2 percent and Actis Capital will buy ...
266 2007-03-09 Japanese electronics conglomerate NEC, dogged by accounting troubles, said its shares may be delisted from the Nasdaq stock market because it would likely miss a deadline for filing an earnings report. NEC, which unsettled investors by restating e...
267 2007-03-09 The latest hedge fund to hit the public markets found the reception not quite as warm as it had hoped. Brevan Howard Asset Management raised 770 million euros ($1 billion) in an initial public offering of hedge fund BH Macro Limited, about half of...
268 2007-03-09 At least one investment bank plans on storing nuts ahead of a possible economic winter. After the announcement yesterday that Greenhill & Company lost its vice chairman, Harvey R. Miller, to his old law firm, the boutique investment bank is appare...
269 2007-03-09 Sales of the drugs totaled about $10 billion last year, making epo the best-selling product of the biotechnology industry so far.

The drugs have been heavily advertised, and there is evidence that they have been overused, in part because kidney dialysis centers and oncologists can increase their profits by prescribing more of the drugs. The new warnings are likely to prompt many physicians to cut back on their use.

Officials of the drug agency stressed that the main safety risks of the drugs appear to occur when the drugs are used to raise hemoglobin to levels higher than 12 grams for each deciliter of blood, the level indicated in the prescribing information for the drugs.

Even then, the data showing risks are “very, very preliminary,” Dr. Patricia Keegan, director of the agency’s division dealing with biotech cancer drugs, said on a conference call with reporters today. Nevertheless, she said, the pattern in the data seemed consistent enough to merit the new warnings.

In a statement posted on its Web site, Amgen said that in the recent studies, “physicians treated patients differently than they would in standard clinical practice.” In a separate press release, the company said that the “vast majority of oncologists and nephrologists” do not appear to be using the drugs to maintain hemoglobin levels above 12 grams per deciliter.

The new warning for the drugs will be bordered by a black box, the strictest type of warning. It will include information on six studies, most of which have been made public in the last few months.

In one study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine in November, patients with kidney disease who were treated aggressively with Procrit had more heart attacks and deaths than those treated less aggressively.

One of Amgen’s own studies showed an increased death rate in cancer patients treated with Aranesp compared with those who were given a placebo. The patients receiving Aranesp were not receiving chemotherapy, and their anemia was instead presumed to have been caused by the cancer itself. That is not an approved use, but Amgen officials said it nonetheless accounted for about 10 percent of all Aranesp prescriptions.

Anemia, a deficiency of red blood cells and hemoglobin, causes fatigue and other symptoms, like loss of concentration.

But agency officials said that the manufacturers have never demonstrated in studies that use of the drugs actually improves energy levels or quality of life when used in patients with anemia caused by chemotherapy. Rather, the drugs are approved only to reduce the need for blood transfusions.
270 2007-03-09 The government said that the new agency would be modeled in part on Temasek Holdings, the Singapore government’s hugely successful investment agency, which manages an $84 billion global portfolio of investments.

Like most countries, China’s huge foreign exchange reserves are largely kept as insurance, in case of a financial panic or swift reversal of fortune for the economy.

The reserves are now held by the Chinese central bank, and most of the reserves are expected to remain there, in safe, conservative investments in government securities. But the new agency is expected to get a substantial portion to work with.

Some financial experts are already talking about the huge impact China could have as a major global investor, and the possibility that its purchases could push asset prices higher and create even more competition for scarce commodities and resources.

But Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said that the new investment agency would not be allowed to simply speculate.

“The biggest priority is safety, and under the principle of security, we will try to increase the efficiency of management and the investments’ returns,” Mr. Jin said at a news conference this morning, held as part of a two-week meeting of the National People’s Congress, China’s largely ceremonial national legislature.

The decision to form the new agency has been rumored for months, and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in January that the government was exploring new ideas about investing the currency reserves.

Andy Rothman, a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said the government was likely to proceed cautiously and give the agency only a relatively small part of the reserves to work with at first, perhaps $20 billion. “It’s not going all of a sudden going to change the world,” Mr. Rothman said. “I think they are going to move very, very slowly in diversify what they are doing. Nobody should expect that suddenly they are going to invest $1 trillion.”

Some analysts say the formation of the new agency means China is moving away from heavy reliance on investing in United States dollars through Treasury securities, and that could affect American interest rates, which remain low in part because of China’s huge bond purchases.

But the country’s foreign exchange reserves are accumulating so quickly — by more than $20 billion a month, analysts say — that China is likely to continue buying huge numbers of Treasury bonds for a long time to come even if the new agency gets a fast start..

The immense foreign exchange holdings are just one of many signs of China’s spectacular rise, and its growing influence in the global economy and financial markets.

And with that growth have come rising costs at home for education, health care and pensions. Earning more on government holdings, analysts say, will allow the government to better cope with some of these problems.

Mr. Rothman said the decision to set up the new investment agency should be seen in the context of other new government measures, like the recent efforts to enact a private property law and another new law to equalize corporate taxes. He said China is trying to create the legal and regulatory structure to underpin its still-evolving market economy.

Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said the new agency would answer directly to the State Council, the equivalent of China’s cabinet.
271 2007-03-09 Microsoft said it had signed its first agreement to license its technology, almost three years after European Union antitrust regulators ordered the software company to share data to increase competition. Microsoft said the deal, with Quest Software of California, was meant to comply with an antitrust order issued in March 2004 that demanded licensing of software that helps desktop computers communicate with servers. But the deal was met with skepticism from adversaries, who questioned how a company with a longstanding relationship with Microsoft could be considered a rival. The European Commission threatened Microsoft last week with fines as high as 3 million euros ($3.9 million) a day for failing to comply with the order.
272 2007-03-09 A lawyer for Michael Devlin, the former pizzeria manager charged with abducting two Missouri boys, has rejected a plea deal expected to include several life sentences, saying his client could do better before a jury. Mr. Devlin faces 75 county counts and 6 federal counts involving kidnapping, sexual assault and child pornography. Mr. Devlin’s lawyer, Ethan Corlija, said the plea bargain, being drafted by prosecutors from all jurisdictions, would amount to the maximum sentence Mr. Devlin would face if he was convicted at trial on every charge.
273 2007-03-09 China issued a response to the annual State Department report on human rights conditions globally and criticized the United States, saying it had violated the sovereignty of several nations, caused the deaths of civilians in Iraq, and violated the Geneva Conventions in its treatment of foreign prisoners. The Chinese report also listed a litany of domestic woes, from crime to racial tension. The American report said China had tightened restrictions on speech, the press and the Internet and had continued to detain political activists.
274 2007-03-09 “How many more men will have to die,” he asked, “how many more men will be driven to harm themselves before this problem is fixed?”

The lawsuit reflects an increasing concern nationally as the number of mentally ill inmates rises, experts on inmates and mental illness say.

Several states, including Connecticut, New Mexico, Ohio, Texas and Wisconsin, have faced lawsuits that have recently been resolved by settlements or court orders requiring improvements in the treatment of mentally ill prisoners. Those changes include more frequent monitoring, better training of corrections officers and removal of fixtures that could be used for hangings.

In January, Indiana agreed to stop putting some mentally ill inmates in isolation cells. While not all agreements in other states have resulted in excluding mentally ill prisoners from isolation, many have called for better screening or monitoring of isolated inmates.

In California, after a record number of prison suicides — 44 — in 2005, a special master appointed by a federal judge reported that inmates “in overcrowded and understaffed administration segregation units are killing themselves in unprecedented numbers.” The judge, Lawrence Karlton, ordered the administration of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger to spend more than $600 million to improve mental health services.

In New York, the Legislature passed a law last year to remove mentally ill inmates from solitary cells, but Gov. George E. Pataki vetoed it. A 2002 suit seeking to end the practice is close to a settlement, said Nina Loewenstein, a lawyer for Disability Advocates, which filed it.

“That’s what states around the country are struggling with — when they have inmates that are very violent and out of control and need to be segregated from other inmates, but they are also mentally ill,” said Lindsay M. Hayes, a national expert in prison suicide prevention who was hired last year by the Massachusetts Department of Correction to study why the suicide rate was so high.

A segregated inmate is typically locked up for 23 hours a day, allowed out only to shower or get outdoor exercise in a small caged space.

In a report Mr. Hayes issued last month, he found that of 10 prisoners who killed themselves in 2005 and 2006, 5 had recently been on suicide watches and 9 committed suicide in solitary or segregated conditions. A prisoner who tried to kill himself was left brain dead.

“Confining a suicidal inmate to their cell for 24 hours a day only enhances isolation and is antitherapeutic,” Mr. Hayes wrote.

When the report was released, the State Department of Corrections said it would adopt all 29 of Mr. Hayes’s recommendations, which included better assessment, supervision and monitoring of inmates, and better officer training, a recommendation Mr. Hayes also made in a 2000 report. He did not specifically recommend excluding mentally inmates from segregation units, saying it was not his area of expertise.

The Department of Corrections declined to comment on the suit or its position on segregated cells.

But in a statement, the department said: “We are well aware of the national trend of the increasing number of prisoners with mental illness” and added that it was “committed to the full implementation of the Hayes recommendations and improvement of prison mental health care.”

The statement said the department had already taken several steps, including briefing senior staff, revising the training curriculum and evaluating cells for design improvements. It said it also was soliciting bids for a residential treatment facility for mentally ill inmates.

Leslie Walker, executive director of Massachusetts Correctional Legal Services, said that advocates had been pressing for change for 17 years and that she was not confident the state would do enough on its own.

Frances Armstrong, whose nephew, Andrew Armstrong, 22, killed himself in a segregation unit in 2005, said in an interview that Mr. Armstrong had been put in isolation several times for cutting himself.

“Even in the Bible it says man is not meant to be alone,” Ms. Armstrong said. “He just lost his will to live. He thought if this is going to be the way it’s going to be, I better check out now.”
275 2007-03-09 The Securities and Exchange Commission has taken a step toward combating stock spam, the unsolicited bulk e-mail message that promotes cheap stocks for quick profits, which usually prove illusory.

Starting an enforcement effort it is calling Operation Spamalot, the S.E.C. suspended trading in 35 stocks that had been promoted in recent spam campaigns. The suspensions will last for 10 days. The S.E.C. said that further investigation could lead to arrests.

Spam over all has swelled during the last six months, and now accounts for more than 90 percent of all e-mail messages, according to the Internet security firm Secure Computing. Stock spam has been a significant contributor to that growth and now accounts for 30 percent of all spam, the company said.

The e-mail messages seek to persuade recipients to buy shares in a company, generally one that has few shares available to the public. The spammers buy shares before they send out their e-mail messages, then sell when the price rises. The victims who buy the stock typically see the value of their shares fall drastically.

The S.E.C. said 100 million of these e-mail messages were being sent each week, and that stock spam was responsible for hundreds of millions in investor losses.
276 2007-03-09 John J. McCabe, who held top executive positions at five newspapers, including The New York Times, and also served in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, died on Wednesday at his home in Medford, Mass. He was 78.

The cause was prostate cancer, his son John Jr. said.

Mr. McCabe was The Times’s senior vice president in charge of business operations, advertising, circulation, marketing and promotion from 1972 to 1978. He started as a clerk in the advertising department in 1949 and was later general accounting manager, controller and vice president for finance.

After he left The Times, Mr. McCabe joined the Koch administration as deputy director of the Office of Operations, which measures the performance of city agencies.

Mr. McCabe was later general manager of The Bulletin in Philadelphia; executive vice president and general manager of two Connecticut newspapers, Greenwich Time and The Advocate in Stamford, and, from 1983 to 1989, chief operating officer of The Los Angeles Herald-Examiner.

John James McCabe was born in the Bronx and received a bachelor’s degree in philosophy from St. Joseph’s Seminary in Dunwoodie, N.Y., in 1949.

Mr. McCabe’s first marriage, to the former Margaret Grunenberg, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, the former Joanny Rodriguez, a former news assistant at The Times; his son John, of Washington; another son, James, of Manhattan; four daughters, Peggy McCabe of St. Petersburg, Fla.; Maryellen Mariani of Seminole, Fla.; Agnes McCabe of Oldsmar, Fla.; and Natalie Zwerger of the Bronx; and a granddaughter.
277 2007-03-09 The questions are sound, and we all have our please-add wish lists (Lenore Tawney and Rachel Rosenthal are on mine, along with many non-Western artists). Still, I hope Ms. Butler will accept thanks for pulling off the impossible with aplomb, and let the fallout be what it is: fodder for future drafts.

For me the “Wack!” of the title is a problem. It’s meant to echo the acronyms of various feminist groups — WAC (Women’s Art Coalition) and so on — that came and went over the years. But it plays too readily into an antic, bad-girl take on feminist art that diminishes it and makes it a joke.

On the other hand “art and the feminist revolution” is fine. Feminism was revolutionary. “Why have there been no great women artists?” asked the art historian Linda Nochlin in 1971. Because of a hierarchical social structure, built on privileged distinctions of gender, class and race that gave men, and only certain men, the time, education and material resources required to make “great” art, to become “geniuses.”

How to remedy this situation? Upend the structure, and invent a new kind of art based on a different definition of “great.” And that’s what feminists tried to do, though ingrained social values were hard to change. The most visible early feminist artists were white, straight, middle class. Working-class women and women of color belonged to some other world, as did lesbians, Betty Friedan’s “lavender menace.”

Gradually but always incompletely, boundaries loosened up. In the early ’70s, with the Vietnam War in progress, women could see their oppression as part of a larger oppression. At the same time, in different forms, with different priorities, feminism, often assumed to be a Western phenomenon, was developing in truly radical ways in Africa, Asia, South America. There never was a Feminism; there were only feminisms.

How does any show lay out this multitrack panorama? One way to start is by abandoning linear chronology, which is what “Wack!” does, though this doesn’t mean it escapes accepted models of history. The presence of figures like Eleanor Antin, Louise Bourgeois, Mary Beth Edelson, Eva Hesse, Mary Kelly, Adrian Piper, Miriam Schapiro, Carolee Schneemann and Hannah Wilke adds up to a pantheon of textbook heroes — a market-ready canon of exactly the kind early feminism tried to disrupt. And certain foundational events are acknowledged. Faith Wilding is represented by a re-creation of the crocheted environment she originally created for the landmark Womanhouse in Los Angeles in 1972. Two of the artists who were with her there, Judy Chicago and Sheila Levrant de Bretteville, are also in the show, with Ms. Chicago’s mandalalike paintings representing a genitally centered, “essentialist” brand of feminism that many other artists rejected.

Here, to the show’s credit, they all mingle on equal footing with dozens of less familiar artists, some of them unknown even to seasoned museumgoers. Among then are the Indian-born Nasreen Mohamedi (1937-90) and Zarina Hashmi; Sanja Ivekovic, a conceptual photographer based in Croatia; the social activist Mónica Mayer from Mexico City; the British performance artist Rose English; and the German filmmaker Ulrike Ottinger, whose cinematic spectacles are like proto-Matthew Barney. The overall installation, which twists through the hangarlike Geffen Center, has an arresting start in Magdalena Abakanowicz’s 1969 “Abakan Red.” A suspended fiber sculpture dyed a rich vermilion, it suggests a monumental vagina. On a wall behind it, Nancy Spero’s “Torture of Women” (1976), a set of five horizontal scrolls filled with graffitilike drawings, reads like a hallucinated record of human pain. So, right away, two intertwined themes, the body and politics, are in play.

They turn up in figure painting, of which there’s a fair amount: from Judith F. Baca’s surging mural of migrant workers, to Margaret Harrison’s superhero shemales, to Joan Semmel’s elephantine copulating nudes. An animated film self-portrait by the Austrian artist Maria Lassnig is of particular interest: she dehumanizes and rehumanizes herself repeatedly before our eyes. So are six feverishly executed “Angry Paintings” produced by Louise Fishman in 1973, partly in response to her conflicted feeling about feminism as a movement.

With the first names of specific women — Marilyn Monroe, the artist Yvonne Rainer, the dealer Paula Cooper — scrawled in large, slashing strokes on paper, the paintings have a distressed look well suited to their expressive content. Much of the show’s sculpture — Senga Nengudi’s nylon stockings weighted with sand, Harmony Hammond’s ladder-shaped grids wrapped in bandagelike strips of cloth — is similarly unconventional.

Some of the most radical work of all, though, is in video and in the related medium of performance. And no combination of the two is more mesmerizing than “Mitchell’s Death” (1978) by Linda M. Montano, in which the artist, her face bristling with acupuncture needles, delivers an account of her husband’s violent end in the rhythms of Gregorian chant.

Another video is hard to shake in a different way. In the 1975 “Free, White and 21,” Howardena Pindell plays the roles of a black woman talking about art-world racism and a white woman accusing her of paranoia. A glance at the show suggests how on the money Ms Pindell’s polemic was. Along with Ms. Nengudi, Faith Ringgold, Betye Saar, the filmmaker Camille Billops and the wonderful conceptualist Lorraine O’Grady are the only African-American artists who have work in the show, with the collective called “Where We At” Black Women Artists present only in photographs.

The collective, which stayed together from 1971 to 1997, had a fascinating history, though you learn nothing about that in an exhibition that is frustratingly bare of wall labels. (A cellphone tour offered by the museum covers only certain entries, and is short on hard information.)

The fastidious art-speaks-for-itself approach is O.K. for a Brice Marden retrospective, but in a content-intensive historical show with a hefty amount of unfamiliar material it does a disservice to art and audience alike. Without some context, there is simply no way to understand the extraordinary career of Suzanne Lacy, one of the few artists — Ms. O’Grady is another — who deals directly and pointedly with issues of women and class. Nor it is possible to make sense of what’s going on in a 1977 performance by the Lesbian Art Project, presented as a silent and unannotated slide show.

Fortunately, work by other lesbian artists is far more accessible and, in the case of short films by Barbara Hammer, sexually explicit, loaded with attitude and hilarious. The show’s lesbian artists — among them Ms. Fishman, Ms. Hammond, Tee Corinne (1943-2006) and Nancy Grossman — represent a version of feminism that has particular pertinence today.

With their insistence on experiencing gender — along, one must hope, with race and class — as an unfixed category, but one they control, and their interest in playing with various versions of “great,” they are exercising freedoms of choice that feminism always offered: freedom to challenge received truths, to exchange passivity for activism, to find solidarity in diversity, to adopt ambiguity and ambivalence as social and aesthetic strategies. And by doing so, they are acknowledging that the art they are making, whatever form it takes, is political by default.

This sense of the self in the world seems to be second nature to a new generation of lesbian feminist artists, like the 20 who are participating in the brash, action-packed group show called “Shared Women,” organized by LACE (Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions) to coincide with “Wack!” and on view through April 9. And I expect to find it again in the many young artists from around the world who will make up “Global Feminisms,” which opens at the Brooklyn Museum this month.

But this attention, finally here, is not enough. “Wack!” needs all kinds of adjustments. In addition to wall labels, there should be many more historical documents — books, journals, posters — than the meager assortment on view. Maybe they’ll show up at P.S. 1. The show’s otherwise excellent catalog is crippled by the lack of an index, and its cover needs rethinking. Martha Rosler’s sardonic collage of Playboy centerfold nudes loses its point out of context and turns into just another sex-sells pitch.

Beyond all that, feminist art of the 1980s and ’90s still awaits a large-scale museum survey, and given the ground it would cover, it could be the most exciting one of all. But maybe this is just me wanting more. As I walked through the Geffen Center repeatedly over two days — the show takes at least that long to digest — I saw a gold mine of art-historical study present and future, and a revolution still, in ways to be determined, in progress.
278 2007-03-09 With less than a week until Hewlett-Packard’s annual shareholder meeting, the first at which the contentious issue of investor elections of directors comes to a vote, battle lines have been clearly drawn. A filing made by the company yesterday and a big shareholder’s position are previews of the fireworks that may occur when investors gather at the Hyatt Regency in Santa Clara, Calif., on Wednesday.

The board of Hewlett-Packard made unwelcome headlines last year when it disclosed that improper spying techniques had been used against directors and journalists to try to identify boardroom leaks. Unhappy shareholders used the boardroom disarray — and a favorable court ruling in an unrelated case involving proxy access — to force the company to let holders vote on a proposal that would allow input in director elections. Under the proposal, any owner of more than 3 percent of the company’s shares held for more than two years can nominate board candidates who shareholders would then vote on.

The proposal gets around a big obstacle to shareholder nomination of directors — the high costs of mounting a proxy battle. Hewlett-Packard management is urging shareholders to vote against the proposal. Major shareholder advisory services such as Glass Lewis & Company, are recommending that owners vote in favor of the proposal.

Mark V. Hurd, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, cited four reasons why the proposal is not in the interests of shareholders: they can already recommend director candidates; the proposal will result in divisive elections; nominees could be in the pockets of special interest groups; and the forum for deciding on such issues as director elections lies with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, or Calpers, is a big Hewlett shareholder and begs to differ. “Simply seeking input is not a meaningful substitute for proxy access,” Calpers said in a statement. It also said that the ability to nominate directors would add value to the company by making them more accountable. As for the special interest threat, Calpers countered that nominations would be limited to share owners that have long-term investments in the company and that special interest candidates would probably be voted down if they were to get on a slate.

“Open access to the proxy for director nominations is the most effective mechanism for ensuring accountability at H-P as well as at any company where share ownership exists,” Calpers said.
279 2007-03-09 Edgar Sosa, Louisville's freshman guard from the Bronx and Rice High School in Harlem, fouled out before his Cardinals finished off West Virginia, 82-71, in a terrific double overtime show last night in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament...
280 2007-03-09 Microsoft said it had signed its first agreement to license its technology, almost three years after European Union antitrust regulators ordered the software company to share data to increase competition. Microsoft said the deal, with Quest Softwa...
281 2007-03-09 Placed in solitary confinement in a Massachusetts prison, Mark Cunningham tried to kill himself last year, advocates for inmates say.     Mr. Cunningham cut his legs and arms. He tried to hang himself with a tube from a breathing machine he used f...
282 2007-03-09 China will create a new agency to invest the country's immense reserves of foreign currency, now totaling more than $1 trillion, the country's finance minister announced today.     The minister, Jin Renqing, offered no specifics about how much of ...
283 2007-03-09 I.R.S. ASKS THE EXPERTS -- The Internal Revenue Service is asking tax lawyers and accountants who help create tax shelters and advise clients on how to exploit loopholes to take the lead in writing some of its new tax rules. [Page C1.]    A NEW PR...
284 2007-03-09 China issued a response to the annual State Department report on human rights conditions globally and criticized the United States, saying it had violated the sovereignty of several nations, caused the deaths of civilians in Iraq, and violated the...
285 2007-03-09 McCULLOUGH--Louise V., of Lyford Cay, Bahamas, wife of the previously deceased Donald F. McCullough died February 27, 2007 in Greenwich, CT, after a long battle with lung cancer. She was 83. Prior to her retirement, Mrs. McCullough was a director ...
286 2007-03-10 Iraq had seven representatives, headed by Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari and including the security adviser Mowaffak Rubaie.

The most immediate outcomes that appeared likely were to form working groups on border security, fuel imports and refugees and to hold another regional meeting later this spring.

If there were no immediate announcements of concrete steps to solve the country’s problems, the meeting appeared at least to avoid deepening tensions among the countries at the table and was a vote of confidence for Iraq’s sovereignty from its neighbors. The range of pressing issues troubling the region includes Sunni worries over rising Shiite strength in Iraq and Iran, an international investigation into possible Syrian involvement in the assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, and concerns over Iran’s nuclear program.

Other than the mortar rounds, the atmosphere was “fully honest, fully friendly,” said a government spokesman, Ali Dabbagh, at a briefing for reporters part way through the meeting.

United States Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad said, “Iraq’s neighbors can only be counted as providing true and honest ‘support’ to Iraq’s stability if they act decisively to halt the flow of fighters weapons and other lethal support to militias and other illegal armed groups and cease sectarian rhetoric and other propaganda that could incite violence.”

In describing the meeting midway through discussions, Mr. Dabbagh, said Iraq “did not want to pay any price for any problems between the two countries.”

“The main message to the assembled delegates” was “to stop supporting any group outside the elected government,” Mr. Dabbagh said.

Although there was no one-on-one discussion between the United States and Iran about the use of powerful bombs known as EFPs, which American officials say are Iranian made and exported to Iraqi militants, the issue of foreign arms being sent to Iraqi militants was discussed at the meeting, Mr. Dabbagh said. The bombs have been responsible for some of the most deadly attacks on American troops.

In his remarks, Mr. Khalilzad also took the opportunity to say that the American.-led coalition did not have “anyone in detention who is a diplomat.”

American forces detained Iranians on two occasions earlier this year, in Baghdad and Kurdistan, and at least some of them were reported to be diplomats.

Mr. Khalilzad also reiterated that the coalition targeted individuals “based on their role in violence.”

“We do not target individuals based on their country of origin,” he said.

Since the meeting was closed it was impossible to see the reaction of the delegates to the mortar, but armed guards shooed reporters indoors, then transferred them to a larger building.

Representatives of 16 countries and organizations attended the meeting, which was held at Iraq’s Foreign Ministry. In addition to Iraq’s six neighbors and the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council — the United States, Russia, France, Britain, and China — also in attendance were delegations from Bahrain, Egypt, the United Nations, the Organization of Islamic States and the Arab League.

In all there were 69 representatives at the meeting, three of them women.
287 2007-03-10 A former professor at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary has filed a federal lawsuit against the school and its president, saying she lost her tenure-track position because of her sex. The lawsuit claims that the professor, Sheri Klouda, was fired because she was a woman teaching men. It accuses the seminary and its president, Paige Patterson, of breach of contract, fraud and defamation, and seeks unspecified damages. A spokesman for the seminary, John Zellers, had no comment.
288 2007-03-10 LAUSANNE, Switzerland, March 9 — A prominent Turkish politician was convicted Friday of breaching Swiss antiracism laws by saying that the early 20th-century killing of Armenians could not be described as genocide.

The Turkish Foreign Ministry reacted swiftly to the decision, saying in a statement that it was saddened by the Swiss court’s ruling to punish the politician, Dogu Perincek, leader of the Turkish Workers’ Party, and to ignore “his freedom of expression.”

Mr. Perincek was ordered to pay a fine of $2,450; an additional penalty of $7,360 was suspended.

He was charged with breaking Swiss law by denying during a visit to Switzerland in 2005 that the World War I era killings of up to 1.5 million Armenians amounted to genocide. He has since repeated his statements, including at his trial this week.

In Turkey it is a crime to use the word genocide to describe the killings.

Mr. Perincek accused the judge of “racist hatred” toward Turkey and said he would appeal the verdict to Switzerland’s supreme court.

If necessary, Mr. Perincek told Turkey’s government-run Anatolia news agency, he would take his case to the European Court of Human Rights.

In his closing statement, Judge Pierre-Henri Winzap described the defendant as an intelligent and cultivated person but added that to deny the Armenian genocide was an arrogant provocation because it was an accepted historical fact. Most Western governments consider the killings genocide.

Switzerland’s antiracism legislation has previously been applied to Holocaust denial.

The case has caused diplomatic tension between Switzerland and Turkey, which insists that Armenians were killed in civil unrest during the tumultuous collapse of the Ottoman Empire and not in a planned campaign of genocide.
289 2007-03-10 There are fierce rivalries between colleges in this conference, but this week the best rivalry in the SEC is East versus West.

Florida, Tennessee, Kentucky and Vanderbilt, who all play in the league’s Eastern Division, are the only SEC teams considered locks for the N.C.A.A. tournament.

But the Western Division, which was 12-24 against the Eastern Division during the season, will have three of the four semifinalists in the conference tournament.

Louisiana State, which was 5-11 against SEC opponents during the season, defeated No. 22 Tennessee, 76-67, in Thursday night’s opening round, but lost to Mississippi, 80-60, in the quarterfinals Friday. Arkansas routed South Carolina of the East, 82-52, in the opening round on Thursday, then defeated Vanderbilt, 72-71, in the quarterfinals Friday.

In Friday’s first quarterfinal, Kentucky made two crucial mistakes in the last five seconds of regulation to allow Mississippi State to force overtime.

The first came after the Wildcats’ Jodie Meeks made the first of two free throws with 5 seconds left to give Kentucky a 76-73 lead. Kentucky Coach Tubby Smith motioned for the Wildcats’ Sheray Thomas to back out of the free-throw lane, and he stepped away just as the official tossed the ball to Meeks for his second shot. When Thomas, seeing the ball bouncing to Meeks, made a move to get back, he was called for a lane violation. Meeks did not get to shoot the second free throw, and Kentucky’s lead stayed at 3 points.

Then Mississippi State’s Jamont Gordon made an unimpeded 3-pointer with a second remaining to force overtime. Kentucky’s Bobby Perry had backed off Gordon, who shoots 42.9 percent from the 3-point line, giving him a wide-open shot.

Larry Templeton, the Mississippi State athletic director, said, by rule, conference division winners have to be put on the board for discussion by the N.C.A.A. selection committee. “They have to have a reason to take us off, vote us out,” Templeton said.

Although the Atlantic Coast Conference is rated the No. 1 conference in the ratings percentage index — a formula weighing strength of schedule, among other components — the SEC is No. 1 in the nonconference R.P.I., meaning the SEC fared better against a tougher nonconference schedule.

N.C.A.A. officials have said that a conference’s R.P.I. would not be considered as part of the criteria for selecting teams for the tournament.

Andy Kennedy, the first-year coach at Mississippi, accepted some of the responsibility for how the West did not produce an easily identifiable N.C.A.A. tournament team. The Rebels, who were picked to finish last in the division, instead went 8-8 in the West. They were 19-11 going into a quarterfinal game against L.S.U. later Friday.

“We made everybody mad,” said Kennedy, who was named the SEC Coach of the Year. “If we had taken our rightful place, the SEC is talking about six bids.”

There are other reasons why the SEC West could be shut out.

Louisiana State was 5-11 in the conference because the Tigers missed forward Tyrus Thomas and guard Darrell Mitchell more than the preseason predictions forecast. Thomas, who was a redshirt freshman last season, was a first-round pick of the Chicago Bulls. Mitchell was a senior.

Alabama had a down year primarily because the all-SEC point guard Ronald Steele was slowed by tendinitis in his right knee and did not play up to expectations. Alabama and L.S.U. were considered preseason favorites for the West title.

Arkansas was considered an outside contender with seven juniors on its roster, and the Razorbacks were only 7-9 in the conference.
290 2007-03-10 MOSCOW, March 9 — Russian prosecutors and Interior Ministry officers searched the Moscow office of the auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Friday in connection with its work with Yukos, the bankrupt oil company, and with PricewaterhouseCoopers’s own tax filings.

Russian officials have compared the Yukos affair to the Enron scandal in the United States, with ominous implications for the firm.

A lawsuit filed by the Russian tax service last year questions PricewaterhouseCoopers’s work on Yukos’s tax filings, accusing the auditors of helping Yukos disguise profits. The tax service is seeking about $500,000 in fines; PricewaterhouseCoopers has denied any wrongdoing.

PricewaterhouseCoopers has been near the center of business growth and wealth in Russia, with a client list that includes the Russian central bank and large, powerful companies like the energy giant Gazprom.

The firm’s client list for auditing and consulting includes 2,000 companies that as a whole generate more than 50 percent of Russia’s gross domestic product, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers.
291 2007-03-10 TAMPA, Fla., March 9 — Carl Pavano did not make his scheduled start Friday against Tampa Bay for personal reasons.

Two club officials, who were granted anonymity, said the absence was related to a family issue, not to another injury. But considering Pavano’s tumultuous tenure with the Yankees, in which teammates have openly questioned his competitiveness, any absence raises suspicion.

Pavano would have been making his second start of the spring and his first at Legends Field, but he left about 45 minutes before the game. Manager Joe Torre replaced him with Jeff Karstens.

After the game, which the Yankees won by 5-1, Torre said Pavano had informed him and the pitching coach, Ron Guidry, of the personal matter and wanted to stay and pitch. But, Torre added, “We just didn’t think it was the right thing for him to do.”

Torre said that Pavano would probably return Saturday, but he was not sure when he would pitch.

Pavano’s spring has already been filled with distractions. He missed one fielding session with sore legs, and took a liner off his foot.
292 2007-03-10 MIAMI, March 9 — One of two Roman Catholic priests accused of stealing and misappropriating as much as $8.6 million donated by parishioners in South Florida sought to end an audit of church finances, complaining to diocesan officials that the financial scrutiny was undignified and a waste of money, according to documents released by prosecutors.

The priest, the Rev. Frank Guinan, 64, of St. Vincent Ferrer Church in Delray Beach, wrote that the audit, which eventually led to a criminal investigation and charges of grand theft, was “demeaning, embarrassing and humiliating.”

In his letter, dated October 2003 and made public on Thursday as part of the pretrial discovery process, Father Guinan suggested that the cost of financial review would be better spent teaching the congregation about the savings the church derives from priestly sacrifice.

“The laity need to be informed as to how central the clergy and religious are to the mission of the church,” Father Guinan wrote. “That their commitment and sacrifice are without parallel. They devote their lives to the church with little thought for personal gain. They are generous, charitable and compassionate. They have earned and deserve trust, at least until it is proven otherwise.”

At the time of his letter, Father Guinan had just succeeded the Rev. John A. Skehan, 79, the pastor for four decades. The audit was a standard step in the transfer, and after Father Guinan sought to delay it, church employees spoke to the police. A bookkeeper and other workers described two sets of deposit books for church donations, and investigators identified several church bank accounts used by Father Skehan as “slush funds.”
293 2007-03-10 SALT LAKE CITY, March 9 — Law enforcement officials are searching for hundreds of pounds of missing explosive material of the type used in the 1995 bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City.

Dozens of bags filled with ammonium nitrate and clearly marked “explosives” and “blasting agent” in large letters were stolen in October and again last month from a mining site near St. George, Utah, federal and local officials said.

“A single pound would blow up a car,” said Sgt. Craig Harding of the St. George Police Department. “These bags were 30 to 50 pounds each, so you can imagine what this could do.”

The materials were stored in a trailerlike bunker, or magazine, at a gypsum mining site jointly operated by two companies in the Black Rock area of sparsely populated Mohave County, Ariz., a few miles to the south of St. George.

Truck tire marks were visible nearby after each of the thefts, which took place at night, Sergeant Harding said.
294 2007-03-10 The fact that our infantry units lost their bearings will hardly surprise anyone familiar with the Swiss Army. Nor should it come as a shock that although the invaders were armed with rifles, they had no ammunition. As a rule, the assault rifles (every soldier keeps his weapon at home) are used only for suicides and the occasional violent crime. In the service, they mostly function as ballast for long marches — one of the Swiss Army’s most popular pastimes.

Switzerland has been neutral for 500 years, and these days it’s hard to imagine who might attack us or what enemy the army should prepare to fight. Thus over the course of the past several decades the army has acquired an increasingly quaint character. Carrier pigeons were used until 1994, and the bicycle units were disbanded only four years ago. And it wasn’t until the 1990s that the high command realized that two-thirds of the more than 20,000 fortifications scattered throughout the country were unnecessary and could be closed.

The Swiss Army has really been in crisis ever since a 1989 plebiscite in which more than a third of voters declared that Switzerland no longer even needed a military. That was the same year we lost our one halfway credible enemy — Communist Eastern Europe, which the army liked to call Redland during exercises.

Nowadays, the army tries to legitimize its existence by offering emergency relief and auxiliary support at sporting events. But compulsory military service remains as inviolable in Switzerland as the monarchy is in Liechtenstein, and so the only way to decrease the number of troops has been to shorten the time of service or declare as many draftees as possible unfit for service.

This has enabled a substantial downsizing of the army during the past 12 years, from 600,000 personnel to a still respectable 240,000. Likewise, since the cold war, military spending has declined to 9 percent of the national budget from 35 percent.

Because Swiss politicians are giving the army increasingly less money, economical means must be found to keep the troops occupied. Shoes being cheaper than ammunition, the rank and file just keep on marching. Switzerland may not have the most powerful army in the world, but it does have the most stalwart marchers. If the planet ever runs out of oil, our soldiers will be the last ones moving.

Invading Liechtenstein was admittedly a foolish thing to do, but at least the Swiss Army has shown it knows how to bring a failed military action to a happy conclusion. You just turn around and sneak back home as quickly and quietly as you can before anybody notices.

And the next day you call on the head of the foreign territory and offer a formal apology.
295 2007-03-10 The government said the new agency would be modeled in part on Temasek Holdings, the Singapore government’s hugely successful investment agency, which manages an $84 billion global portfolio of investments.

Like most countries, China’s huge foreign exchange reserves are largely kept as insurance, in case of a financial panic or swift reversal of fortune for the economy.

The reserves are now held by the Chinese central bank, and most of the reserves are expected to remain there, in safe, conservative investments in government securities. Still, the new agency is expected to get a substantial portion to work with.

Some financial experts are already talking about the huge impact China could have as a major global investor, and the possibility that its purchases could push asset prices higher and create even more competition for scarce commodities and resources.

But Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said the new agency would not be allowed to simply speculate.

“The biggest priority is safety, and under the principle of security, we will try to increase the efficiency of management and the investments’ returns,” Mr. Jin said at a news conference this morning, held as part of a two-week meeting of the National People’s Congress, China’s largely ceremonial national legislature.

The formation of such an agency has been rumored for months, and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in January that the government was exploring new ideas about investing the currency reserves.

Andy Rothman, a strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said the government was likely to proceed cautiously and give the agency only a relatively small part of the reserves to work with at first, perhaps $20 billion.

“I think they are going to move very, very slowly in diversifying what they are doing,” he said. “Nobody should expect that suddenly they are going to invest $1 trillion.”

Some analysts say the formation of the new agency means China is moving away from heavy reliance on investing in United States dollars through Treasury securities. Such a shift could affect American interest rates, which remain low in part because of China’s huge bond purchases.

But foreign exchange reserves in China are accumulating so quickly — by more than $20 billion a month, analysts say — that China is likely to continue buying huge numbers of Treasury bonds for a long time to come even if the new agency gets a fast start.

The immense foreign exchange holdings are just one of many signs of China’s spectacular rise, and its growing influence in the global economy and financial markets.

And with that growth has come rising costs at home for education, health care and pensions. Earning more on government holdings, analysts say, would allow the government to better cope with some of these problems.

Mr. Rothman said the decision to set up the new agency should be seen in the context of other new government measures, like the recent efforts to enact a private property law and another new law to equalize corporate taxes. He said China was trying to create the legal and regulatory structure to underpin its still-evolving market economy.

Mr. Jin, the finance minister, said the new agency would answer directly to the State Council, the equivalent of China’s cabinet.
296 2007-03-10 Sales of the drugs worldwide totaled about $10 billion last year, making Epo the most lucrative product ever produced by the biotechnology industry. It is also the largest drug expense for Medicare, which spent $2 billion in 2005 just for the use of Epogen in kidney dialysis patients.

The drugs, given by injection, have been heavily advertised, and there is evidence that they have been overused, in part because dialysis centers and oncologists can make money by using more of the drug.

But the F.D.A.’s public health advisory yesterday could now mean that physicians are likely to be more restrained in their use of the drugs.

“The recommendation that we treat our patients largely to avoid transfusion is a seismic change in our management,” said Dr. Daniel Coyne, a professor at Washington University in St. Louis.

F.D.A. officials stressed that the drugs’ main safety risks seemed to occur when they were used to raise hemoglobin above 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The labels for the drugs had recommended not exceeding that level, and the new labels emphasize this strongly. Hemoglobin is the component of red blood cells that carry oxygen.

Even then, the data showing risks are “very, very preliminary,” but show a consistent enough pattern to merit the new warnings, Dr. Patricia Keegan, an F.D.A. official, told reporters yesterday.

The agency’s cancer drug advisory committee will meet in May to further examine the drugs’ safety.

Dr. Roger Perlmutter, executive vice president for research and development at Amgen, said he “absolutely” stood behind the safety of the products when used properly.

Dr. Perlmutter said most physicians were already adhering to the 12-gram level for hemoglobin.

But Dr. Coyne of Washington University said the F.D.A.’s new advisory — to use the smallest amount needed to avoid transfusion — would mean aiming for hemoglobin levels of 10 or 11, limiting use of the drugs.

Aranesp and Epogen together had sales of $6.6 billion last year, nearly half of Amgen’s total. The company’s stock fell yesterday by $1.31, or 2 percent, to $60.86. It had touched above $75 in late January before the safety concerns intensified.

Johnson & Johnson’s stock rose 42 cents to $62.14 yesterday. The company is far bigger than Amgen and much less reliant on Epo.

In issuing a public health advisory yesterday, the F.D.A. cited six studies, most of which have come out in the last few months.

In one study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine in November, patients with kidney disease who were aggressively treated with Procrit had more heart problems and deaths than those treated less aggressively.

One of Amgen’s own studies showed an increased death rate in cancer patients treated with Aranesp compared with those who got a placebo. The patients in that study had anemia that was presumably caused by their cancer and were not getting chemotherapy.

Aranesp is not approved to treat anemia caused by cancer itself, though Amgen has estimated that more than $500 million of the drug’s annual sales are for that use.

Yesterday, the American Society of Clinical Oncology sent a note to its members saying that it had learned that Medicare was cutting off reimbursement of Epo for that use, effective immediately.

The new warning is also likely to put pressure on Medicare to restrain reimbursement for dialysis use. Critics have accused Medicare of issuing more and more lenient guidelines over the years, thereby encouraging greater use of Epo. In a statement, Medicare said it would “carefully examine our policies.”

F.D.A. officials said yesterday that the manufacturers had never demonstrated that use of Epo actually improved energy levels or quality of life for patients undergoing chemotherapy. Rather, the drugs were approved only to reduce the need for blood transfusions.

The labels for kidney patient use do contain evidence that the drugs can improve energy as well as sleep, eating, sex life and a range of other things. However, F.D.A. officials said they would re-evaluate the evidence for those claims since techniques for measuring how a drug affects quality of life have improved since those drugs were approved.

Epogen was first approved for kidney disease use in 1989, and Procrit for cancer use in 1993.

Dr. George Rodgers, a hematologist at the University of Utah, said that “the consensus of most people is that the drugs do improve the patients’ quality of life,” and that this was generally seen when hemoglobin levels were raised to 11 to 12. “Right now I don’t know if physicians are going to drastically change their behavior based on this data,” he said.

Dr. Rodgers, who has consulted for Amgen, is chairman of a committee that develops anemia treatment guidelines for the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, an organization of major cancer centers.
297 2007-03-10 After the law was signed, the Securities Industry Association vowed to file suit on the ground that Utah was trying to do something that was the purview of the federal government. The Securities and Exchange Commission, which monitors failures to deliver, let it be known that it would side with the industry association.

But Utah remained unbowed. “If we create a model here, it will raise the profile of this issue, and perhaps get others talking about it, and even doing something about it,” Gov. Jon Huntsman Jr. told me at the time. State Senator Curtis S. Bramble, who sponsored the legislation, called naked short selling a form of “market manipulation.”

Well, that was then. The new bill, which was introduced just days before the February meeting was also sponsored by Senator Bramble. But it would repeal his own earlier legislation. In the intervening months, the industry association (which had since been renamed the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association) had filed suit as promised, and once the state’s lawyers took a close look at the merits of the case, they saw they had a losing hand.

In addition, Mr. Byrne was said to have told the political powers-that-be that other companies would come in behind Overstock to support the new law. It never happened. (In an e-mail exchange I had with him — soon to be posted on the Overstock Web site, I’m told — Mr. Byrne denied promising anything of the sort, while also asserting that other companies did support the bill. “Whoever is providing this version to you is lying on two fronts,” he wrote.)

Senator Bramble was clearly furious. He told The Associated Press that he now believed that Overstock’s motives were “highly suspect.” He added: “There are those who believe Overstock has been using the Legislature as a distraction against its own problems. It raises serious questions.”

So, back to the meeting. As it became clear that Mr. Byrne had no support, and the law was going to be repealed, he first offered to finance the state’s defense himself. No, he was told, the state had to bear the cost for its own litigation. Then, he became increasingly agitated, accusing Senator Bramble of betraying him. As his tone became more belligerent, and he began cursing, most of the others in the room, their jaws agape, simply listened to him rant. Several of them later told me they had never heard anything like it.

After the meeting, a confrontation broke out between Mr. Byrne and a securities industry lobbyist. (Mr. Byrne denies that he used foul language, or that things got too out of hand.)

Needless to say, Utah no longer has a law to stop naked short selling. Though no one will say so publicly, the word is that Utah officials now feel they were snookered by the Overstock C.E.O. And that his behavior at that meeting further damaged his credibility. And that, even though he is one of the state’s largest political donors, he is going to have a hard time ever getting the Legislature to take him seriously again. As Gary Weiss, the author of “Wall Street Versus America” and one of Mr. Byrne’s most vocal critics, put it to me recently, “We are watching, in real time, a guy in the midst of a meltdown.”

I think his whole crusade is in meltdown. True, the S.E.C. has proposed a few new rules about “failures to deliver,” but those rules were in the works well before the Utah legislation was passed. And the agency doesn’t even really believe that the failures to deliver and naked short selling are particularly connected. Mr. Byrne’s Internet ramblings have lost much of their “oh my goodness” factor, so they don’t get the attention they once did. A Web site, antisocialmedia.net, which attacked critics of Mr. Byrne and Overstock, was exposed by an Internet sleuth as being run by an Overstock official. Recently, Overstock filed a ridiculous $3.5 billion suit against 10 big Wall Street firms, asserting that they were aiding and abetting the naked short sellers. He is becoming harder and harder to take seriously. I can’t help thinking that there are a lot of people who must feel like Senator Bramble — they once believed Patrick Byrne and now they’re wondering why.

Which is not to say that I don’t still think he’s dangerous. It has always seemed to me that Mr. Byrne’s primary mission had less to do with the supposed evils of naked short sellers, and more to do with making life miserable for anyone who dared to criticize his company.

Consider, for instance, his lawsuit against Gradient Analytics, the small independent research outfit that was early and prescient in its criticism of Overstock, and David Rocker, a short seller who was equally critical. Thanks to the noise generated by Mr. Byrne and his allies the S.E.C. spent over a year investigating Gradient, looking into the accusations that it was manipulating Overstock’s stock. A few weeks ago, the agency sent Gradient a letter saying that it would not pursue an action against the firm.

Yet Gradient and Mr. Rocker, who recently retired, still have to defend themselves against a lawsuit from Overstock itself, which could run for years. (Gradient and Mr. Rocker tried to get it tossed out as a frivolous lawsuit. A judge declined to dismiss the suit, a decision that is currently being appealed.) And Gradient is being sued as well by another small company, Biovail, which also accuses it of being involved in a stock manipulation scheme. To its credit, Gradient has continued to publish tough-minded reports on companies, but the litigation hardly fosters an environment that encourages truly independent research — or vocal short sellers.

Indeed, most shorts have gone underground because they don’t want to be sued. That’s terrible for the market, which needs to hear contrary views. It’s also terrible for the regulators, who get many of their best leads, as opposed to the ones Overstock throws its way, from short sellers.

And then there’s the Internet, where Mr. Byrne and his chief ally, a man who uses the pseudonym Bob O’Brien, go after anyone who disagrees with them. (To get a flavor of Mr. O’Brien’s belligerent style, and his response to questions, check out his Web site, thesanitycheck.com, where he has posted a Q.& A. with me that took place this week.)

Mr. O’Brien is as fanatical about naked short selling as Mr. Byrne, but he also spends time on other message boards. For years, one of his favorite stocks has been NovaStar, the subprime lender that recently collapsed, which Mr. O’Brien has touted endlessly, while attacking anyone who disagreed. He once even went so far as to publish a thinly veiled threat aimed at the family of Marc Cohodes, who was at the time Mr. Rocker’s partner. There are clearly people who stuck with NovaStar because of Mr. O’Brien — and have lost a lot of money. Wouldn’t they have been better off if they had been able to hear the bear view of NovaStar?

There is one other important person who appears to have lost faith in Mr. Byrne lately. That’s a man named John A. Fisher, a former executive at the old Hambrecht & Quist investment bank, who now runs his own boutique firm.

A few weeks ago, Mr. Fisher resigned from the Overstock board, saying that he could not go along with Mr. Byrne’s decision to sue the big Wall Street firms. The Overstock board is now down to four directors, two of them insiders. In an S.E.C. filing, the company said it would work quickly to find some new independent directors.
298 2007-03-10 Daylight saving time resumes at 2 a.m. tomorrow. Clocks are set ahead one hour....
299 2007-03-11 The MSG Network reported Saturday that Simon had been suspended for 15 regular-season games and 7 playoff games. But shortly after that report surfaced, the league issued a statement refuting it.

In the statement on the Islanders’ Web site, Simon said he was examined Friday by team doctors who told him he sustained a concussion from Hollweg’s hit.

“I do not remember much about Thursday’s incident,” Simon said. “When I saw the tape on Friday morning, it explained a lot to me when I saw the look on my face after being hit into the boards. I was completely out of it. When I met with the media about 30 minutes later, I still was not feeling well.

“I met with our medical staff briefly Thursday night and underwent a series of tests on Friday afternoon. They have told me that I suffered a concussion when I hit the boards.”

The Nassau County district attorney’s office has said it is reviewing a tape of the incident before deciding whether to consider an assault charge.

Playing for the first time since Thursday, the Islanders appeared energized as they took the lead two minutes into the game on a goal by Mike Sillinger. Andy Hilbert added a goal in the first to give the Islanders a 2-0 lead.

Jason Blake and Marc-André Bergeron scored in the second for a 4-0 Islanders advantage.

But the Capitals’ offense woke up in the third, if briefly. Four and a half minutes into the period Alexander Ovechkin scored his 38th goal of the season, and a little more than two minutes later Donald Brashear added a goal to make the score 4-2.

With 48 seconds left, Blake scored an empty-net goal for the Islanders.

After the game, Coach Ted Nolan said that he had spoken with Simon several times during the day and that Simon felt bad about the situation.

“Chris Simon is one of the best team guys in sports,” Nolan said. “He will be really missed. He is disappointed he let the team down, but that is the type of guy he is.”

The Islanders are at the head of the pack of five teams fighting for the last five playoff spots in the Eastern Conference. The Islanders are seventh with 78 points, ahead of the Carolina Hurricanes and the Toronto Maple Leafs, who are tied with 75.
300 2007-03-11 Donnie Edwards, a free-agent linebacker who spent the first six years of his N.F.L. career with the Chiefs, agreed yesterday to a three-year deal with Kansas City after the San Diego Chargers did not try to re-sign him.

Edwards, 33, found himself on the outs with San Diego’s general manager, A. J. Smith, last season despite a standout career with the Chargers.

He was San Diego’s top tackler in all five of his seasons there. But Edwards’s requests for a contract extension did not go over well with Smith, who put him on the trading block last spring and allowed him to become a free agent after the season.

The deal with Edwards is the latest move in the Chiefs’ push to upgrade the defense since Herm Edwards took over as head coach in 2006.DUNGY’S PLANNED SPEECH DRAWS FIRE Indianapolis Colts Coach Tony Dungy’s acceptance of an invitation to speak to a conservative Christian group should not be construed as an endorsement by him of the group’s opposition to same-sex marriage, the president of the Indiana Family Institute said yesterday.

The institute’s president, Curt Smith, said the invitation was based on Dungy’s pro-family activities.
301 2007-03-11 The support of such leading conservative organizations in Mr. Romney’s home state has become an important element of Mr. Romney’s primary campaign because he faces doubts from some conservatives over his past support for abortion rights, embryonic stem cell research, gun control and gay rights.

Mr. Romney has said he had a change of heart on all four issues by the time he left the governor’s office.

His contributions are also an early sign of the outsize role that Mr. Romney’s vast wealth, mainly accumulated as founder of the buyout firm Bain Capital, could play in the 2008 election. The race is shaping up to be the first since Watergate waged without public campaign financing or any spending limits. Mr. Romney has never disclosed his net worth, but analysts who track buyout firm compensation said it was likely to exceed $500 million.

In 2002, he ran the most expensive race for governor in Massachusetts history, spending about $6 million of his own money over eight months on a campaign that cost a total of $9.4 million.

Conservative critics of Mr. Romney have already seized on a $15,000 donation to Massachusetts Citizens for Life — which was first reported in January on a little-noticed anti-Romney blog by Carol M. McKinley, an antiabortion activist in the state — to argue that he is trying to buy the group’s support, or at least silence its criticism. Mr. Romney’s wife, Ann, is also helping to raise money from others for the group.

Massachusetts Citizens for Life was critical of Mr. Romney, who was then a supporter of abortion rights, during most of his tenure as governor. But over the past few months, its officials have issued favorable statements about his record on abortion issues that have become an integral element of his appeal to social conservatives.

At a conference of conservative activists in Washington last week, Mr. Romney’s campaign passed out a statement from the group praising him as one of Massachusetts’ “strongest assets.”

The conservative Web site Mass Resistance accused the group of selling out. “Outrageous,” the site declared. Mass Resistance has published a dossier on Mr. Romney’s former liberal views and has become a hub of conservative opposition to his nomination.

Marie Sturgis, executive director of Citizens for Life, said his donation had no influence on her group, which has an annual budget of about $600,000.

“Granted, when he began his role as governor he certainly was not with us,” Ms. Sturgis said. “But toward the end, if you look at the record, especially in the stem cell debate, he certainly took the pro-life position consistently.”

Mr. Romney has said that talking to researchers about embryonic stem cell research convinced him to oppose its public financing and changed his views on abortion rights, and Ms. Sturgis said his check arrived with a brief note commending the group for its work.

A spokesman for Mr. Romney said his donations demonstrated his convictions. “He has donated his time and his effort and whatever resources he can to help advance their causes,” the spokesman, Kevin Madden, said.

Mr. Madden declined to comment on Mr. Romney’s net worth or what role it might play in the race. The public financial disclosure forms completed by presidential candidates do not reveal net worth, and Mr. Madden said the campaign had not yet decided whether to release Mr. Romney’s tax returns.

“What is important is not the amount of money that the governor has personally, but instead the message and the vision that he has,” he said.

The son of a former chairman of the American Motor Company who became governor of Michigan, Mitt Romney was never poor. He had a successful career as a well-paid consultant at the blue-chip firm Bain & Company, including a stint as its chief executive.

But his best-known source of wealth is as founder of the company’s private equity firm, Bain Capital. One of its funds was an early investor in the Staples stores. Others later bought out a host of well known companies including Domino’s Pizza.

Mr. Romney started Bain Capital in 1984 with an initial fund of about $40 million. During the fourteen years he ran it, Bain Capital’s investments reportedly earned an annual rate of return of over 100 percent. By then, Bain controlled assets worth billions.

Mr. Romney is not the first rich politician whose philanthropy dovetails with his politics. When Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, a Democrat who was previously co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, ran for the Senate in 2000, for example, opponents criticized him for giving more than $100,000 to nonprofit organizations, including African-American churches, whose leaders had endorsed him.

The first of Mr. Romney’s recent wave of donations to conservative groups was $25,000 to the Heritage Foundation at the end of 2005. The foundation analysts worked with him on a health care plan and later praised it, as did some other conservative groups.

John Von Kannon, vice president of development for the Heritage Foundation, said the donation had no influence.

Mr. Romney followed a $25,000 contribution to the Federalist Society in 2005 with an additional $10,000 last year, the group’s officials said. Although the Federalist Society does not endorse candidates or policies, some of its top officials are highly influential voices among conservatives on the subject of judicial nominations.

Eugene B. Meyer, president of the society, said a supporter of the organization had sought a donation from Mr. Romney as part of a general Boston fund-raising drive. The group’s annual budget is over $7 million.

Mr. Romney gave $5,000 to help sponsor the anniversary dinner celebrating National Review’s Web site last October at a Washington steakhouse. Another group called Evangelicals for Mitt also gave $5,000. (David French, founder of Evangelicals for Mitt, said the dual donations were a coincidence.)

Both sponsorships were acknowledged at the time, and the money went to the nonprofit National Review Institute, not the magazine or Web site.

The magazine and its Web site have written favorably of Mr. Romney. But Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, pointed to the magazine’s recent cover story praising a Romney rival for the Republican nomination, Senator John McCain of Arizona. “Obviously it’s had no influence on our coverage,” Mr. Lowry said of the donations.

Kris Mineau, president of the Massachusetts Family Institute, said in an interview that his organization received a $10,000 check from Mr. Romney late last year with an appreciative note. The group previously criticized Mr. Romney as taking liberal stands during his first years as governor, but Mr. Mineau recently sought to enlist other Massachusetts social conservatives in signing an open letter supporting the governor. (Some balked because of his record, The Boston Globe reported.)

Mr. Mineau, though, said he arrived at the organization only three years ago and since then had collaborated with Mr. Romney on efforts to ban same-sex marriage, oppose embryonic stem cell research and promote sexual abstinence. The Family Institute is part of a network for Christian conservative groups affiliated with the national Family Research Council in Washington and Focus on the Family in Colorado Springs.

Mr. Romney has also acknowledged that he made a small contribution last August, in the form of a personal membership fee, to the National Rifle Association, a major force in the Republican primary. He had previously campaigned as an advocate of stricter gun control laws. In an interview, Wayne LaPierre, the N.R.A.’s top executive, said the organization appreciated every membership but was staying out of the primary for now.

Barbara Anderson, executive director of Massachusetts Citizens for Limited Taxation, a group affiliated with Americans for Tax Reform in Washington, said in an interview that she was surprised Mr. Romney had sent her group a check for $10,000. Other departing Republican governors had sent appreciative notes but none had sent a check as well, Ms. Anderson said.

It was hardly necessary, she said. Unlike the other conservative groups, her organization has gotten along well with Mr. Romney from the start. “Give us four years and that is all we can ask for,” she said.
302 2007-03-11 The N.B.A. has been ruined by money, selfish players and opportunistic agents, and warped by an emphasis on entertainment over fundamentals. This diatribe can be heard on any bar stool, but it is coming from an N.B.A. agent.

The agent, Keith Glass, is not trying to kill the goose that laid the golden egg. But he is poking it with a sharp stick in his book, “Taking Shots.” Part memoir, part purist manifesto, the book is a winding tour of everything right and wrong with the N.B.A. The wrongs are what resonate most. Glass found that out during a recent 10-day book tour and in dozens of radio interviews.

“It’s like touching a nerve,” Glass said. “People are very down on the league, and they kind of view this as an opportunity.”

Glass is hearing many of the same complaints that fill his book from fans and readers.

“I love the game and I don’t like what’s happening,” said Glass, who grew up on Long Island and now lives in New Jersey. “I understand the money that’s involved; obviously I’m part of that problem. But to watch the game, in my opinion, denigrated, that’s very difficult.”

By denigrate, Glass refers to star players who force shots against triple-teams and coaches who are too cowed to coach them.

“It almost looks to me like, when I wasn’t looking, they passed a rule that said you had to shoot it as soon as you caught it,” Glass said. He added: “We are not developing basketball players and basketball teams. We’re developing stars.”
303 2007-03-11 But member countries from Africa and the Organization of the Islamic Conference, an association of 57 states promoting Muslim solidarity, have dashed those hopes by voting as a bloc to stymie Western efforts to direct serious attention to situations like the killings, rapes and pillage in the Darfur region of Sudan, which the United Nations has declared the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.

Most notably, as happened with the commission, the council has focused its condemnation almost exclusively on Israel. It has passed eight resolutions against Israel, and the Islamic group is planning four more for the current session. The council has cited no other country for human rights violations.

The United States voted against creating the council last year on the basis that it was not a sufficient improvement over the commission. This past week, it decided for the second straight year not to seek membership on the panel, and R. Nicholas Burns, the under secretary of state for political affairs, linked the decision to the council’s focus on Israel.

“It spent the entire year slamming Israel,” Mr. Burns told the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Tuesday. He noted that the council had conducted formal hearings against Israel “but not against Burma and not against Zimbabwe and not against North Korea and not against Iran.”

Mr. Annan’s successor, Ban Ki-moon, told a human rights gathering in December that he was “worried by its disproportionate focus on violations by Israel.” The council, he said, “has clearly not justified all the hopes that so many of us placed on it.”

The new session is the fourth formal meeting in the last nine months, and an immediate issue attracting attention as a measure of the council’s purposefulness is what it will do about an assessment mission to Darfur that was barred from entering Sudan last month. The options are to publish a factual report, publish a report with recommendations or take no action.

“What they do with the Sudan mission will be a bellwether for the future of the council,” said Peter G. Splinter, the Amnesty International representative in Geneva. He indicated that he was not optimistic.

“Sudan took the floor last week and said they rejected the mission entirely, and they are going to have the backing of the Organization of the Islamic Conference,” he said. “If the council ducks the situation in Darfur, that’s not going to speak highly to its credibility.”

The Islamic group is expected to cite the fact that Israel barred an assessment mission from entering the Gaza Strip in December and that its leader, Desmond Tutu, the former South African archbishop and antiapartheid campaigner, decided to make no formal recommendations.

“It was a mistake for that mission not to write a report, but if you allow governments to prevent a report by simply not admitting a mission, then you’re giving them a way of silencing the council,” Mr. Roth said.

In another potential blow to the council’s effectiveness, a proposal is circulating that would do away with many of the council’s 41 rapporteurs, the experts who produce sometimes graphic reports of abuses in individual countries. The proposal specifically ensures the continuation of the mission that monitors the Palestinian territories.

Hillel Neuer, executive director of UN Watch, a Geneva-based organization that follows United Nations human rights activities, said, “The situation is grim, and one example is that the one aspect that has always been thought of as a bright spot — the experts — may be eliminated.”

The United States, though not able to vote or offer a resolution, can make speeches, exercise the right of reply and apply diplomatic pressure.

Mark Lagon, the deputy assistant secretary of state for international organizations, said the United States would be working to persuade democratic nations now participating in regional bloc voting to “vote their consciences.”

He said, “I think there are some members of the African and Asian groups who resent being told what to think.”

The United States is intent on ensuring that no rights violators join the panel when elections for 14 new members are held in the General Assembly in May, Mr. Lagon said. “It’s essential that this council be manned by firefighters rather than arsonists,” he said.

Despite the disappointment with the council’s early performance, Mr. Splinter said that it was premature to give up on the panel because it was still setting up its rules and procedures. It is supposed to resolve these institutional matters by the first anniversary of its opening session, in mid-June.

“It’s going through its adolescence, and it’s awfully painful, but we have to get past it and see what we have in the end,” he said.
304 2007-03-11 Global stock markets bounced back last week, and on Wall Street the three major stock indexes posted healthy gains.

The American stock market is still down for the year, but it cut its losses sharply, helped by unexpectedly strong data on jobs on Friday. The unemployment rate in February fell to 4.5 percent from 4.6 percent the previous month, suggesting a robust level of job creation — although much of the growth in jobs was confined to the public sector.

The best weekly performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was Big Lots, the discount chain, whose fourth-quarter profit exceeded Wall Street estimates. Its shares gained 19.8 percent.

For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 162.22 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 12,276.32. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index climbed 15.68 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 1,402.85. The Nasdaq composite index rose 19.55 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 2,387.55. The three indexes remained more than 1 percent in negative territory for the year.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.59 percent from 4.50 percent the previous week.
305 2007-03-11 The Career Couch column last Sunday, about the risks of office e-mail messages, referred incorrectly to Jefferson Wells, a firm that employs Don Ulsch, a lawyer who said that all information on a company’s work computers normally belongs to the company. It is a consulting firm, not a law firm.
306 2007-03-11 An article last Sunday about United Artists misidentified one of the investors in its parent company, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It is the Texas Pacific Group, not Thomas H. Lee Partners. The article also referred incorrectly to the title of UA’s first film under its new managers in two references. It will be “Lions for Lambs,” not “Lambs for Lions.”
307 2007-03-11 Consider it fallout from the city’s still-buoyant real estate market.

On Jan. 31, officials of the Bronx community board that covers Riverdale sent letters to two real estate firms complaining about signs advertising local open houses. In this leafy, upscale neighborhood, where visual clutter is seldom tolerated, such complaints were not surprising.

Letters went to branches of Weichert Realtors in Riverdale, Washington Heights and White Plains, and the Riverdale office of Halstead Property. According to the community board, all these businesses had illegally obstructed sidewalks and streets with A-frame signs. The letters included copies of City Department of Sanitation regulations noting that it is illegal to install A-frame signs where they impede pedestrian traffic.

“On a street where a Weichert house is being offered, every weekend there’s 8 to 10 signs,” said Anthony Perez Cassino, chairman of the community board. “If every business decided to do that, where would the line stop? It degrades the community.”

The brouhaha took an unexpected turn a few weeks ago when Brad Trebach, a community board member and widely known local figure, was arrested and charged with stealing some open-house signs. The arrest was reported in The Riverdale Press, a local newspaper.

Mr. Trebach, a 42-year-old real estate broker, declined to comment on the matter. But his lawyer, Robert Moll, said: “I’m sure he’ll be exonerated. Whatever he did or didn’t do was related to his public-spiritedness, which has been amply demonstrated over the years. The fact that he is a broker is coincidental.”

Neighbors who know Mr. Trebach said they were stunned by the arrest.

“Brad has been cleaning up this neighborhood for 20 years,” said Laura Spalter, president of the Riverdale Community Association. “He’s gotten up at 6 in the morning to paint over graffiti, participated in cleanups, made lists of defaced stop signs and mailboxes. He’s a pillar in this community.”
308 2007-03-11 At the Phelps Group, an advertising agency in Santa Monica, Calif., with 55 humans and eight dogs, the dogs were invited in a few years ago to serve as inspiration when the agency was doing work for the Petco pet supply company. (A result was “Petco, where the pets go.”)

In most places, though, the job is not so specifically defined. At Urbanspacedevelopment, a real estate design company in Philadelphia, it is the responsibility of the three resident pugs, Leo, Max and Lola, to “welcome clients and visitors, sit in on meetings (Leo in particular), rove around and give people needed breaks and otherwise play or sleep in the background,” Sam Shaaban, the company’s president, said in an e-mail. “They lighten the mood and offer themselves to stressed clients for caressing.”

In fact, they do that work so well that when the company redesigned its office space recently, “we made sure to include comfortable yet chic dog beds,” Mr. Shaaban said.

His is hardly the only company to make a move with the needs of dogs in mind. DiNoto Ltd., an advertising agency, had to leave its offices at Broadway and Bond Street in Manhattan early last year because of Buddha, a 155-pound Japanese mastiff. “Someone complained about the ‘giant beast that gave her threatening looks’ on the elevator,” according to Greg DiNoto, the chief executive of the agency.

In searching for a new building — one with an attended lobby — Mr. DiNoto said he was shocked to find that many “discriminated against very large breeds, citing slobber and palpitating tenants.” The few that would welcome Buddha were too far from a park to allow the dog his regular walks, or would relegate him to the service elevator, which operated only from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (Buddha often works late.)

One building had just renovated its elevators to include fabric panels on the walls, and Mr. DiNoto feared that they weren’t “ready for Buddha’s occasional slobber slinging.”

Another building seemed perfect, but then Mr. DiNoto discovered that the office one floor up “kept a Siberian husky on the premises” and “Buddha doesn’t like Siberian huskies.”

Eventually the agency moved into the first floor of a building in SoHo, near a dog park and with a dedicated entrance. I am tempted to dismiss the search as obsessive, but I have to face the fact that I, too, have rearranged my work around Riley. (I have become quite adept, for instance, at typing with one hand, because the pampered pup whimpers should I stop petting him with the other.)

SO it is only a short jump to the role Jenifer Lew gives her terrier, Charlotte, at their decorative candle company, Jen Lew Designs, in Mattituck, N.Y., on Long Island. The dog is listed on all correspondence as the head of customer services, and it is Charlotte who gets e-mail when there is a problem.

“It saves a lot of headaches,” Ms. Lew said, “especially with difficult customers.”

So I hereby appoint Riley to the role of muse for column content. This particular column, for instance. Or the one last month about napping on the job. Next up: why a brisk walk in the middle of the workday, especially when it’s snowing, is much more important than actual work.
309 2007-03-11 The Times accuses our synagogue, Congregation Bnai Yeshurun, of “meddling in foreign policy” by hosting a housing fair for potential new residents of the biblical lands of Judea and Samaria in modern Israel (editorial, March 4).

The settlement of Jews in the land of Israel is to us the fulfillment of a biblical commandment. The Times unhelpfully chose merely to repeat the same tired rhetoric of settlements constituting an “obstacle to securing peace.”

There were no settlements in 1964 when the Palestine Liberation Organization was founded, nor in 1967 when five Arab armies mobilized to deliver a death blow to the Jewish state.

Israel’s existence, in any part of the land of Israel, is the major “obstacle” to peace, and 40 years of failed diplomacy has succeeded only in undermining Israel’s security, strength, international standing and sovereignty.

Permit us, if you will, to perform our religious duty in furthering the destiny of the Jewish people in the land of Israel. As Arabs can live among Jews in Israel, so can Jews live among Arabs in Judea and Samaria. That indeed would be the harbinger of a true peace.

As a former advertising manager of a real estate agency, I can tell you that people do not need real estate agents to sell their homes or other properties.

My family sold a $1 million property in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., in 2004. We are now selling a $4.5 million luxury property in upstate New York. We have not used real estate agents on either one. It’s not rocket science. You do need a real estate lawyer and good advice or knowledge, but people do it all the time.
310 2007-03-11 UNLIKE drunken driving, drowsy driving leaves no obvious chemical markers. Drivers rarely self-report that they fell asleep, and few law enforcement agencies make a big effort to categorize accidents caused by tired drivers.

So, according to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, such accidents are underreported although driving while drowsy causes impairment similar to driving drunk.

There has been little movement in this country to combat snoozing at the wheel by legal means. A 2003 attempt to pass a national law that would impose penalties on sleepy drivers who caused accidents, sponsored by United States Representative Robert Andrews, Democrat of New Jersey, expired in a House committee.

New Jersey passed the first state law, in 2003, to let a jury consider drowsiness as a basis for a reckless homicide conviction if the driver were awake for 24 hours or more before causing a crash. The law came after a man who admitted being awake for more than 30 hours killed a 20-year-old woman in a head-on collision.

Jonathan Adkins of the Governors Highway Safety Association, a group that represents state highway safety agencies, said technology might solve the problem better than passing laws that are difficult to enforce.
311 2007-03-11 In a fortuitous collision of talent and casting, a young actor named Michael Nathanson is igniting explosive comic charges onstage at the New Jersey Repertory Company in Long Branch. Playing Jim, a Seattle office temp, in Dan Dietz’s surreal new comedy “tempOdyssey,” Mr. Nathanson pulls out every stop for a brilliant tour de force.

Seeing is not quite believing as we watch this loose-limbed, lumpish young man, shirttails hanging and thick, black-rimmed glasses askew, spastically flopping around the stage portraying a corpse with a broken neck. That’s right, a corpse, done in, inadvertently but deftly, by his fellow temp, Little Genny (Stephanie Thompson), a former chicken choker from the back hills of Georgia, whose search for the meaning of life in a universe pockmarked by black holes finds her cracking the necks of anyone who gets too close.

“It’s what I do,” she matter-of-factly answers. That is how she killed chickens as a young girl in Georgia, becoming a local celebrity and the pride of her farmer daddy (David Sitler).

If all this sounds too bizarre by half, then think again. Mr. Dietz’s postmodern fairy tale — Homer meets the Brothers Grimm and Stephen Hawking — is laugh-out-loud funny yet strangely moving. Stranded in the cubicle-centered culture of corporate America (which Mr. Dietz captures perfectly), Genny and Jim struggle to retain their humanity.

Genny, played with sass and a heartbreaking vulnerability by the talented Ms. Thompson, may protest that she is “in the office, not of the office.” But after receiving her marching orders — never leave your desk; bathroom only twice a day; lunch at 3 o’clock — from the Last Day Girl (Andrea Gallo) and then being bullied by the C.E.O.’s creepy nephew Roy (Ian August), she begins to lose her cool. And while Jim may at first appear in control of his destiny, insisting that he is strictly a temp and could never be lured into even an executive slot, it takes only a suggestion from Genny that he has gone “permanent” to turn him into a banshee.

Sturgis Warner directs the mayhem with a sure comic hand while not letting the absurdity in Mr. Dietz’s play cancel out its very real search for connection and meaning. His fine cast never lets him down. Catching the raw pain on Ms. Thompson’s face as she confronts her father, and seeing her body recoil in horror as she is overtaken by memories of her tormented childhood, one feels the powerful collaboration between director and actor. Mr. Sitler adds dramatic heft with a strong performance as the hillbilly chicken farmer.

Jo Winiarski’s jumbled set, with rows of oddly shaped file cabinets and an elevator to nowhere, contributes to the sense of skewed reality, and Jessica Paz and Jill Nagle’s stunning sound and light shows suggest a universe in cosmic disarray.
312 2007-03-11 New Jersey is so built up that long-term economic growth will depend on the revitalization of its cities with new industry, housing and stores. But significant redevelopment is unlikely to occur if the current campaign to demonize eminent domain and restrict its uses is allowed to succeed.

Joseph Maraziti Jr., a prominent land use lawyer and a driving force behind the effort to steer developers to the cities, argued at a conference in Trenton last month that eminent domain is an essential tool if urban land is to be cleared for redevelopment and that without it a handful of holdout property owners could block almost any redevelopment project. If that were to happen, he suggested, New Jersey’s economy would eventually suffocate since the state — already the most densely populated in the country — is running out of open land.

The New Jersey Legislature is nearing final approval of a measure that would tighten the standards for eminent domain and increase significantly what cities and towns would have to pay unwilling sellers. Approved by the Assembly but stalled in the State Senate, the bill arises in part from the negative reaction to a 2005 United States Supreme Court decision in a Connecticut case that upheld the use of eminent domain for private development, even if the land is not blighted. It also stems, however, from a well-founded reaction against politicians in a few New Jersey towns who have invoked the threat of eminent domain to pressure owners of viable small businesses to sell to favored developers.

Redevelopment advocates agree that legislation is needed to stop heavy-handed tactics and to make compensation reflect today’s prices. But they also fear that by providing incentives for property owners to hold out for exorbitant prices, the bill would make it difficult, if not prohibitively expensive, for cities to invoke eminent domain.

The sponsor, Assemblyman John Burzichelli, a Gloucester Democrat, says this is not his intention and that he only wants to insure that residents and owners are paid fair prices and are given adequate advance notice of plans to take their property, and that only truly blighted areas are condemned.

But one section of the bill is especially troublesome. It would base payments to owners on a combination of fair market value and estimates of the income that the redeveloped property would generate. While that approach might have merit in the case of long-term owners and residents, it would be an outrageously high price to pay slumlords, speculators and owners who leave toxic waste on their property.

Mr. Burzichelli says there is no way his bill could constitutionally distinguish between good owners and bad owners. But the state’s public advocate, Ronald Chen, who supports Mr. Burzichelli’s bill, says the flaw can be “fixed in a minute. ” If so, the Legislature should fix it.
313 2007-03-11 My family sold a $1 million property in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., in 2004. We are now selling a $4.5 million luxury property in upstate New York. We have not used real estate agents on either one. It’s not rocket science. You do need a real estate lawyer and good advice or knowledge, but people do it all the time.

People need not pay someone else a commission in order to sell their property.

Kudos to the real estate agent Michelle Genovesi — she really is adept at self-promotion. You featured her in a lead article, including a photo that took up almost half of the front page of the section.

Ms. Genovesi is a successful realtor, but a few paragraphs would have been enough.

The Dobbs Ferry Party: Why We Formed It

In “Dobbs Ferry in Furor Over Elections Date” (March 4), you refer to the Dobbs Ferry Party as a “splinter group.” It never was. It was formed in 1998 to provide an alternative for Democrats, Republicans and independents to get away from partisan politics and sponsor candidates of integrity in local elections.

At the time, the Democratic Party had put forth a mayoral candidate. Bill Sherwood and I, having served with him as fellow trustees, were convinced that his election as mayor would be disastrous for the village. We founded the Dobbs Ferry Party.

In subsequent years the community continued to agree with our vision that the village would be better served by searching out and putting forth the best candidates, regardless of their national affiliations. As Brian Monahan, a former mayor, once told me, “There is nothing Republican or Democratic about a broken sewer or a pothole.”

To my knowledge, the Dobbs Ferry Party never favored development. It did sponsor candidates who understood that, given existing state and federal law, the only sure way to stop development was to buy properties before they fell into developers’ hands — a course, unfortunately, out of reach of village funds.
314 2007-03-11 Melissa Alison Kishel, a daughter of Susan and Paul Kishel of Dix Hills, N.Y., was married yesterday to Brian Robert Forman, the son of Marsha and Gary Forman of New City, N.Y. Rabbi David H. Chanofsky officiated at Capitale, an events space in New York.

Mrs. Forman, 27, is a real estate associate in the New York office of the law firm of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe. She graduated from Cornell and received her law degree from the University of Virginia.

Mr. Forman, 28, was until last month a corporate associate with the New York law firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan. Next month he is to become an associate in the New York office of the law firm of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld. He graduated magna cum laude from George Washington and received his law degree from Georgetown.
315 2007-03-11 Alissa Lee Shaw and Robert Babak Zardkoohi were married on Friday in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. Alfredo Casillas , a civil registrar judge, officiated at Dreams Puerto Vallarta Resort and Spa.

Ms. Shaw, 34, works in San Jose, Calif., as the associate vice president of the public affairs department at a California affiliate of Planned Parenthood; she is responsible for grass-roots and legislative affairs. From 1999 to 2001, she was a Peace Corps volunteer in Nepal, where she worked on a program that fought child trafficking. She graduated from the University of California, Davis, and is a candidate for a master’s degree in liberal arts at Stanford.

She is a daughter of Sherry and Christopher Shaw of Santa Rosa, Calif. Her parents own Empire Auto Parts of Healdsburg, Calif. Her mother is also a regional manager for Kabana, a jewelry company with headquarters in Albuquerque.

Mr. Zardkoohi, 35, is a senior financial analyst for Apple in Cupertino, Calif. He graduated from San Jose State University.

He is a son of Ozzie and Hossein Zardkoohi of San Jose. His mother is a tailor at Men’s Wearhouse, the clothing store, and his father is an electrician, both in San Jose.
316 2007-03-11 As a former advertising manager of a real estate agency, I can tell you that people do not need real estate agents to sell their homes or other properties.

My family sold a $1 million property in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., in 2004. We are now selling a $4.5 million luxury property in upstate New York. We have not used real estate agents on either one. It’s not rocket science. You do need a real estate lawyer and good advice or knowledge, but people do it all the time.

People need not pay someone else a commission in order to sell their property.

Kudos to the Westport real estate agent Michelle Genovesi — she really is adept at self-promotion. You featured her in a lead article, including a photo that took up almost half of the front page of the section.

Ms. Genovesi is a successful realtor, but a few paragraphs would have been enough.
317 2007-03-11 SUSAN GERATZ is preparing jambalaya for her family of four, but she is not in the kitchen of her Dobbs Ferry home and she has not done any grocery shopping. A few feet away, Byron Smalls of White Plains is preparing two servings of pork tenderloin, one for him and the other for his mother.

Ms. Geratz and Mr. Smalls are spending the morning with friends at Let’s Dish, a meal-preparation store that opened in Scarsdale in September. A month later Sip & Supper opened in Tuckahoe. And the trend continues, with two more meal-preparation stores planned for New Rochelle and Nanuet.

“I’m cooking-challenged,” Ms. Geratz said with a laugh. “This makes me look like a good cook, and no one has to know. It’s a home-cooked meal, and my husband is very appreciative.”

Meal-preparation stores provide customers with a selection of a dozen or more entrees that are assembled at refrigerated workstations containing all the ingredients, cut, diced or sliced, ready to be used. Only the actual cooking is done at home, giving new meaning to the term “home-cooked meal.”

Begun in Washington and Texas, the concept has traveled East. Demand is growing, with more than 1,200 outlets in the United States and others expected to open in Australia, Britain and France. Industry revenues were $7.2 million in 2003 and are expected to climb to $504 million this year and more than $1 billion by 2010, according to the Easy Meal Prep Association, the industry trade group.
318 2007-03-11 In “The Legislature You Don’t Know” (Op-Ed, March 4), Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky refers to New York state government depending on three bodies, and warns Gov. Eliot Spitzer not to attempt to push things through without consulting with the other two legislative arms. He is in a poor position to suggest this.

The Assembly consists of one man: the speaker, Sheldon Silver. Anyone trying to be independent is demoted and loses his status and funds. The same applies to the Senate; anyone crossing the majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, is swatted down in a similar fashion.

This is called “democracy.” To me it is two examples of dictatorship.

As far as I am concerned, my money is, and will be, on the new boy in town. He will have my full support, not the old boys’ clubs.

As a former advertising manager of a real estate agency, I can tell you that people do not need real estate agents to sell their homes or other properties.

My family sold a $1 million property in Cold Spring Harbor in 2004. We are now selling a $4.5 million luxury property in upstate New York. We have not used real estate agents on either one. It’s not rocket science. You do need a real estate lawyer and good advice or knowledge, but people do it all the time.

People need not pay someone else a commission in order to sell their property.
319 2007-03-11 This year’s electric bills have made Connecticut the victor in a contest no state wants to win: it now has the highest electrical rates in the continental United States.

Connecticut is a master of bad timing when it comes to energy. It deregulated electricity in 1998, believing that competition would lower utility bills. This failed to happen. As part of that law, the state’s Millstone nuclear power station was sold only a short time before the power it produced became competitive for the first time in more than 30 years.

Meanwhile, natural gas prices have soared, and because the price of electricity is partly pegged to the price of gas, rates have soared. Finally, because Connecticut does not generate enough of its own power, penalties in the form of federally mandated congestion charges add hundreds of millions to ratepayer bills.

It’s a mess. Businesses are leaving the state, and just about everybody is grumpy about how much it costs to keep the lights on.

Donald Williams, the Senate president pro tempore and a Democrat, has said the state needs a Marshall Plan on energy, and he is right. In fact, virtually any plan would be an improvement, since systematic planning for the state’s energy needs stopped when deregulation occurred. For this reason alone, the governor’s idea of creating a separate state office dealing with energy is a good one.

More broadly, Connecticut needs incentives that will promote efficiency, encourage cleaner energy and reduce demand on the grid. No one bill provides everything, but two comprehensive measures in the Senate and one in the House contain useful ideas, among them these:

¶The bills would restore funding for the Connecticut Energy Efficiency Fund, the money for which comes from a mandatory charge on electric bills and is supposed to pay for energy efficient programs. But for the last four years, the state has diverted one-third of the money for other purposes.
320 2007-03-11 “There is most definitely a building boom going on in the theater world in Connecticut,” said An-Ming Truxes, the arts director of the State Commission on Culture and Tourism. “This state is so rich in theatrical offerings, and people are coming out like never before to enjoy it.”

The state allocated $65 million in bonds for theater projects in the last decade, and the commission gave $555,000 in grants to 25 theaters in the last fiscal year to help with operating costs.

In Stamford, the Palace Theater, built in 1927, recently underwent a $16 million renovation, and a $2 million project is planned for the subground space, including a 199-seat theater and a new performing arts education center to be named after Pitney Bowes, one of the Palace’s benefactors.

The Palace is also planning to give the public a kind of theater taste test: In the next few months, it will present “10-minute pub plays” in local restaurants and bars, said Ken Wesler, executive officer of the Stamford Center for the Arts, which operates the Palace. “Think of it as theatrical comfort food, or a mouthwatering appetizer. You give them a little, and they’ll want to come to the theater for more.”

In Waterbury, the Palace Theater, which opened its doors in 1922 but had been closed for 18 years, reopened in 2004 after a $30 million makeover. “Our ticket sales went up last year to 105,000, from 90,000 the year before,” said the theater’s executive director, Frank Tavera.

Now the Waterbury Palace has begun a campaign to raise money for operating expenses, “to make sure it never lies vacant again,” Mr. Tavera said, adding that Webster Bank had already contributed $1 million.

The Westport Country Playhouse received a $5 million state grant and raised $25 million to restore the playhouse, an 1800s barn that has operated as a theater since 1931. Of that total, $17 million was spent on renovation and $13 million is for theatrical educational programs.

The theater has never been so popular, said the actress Joanne Woodward, a Westport resident who organized the restoration effort. “Without the renovation, the Westport Country Playhouse could not have survived,” she said. “The generosity of so many saved this national treasure for future generations.”

The same is true in New London, where the Garde Arts Center, built in 1926 as a vaudeville house, was to have been demolished but was saved by volunteers. With a $6.5 million state grant and matching funds raised independently, the group revitalized the Moroccan-style, 1,472-seat theater and “made it the star attraction in New London,” said Ned Hammond, the city’s economic development coordinator. “It’s totally transformed the city.”

The Garde is now raising money to build a second theater, one with 140 seats, and expand the backstage, “so the actors don’t have to change their costumes outside in the snow,” said Steve Sigel, the theater’s executive director.

Among other projects scheduled in the state, the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven has begun a $30 million campaign to build a new theater at a different location; the Hartford Stage and the Thomaston Opera House are planning expansions within five years; and the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam received a state grant to build housing for actors and a new costume storage facility.

Also, the Ridgefield Theater Barn, a 75-seat theater where you can bring your own dinner and wine to cloth-covered, candle-lit tables, is to be renovated and expanded next year, and TheatreWorks in New Milford is completing plans for a project that will add bathrooms, enlarge the theater to 200 seats from 120, and add another black-box theater for rehearsals.

In Torrington, the Warner’s executive director, James Patrick, walked along Main Street, showing off a 50,000-square-foot space, next to the theater, that is being transformed from a vacant department store into the Warner’s new Carole and Ray Neag Performing Arts Center, named for the benefactors who donated $1 million last year to the project. The center will include classrooms, a new 200-seat theater and several retail stores and restaurants surrounding a grand lobby.

The record number of ticket sales last year — 92,000, up from over 80,000 the previous year — “shows you how much people love this place,” Mr. Patrick said.

“And look what the Warner has done for this city,” he added, pointing across the street at freshly painted building facades and bustling new businesses. “Torrington has gone from a depressed old mill town to a thriving arts center that’s just teeming with life.”
321 2007-03-11 After returning to Brazil in the 1970s he made records that urged black Brazilians to reconnect with their African roots, and was an early champion here of Bob Marley and reggae. But Mr. Gil has also read widely in Asian philosophy and religions and follows a macrobiotic diet, leading the songwriter, producer and critic Nelson Motta to describe his style as “Afro-Zen.”

In person Mr. Gil is warm, calm and engaging, a slim, dreadlocked figure with an elfin, humorous quality that tends to disarm critics. As both individual and artist he has always tended to be open-minded and eclectic in his tastes; the poet Torquato Neto once said of him, “There are many ways of singing and making Brazilian music, and Gilberto Gil prefers all of them.”

A fascination with technology has been another constant in Mr. Gil’s long career. He wrote his first song about computers, called “Electronic Brain,” back in the 1960s, and has regularly returned to the theme in compositions like “Satellite Dish” and “On the Internet,” which was written in the early 1990s and contains this verse:

I want to get on the Web

Bring together on the Internet

I want to go on the Web to contact

Homes in Nepal and bars in Gabon

“I don’t think there is anyone quite like Gil anywhere in the world,” said John Perry Barlow, the former Grateful Dead lyricist who is a friend and the co-founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, one of the groups in the forefront of the drive to reform the current intellectual property rights system. “He’s a spearhead. He’s been thinking about I.P. issues forever and clearly gets the importance of all of this. But he’s also in a unique position to implement his ideas.”

One of Mr. Gil’s first actions after becoming culture minister in 2003 was to form an alliance between Brazil and the nascent Creative Commons movement. Founded in 2001, Creative Commons is meant to offer an alternative to the traditional copyright system of “all rights reserved,” which the movement’s adherents — from scientists and artists to lawyers and consumers — believe has impeded creativity and the sharing of knowledge in the Internet age.

In its place Creative Commons has devised a more flexible structure that allows artists to decide what part of their copyright they wish to retain and what part they are willing to share with the public. With input from Mr. Gil and many others, the organization has created licenses that permit creators and consumers to copy, remix or sample a digital work of art, so long as the originator is properly credited.

More than 145 million works have been registered with Creative Commons licenses, including videos, photographs, written texts, blogs and of course music. Because Brazil is “a country that has music in its genetic code,” to use Mr. Barlow’s phrase, and because Brazilian music has become a global force, the idea of loosening the automatic control of artistic works by a handful of conglomerates headquartered a hemisphere away has resonated strongly here.

“Look at remixing on music sites, which has become a core of creativity on the Internet and produced a huge archive of legally usable music,” said Lawrence Lessig, the author of “Free Culture” and founder of Creative Commons. “That has allowed a whole bunch of people to display themselves as artists and be picked up by record labels and Web sites, and all of that began because Gil got us to think about what kind of freedom was necessary for music.”

As culture minister Mr. Gil has also sponsored an initiative called the Cultural Points program. Small government grants are issued to scores of community centers in poor neighborhoods of some of Brazil’s largest cities to install recording and video studios and teach residents how to use them.

The result has been an outpouring of video and music, much of it racially conscious and politically tinged rap or electronica. Since Brazilian commercial radio, which is said to be riddled with payola, will not play the new music, the creators instead broadcast their songs on community radio stations and distribute their CDs independently, at markets and fairs, rather than through existing record labels.

With that project, “you’re now creating freely licensed content and demonstrating the creativity latent in the society,” Mr. Lessig said.

Brazil’s official stance on digital content and intellectual property rights is in large part derived from Mr. Gil’s own experience. In the late ’60s he and his close friend Caetano Veloso, along with a handful of others here and in São Paulo, started the movement known as Tropicalismo, which blended avant-garde poetry, pop influences from abroad and home-grown musical styles then scorned as corny and déclassé.

In a way, the Tropicalistas engaged in sampling before digital sampling existed, using cut-and-paste, mix-and-match collage techniques that are common now but were considered bizarre at the time. In recent years their music and approach has been embraced by pop performers as diverse as David Byrne, Nirvana, Beck, Nelly Furtado and Devendra Banhart.

When “world music” first appeared in the United States and Europe and Mr. Byrne, Paul Simon, Peter Gabriel and others began incorporating Brazilian rhythms into their work, Mr. Gil was initially skeptical of the phenomenon, complaining of “cultural safaris” by adventurers in Land Rovers “looking for all the rare specimens.” But thanks in large part to technological advances, he said, that practice has “changed completely,” and pop stars are now “more respectful” of other cultures.

“Today the hegemony of the North has, in a certain form, been broken,” he said. “Local tendencies are allowed to manifest themselves and adopt their own languages and forms of packaging. It’s no longer that vision of transforming some regional raw material into a single, standardized product. Today you have all kinds of local scenes that utilize universal elements,” like Brazilian, South African and Arab rap.

As a Tropicalista, Mr. Gil was also involved in an episode that is Brazil’s equivalent of Bob Dylan being booed at the Newport Folk Festival in 1965. When the Tropicalistas played electric guitars and rock rhythms at a São Paulo song festival in 1967, they were jeered and accused of being agents of American imperialism who were trying to impose noxious foreign influences on Brazilian music.

Mr. Gil’s complaints about the inequities of copyrights are derived in part from his own experience. Like many other musicians he signed contracts early in his career that essentially gave away publishing rights to the songs he wrote. But he waged a seven-year court battle to regain his rights, which ended recently with a favorable ruling that opens the door for other Brazilian artists to regain their rights as well.

“The old contracts were completely concessionary, in which all rights over the work were ceded to the contract holder, in absolute form,” he said. “I fought to bring my own work back under my control, arguing that there exists a unilateral right to break the contract. And we won. It was the first time this happened in Brazil, based on an artist’s rescinding a contract, and without a negotiated accord.”

Now that Mr. Gil has regained ownership of his own catalog of more than 400 songs, he is putting the concept of “copyleft,” as the alternative system is sometimes called, into practice. He retains all rights on some songs, some rights on others and declaring “no rights reserved” on others, which are now free for others for use in remixes or videos.

With such an approach an artist “no longer needs to transfer the administration of his rights to an entity called the record company, the movie studio or the song publisher,” Mr. Gil said. “He can do it himself.”

DESPITE all his brushes with politics over the years, it was only at the end of the ’80s, when he was elected to the City Council here in Brazil’s third-largest city, that Mr. Gil ventured into conventional party politics. His constituency was an unusual mixture of poor and working-class blacks and middle-class, mostly white, environmentalists.

But he withdrew after one term, turning aside requests he run for Brazil’s Congress by saying he was tired of partisan bickering and wanted to resume his performing career. Many Brazilians were therefore surprised when he jumped back into politics after the country’s first left-wing government was elected in 2002 and he was offered the cabinet post of culture minister, and then again late last year when he agreed to stay on for a second term.

“I still don’t like politics,” he said. “I’d rather see my position in the government as that of an administrator or manager. But politics is a necessary ingredient. You have politics in the government, with ministers, on the issue of how the budget is divided, the cake sliced up, the distribution of resources. You have to choose priorities, to tend to some and not to others.”

Mr. Gil’s tenure has not been without controversy. He is a member of the Green Party, not the ruling Workers’ Party, so when he was first appointed, some party loyalists were miffed that the job had not gone to one of their own, and responded with manifestos criticizing President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva’s choice of a pop star thought to be ideologically suspect.

“You have to remember that Tropicalismo was fought by the traditional Stalinist left, and that even today some of those same people are in the Workers Party and the unions,” said Mr. Motta, who is also the author of “Tropical Nights,” a history of Brazilian popular music since the 1960s. “They want to bring culture under state control and know nothing about the digital world and the Internet, so of course they oppose a true revolutionary like Gil, who has always pushed for new things.”

Since Mr. Gil became minister, Brazilian government spending on culture has grown by more than 50 percent, testimony both to his prestige and negotiating skills. As minister he has devoted time to selling Brazilian music abroad, but has also labored to draw attention to Brazilian film, painting, sculpture and literature in foreign markets.

“One thing to remember about Gil,” said Hermano Vianna, an anthropologist, writer and a leading figure in Brazil’s digital culture movement, is that “he sees culture not just as art, but also as an industry. To Gil culture is not just an accessory but an important part of the economy and even a motor of economic development.”

Over the last four years, though, Mr. Gil has cut way back on his own performances, the part of being a musician he says he enjoys most, and nearly stopped recording. His most recent disc, “Gil Luminoso,” is a collection of 15 of his songs, including “Electronic Brain,” that he rerecorded in 1999 with just voice and guitar, to accompany a book about him.

Why give up something as gratifying as playing music for the wear and tear of public administration? “Life is not just pleasure,” he said. “The first phrase of the Vedic scriptures is that ‘All is suffering.’ Difficulty is stimulating, challenging, it’s an element of the pulse of life.”

Besides, he is at a point in life “where I no longer want to have a commitment to my career, in the classical sense of a profession,” he said. “I no longer see music as a field to be exploited. I see it now as an alternative area of action, part of a broad repertory of possibilities that I have. Music is something visceral in me, something that exudes from me, and even when I’m not thinking about it, I will still be making music, always.”
322 2007-03-11 In mid-March, people are accustomed to seeing the sun rise between 6:15 and 6:30 a.m. But starting today, the sun won’t rise until after 7 a.m. for the next nine days or so. For example, in the suburban Connecticut town of Darien, sunrise will be at 7:11 a.m. tomorrow and will move gradually earlier until it occurs at 6:58 a.m. on March 20.

Last year, on the first day of daylight saving time, April 2, the sun rose at about 6:36 a.m. in Darien. This year’s change means that people will face about 35 minutes more darkness on the first morning of daylight saving.

And that will bother many people, said Martin C. Moore-Ede, the chief executive of Circadian Technologies, a consulting firm in Massachusetts that specializes in productivity and body rhythms.

“There is credible evidence that the move to daylight saving time upsets human circadian rhythms, or the inner clock apparently keyed somewhat to the sun,” he said.

Dr. Moore-Ede, a former professor at Harvard Medical School, cited four studies from the 1980s to the late 1990s that showed an increase in automobile accidents the week after the start of daylight saving.

He said that the sudden change made it harder to adapt to darkened mornings than in late fall and early winter, when the changes in light are more gradual.

“I’m going to make an outrageous prediction: You’re going to have an increased spike in traffic accidents,” he said.

But with the sun now setting at almost 7 p.m., the evening commute — more concentrated, hence, more dangerous than the morning’s — should be safer. “The darker mornings are more dangerous than lighter mornings — definitely that’s true,” said David Prerau, the author of “Seize the Daylight: The Curious and Contentious Story of Daylight Saving Time,” who consulted with Congress on the 2005 energy bill. “However, studies have shown that the net effect even for schoolchildren is positive. Schoolchildren are involved in traffic accidents at 6 o’clock in the evening, as well. There will be a net lowering of accidents and fatalities.”

Once they get to school, however, teenagers, whose biological clocks tend to skew to late nights, will feel more tired, Dr. Moore-Ede said. “You end up with a bunch of sleep-deprived teenagers who are then less able to think clearly, absorb their lessons and do well in their school work.”

Adding to the concerns are two key standardized tests being given in Connecticut and New Jersey this week. In Connecticut, Grades 3 to 8 will take portions of the state Mastery Test, while in New Jersey, eighth graders will take sections of the Proficiency Assessment and fifth to seventh graders the state Assessment of Skills and Knowledge.

The Departments of Education in both states said that the time change was not considered when setting the test schedules. “Without sounding harsh, it would be up to the districts to make sure that people are prepared,” said Jon Zlock, a spokesman for the New Jersey Education Department.

Last year, Connecticut switched to standardized testing in March from September to comply with the federal No Child Left Behind Act, said Thomas Murphy, a spokesman for the State Department of Education.

What about energy savings? While a federal government study that Mr. Prerau said he worked on estimated 1 percent in electricity savings in years with extended daylight saving time, that study is more than 30 years old. Based on actual electrical use in 2005, customers in Connecticut could save a combined $3.3 million by extending daylight saving by four weeks, according to the Edison Electric Institute, a leading utility industry trade group.

But Jim Owen, a spokesman for the institute, said that its experts thought a 1 percent savings was more than should be expected.

Whether or not it is ultimately as beneficial as some hope, the switch has necessitated some preparation. Yale University has warned computer users to check software for time-setting functions. The United Parcel Service, which runs more early delivery routes in the New York metropolitan area than elsewhere in the country, said it had warned drivers to be extra careful.

And John J. Tiffany II, a farmer in Lyme, Conn., said that as always his family would make the changeover easier on its cows by taking two days and moving the clocks — and milking times — ahead a half hour each day.

But for students, the change takes place all at once. In Glen Cove on Long Island, high school students will be waiting in the dark for buses. The earliest run starts at 6:42 a.m., and most begin about 7 a.m., said Mary Tripi, district transportation clerk. As for tomorrow, she said, “Hopefully it’s a nice, sunny day, and not a cloudy day.”

In White Plains, bus drivers are trained to be particularly cautious in predawn twilight as they pick up high school students, who board as early as 6:56 a.m., said Diane Markert, the transportation director for the city’s public schools. At 6:56 a.m., “you’re on the cusp,” Ms. Markert said.

“It’s not pitch dark at that point,” she said. “You are getting some breakthrough” sun.

In Darien, the first bus goes out at 7:03 a.m., said Kathleen Perez, the transportation director for the public schools. “They’ve always felt at a certain point that the high school students are capable of waiting in the dark.”

But for those beyond high school, old habits are hard to break. In Westport, Conn., Lazaros Papanikolaou, an owner-manager of the Sherwood Diner, said he expected most patrons to show up late for breakfast this week.

“It’s not even a darkness issue,” he said. “They’ll come in on their old clock.”
323 2007-03-11 ONE of the first things you learn when you move out of the city is that the outdoors is bound to find its way in. My husband and I discovered this some 20 years ago after taking up residence in the house we had just bought. Our new roommate was a red squirrel, whose acquaintance we made within days. We had two cats, but they were urban transplants, too. Pete eyed the bewildered squirrel lazily from his comfortable perch on the sofa and blinked; Cosmo dashed under the bed and trembled. They were of no help with anything beyond the occasional cockroach.

Since then, there have been countless similar unexpected intrusions — a bat hanging from the ceiling in the hallway one August night, and a wren that flew into my office one May afternoon when I had left the door open. And our house — or attic, anyway — is hospitable to snakes. A few years after we moved in, as painters were preparing to paint our roof, they came across a two-and-a-half-foot corn snake curled up under the chimney flashing. When they tried to grab it, it slithered into a crawl space and, presumably, back into the attic. It has not been seen since.

Then there was the spring afternoon when we found a collection of bees gathered outside the window. On paying closer attention, we could hear their droning inside the wall between the porch and the front hall. “They’re swarming,” my husband said, which is to say their numbers had grown to the point at which a second colony was forming. (He lived in Vermont for a number of years and watches a lot of nature shows, which together, in my mind anyway, afford him some credibility in such matters.)

A neighbor told us how to get rid of the whole lot of them: soak the end of a two-by-four in apple juice, then hold it near the hole we had discovered in the sheathing, the apparent egress for the colony. Sure enough, the bees emerged — two or three thousand of them — and draped themselves around the piece of wood. My husband then carried what looked to be some biomorphic sculpture down the road and leaned it against a tree. Then he came home and plugged up the hole in the sheathing. Years later, when we took down the old clapboards to replace them, we found a three-foot-long honeycomb folded around the studs inside the wall.

It’s not that we live in some far-flung rural outpost that demands that we constantly beat back the encroaching wilderness. Far from it. It’s just a matter of numbers. We live in a vaguely exurban region of the Hudson Valley that is slowly becoming suburban. But in spite of several new housing developments and the razing of a nearby woodlot for a Subway restaurant, there are still more animals than humans. So until that balance shifts, who belongs where is likely to remain in continual negotiation.

If it’s not easy to be gracious to the intruders, I try at least to make the best of things. Which is to say, I attempt to find some meaning in their random visits. While there is nothing good to be said of the squirrels that are capable of nibbling away at our electrical wires, I cast a more favorable eye on some of the others. Surely, I tell myself, it must be good luck to have a colony of bees making honey in your walls. And there must be some tribe, culture or distant ethnicity that has come up with a wise proverb about a house with a snake in its attic, but I have not yet found it.
324 2007-03-11 “I’m marked as the man who did that,” Mr. Ratcliff says, his tone suggesting frustration, not regret.

Before this singular act came to define him, Mr. Ratcliff was just another modest minister of modest means, addressing the temporal and spiritual needs of a few dozen congregants. He tended to speak rapidly, with New Testament references seeming to tumble from his lips with each exhalation.

Then, one day in April 1994, Mr. Ratcliff found himself in a small room at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Portage, where an inmate had expressed a desire to be baptized. He had never met a serial killer; for that matter, he had never been inside a prison.

The young man entered smiling and unshackled. The minister calmed himself and got to the point: “I understand you want to be baptized.”

In Mr. Ratcliff’s mind, the shocking crimes of Mr. Dahmer were stipulated; the inmate had readily confessed to everything after his capture in 1991. What mattered now was whether this blond, pallid man before him understood that baptism cleansed his sins against God, not his crimes against the state.

“He was seeking redemption,” Mr. Ratcliff says, recalling how Mr. Dahmer often spoke of being the worst of sinners. “He was seeking forgiveness.”

A few weeks later, Mr. Dahmer donned a white polyester robe and climbed into a steel-silver whirlpool normally used by inmates with physical injuries. The minister gently pushed him under the water until he was fully immersed, and baptized him with a short prayer.

When the convict emerged, the preacher said, “Welcome to the family of God.”

Every Wednesday for months afterward, Mr. Ratcliff met with Mr. Dahmer to pray. The convict said he should have been put to death for his crimes, and his minister agreed. He talked about suicide, something the preacher had flirted with many years earlier, after being fired from another church. A shared faith drew the different men together.

A few days before he was killed in November 1994, Mr. Dahmer handed Mr. Ratcliff a Thanksgiving Day card that the minister keeps wrapped in plastic. “Dear Roy,” the note begins, in loopy handwriting. “Thank you for your friendship, and for taking the time and effort to help me understand God’s word.”

After a discreet memorial service at the minister’s church in Madison, after the notorious surname had slipped into the recesses of public consciousness, Mr. Ratcliff continued to be identified as the man who baptized the serial killer. Both in and out of the Church of Christ community, some embraced him for it, while others shunned him.

People would walk away when introduced to him or argue that they wanted no part of a heaven that included Jeffrey Dahmer. Some would praise him to his face, only to tell others that he had been duped. He was rarely invited to other churches to talk about the salvation of the least of us, because, he guesses, “there is a sense of shame.”

At gatherings of preachers in the region, he says, one minister from Milwaukee constantly points him out to others and says: Do you know who that man is? Do you know what he did?

“I’ve become a little bit jaded by the hypocrisy,” Mr. Ratcliff says.

Last year Mr. Ratcliff wrote a short book about what he calls Mr. Dahmer’s “story of faith.” The book, “Dark Journey, Deep Grace,” has sold poorly — perhaps, he says, because people cannot see that a story about Mr. Dahmer is a story about all of us.

Mr. Ratcliff says he is a better man for having known Jeffrey Dahmer, but knows that some people will have trouble understanding this. He says he now visits several prisons a month. He says he has a keener understanding of faith, and of mercy.

It seems that Mr. Dahmer is rarely far from the preacher’s mind. For example, that large clock looming in his family’s apartment was bought at a kiosk in the mall, with the honorarium the Dahmer family gave him for arranging the memorial service. The Ratcliffs call it “Jeff’s clock.”

By the time that clock strikes seven, the minister is already at his church, turning on the lights, checking the heat, greeting congregants. Soon he joins them in song.
325 2007-03-11 “There's a commitment to the cultural sector, which is being backed up by money,” said Beth Gignac, manager of the city's arts and culture division, who herself moved to Calgary only last July from the Toronto area.

If visitors can easily fill their nights with plays and music — for instance, the Beat Niq Jazz & Social Club has live shows most nights and the Calgary Philharmonic Orchestra keeps a busy schedule that includes Saturday morning and lunchtime concerts — there's also plenty to see around town in the day. The honey-hued sandstone buildings lining the Stephen Avenue Walk, a pedestrian mall between First Street SW and Sixth Street SW, date from the late 1880s, after a disastrous fire led city officials to decree that all large buildings be sandstone. Today the street is filled with shops and restaurants, including the new Blink supper club and several pricey steakhouses, like the Belvedere and Saltlik, which serve the ubiquitous AAA Alberta beef, as well as the top-drawer seafood restaurant Catch. High-end Italian is Calgary's hottest flavor right now, with new restaurants like Capo in the Inglewood neighborhood and Pulcinella in Kensington garnering notice from both critics and diners.

As condominiums spring up along the Bow River, neighborhoods on the edge of downtown are becoming destinations, too. Among the standouts in Kensington, a trendy shopping and residential area just over the Louise Bridge, is an outpost of the Calgary-based chocolatier Bernard Callebaut; Livingstone and Cavell Extraordinary Toys, which, though small, lives up to its name; and the Higher Grounds Cafe, a bustling coffeehouse among numerous independent coffee shops in this caffeinated town. This is prime shopping and strolling territory for a population prosperous enough to afford the lobster lasagna or venison chop with wild boar bacon at the local favorite Muse, but young enough to desire a bit of bohemia in their shopping district.

Inglewood, often cited as the next Kensington, remains a neighborhood in transition. To reach the increasingly upscale blocks of antique stores, home furnishing shops and quirky boutiques, you'll have to pass notably ungentrified blocks with dive bars, and local people say, the occasional crack house. But it's worth the walk for destination restaurants like Spolumbo's, a casual sausage house and deli founded by some local football heros, or Rouge, a romantic high-end French restaurant in a historic house.

The Calgary Zoo in Inglewood has not been excluded from the development surge either: with $35 million from the provincial surplus, it has opened new sections devoted to African and nocturnal animals. A new elephant area opens this summer, and a massive indoor northern ecosystem with a saltwater aquarium is planned.

Calgary also has a small Chinatown — no longer the main sign of cultural diversity in a city that has African, Latino and Reggae festivals as well as a full complement of international restaurants.

“I've been saying since I got here, I wish they could lift off the white cowboy hat,” said Ms. Gignac, who, like many newcomers, initially expected the city to be all western, all the time. “There's a lot going on beneath that cowboy hat,” she added.

While the beneficiaries of Calgary's boom are easy to spot, it's not all good news for long-term residents. Tom Booth, a young lawyer who was buying wine on Stephen Avenue, noted that the population influx has meant a huge rise in living costs and an encroachment on the space and independence Calgarians once took for granted. Downtown parking lots charge up to $30 a day and homes in former working-class suburbs are selling for close to $850,000, pushing out the middle class, not to mention the poor. “It's forced Calgary to think about how to be a big city,” Mr. Booth said.

Meanwhile, at the long tiled bar at the fashionable Metropolitan Grill on Eighth Avenue SW at the top of Stephen Avenue's sandstone row, casually dressed young professionals — many recent arrivals from someplace else — were meeting and eating. But will they still be here if and when the most recent oil boom ends?

Gonzalo Vivanco, an engineer who came here as a child, thinks they will.

“We had a boom in the '80s, but not like this,” said Mr. Vivanco, who was enjoying a steak. “It's just so much bigger.”

Like many residents here, Mr. Vivanco believes that this time, with new investments — and hard-earned wisdom — Calgary has finally created an economy and culture appealing enough to keep newcomers in town, even if the oil boom slows.

Flights from New York to Calgary begin at about $440 round trip on United or Air Canada.

Kensington Riverside Inn, 1126 Memorial Drive NW; (877) 313-3733; www.kensingtonriversideinn.com. Just across the Bow River from downtown, this intimate 19-room hotel has the look of a genteel private club and the comforts of a bed-and-breakfast. Even before the large breakfast (included with the price), guests wake to coffee and a freshly baked treat outside their doors. Rates start at about 280 Canadian dollars, or about $235 at 1.19 Canadian dollars to $1.

Hotel Arts, 119 12th Avenue SW; (800) 661-9378; www.hotelarts.ca. This 185-room boutique hotel has art installations in the lobby and minimalist chic bedrooms. While the sushi bar and pool wouldn't look out of place in Miami's South Beach, the friendly service is more Midwest. The hotel's bistro, the St. Germain, is a destination for local gourmets. Rates start at 129 Canadian dollars.

Sandman Hotel & Suites Calgary West, 125 Bowridge Drive NW; (403) 288-6033. The Sandman chain has a new 121-room hotel on the western edge of town 20 minutes from downtown. Rates start at about 160 Canadian dollars.WHERE TO EAT

Rouge, 1240 Eighth Avenue SE, (403) 531-2767; www.rougecalgary.com. The chef Paul Rogalski's tasting menu (95 Canadian) is considered one of the highlights of Calgary's new dining scene. At lunch, seafood chowder with homemade bacon and fresh herbs is 17 Canadian dollars; at dinner, elk medallions with horseradish-spiked rösti and marjoram crème fraîche is 35 Canadian dollars.

Murrieta's Westcoast Bar & Grill, 808-First Street SW; (403) 269-7707; www.murrietas.ca. A huge skylight warms the sandstone and mahogany dining room of this downtown stalwart. For lunch, the portobello mushroom pasta or crab cakes are 11 to 14 Canadian dollars, and burgers are 10 to 14 Canadian dollars.

Metropolitan Grill, 318 Eighth Avenue SW; (403) 263-5432; and 880 16th Avenue SW; (403) 802-2393. Classic steakhouse menus with AAA Alberta beef. Steaks range from 28 to 38 Canadian dollars.
326 2007-03-11 The 2/28 and 3/27 loans have been marketed heavily to subprime borrowers whose credit scores are so low they cannot qualify for mortgages with longer fixed-rate periods. Mr. Nothaft said that a typical subprime borrower, with a credit score of 550, might qualify for a 2/28 loan with a teaser rate of 5.9 percent. But interest rates on 2/28s rise more sharply than adjustable-rate mortgages given to prime borrowers.

Those with 2/28s may have their rates rise by three percentage points after two years, then another percentage point every six months thereafter. Borrowers could reach the typical lifetime interest rate cap of 11.9 percent within 42 months.

In contrast, prime borrowers with adjustable-rate mortgages enjoy fixed rates for five or seven years, with interest rates raised at longer intervals after that.

Freddie Mac said it would create “model subprime mortgages” for lenders to market. The new mortgages will include smaller “margins,” or incremental interest rate increases once the fixed-rate period ends, and longer intervals between those increases. They will also include longer fixed-rate periods.

The Federal National Mortgage Association, the government-backed company known as Fannie Mae, which has the same mission as Freddie Mac, would not comment directly on Freddie Mac’s initiative. But it said it was developing new “rescue mortgage” products to help subprime borrowers in difficulty.

The Mortgage Bankers Association criticized Freddie Mac’s new standards. John M. Robbins, the group’s chairman, said that the new policies would “limit the product options and the access to credit for those individuals most in need, many of whom are first-time, underserved or minority home buyers.”

But many minority and consumer advocates expressed support for the new standards, including the AARP, the N.A.A.C.P. and the Consumer Federation of America.

Freddie Mac’s new loan standards will not dictate lending methods all by themselves, since Fannie Mae has not joined in. Lenders who sell loans to hedge funds and other investors also need not follow suit.

Jeffrey Guarino, the managing director of Gotham Capital Mortgage, a broker based in New York, said the regulations would be felt most fully outside Manhattan, because Manhattan has fewer subprime borrowers.

The new policies “are generally speaking smart,” Mr. Guarino said, “although with fewer people getting loans, that could lower housing prices.”

Mr. Nothaft of Freddie Mac said that for subprime borrowers who keep current at the outset, “odds are that your credit scores will have improved, too — you might even qualify for a prime product.”
327 2007-03-11 As European designers nod to California casual this spring, the new Los Angeles label Filius mines the wreckage of 1950s Americana. ''James Dean's car crash,'' says the designer Alessandro Tomassetti, ''is a metaphor for that facade breaking down....
328 2007-03-11 To the Editor:     Re ''Super Agents, Super Teams'' (March 4):     As a former advertising manager of a real estate agency, I can tell you that people do not need real estate agents to sell their homes or other properties....
329 2007-03-11 Fire prevention authorities recommend that smoke alarm batteries be changed twice yearly, at the start and the end of daylight saving time. The time change occurred this morning....
330 2007-03-11 Credit -- or blame -- for today's conspicuously visible logos belongs to the French tennis star René Lacoste, who in 1933 added the company's crocodile to its polo shirts and inadvertently invented branded clothing....
331 2007-03-11 To the Editor:     Re ''Super Agents, Super Teams'' (March 4):...
332 2007-03-11 To the Editor:     Re ''The Forecast for the Forecasters Is Dismal'' (Economic View, March 4):     The primary problem in economists' forecasting of economic downturns is their choice of ''recession'' -- a period of absolute decline in real gross ...
333 2007-03-11 Alissa Lee Shaw and Robert Babak Zardkoohi were married on Friday in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. Alfredo Casillas , a civil registrar judge, officiated at Dreams Puerto Vallarta Resort and Spa.     Ms. Shaw, 34, works in San Jose, Calif., as the asso...
334 2007-03-11 This is a place for power suits, power lunches and power plays. It's a mecca for men who like their fashion as reserved and understated as the most exclusive restaurant. Their natural habitat, of course, is the city's business hub, Central. And if...
335 2007-03-11 Colin Cowie, an event planner who has staged over-the-top affairs for John Travolta and Oprah Winfrey, is a fiend for details -- as evidenced by the organization of his huge closet.     ''It's merchandised, baby,'' he said of the closet, actually ...
336 2007-03-11 ONE of the first things you learn when you move out of the city is that the outdoors is bound to find its way in. My husband and I discovered this some 20 years ago after taking up residence in the house we had just bought. Our new roommate was a ...
337 2007-03-11 MARGARET DEEGAN SLYWKA knows painfully well what happened 33 years ago, the last time the clocks changed to daylight saving time in the winter. Then a 14-year-old sophomore living in Seymour, Conn., she was hit by a car while walking to high schoo...
338 2007-03-11 Islanders forward Chris Simon, noting that he had sustained a concussion, said Saturday night that he had little recollection of his retaliatory strike against Ryan Hollweg, which drew a suspension and may end his season.      Seconds after being ...
339 2007-03-11 ONE of the first things you learn when you move out of the city is that the outdoors is bound to find its way in. My husband and I discovered this some 20 years ago after taking up residence in the house we had just bought. Our new roommate was a ...
340 2007-03-11 ONE of the first things you learn when you move out of the city is that the outdoors is bound to find its way in. My husband and I discovered this some 20 years ago after taking up residence in the house we had just bought. Our new roommate was a ...
341 2007-03-11 To the Editor:     Re ''Super Agents, Super Teams'' (March 4):...
342 2007-03-11 Daylight saving time resumed at 2 a.m. today. Clocks were set ahead one hour....
343 2007-03-11 MARGARET DEEGAN SLYWKA knows painfully well what happened 33 years ago, the last time the clocks changed to daylight saving time in the winter. Then a 14-year-old sophomore living in Seymour, Conn., she was hit by a car while walking to high schoo...
344 2007-03-11 MARGARET DEEGAN SLYWKA knows painfully well what happened 33 years ago, the last time the clocks changed to daylight saving time in the winter. Then a 14-year-old sophomore living in Seymour, Conn., she was hit by a car while walking to high schoo...
345 2007-03-12 The most famous surviving words from the ancient Greek Battle of Thermopylae have been "molon labe," the defiant taunt by 300 Spartans to their numerically superior Persian adversaries. Translated, it means roughly "Come and take them," referring ...
346 2007-03-12 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
347 2007-03-12 On Sunday, Spain marked the third anniversary of the March 11, 2004 terrorist attacks in Madrid. At a ceremony outside the Atocha train station, King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia dedicated a memorial to the 191 train passengers who were killed....
348 2007-03-12 Having a potential national primary day compresses the 2008 timetable and has candidates scrambling to figure out what it all would mean....
349 2007-03-12 As the markets dropped sharply last week, sending volume soaring and backing up trades handled by the New York Stock Exchange, at least one stock market player was resting easy. Bats Trading, an upstart electronic trading system based in Kansas Ci...
350 2007-03-12 Arguing that the competitiveness of the United States' capital markets is "under strain," a committee of the United States Chamber of Commerce on Monday proposed a series of steps to ease the regulatory burdens for U.S. companies. The report, whic...
351 2007-03-12 A 76-year-old Montreal lawyer with a penchant for preserving Scottish culture has emerged as an alleged culprit in the collapse of Canadian hedge-fund Portus Alternative Asset Management. KPMG, the court-appointed receiver overseeing Portus, has f...
352 2007-03-12 Russian prosecutors and Interior Ministry officers searched the Moscow office of the auditing firm PricewaterhouseCoopers Friday in connection with its work with Yukos, the bankrupt oil company, and with PricewaterhouseCoopers's own tax filings. R...
353 2007-03-12 Senator John McCain of Arizona has only been defeated in one race in his political life, in a heated contest against George W. Bush for the Republican presidential nomination in 2000. Now as he runs for president again, his candidacy has become closely tied to the increasingly unpopular war that his rival began.

Mr. McCain, who was elected to the House in 1982 and the Senate in 1986, has emerged as the Republican field's strongest proponent of an aggressive approach to the Iraq war and of Mr. Bush's decision in January to deploy more soldiers, primarily in Baghdad. While other Republican candidates, including Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mitt Romney, are resisting Democratic calls for disengagement, no one else in the race is as closely associated as Mr. McCain is with the idea of adding troops. Mr. McCain's chief criticism of Mr. Bush's so-called surge is that it is likely too small to have the necessary impact.

Mr. McCain's political career has been based in large measure on his role in another unpopular war. A Navy pilot who was shot down over Hanoi in 1967, he returned from Vietnam in 1973 as a much-decorated prisoner of war. Not only had he had endured torture and neglect in prison camps, but he had turned down a North Vietnamese offer to release him ahead of longer-held prisoners because of his status as the son and grandson of four-star admirals. Mr. McCain later wrote of his ordeals in "Faith of Our Fathers," which was made into a television movie in 2005.

In the Senate, Mr. McCain's engaging personality and willingness to buck his party on occasion earned him a reputation as something of a maverick. He has said he considers the low point of his tenure to be his actions as part of the so-called Keating Five, a bipartisan group of senators who sought to intervene with federal regulators on behalf of the savings and loan executive Charles H. Keating, who was later convicted of fraud. Mr. McCain's role brought him a rebuke from the Senate Ethics Committee.

The legislation he is associated most closely with is the set of campaign finance rules that he developed with one of the Senate's most liberal members, Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin.
354 2007-03-12 BEIJING, Monday, March 12 (Reuters) — The People’s Bank of China, the central bank, said Monday that it would gradually increase the flexibility in the exchange rate of the yuan, the national currency.

The statement, distributed ahead of a news conference by Zhou Xiaochuan, the central bank governor, provided no details on the degree of flexibility the bank would permit. But China has come under increasing pressure, particularly from the United States, to loosen artificial controls on the yuan and permit it to rise in value. The current rate is about 7.74 yuan to the dollar.

Many economists say a stronger yuan would ease the yawning American trade deficit with China by making Chinese exports to the United States more expensive and American exports to China cheaper.

The statement came less than a week after Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, said in a visit to Shanghai that China must accelerate its economic reforms.
355 2007-03-12 Mr. Chait never fueled the national intrigue that followed the disappearance of Judge Joseph Force Crater, who stepped into a cab in Midtown Manhattan in 1930, never to be seen again. Nor did he spark the massive emotional outpouring that came after Etan Patz vanished, at the age of 6, on his way to the school bus stop near his SoHo home in 1979. Etan, too, was never found.

Instead, history seemed to forget Mr. Chait almost as soon as he bade his roommate goodbye 35 years ago. “Take it slow” was all he said before slipping away, seemingly into thin air.

No intensive manhunt followed, no big poster campaign. His friends waited two days before calling the Chaits and telling them that their son, who was 20, had missed his classes as well as his shifts at Mama Joy’s, a now-shuttered delicatessen on Broadway near 113th Street. Mr. Chait left behind no clues, just a suddenly shattered family, and a gaping hole in his mother’s life.

“We knew, we knew, we knew this was very serious,” said Ms. Chait, of the moment she learned that Steven was gone.

Looking back, Ms. Chait sees darkly portentous signs in her son that she thinks she overlooked then. His moodiness. His perfectionism. His tendency to despair if he felt the world had failed him, or that he had failed it.

Ms. Chait would never accept the possibility, though, that Steven might have committed suicide. She believes he walked away from his life, but that he is still alive.

“I feel it in here,” she said, pressing a fist to her heart. “It’s very deep, the deepest kind of feeling.”

Steven was born tiny, the first of Ms. Chait and her husband Harry’s three children, but grew up sturdy and tall. He was exceptionally bright. By the age of 9, he was reading The New York Times and U.S. News & World Report, and earning top marks in school. He excelled in track, and his trophies, tarnished by time, still line a shelf of his old bedroom. After he was accepted at Columbia, he wore his student identification proudly, like a medal.

But after he got a C in a crucial engineering course, a devastating first, he switched to art history. He had always been solemn but now seemed haunted by defeat.

“How are you doing, Steven?” Ms. Chait would ask him. “Living,” he would reply.

The last time Ms. Chait saw Steven, he was home for the weekend, asleep in the bedroom he used to share with his little brother, Gary. His 5-feet-10-inch frame was stretched long, facing away from the door. A tumble of dark curls spilled across his pillow. Ms. Chait closed the door gently and left with her husband for a party on Long Island.

Their son went back to Furnald Hall on campus that night and spent much of the next morning lying in bed, listening to music, his roommate later said. Then he pulled on a jacket, a knit hat and scarf, said goodbye to his roommate, and left.

At first, the police tried to assure the Chaits that Mr. Chait’s absence was voluntary and temporary, so the couple searched for him on their own.

Ms. Chait said they went to an abandoned stadium on Randalls Island where Steven had once raced. They traveled to Washington because Steven adored architecture, and a new I. M. Pei building was going up.

Silence enveloped their home. Ms. Chait wept often, and her husband spent long hours in an armchair, drinking endless glasses of wine. Gary left for college, and would later fall into a deep depression of his own. Their youngest child, Risa, then in the 10th grade, escaped the gloom by often staying with friends.

“They did the best they could for us,” said the daughter, now Risa Jampel, who went on to Yale and is now a dermatologist in Baltimore. “But they couldn’t function.”

The Chaits’ friends dropped away, unsure of what to say. Invitations to parties and dinners dried up. Neighbors avoided them.

“People used to cringe when they saw me, like I was a witch,” Ms. Chait said. “In this building, one man out of 92 families had the decency to spend an hour with Harry and me.”

Harry Chait eventually surfaced from his depression and stopped drinking. He told his wife he had come to peace with Steven’s disappearance.

But Ms. Chait could not. She wrote hundreds of letters to newspapers, magazines and possible employers. She joined a support group for the parents of missing children. She strained to catch sight of Steven in crowds. Gary and Risa would scour the faces of homeless people, too, trying to see Steven in them. They still do.

The mysterious phone calls provided some comfort, though Ms. Chait never found out who they were from.

In 2005, she finally cleared out Steven’s clothes. She donated the ones that did not disintegrate in her hands.

The police investigated the case and kept it open because no body was ever found.

Determined that Steven Chait’s name not be forgotten, Dr. Jampel financed a track scholarship at Columbia in his name, which will be awarded for the first time this spring.

Ms. Chait, who is 78, has made new friends but rarely tells them about Steven. The tragedy of what happened, and the pained joy his memory brings, is so deeply ingrained in her that it has become almost too enormous to mention.

Tomorrow, on the 35th anniversary of his disappearance, Ms. Chait plans to start her day as she always does. She will push her delicate frame through a series of lunges and push-ups, which are called sun salutations in yoga.

And she will finish with the same posture she always ends with. One knee bent, the other leg strong and straight. Arms wide, stretching in opposite directions. Eyes gazing forward, soft and resolute. The warrior.

“I’m never going to give up,” she said. “He’s too precious to me.”
356 2007-03-12 But there were no Adalius Thomas-level stars in that group, either. Instead, there was linebacker Mike Vrabel, who had considering quitting football to go to law school. And in the past few years, the Patriots have, with mixed results, mined the low level free agents.

Last year, their top free-agent signing was receiver Reche Caldwell, and although they made it to the American Football Conference championship game, it was clear that the Patriots had fallen behind a few other elite teams in talent.

Thomas, then, does represent a departure for the Patriots, who happily found themselves in a situation to get him. The Patriots had held back a sizable amount of money last year, anticipating re-signing receiver Deion Branch. When it became clear that a lengthy holdout was in the offing, Branch was traded to Seattle, and the money allotted for his contract was moved to this year’s salary cap, Belichick said.

The Patriots were more than $20 million under the $109 million cap when free agency began this year. With the linebacker position a glaring need, they were lucky to see Thomas, who like Vrabel can play multiple positions, become available when the Baltimore Ravens did not use the franchise tag on him.

“That was an inefficiency in the system, a chance for us to get a player who most teams would have franchised,” Kraft said last week in a telephone interview. “I don’t think there have been many situations where there has been value like this in the marketplace, where you could get the player without having to give up draft picks.”

Once the Patriots were done with Thomas, they moved on, signing Kyle Brady, a cheaper alternate to Daniel Graham for a blocking tight end, and Morris, who will replace the higher-priced and disgruntled Corey Dillon behind Laurence Maroney. Then, rather than risk that the Dolphins would match their offer for Welker, who was a restricted free agent, they traded for him.

The addition of Stallworth, who played for the Eagles last season, gives Tom Brady a reliable deep threat that was lacking last season. Stallworth remained on the market for more than a week; his free-agent stock might have been hurt by a Philadelphia Inquirer report last week that said Stallworth was in the N.F.L.’s substance-abuse program.

“If you cut Adalius Thomas out of the equation, they are acting kind of normal for them, maybe acting with more velocity than in other years,” said Brad Blank, a Boston-based agent. “Every once in a while, you’ll get a person whose talent they respect and can get a lot of money and yet it’s reasonable for them.”

Blank wonders how long the Patriots’ luck can hold up, arguing that the odds of free agency — some mistakes are inevitable — are bound to catch up. Thomas is approaching 30, and with so much guaranteed money as part of the contract, a serious injury could turn one of the most-heralded signings of the Belichick era into one of his biggest mistakes.

Belichick pointed to the Giants’ signing of LaVar Arrington last year; he sustained a season-ending injury in October, then was cut last month.

“It’s a big deal if you pay a big deal — like the LaVar Arrington contract — and get nothing out of it,” Belichick said.
357 2007-03-12 He introduced himself to small clusters of voters on Saturday as part of a series of campaign appearances in northwestern Iowa. Many were encountering him for the first time and said they came away impressed. After clumping downstairs to listen to Mr. Brownback deliver his stump speech over pizza, Mrs. Van Peursem said he might get her vote.

“I really like him,” she said. “He’s very common.”

But many voters interviewed here, even those who responded well to his promise to become the “family president,” continued to wonder about his electability. Compared with the candidates considered the powerhouses of the Republican field — former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, Senator John McCain of Arizona and former Gov. Mitt Romney of Massachusetts — Mr. Brownback is lagging in the polls and the fund-raising scramble in a party that has grown increasingly nervous about keeping its hold on the White House.

“I think in the end he has to prove he can beat someone like Senator Clinton,” said Carl E. Zylstra, president of a local Christian college, who came out to meet Mr. Brownback at another pizza place in neighboring Sioux Center.

Since establishing his presidential exploratory committee last December, Mr. Brownback, who was elected to the Senate in 1996, has been running a shoestring campaign with a heavy focus on three early voting states — Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina — hoping a favorable showing will help catapult him from the second tier of Republican candidates.

Mr. Brownback has been spending time in Iowa especially, where he hopes his agricultural background — he grew up on a farm in Kansas and served as the state’s agriculture secretary — coupled with his socially conservative stances and Midwestern sensibilities will play well.

He has also been honing his pitch as a “bleeding heart conservative.”

The phrase is his way of explaining his strong stances against abortion, same-sex marriage and government spending, which have made him popular among conservative activists, as well as some of his less ideologically orthodox stances.

Those include his advocacy on behalf of refugees in Sudan and North Korea, which led him to reach across the aisle to work with Senator Edward M. Kennedy; his legislation on sex trafficking, which paired him with Senator Paul Wellstone, a liberal Minnesota Democrat who died in 2002; and his focus on improving the prison system, which helps explain the night he spent in Angola State Prison in Louisiana soon after he announced his exploratory committee.

“I am pro-life and whole life,” Mr. Brownback said Saturday, explaining that that meant fighting for the unborn but also for “the child in Darfur” and “people that are being trafficked out of North Korea.”

He traces his interest in humanitarian causes to a cancer scare in the mid-1990s, when he was a member of the House of Representatives. With the prognosis uncertain, he said he awoke in the middle of the night tormented about his life’s direction. Concluding that he was too consumed with worldly ambition, he said he crumpled his résumé into a ball and threw it away.

“To me, it was a very symbolic moment,” Mr. Brownback said in an interview. “That this is not what my life’s about.”

He pored over biographies of William Wilberforce, a 19th-century evangelical British parliamentarian who worked to end slavery in the British Empire and is a modern-day hero to many conservative Christians. Soon he was making the first of many trips to Africa.

Mr. Brownback, who tries to spend time daily in prayer and Bible study, converted to Roman Catholicism several years ago. On most Sundays, he attends both Mass and a service at an evangelical church in Topeka, Kan., where the rest of his family, which includes two children he adopted from China and Guatemala, worships.

He started out on Saturday delivering his message at a breakfast with more than a dozen local evangelical pastors and church members at a Holiday Inn in Sioux City. His talk of Darfur and North Korea, along with his litany of data points to support his contention that the traditional family needed to be preserved, won him murmurs of approval.

But he ran into resistance on immigration. Although he sought in appearances on Saturday to emphasize his support for securing the Mexican border and creating a system to ensure that Social Security numbers used by job applicants were valid, he voted in the Senate last year in favor of a guest worker program for illegal immigrants. It is a stance that has drawn ire from many conservatives.

“The illegals, I feel like we need to more than spank their hand,” said the Rev. Larry Gordon, senior pastor of Cornerstone World Outreach in Sioux City, pressing Mr. Brownback on the issue. “We need to more than say you shouldn’t be here. We need to kick them out. That’s my opinion, and I think that a major part of America feels that way.”

Another issue on which Mr. Brownback has broken ranks with many of his fellow Republicans is the strategy for the war in Iraq. He spoke out earlier this year against President Bush’s plan to send 21,500 more troops to Iraq, saying he thought a political solution was needed instead. The troop buildup did not come up on Saturday during his meetings with voters.

Just handfuls of people showed up at each of his appearances on Saturday. In contrast to higher-wattage competitors like Mr. McCain, who will come through Iowa next week with busloads of reporters and staff members, Mr. Brownback traveled with only two aides. Only a few local reporters showed up along the way.
358 2007-03-12 WASHINGTON, March 11 — NASA can find and track most of the nearby asteroids that could hit and damage the Earth, but there is not enough money in its budget to finish the project within a 15-year deadline mandated by Congress, according to an agency report released Friday.

The report said there were about 20,000 asteroids and comets orbiting relatively close to our planet that could deliver blows ranging from destroying cities to ending all life.

These objects, 150 yards to more than a mile in diameter, represent about 20 percent of the asteroids and comets whose paths routinely pass between the Sun and the Earth’s orbit, it said. Rather than trying to detect, track, catalog and characterize all of the more than 100,000 “near Earth objects,” as Congress asked in a 2005 NASA authorization bill, the study said it would be more realistic to focus on those representing a real potential hazard.

But accomplishing this by 2020 would require using ground-based telescopes sponsored by other agencies for other purposes, possibly building a dedicated observatory for finding and tracking hazardous bodies and launching a spacecraft to observe the space around Earth from Venus. Such an undertaking, the report said, would cost more than $1 billion that the agency does not have.

“Due to current budget constraints, NASA cannot initiate a new program at this time,” it said.

NASA runs a program called the Spaceguard Survey to track the largest potentially hazardous objects, those greater than 3,300 feet in diameter that could devastate most life if they hit. That is what scientists believe happened to the dinosaurs some 65 million years ago. This program, using ground-based observatories, is budgeted at $4.1 million a year through 2012.
359 2007-03-12 “There are certain truths people are now talking about and they are not afraid to talk about, mostly about unemployment and jobs,” said Fatima Ghandour, a drama professor in Tripoli. “ ‘Hospital’ had a lot of criticism, more than you can imagine. This was never done before.”

The talk emerging from the theater is almost always delivered with the rounded corners of comedy.

“There was this idea your role as an artist is to spread an idea,” said Farag Abdel Kareem, an actor who played several roles in “Hospital.” In that play, he said, “We wanted to entertain, to get through to the people without upsetting them.”

The show played for 55 weeks, he said, a record in Benghazi, the northeastern city where it was first produced and where the AIDS crisis occurred.

More surprising, he said, was that it became popular in Tripoli, where it has been circulated widely in a video version. He said in Libya, poor communications, poor roads and poor relations between the cities often meant that what happened in one stayed there. But “Hospital” pointed to a common cause.

“It is theater for venting — its purpose and role is to vent,” he said. “And this is the reason for its success.”

Acting is not well respected in Libya, many theater people said. Ms. Ghandour said, for example, that her students studied theater only because they scored too poorly on exams to qualify to study anything else.

But as Libya opens up, as the leadership allows more critical discussion in public, people interested in drama are coming forward. “Hospital” has made people think.

There is a lot to pore over as Libyans confront reality — potholed roads running through the capital, inflation, low salaries, few private-sector jobs, banners around town promoting Colonel Qaddafi’s notions. “A man in need is a slave indeed,” reads once such sign at Tripoli’s airport.

Libya is still tightly managed, so theatrical works must first be approved by state censors before they can be performed. Anything that touches on politics, “or the big man,” is prohibited, theater people say. So those intent on social commentary tend to focus on more concrete themes.

In a recent play by Nassereddin Ali, a Tripoli playwright, the central theme is the shortage of housing. In Libya, as in much of the region, custom requires young men to have an apartment or house before they can marry. The shortage of housing and the lack of decent jobs mean marriage is often delayed, to the frustration of everyone.

The play begins with a young man who admits that he lied to his fiancée and that he does not own an apartment, or anything for that matter.

“People ask for an apartment, for a house, but your dad wants a castle!” Mustafa Sheik said at a rehearsal. “People ask for a car, but your dad wants a plane. The problem is that — I, uh, uh, have, I, uh, have, I have nothing.”

Wafaa Nabil played the role of the bride. “Fine, then forget about me,” she said.

Mr. Sheik did a great deal of screaming, hand-waving and facial gestures, an exaggerated performance intended to make people laugh. But as he clowned around on stage, he complained about low salaries, inadequate pensions, poor roads. The play even touched on the more delicate topic of gender roles.

But this is all embryonic. There are relatively few theater groups taking on this kind of challenge, in a state where it still pays to fawn over the leader, or stay silent. Several theater people said that painters received more state support because Colonel Qaddafi’s son, Seif al-Islam el-Qaddafi, is a painter.

An actor said he wished that the son also acted because that would bring more support to develop drama, another unchanged reality of life in Colonel Qaddafi’s Libya.

Mr. Dawob, the painter, boasts that his artwork is on display in museums in Libya and around the world. He does not just paint Colonel Qaddafi; he is known in Tripoli as the artist who paints him.

His technique is elementary, at least in the painting he proudly shows off of a stiff-armed leader seated, writing. The leader’s skin seems to radiate, just as Saddam Hussein’s did in paintings once common in Baghdad. Mr. Dawob sees great value in his work.

“You don’t know about a civilization without the paintings it left behind,” he said, standing beside his portrait of Colonel Qaddafi.
360 2007-03-12 The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:

BigBand Networks, an initial public offering of 10.7 million shares. Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch.

FCStone, an initial public offering of 4.6 million shares. BMO Capital Markets and Banc of America Securities.

Gafisa, an initial public offering of 39.7 million shares. Merrill Lynch, Banco Itaú and Citigroup Global Markets.

Photowatt Technologies, an initial public offering of 10.9 million shares. BMO Capital Markets and UBS Securities.

Tongjitang Chinese Medicines, an initial public offering of 9.9 million American depositary shares. Merrill Lynch and UBS Securities.
361 2007-03-12 TEXAS RESISTS ACCOUNTING RULE -- America's 50 states, and its largest cities, will soon be required to disclose the size of their health care obligations to retirees. But Texas officials argue that the rule does not apply to their state. [Page C1....
362 2007-03-12 The Capitol was focused last week on the battle over the governor's budget and the passage of major legislation on workers' compensation and the civil confinement of sex offenders; Gov. Eliot Spitzer has scheduled signing ceremonies for both bills...
363 2007-03-13 As genetic testing for ethnicity and ancestry has become more available to the public, more Americans are seeking information on their lineage. And many are confronting surprises in family background, racial makeup and newfound relatives. Would yo...
364 2007-03-13 Spirit Finance, a real estate investment trust based in Scottsdale, Ariz., said on Tuesday it would be acquired by a consortium led by Australia's Macquarie Bank for about $1.6 billion. The group offered $14.50 per share in cash, a premium of abou...
365 2007-03-13 Getting New Orleans right....
366 2007-03-13 Moving deeper into the alternative-asset management business, Lehman Brothers said Tuesday it had bought a 20 percent stake in D.E. Shaw, one of the largest hedge funds in the United States. Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but it follows sim...
367 2007-03-13 While hedge funds confidently flex their muscles in the markets and in boardrooms, in Washington they are experiencing the awkward growing pains of a relatively new industry coming to grips with its own power. Some hedge funds like D. E. Shaw and ...
368 2007-03-13 Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told The Chicago Tribune yesterday that he opposes any change to the "don't ask, don't tell" policy, which bars service by openly gay soldiers....
369 2007-03-13 C-Span opening up a lot more video footage....
370 2007-03-13 Senior Bush administration officials began a series of high-level discussions on Monday with top executives from Wall Street, corporations and the major accounting firms. Many of the executives have urged the rollback of laws passed in the wake of...
371 2007-03-13 Procter & Gamble said on Monday it had agreed to sell its European tissue operations to a Swedish hygiene and paper product maker SCA for 512 million euros ($672 million). SCA said the acquisition would give it a batch of new brands, including Tem...
372 2007-03-13 The Securities and Exchange Commission charged three men Monday with hacking into online brokerage accounts based in the United States, primarily from Thailand and India, and manipulating stock prices to turn a profit for themselves. The civil cha...
373 2007-03-13 Anadarko Petroleum agreed to sell part of its stake in the K2 oil and natural gas field in the Gulf of Mexico to two undisclosed buyers for $1.2 billion. The sale, which is expected to close in the second quarter, would reduce Anadarko's stake in ...
374 2007-03-13 Microsoft is close to acquiring Tellme Networks, a privately held maker of products that bridge the worlds of speech recognition and the Internet, in a deal that could come as early as this week, according to CNet News.com. Tellme, best known for ...
375 2007-03-13 You win some, you lose some; that may be what the law firm Weil, Gotshal & Manges is thinking right now. Just as the firm welcomes back legendary bankruptcy partner Harvey Miller, it is losing four other restructuring stars to a rival firm. The Ne...
376 2007-03-13 Swisscom bid 3.74 billion euros ($4.93 billion) on Monday to acquire FastWeb, one of the largest fixed-line phone companies in Italy, in what analysts suggested could signal the start of a consolidation wave in the telecommunications industry. The...
377 2007-03-13 Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala called for King Gyanendra to abdicate now instead of waiting for a vote on his future. Mr. Koirala’s interim government is organizing elections for an assembly that will determine whether Nepal will remain a kingdom. With demands growing to declare Nepal a republic, he said abdication would ease the transition to a permanent political setup in Nepal. “The king and crown prince are persons of ill repute,” he told reporters in Biratnagar, 125 miles southeast of Katmandu. In nearby Inurwa, officials imposed a curfew after five people were injured in clashes between Madhesis, the main ethnic group in region, and Maoists. The Madhesis seek a greater stake in government jobs and in Parliament.
378 2007-03-13 So far, all eight of the condemnations of human rights performance it has issued since its creation in June have been against one country, Israel.

The mission to Darfur, led by Jody Williams, an American campaigner against land mines and a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, was denied entry to Sudan by the government, and had to base its report on interviews with refugees and aid workers, rebels across the border in Chad and officials of the African Union at its headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

“This report is Jody Williams and her team members, and this is definitely not the council,” said Hillel Neuer, executive director of U.N. Watch, an organization based in Geneva that monitors United Nations activities. “The council will probably throw this report into Lake Geneva.”

Reached at her home in Virginia, Ms. Williams said, “Given the hostility to the mission almost from the moment it was born, I would not be shocked if there were maneuvers not to allow the report to be presented.”

She said she was traveling to Geneva this week to lobby for the report’s adoption. “But I understand there has already been tabled a resolution to try to block the presentation of this report and call for a new quote, unquote balanced and objective mission,” she said.

The original decision to send the six-person team to Sudan was made only after a bitter debate among council members, with some Arab and African countries on the 47-member group protesting the singling out of Sudan.

Commenting on that, Ms. Williams said: “The most difficult part of this mission was not the travel or the worry about getting visas for Darfur, nor the interviewing of refugees and listening to 5 women out of 20 in the space of an hour about being gang-raped. It was dealing with the politics of the Human Rights Council from the minute I received the call.”

Peter G. Splinter, the Amnesty International representative in Geneva, said: “Although there is considerable pessimism here, there are a number of key diplomats who view this as a test of the council’s credibility, and no one has any illusions about Sudan and the seriousness of the matter. So maybe the council can still do something substantive on Darfur.”

But he added, “It’s still an uphill battle.”
379 2007-03-13 In an interview on Monday, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said he hoped that the conference would begin to produce a consensus on a variety of issues that could lead to regulatory changes in the months ahead. He did not specify any particular issue or provide a precise timetable, but said that three areas needed to be studied for their impact on the ability of American markets to be competitive abroad.

“What I hope to achieve tomorrow,” he said, “is to get a diverse group of participants from various parties, different viewpoints — investor protection, people with regulatory public backgrounds, people with a lot of experience in the capital markets — to focus on the three areas we identified early on: the regulatory structure, accounting, and legal and corporate governance issues.”

He said that President Bush, who had been briefed on the conference and was interested in its results, was “vitally interested in the longer-term issues, domestic and international, in terms of competitiveness.”

“He’s encouraged me to not be afraid to tackle the longer-term structural issues even if they don’t avail themselves of shorter-term solutions,” Mr. Paulson said.

Tuesday’s public sessions will be led by Mr. Paulson and Christopher Cox, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. A series of private sessions aimed at developing the administration’s formal policies on regulation, the accounting industry and corporate governance will be led by others.

The participants will include the chief executives of J. P. Morgan Chase, General Electric, Charles Schwab and the New York Stock Exchange; Michael R. Bloomberg, the mayor of New York; Ann Yerger, executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors; and a number of former top officials including Robert E. Rubin, Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration; Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman; and Arthur Levitt Jr., Mr. Clinton’s S.E.C. chairman.

The business groups have already left their mark on policy. The S.E.C. and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board are writing new rules and guidance that will ease the burden on smaller companies of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The rule changes are intended to make it easier for the companies to comply with a provision that requires them to assess their financial controls and ensure the reliability of their financial statements.

The latest report calling for change was issued on Monday by a panel of the United States Chamber of Commerce. As expected, the panel recommended an overhaul of the S.E.C. and the consideration of limits on the criminal and civil liability of accounting firms. It also recommended an expansion of individual retirement accounts and an unspecified effort by government to discourage companies from issuing quarterly earnings.

“There is a perception around the world that we’ve got problems because of a regulatory and legal climate,” said William M. Daley, a co-chairman of the commission and a commerce secretary in the Clinton administration. “Whether it is true or not, the fact is that perception creates its own reality.”

In a meeting with reporters on Monday, Mr. Daley, who had been a vice chairman of J. P. Morgan Chase, was sharply critical of companies’ practice of projecting their earnings on a quarterly basis, saying this forced executives to have a shorter time horizon and could create perverse incentives to “do what is necessary” to meet projections. But Mr. Daley acknowledged that others at Chase, with its brokerage and research arm, might take a different view.

The chamber is planning its own conference on the report on Wednesday. It will feature speeches from Mr. Cox and senior Democratic lawmakers including Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, head of the House Financial Services Committee, and Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee.
380 2007-03-13 King has been an innovator in sled-dog racing. He trains his dogs in water during the summer and has developed sled and harness designs that have been copied by his peers. He spent about $50,000 last year converting a barn on his property in Denali, Alaska, into a chamber in which the oxygen content of the air is about the same as it is at 9,000 feet.

In October, King used two control groups of 12 dogs each to monitor changes in their physiology. One group slept in the high-altitude chamber; the other did not. Diet and training were kept the same for all the dogs.

Beginning in November, 30 of King’s best dogs slept in the hypoxic conditions at night and trained at lower elevations during the day.

According to Arleigh Reynolds, a veterinarian and a canine exercise physiologist, who was working with King, the percentage of red-blood-cell mass increased in the dogs who slept in the chamber, although it leveled off quickly once the dogs returned to normal sleeping conditions.

More significant, he said, was that the dogs’ ability to remove lactic acid, a byproduct of strenuous exercise, improved by 60 percent initially and by 30 percent two weeks later.

Reynolds said that this meant King’s dogs were using their limited stores of carbohydrates more efficiently.

“That’s huge,” said Reynolds, who teaches at the University of Alaska Fairbanks and plans to publish a paper on his research.

But it is debatable whether canines would benefit in the Iditarod, the annual 1,100-mile race from Anchorage to Nome, which traverses frozen rivers, mountain ranges and wind-swept tundra.

The 51-year-old King, who won the Iditarod last year and three times in the 1990s, was in fifth place yesterday with about 200 miles to go. The race leader, Lance Mackey, had about 170 miles left. The winner is expected in Nome as early as today.

Davis, of Oklahoma State, said it would be hard to pinpoint the effect of the hypoxic conditions merely by looking at King’s race results. He said that it was unlikely the dogs running the Iditarod would benefit, because they are typically working at only about 40 percent to 50 percent of their aerobic capacity.

Marathon runners, by contrast, would be at about 80 percent of their capacity.

“We don’t know for certain, but my guess would be there is not a significant benefit in this type of event,” Davis said. “I would expect there would be a benefit in a much shorter event, of 20 to 25 miles.”

But, he said, because sled dogs tend to lose red blood cells during long races, “starting with a few more would translate to an advantage closer to the end.”

Another four-time Iditarod champion, Doug Swingley, who lives and trains year-round in Lincoln, Mont., at an altitude of about 6,000 feet, called King’s effort “a waste of time and money.”

Mitch Seavey, the 2004 Iditarod champion, said that there were too many other important factors in the race to make what King was doing much of an advantage.

King said he did not care if competitors dismissed his experiment.

“I’d like to think that I have a little history of coming up with good ideas, not just crazy ideas,” he said last week. “I’m first to tell you that, alone, it’s not going to make the difference. But if my team and one other team of equal ability get on the other side of the range, it might very well make the difference.”
381 2007-03-13 I am sitting on the front porch of my father’s house in a small town in the heart of California’s almond country. It will be 80 today, the first day of daylight saving time. I have been watching the park across the street for hours.

I can hear the delayed irregular heartbeat of a basketball game on the far side, all the slap gone out of the ball at this distance. A young boy pedals his bicycle across the lawn, and I suddenly remember how reluctant a bicycle feels on grass, how hard it is to urge it forward. A girl — just barely a teenager — walks to the diamond to practice softball with her father. On the way, she walks a dozen feet behind him. On the way home, she walks half a block ahead. He is a terrible pitcher.

The horizon across the park is a line of cement tile rooftops. Beyond them, the almond groves begin, invisible from here but discernible nonetheless. Everything would feel different if those almond groves weren’t there, if the houses went on and on, as they tend to do in this state, until they terminate in a parking lot or a freeway. The houses across the park, a decade old, would be nearly identical if they weren’t so intently un-uniform, gables here, a mansard roof there, and front doors in every degree of involution.

This is a quiet neighborhood in a quiet town. Every now and then a car passes — nearly always an S.U.V. roaring like a jet — and a garage door opens automatically and the S.U.V. is ingested, after spilling the children onto the driveway: a boy with a bat, a girl with a jump-rope, a younger sister with a pink baseball glove.

Toward sunset, my dad and I go for a drive west of town, into the glare of the sun, which is lying just above the tops of the evenly pruned orchards. On the way to the country, we pass through the new part of town, the rich part, where the houses are nearly new, monuments in the architecture of encrustation. They look like fortresses facing each other across the street or, taking each one on its own, like something you might find on the turquoise gravel of a starter aquarium next to a treasure chest sending up a stream of bubbles. The front yard has vanished in this neighborhood. There is instead a paved forecourt for cars and a hangar-size garage. It is as if the vehicles that occupy these driveways decided to build nice living quarters for the people who operate them.

Where the houses stop, the orchards begin. The almonds are just past full blossom and beginning to drop their petals. I always drive through these orchards with a sense of wonder. The whole world has been ruled into lines of perspective. But these are not tall trees, and the almond branches converge well before they reach the horizon, which creates the illusion that the orchards are endless. I never drive past them without wanting to stop the car and walk down the long swaths of grass that lie between the trees, into an infinite checkerboard of light and shade and blossom. The trees have been planted with industrial precision, but the effect is completely aesthetic, as if these were groves in a pleasure garden.
382 2007-03-13 PARIS, March 12 — Moroccan officials on Monday were questioning the companion of a suicide bomber who blew himself up in an Internet cafe in Casablanca on Sunday, according to news agencies and local press reports. At least three people were wounded in the blast.

The bomber and his companion, both in their early 20s, were using a computer at the cafe in the poor Sidi Moumen neighborhood when the owner objected to their behavior, said a Moroccan official who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the press.

An altercation ensued when the owner closed the doors to the shop and tried to call the police, the official said. Explosives concealed on the body of one of the men exploded during the tussle, either by design or by accident. The bomber’s companion was caught as he tried to flee. He was discovered to have explosives concealed on his body as well.

“The man used to come to view jihadist Web sites, and the dispute was prompted by the Internet cafe owner’s decision to prevent him this time from viewing such propaganda material,” another official who declined to give his name told Reuters, adding that he hoped the arrested man would say whether his companion had planned a bomb attack elsewhere.

A Moroccan Interior Ministry spokesman, Abderrahman Achour, told The Associated Press that the dead man was Abdelftah Raidi , who was convicted in connection with terrorism activities and sentenced to five years in prison before being pardoned in 2005. Mr. Raidi was unemployed and in his 20s, Mr. Achour said.
383 2007-03-13 They came by the dozens to the debate, the old, the less old, some leaning on canes, some looking half-asleep on the red leather benches, a small gaggle to the side wearing the flowing black-and-white robes of Church of England bishops. In all, more than 120 peers signed up to speak, in a debate that went late into the night and is to resume Tuesday.

The House of Lords now has 731 members, a majority chosen for life by the government of the day. On Wednesday, the peers are to vote on seven options for change, ranging from a fully appointed house to a fully elected house. Under an eighth plan, proposed by Lord Trefgarne, things would remain as they are.

The votes are not binding, but will form the basis, at least theoretically, for a bill that has yet to be drawn up by the government.

But so varied are the proposals and so complicated the potential repercussions that as the debate wore on, it was clear that there was no consensus. Some peers said the chamber should be half-elected, half-appointed; others said that the proportion should be different — perhaps 80 percent elected, 20 percent appointed; still others called for everyone to be appointed, or everyone to be elected.

For his part, Lord St. John of Fawsley quoted the 19th-century journalist and essayist Walter Bagehot in urging all deliberate consideration. “The reason is that all important English institutions are relics of a long past; that they have undergone many transformations that, like old houses which have been altered many times, at first sight would not be imagined,” he said. “Very often a rash alterer will pull down the very part which makes them habitable.”

Referring to the so-called cash-for-peerages scandal, in which the government has been accused of offering membership in Lords in exchange for party donations, Lord St. John said: “Nothing annoys me more than to hear people repeat like parrots, ‘It has besmirched the reputation of this house.’ Why should anyone say that we are besmirched by the sins and commissions of other people?”

Prime Minister Tony Blair, who made Lords reform one of his campaign pledges before taking office nearly 10 years ago, has proposed a house split evenly between appointed and elected members. That plan would doom the 92 hereditary peers left behind when about 600 others were stripped of their seats in a previous round of reform, in 1999.

While one extant hereditary peer, Earl Sandwich, whose ancestor supposedly invented the sandwich, said Wednesday that he would agree to be banished from the Lords if he were convinced that the government had a sound plan for reform, another, the Duke of Montrose, spoke bitterly of the modern tendency to use something once and then “consign it to the rubbish bin.”

Among the most shocking suggestions came from Baroness Whitaker, who pronounced herself in favor not only of an elected House of Lords, but also of a written constitution, something Britain does not have.

She suggested that elected legislators were actually rather a good thing. “I have seen, as I traveled, 100-percent-elected second chambers which do work effectively,” she said. “What I do want to defend is the ancient and honorable tradition of people to choose their legislators. It is a far from modern idea.”

Quoting Mark Twain, she summarized what she said was the attitude of many of her colleagues: “I’m all for progress; it’s change I can’t stand.”
384 2007-03-13 In health care, for example, the federal government has prodded industry to set standards for sharing patient and treatment information, as a step toward building a national health information network. Medicare and industry groups are moving to require hospitals and clinics to measure and report their performance in meeting safety standards and in patient health goals. To meet those standards, health care providers must increasingly adopt modern computing tools.

“The policy issue is how do you get digital transformation in these other sectors,” Mr. Atkinson said. “This is not about tax breaks for I.B.M. or Cisco or other technology companies.”

Mr. Atkinson, a former project director at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment, most recently headed the technology policy program at the Progressive Policy Institute, a centrist Democratic research organization.

The report notes that employment in computing has recovered somewhat, after falling sharply after the dot-com bubble burst in 2000, to account for 3.76 million jobs. Still, it says, the growth potential is limited.

“Going forward,” the report states, “it is unlikely that the I.T. industry will be producing jobs gains out of line with its size. In part this is because productivity in the I.T. industry itself has been strong, allowing it to produce more output with fewer workers.”

Instead, the report contends, job gains will more and more come from industries that use information technology intelligently, just as in the 19th century employment in the railroad industry leveled off but development of a transportation network led to the rise of national retailers and other new industries.

The services sector, which employs 80 percent of the American work force, is expected to generate most of the new jobs in the future.

The most provocative and controversial parts of the report, “Digital Prosperity: Understanding the Economic Benefits of the Information Technology Revolution,” are its claim of extraordinary productivity gains from investments in computing technology and its policy focus on industry sectors.

The report cites studies to back its assertion of outsize productivity benefits, but many economists are not convinced. “It could be that investments here pay off more than other investments, but the evidence is still not in, in my view,” said Robert E. Litan, an economist and director of research and policy at the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation.

Economists also tend to be skeptical of industry-sector policies because they are reminiscent of industrial policy initiatives in Europe and elsewhere in the postwar years that are widely seen as costly failures. “I am far more sympathetic with promoting investment in general,” Mr. Litan said, “and letting the chips — pun intended — fall where they may.”
385 2007-03-13 THE Statue of Liberty was right outside the window, but David Afshar did not look up. He sat on the opposite side of the Staten Island ferry with his head buried in the business section of the newspaper.

“I don’t even notice it,” he said, by way of explanation. “I’ve been doing this for 20 years.”

On a recent Monday morning aboard the Spirit of America, Mr. Afshar was one of hundreds of commuters taking the ferry for its intended purpose: getting to and from Staten Island. But the ferry is public transportation masquerading as a tourist ride. Few landmarks of New York are as clearly divided between locals and out-of-town visitors as the Staten Island ferry. Imagine a double-decker subway with the top level reserved for tourists, and you will have a good idea of daily life aboard the bright orange boats.

The ritual starts the moment people board the ferry at Whitehall Terminal in Manhattan. Staten Islanders walk ahead with purpose, finding a bench on the boat’s saloon deck and settling in with a newspaper or book. Being regular passengers, they are generally oblivious to the bridges and towers of Manhattan and Brooklyn spread before them like a giant pop-up book.

Tourists, on the other hand, head straight for the stairs to the boat’s upper two decks with cameras at the ready. Staten Island is not on their itinerary. Some are not even quite sure if Staten Island is part of New York City. (The island has been part of New York City since the unification of the five boroughs in 1898.)

Here, tourists do what the guidebooks tell them to do. Ride the boat free. Take pictures of the Statue of Liberty. Save $11.50 by not riding the Circle Line ferry to Liberty and Ellis Islands. Get off on Staten Island just long enough to turn around and board the same boat back to Manhattan.
386 2007-03-13 The body of a Brooklyn teenager who was reported missing last week has been found in the Hudson River, the police said. The teenager, Romona Mullings, 19, who was a pharmacy student at the Kingsborough Community College, was reported missing last Thursday by her family when she did not answer her cellphone. The telephone and global positioning technology led the police to the river, where they recovered her body on Sunday afternoon, not far from the Glenwood Metro-North railroad station. The cause of death was under investigation yesterday.
387 2007-03-13 MILAN, March 12 — The telephone company Swisscom offered 3.74 billion euros, or $4.93 billion, on Monday to acquire FastWeb, one of the largest fixed-line phone companies in Italy.

The deal could let Swisscom counter slowing growth in its home market of Switzerland while giving FastWeb financing to continue its expansion in the underdeveloped broadband Internet market in Italy.

Swisscom offered 47 euros ($61.67) for each FastWeb share, 12 percent more than the Italian company’s closing share price Friday, when the shares jumped 6.5 percent on speculation that a buyout offer might be made over the weekend.

FastWeb’s shares rose 6.30 euros, or 15 percent, to close at 48.34 euros on Monday, above the offer price, an indication that the market is expecting a counterbid higher than Swisscom’s offer. The FastWeb board endorsed the bid Monday and said the tender offer would begin March 22.

Swisscom, which is 55 percent owned by the government, described Italy as “one of the most attractive broadband markets in Europe with significant expected growth potential.” FastWeb has grown quickly, but it remains a distant second to Telecom Italia, the former monopoly, which commands 80 percent of the Italian broadband Internet market compared with FastWeb’s 15 percent.

Second-tier telecommunications companies like FastWeb are facing pressure to merge or be bought to absorb the high costs of introducing new infrastructure and to take competitors out of the market, analysts said.

FastWeb has grown quickly since its founding in 1999, but it has yet to make a profit, and its break-even target date has been pushed back several times.
388 2007-03-13 PARIS, Mar. 12 — Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin on Monday formally endorsed his political rival, the center-right candidate Nicolas Sarkozy, for president.

“Today I am with Nicolas Sarkozy to defend the ideals of our political family and so that the choice for the French people is as clear as possible,” Mr. de Villepin told Europe 1 radio a day after President Jacques Chirac announced that he would not seek a third term.

He added, “We have been together in government; we will be together in this battle.”

The endorsement is important because Mr. de Villepin, who once had been considered a potential presidential contender, put party unity ahead of the personal and political differences he has had over the years with Mr. Sarkozy, who is the interior minister and the head of the governing party, the Union for a Popular Movement.

In the past, for example, Mr. de Villepin has criticized Mr. Sarkozy’s proposal to institute a modest limited affirmative action program for France, which Mr. de Villepin believes runs counter to the republican ideal that ignores race, religion and ethnicity.

And although Mr. Sarkozy, like Mr. Chirac and Mr. de Villepin, opposed the war in Iraq, he has criticized the two men for the way they conducted diplomacy with the United States before the war, calling France’s attitude “arrogant.”

Mr. de Villepin had earlier said he would announce his choice for president only after Mr. Chirac did so.
389 2007-03-13 Men who take daily doses of aspirin, acetaminophen or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen may slightly increase their risk for high blood pressure, a new study reports.

After adjusting for age, smoking, physical activity and family history of hypertension, researchers found that compared with nonusers, men who took either acetaminophen or anti-inflammatory drugs six or seven times a week increased their risk for high blood pressure by more than one-third. The same use of aspirin increased the risk by 26 percent. The study appears in the Feb. 28 issue of The Archives of Internal Medicine.

Researchers studied more than 16,000 men beginning in 2000. None had high blood pressure at the start of the study, and their average age was 65. Over the next four years there were 1,968 newly reported cases of hypertension.

The exact mechanism for the results remains unknown, but the authors point to the various known effects of these analgesics on the blood vessels.

The authors write that the results depend on self-reports of high blood pressure, which are not always reliable.

Dr. Gary C. Curhan, the senior author and an associate physician at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston, said that people at risk for heart disease who are taking a daily aspirin should continue to do so. But Dr. Curhan added: “Those who are not at high risk need to understand that there are potential risks in taking these medicines on a regular basis. What is causing you to take these medicines? Maybe there are other ways to reduce or eliminate your pain so that you don’t have to take them.”
390 2007-03-13 “It’s not like they said: ‘Hey, listen, if we don’t win it again this year, somebody’s coming in and taking the trophy away, someone’s taking the banner away, and it all goes away. What you guys earned, you lose,’ ” Donovan said. “But people talk about the word defending, defending, defending, and we’ve got to get out of that and understand it doesn’t make a difference what happens the rest of their lives. In 2006, they’re always national champions, regardless of what happens going forward.”

The 41-year-old Donovan has worked overtime this season to get his players to ignore external forces — the criticism and the praise — and focus on what they feel really matters. He has exhorted them to ignore the news media hype: don’t read it, try not to listen to it and, if at all possible, don’t watch it.

Donovan warned his team that the news media really had no favorites, that coverage was often a matter of convenience and trend. He tried to prepare Joakim Noah, the extroverted 6-foot-11 center, for the change that fame would bring. Last year’s eccentricity is this year’s immaturity.

During a luncheon yesterday, Donovan recalled the Gators’ roller-coaster season and how the local news media rolled along. Florida began the season ranked No. 1 in the country but stumbled and lost two of three games. Then the Gators won 17 in a row.

“We’re back to No. 1 in the country, and it’s, ‘We’re completely indestructible, we’re the best, we are awesome,’ ” Donovan recalled. Then Florida lost three of four games. “Now it’s: ‘The wings have fallen off, we’re flying dead into the mountain and we are dead. They’re crashing, it’s over.’

“We win our last home game against Kentucky, we win three games in the SEC tournament and we’re back flying high again. Our guys see this, and they understand through those experiences that this is the frame that gets built up, and you learn.”

Pressure is pressure is pressure, however, and Florida is the defending national champion. No matter how Donovan spins it, there’s a bull’s-eye on his team’s back. After Sunday’s victory, Noah acknowledged feeling pressure and conceded that at times, the pressure had been suffocating.

“Last year, there was no expectations,” he said. “Last year, I mean personally, I feel like everything I did was O.K., I could do anything. This year, I feel like I’m under this microscope, and everything I do, people are going to analyze it and have something to say.”

He added: “The expectations on me before the season were just like almost unbearable. I remember a week before the season, I had a hard time. I couldn’t sleep, I was just so nervous. I was excited, but it was intense.”

Lesson learned: keep emotions in check, avoid getting too high or too low, and identify exactly why you are doing this and who you are playing for.

“I realize that I’m playing for the people that I love,” Noah said. “I’m not playing for what people say on TV. And everybody has something to say. You know, that drains you. That wasn’t there last year.”

But there is a dream this year that Noah and Al Horford, his 6-10 junior teammate, are six games from achieving.

Late last March, before Florida faced Villanova in the Round of 8, Noah and Horford agreed that they would return to Florida for a third season.

The talk of them being N.B.A. lottery picks had begun to percolate, but their minds were already made up.

“We like being here,” Horford said. “We enjoyed playing with our teammates and we wanted to be able to experience this again. We’re where we want to be at right now.”

After the SEC championship game, fans chanted, “One more year!” as Horford and Noah signed autographs.

Florida’s fans had best take a page from Donovan’s book of sage advice. Enjoy the moment.
391 2007-03-13 “My mind was playing games with me a little bit,” Pavano said upon his return Sunday. “I went with the voice of reason. Joe’s a wiser man than I am. He made the right decision.”

Pavano survived his three-inning effort last night, avoiding batted balls even though seven batters in an eight-batter stretch hit his pitches hard. The Red Sox wrapped three successive two-out hits in the second inning, scoring two runs on Doug Mirabelli’s double.

Assuming no need for additional excused absences for physical or emotional reasons, Pavano will leave camp one other time. He is involved in an arbitration hearing scheduled for March 24. The hearing is over a dispute Pavano has with one of his former agents, Scott Shapiro.

That’s “one of his former agents,” because Pavano has had multiple agents in his nine-year major league career: three, in fact, in less than three years. His current agent, Gregg Clifton, is No. 3. Casey Close, who preceded Shapiro, declined to talk about his relationship with Pavano yesterday.

“We don’t comment on clients or former clients,” he said. “It’s not our style to take shots.”

Asked why Pavano dropped him for Shapiro about two and a half years ago, Close said, “I never got a chance to talk to him about it,” then added: “I pretty much know why. None of my other clients understand it.”

Close’s dispute with Pavano was resolved short of legal action. Not so Shapiro’s dispute with Pavano. It is scheduled to be heard March 24 before an arbitrator, Joshua Javits, son of the renowned former United States Senator Jacob K. Javits.

Such disputes are not uncommon. Only last week, Miguel Cairo, now a Yankees utility infielder, and his former agent, Alan Nero, settled their differences during a hearing. This week, an arbitrator will hear a dispute between Scott Boras and Gary Sheffield over money Boras contends Sheffield owes him for contract work three years ago.

Doyle Prior, the players union lawyer who handles disputes between players and agents and between agents and agents, declined to discuss any of the cases, saying that the union promises agents and players complete confidentiality. “That way, we keep things out of court,” he said.

Shapiro wouldn’t talk about the source of the dispute. Nor would Clifton. Doug Kilby, a Tallahassee, Fla., lawyer representing Pavano in the March 24 arbitration, also declined to comment.

But a lawyer with knowledge of the case disputed published reports and said that it was not true that Pavano dropped Shapiro because he didn’t get him a $40 million contract when he was a free agent two years ago. Pavano signed with the Yankees for $39.95 million.

The lawyer said that Pavano fired Shapiro and had refused him his fee because he believed that Shapiro did not convey to him an offer he said he would have considered and one that might have been worth more money.

During his negotiations for Pavano in December 2004, Shapiro was more open with reporters and freer with information about his talks with teams than agents often are. He talked about offers from other teams, including Detroit and Seattle, and reported that other offers were close to the Yankees’ offer.

The Yankees offered $50,000 less than $40 million because they wanted to be able to say that they kept the average annual value of the contract under $10 million.

Pavano, who during his injury-induced absence became an outcast in the Yankees’ clubhouse, would not talk about the pending arbitration or anything else before the game.

“I’m pitching tonight,” he said, meaning he doesn’t talk to reporters on nights he pitches, even though he had just spent 15 minutes talking to a television analyst in the visiting dugout at City of Palms Park.
392 2007-03-13 But with a much smaller population, Guatemala is also a focal point in the immigration debate — 10 percent of its population resides in the United States, according to officials traveling with the president.

While Mr. Bush’s agenda here included a proposed new regional effort to attack the drug syndicates — a majority of Colombian cocaine that finds its way to the United States comes through here — free trade and even adoption, Mr. Bush and Mr. Berger said immigration was a major topic of discussion.

Newspapers here have been dominated by news of the raid, and stories abound of families torn apart and children left behind as their parents were sent off to Texas and New Mexico for deportation, but federal officials say 60 people were released for humanitarian reasons.

Facing pointed questions from Guatemalan journalists, Mr. Bush stood by the raid, saying, “People will be treated with respect, but the United States will enforce our law.”

Mr. Bush said he disputed “conspiracies” relayed by Mr. Berger that children were taken away from families.

Mr. Bush denied such accounts. “No es la verdad,” Mr. Bush said, “That’s not the way America operates. We’re a decent, compassionate country. Those are the kind of things we do not do. We believe in families, and we’ll treat people with dignity.”

Some of those theories have also held that the raid was executed in advance of Mr. Bush’s visit here, to send a message, an idea that United States officials denied.

In fact, an American official who was part of Mr. Bush’s delegation said the timing of the Massachusetts raid could not have been worse, and served to inflame an already emotional issue, adding more passion to anti-Bush protests here.

“Bush doesn’t accept us on his land, so why should we let him on ours,” said Armando Chavajay, a protester outside the Mayan spiritual site that Mr. Bush visited at Iximché.

“They grab us in the U.S. and send us out like criminals,” he said. “We are going there to work and help our families. Now he will know how we feel.”

The protest at Iximché came on top of fierce confrontations throughout the capital, Guatemala City, in the afternoon, with riot police officers firing tear gas at protesters who were hurling stones and eggs, setting off fireworks and burning American flags. One McDonald’s restaurant had anti-Bush slurs written on it.

American officials have suggested that the protests dogging Mr. Bush throughout his trip are being instigated and paid for by his chief nemesis in the region, President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela.

Along the winding road to Iximché, Mr. Bush’s motorcade passed hundreds of indigenous demonstrators who faced off with police and soldiers to oppose the president’s visit to the Mayan spiritual site. At one point protesters managed to block the president’s route with boulders, but soldiers cleared them away in time for the motorcade to pass.

“Iximché represents the dignity of the Mayan people and we can’t have a man who represents war come to this place,” said Jorge Morales, a protest leader. “Our ancestors have spent hundreds of years on this ground and they will feel his presence.”

Mr. Morales and other leaders of indigenous groups said they would perform a ritual cleansing of the negative energy at the site, complete with candles, flowers and song and dance. “We will do a thorough spiritual cleaning,” he said.”

But after Mr. Bush left, the initial cleanup took a different form. Local people picked up the kernels of corn that had been thrown on the ground as part of the welcome of Mr. Bush. With the bulk of the population living in poverty, local people said they did not want the food to go to waste.

It is that kind of crushing poverty that Mr. Bush said he came here to address. And it is that kind of poverty that fuels anger at the United States and its trade policy. Mr. Chávez has tapped that anger in his push for nationalizing industry and cutting interaction with the United States.

While Mr. Chávez was in Haiti promoting his aid to the region, Mr. Bush was in the Guatemalan countryside to highlight his aid efforts and to tout the benefits of trade.

Mr. Bush started his day in Santa Cruz Balanyá, visiting a medical operation run jointly by the United States and Guatemalan militaries. On another stop, in a traditional, embroidered jacket, Mr. Bush helped load crates of lettuce onto a truck at a packing station in the village of Chirijuyu. The station was operated by Labradores Mayas, a food cooperative that was started by a local farmer who took advantage of an irrigation system built with a Usaid loan to transform subsistence farms into commercial enterprises that now distribute to Wal-Mart Central America and McDonald’s.

“Free trade is important,” Mr. Bush said. “It’s a gateway. It creates jobs in America and it creates jobs here.”

It was a message Mr. Bush would repeat in fending off criticism of his free-trade policy, saying at his press briefing with Mr. Berger: “I also believe most citizens in Guatemala would rather find meaningful jobs at home instead of having to travel to a foreign land to work. And therefore, the more we can enhance prosperity in our neighborhood, the more we can encourage trade that actually yields jobs and stability.”
393 2007-03-13 Senior Bush administration officials began a series of high-level discussions on Monday with top executives from Wall Street, corporations and the major accounting firms. Many of the executives have urged the rollback of laws passed in the wake of...
394 2007-03-13 It is not exactly The Congressional Register, but YouTube is being employed by growing numbers of politicians to put video of floor speeches and other statements online. And the trend is likely to accelerate as C-Span makes more video of Congress ...
395 2007-03-13 WHAT'S NEXT, A STUDEBAKER? An automaker in China is bringing back the British MG sports car, part of a trend in which Chinese companies are buying troubled foreign brands and remaking them as their own. [Page C1.]    RETHINKING SARBANES-OXLEY  Top...
396 2007-03-14 Confirming reports that it was close a deal, Microsoft said Wednesday that it would buy Tellme Networks, an speech-recognition technology company. In a statement, Microsoft said that it plans to integrate Tellme's products into its mobile offering...
397 2007-03-14 For months, pundits have been kicking around the (wildly speculative) idea of Microsoft buying Yahoo to take on Google, the giant of the Web search world. John Battelle, the editor of SearchBlog, a blog on search technology, was among them. But no...
398 2007-03-14 "I say this with no malice, but few of them are constructive or offer much more than an opportunity for one party to score points," Senator McCain said....
399 2007-03-14 Back in the booming dot-com heyday of the early oughts, some enterprising young Web company - and they were all enterprising back then - came up with a clever idea to promote its N.C.A.A. Tournament Bracket game. It announced that it would reward ...
400 2007-03-14 Microsoft said today that it would buy privately owned Tellme Networks, a voice recognition technology company, as it promotes the service for computer users and customer call centers.

Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed. Microsoft expects to complete the purchase in the second quarter. Sources familiar with the situation told Reuters yesterday that the two companies were in talks for a deal that could value Tellme at more than $800 million.
401 2007-03-14 Jeffrey McDermott, one of UBS's three global co-heads of investment banking, will step down on June 30 to "pursue outside entrepreneurial opportunities," Bloomberg News reported Wednesday, citing an internal memo. A UBS spokeswoman confirmed the m...
402 2007-03-14 The medical products maker Baxter International said Wednesday its board had authorized the repurchase of an additional $2 billion of its common stock. The company, based in Deerfield, Ill., said the repurchase would be executed "upon completion o...
403 2007-03-14 In a strange coincidence, Lehman Brothers' announcement that it had bought a 20 percent stake in D. E. Shaw, a $29 billion hedge fund that is among the largest and oldest funds in the business, came the same day that the House Financial Services C...
404 2007-03-14 Responding to criticism from many corporate executives and business groups that rule changes in the wake of the Enron scandal went too far, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. suggested on Tuesday that the administration was considering a more...
405 2007-03-14 SEATTLE, March 13 (Reuters) — The Microsoft Corporation reached an agreement on Tuesday with the Lenovo Group to pre-load Lenovo computers with a toolbar of Microsoft’s Windows Live online services including Web search, the two companies said.

The agreement between Lenovo, the world’s third-largest PC maker, and Microsoft replaces a similar deal the Chinese computer maker had with Google, the leader in online searches, to pre-load its toolbar on its desktop and notebook computers.

The agreement will set live.com, Microsoft’s customizable news, information and search engine site, as the default home page for Lenovo PC users and add a Windows toolbar inside the PC’s Internet Explorer browser.

Users will be able to change the settings, but many people tend not to change default settings. The agreement aims to increase traffic to Microsoft’s Web services at a time when Google’s search engine has become a first-stop for many Web visitors.

Google’s commanding lead in the Web search lures more advertisers and money to its query results. Microsoft’s Windows Live search ranks third behind Google and Yahoo Inc. with a 11 percent market share, according to data from research firm conScore Networks Inc.

Lenovo, which bought I.B.M.’s PC unit in 2005, is the first computer manufacturer to strike an agreement with Windows Live.
406 2007-03-14 The Intel Corporation has received approval to build a $2.5 billion chip plant in China amid the country’s booming demand for chips used in personal computers and cellphones. The factory is planned for the northeastern city of Dalian, according to the cabinet’s National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planning agency. Intel officials in Beijing and at the company headquarters in Santa Clara, Calif., declined to comment, saying no formal announcement had been made.
407 2007-03-14 Prince Norodom Ranariddh, a former prime minister, was sentenced in absentia to 18 months in prison for selling the headquarters of the party he once led. He is accused of earning $3.6 million on the deal but denies the charge. Prince Ranariddh was ousted as party leader last year and is now abroad. He was ousted as co-prime minister in 1997 in a coup led by the other co-prime minister, Hun Sen, who now runs the country on his own. An aide said the prince, a son of the retired king, Norodom Sihanouk, might seek a pardon from the current king, Norodom Sihamoni, who is his brother.
408 2007-03-14 ISTANBUL, March 13 — More than a month after a former top official in Iran’s Defense Ministry disappeared in Turkey, a German official on Tuesday stirred up the controversy over whether he had defected with the collusion of the West.

On an official visit to Ankara, the German defense minister, Franz Josef Jung, was asked about the whereabouts of the former Iranian deputy defense minister, Ali Reza Asgari, and whether he was in Germany undergoing questioning. Mr. Jung merely replied: “I cannot say anything on this issue.”

He made the cryptic remark at a news conference with his Turkish counterpart, Vecdi Gonul, the Anatolian News Agency reported.

Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul said last week that the Turkish intelligence service was investigating the matter.

A Foreign Ministry official said Iranian officials had contacted the ministry through Interpol three weeks after Mr. Asgari’s entry into Turkey in early February to ask for information.
409 2007-03-14 More than anyone, though, Federer and Sharapova had reasons to be motivated at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden. Federer, who had not lost since August, was hoping to set the record for consecutive victories.

If he had won this tournament, it would have given him 47 consecutive wins, one more than the current record holder, Guillermo Vilas, who had 46 in 1977. Instead, his streak ended at 41 (tying him for fourth place with Bjorn Borg), and the celebration prepared for him was hastily canceled.

Federer said he was disappointed, but far from crushed, by the end of his winning streak.

He said his loss was as “normal as a normal loss, like I’ve had about 100 times on the tour.”

Sharapova was just as unfazed by her inability to advance to the quarterfinals — and to hold on to her No. 1 world ranking. She needed to reach the semifinals to retain that spot.

When the new rankings are released, Justine Henin, who is not at this tournament, will take over as No. 1. To that, Sharapova said, “Doesn’t matter much.”

Sharapova made so many mistakes against the 15th-seeded Zvonareva that her loss seemed inevitable. She had 44 unforced errors and 13 double faults. Her grunts as she struck the ball were not as loud as usual. Her fist pumps after winning a point seemed half-hearted.

She said that she felt “pretty rusty” after coming off a hamstring injury and not competing since a tournament last month in Tokyo. Still, she refused to make excuses.

“I’m not really angry,” she said. “You know, I’m pretty cool about it.”
410 2007-03-14 “It’s a pretty historic moment,” Brig. Gen. John R. Allen of the Marines, the deputy commander of the American-led forces in Anbar, said of the meeting as he waited on the tarmac at the heavily fortified Camp Blue Diamond, about 70 miles west of Baghdad. “This is an opportunity for a true connection between the central government in Baghdad and a province that has been struggling for years, not only with a counterinsurgency battle but also with the building of governance.”

Mr. Maliki’s Black Hawk touched down at 10:42 a.m., the door slid open and the prime minister leapt out, wearing a dark suit and grinning broadly.

He was greeted in the wash of the helicopter blades by General Allen, the provincial governor and several other officials, then escorted within a cocoon of bodyguards to a gilded palace that once belonged to Saddam Hussein and has recently been handed over to the command of the Iraqi Army Seventh Division.

Mr. Maliki spent most of his five-hour visit in an ornately decorated conference room beneath a huge broken chandelier, meeting first with members of the provincial council, then with members of the coalition of tribal sheiks.

All the attendees had been invited, a carefully selected audience meant to guarantee Mr. Maliki a warm — or at least warmish — reception. The Anbar officials, though Sunnis, are in many ways natural allies of the prime minister: the provincial council members have publicly endorsed the idea of a democratic political system, and the sheiks are members of the Anbar Salvation Council, the coalition of tribes that banded together last September to fight Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia.

But the Anbar representatives came with no shortage of concerns they wanted to unload at the feet of the prime minister.

Anbar is arguably the most forlorn and troubled of Iraq’s provinces. It occupies a vast desert border region roughly the size of Utah but with few of Iraq’s natural resources. It became a breeding ground for the insurgency after the American-led invasion in 2003 and is one of the most dangerous places in Iraq for American and Iraqi security forces. Its public services are in ruins, and many cities have suffered widespread destruction during years of fighting.

The province’s politics are a complicated interplay of tribal alliances that have confounded American officials and many of their Iraqi counterparts in Baghdad.

The rise of Al Qaeda here has weakened traditional tribal bonds and contributed to a widening split between moderate tribal leaders and nationalist guerrillas on one side and fundamentalist militant groups, including Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, and their local allies on the other.

Through all of this runs a powerful streak of independence. The region’s tribes never succumbed entirely to Mr. Hussein, preferring to remain in rugged isolation. But after boycotting parliamentary elections in 2005, American officials say, Anbar’s leaders now want to be involved in national politics.

The meetings on Tuesday were private; participants of the first session said it had been civil. During the second gathering, however, several sheiks became so worked up that their voices were audible outside the room’s thick walls.

“I think this is healthy,” an American military adviser said, sotto voce, as a sheik launched into a harangue about the inadequacies of the provincial government. The adviser’s eyebrows leapt upward theatrically. “Democracy!” he concluded.

At a news conference, Mr. Maliki praised the tenaciousness of the province’s residents and thanked those tribal leaders who opposed the creeping influence of Al Qaeda. He assured them that the central government would not ignore their demands for improved public services, development aid and support for the security forces here. He promised to open factories, deliver food to the needy and hold provincial elections as soon as possible.

“We salute the sons of Anbar for their courage,” he said, adding that the last time he was in Anbar was 1976, when he worked there as a teacher before fleeing into exile abroad to avoid Mr. Hussein’s repression. “I feel close to the people of Anbar,” he said.

After the day’s events, everyone retired to a long buffet table on an outdoor patio. Standing shoulder to shoulder, they followed custom at ceremonial events and ate with their hands from enormous platters of lamb and fish — the sheiks in their elegant headdresses and wool robes with gold trim, American diplomats and Maliki administration officials in suits, the American and Iraqi security forces in their camouflage.

Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top American military commander in Iraq, arrived from a day of touring Ramadi and chatted with the sheiks. The officials posed on the steps of the palace for a group photograph, then General Petraeus and Mr. Maliki boarded a Black Hawk and flew away.

But the Anbaris were not going to be easily won over.

“Maliki has promised us things before, but I haven’t seen anything,” said Sheik Turki Afat al-Duleimi, a member of the Anbar Salvation Council from Ramadi. His face hardened. “We’ll see.”

BAGHDAD, March 13 — Gunmen stormed a Sunni Arab mosque in the Risala district of southwest Baghdad on Tuesday and killed at least five people, an Interior Ministry official said.

A spokesman for Adnan al-Dulaimi, a Sunni Arab political leader, said the gunmen had surrounded the mosque and killed several worshipers in the prayer room and another room. He said the attackers had not worn masks and were known to people in the neighborhood as members of the Mahdi Army, the Shiite militia controlled by Moktada al-Sadr.

The authorities found 17 bodies in the capital on Tuesday, and a Katyusha rocket struck the Karrada neighborhood, killing four people and wounding four others, the ministry official said.

American troop reinforcements arrived Tuesday in Diyala Province, the restive area northeast of Baghdad where Sunni insurgents and Shiite militias are fighting for supremacy, according to the American command. The Fifth Battalion, 20th Infantry, which patrols using 19-ton armored Stryker vehicles, arrived to “conduct deliberate operations throughout Diyala,” the military said in a statement.

Top commanders in Baghdad had said Diyala was likely to get additional troops as part of the Bush administration’s plan to increase force levels.

Also on Tuesday, two American soldiers were killed and four wounded in two separate roadside bomb attacks in Baghdad, the American military command said.
411 2007-03-14 British politicians insist that the draft law may become the harbinger of what Mr. Blair, in a meeting with teenagers at his 10 Downing Street office on Tuesday, labeled a revolution in Britons’ approach to how they drive, heat their homes, run their businesses and schedule vacation flights. The draft law also foresaw a carbon trading system and the creation of five-year “carbon budgets” planned 15 years ahead to enable businesses and individuals to shape their behavior to a greener Britain.

A committee would be established to make annual assessments of the government’s progress, or lack of it.

“A government that fails to meet the requirement under the bill to live within its environmental means will be subject to a judicial review,” Mr. Miliband said. “It will be for the courts to decide what sanctions to apply.”

Government leaders are planning to enact the law by next year, one year ahead of the next national election, likely in 2009. “This is a revolutionary step in confronting climate change,” Mr. Blair said. “It sets an example to the rest of the world.”

Climate change is expected to be a central issue in national elections, likely to be fought by the conservative leader, David Cameron, and Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer, who is expected to take over from Mr. Blair as Labor Party leader and prime minister sometime this summer.

On Monday, both Mr. Cameron and Mr. Brown offered claims to environmental virtue. Mr. Cameron, who laid claim to the green mantle last year when he was photographed on a dog sled in the Arctic and cycled to his office, was shown in news clips on Monday digging to plant a tree.

But in the sound bite stakes, Mr. Blair trumped both Mr. Brown and Mr. Cameron, appearing in a satellite hookup with the California governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, to extol the virtues of fighting global warming on the evening news.

Mr. Brown, for his part, gave a speech outlining incentives for householders to curb energy use. “I’m greener than you,” the conservative Daily Mail said in a headline over photographs of both politicians. Mr. Cameron has taken what some columnists describe as a risky step by suggesting new taxes on airline travel, possibly alienating some 400,000 Britons with second homes outside the country who fly regularly — often on low-cost airlines — to visit their properties. The conservative leader is also pressing for annual, not five-year, targets for reduced carbon emissions.

The government proposal fell short of demands by some environmental groups for an 80 per cent reduction in carbon emissions by 2050.

Both the British and European proposals lay out schedules for reducing so-called greenhouse gases far beyond the expirations of the Kyoto Protocol, which the United States has signed but President Bush has rejected. China and India, with their booming economies, are also primary polluters, but Mr. Miliband, the British environment minister, said the new British law would give Britain authority to persuade other lands to follow its lead.

But there were dissenting voices. In Tuesday’s Evening Standard, a columnist, Nirpal Dhaliwal, said there was “more than a whiff of colonial condescension about British politicians’ attitudes to developing world industrialization.”

He said Britain’s share of global carbon emissions was very low — around 2 percent — while China was building a new coal-burning power station every two weeks. “We could decide to live in the Stone Age burning nothing, and it would have virtually no impact on the overall problem of global warming,” he wrote.
412 2007-03-14 The rights to the aborted O. J. Simpson book, “If I Did It,” will be publicly auctioned so the family of the murder victim Ronald L. Goldman will receive all future proceeds from their sale, a judge in Los Angeles ruled yesterday.

Jonathan Polak, a lawyer for the Goldman family, said Mr. Simpson’s original contract with HarperCollins stipulated that on May 8 the rights to the book would revert to Lorraine Brooke, which Mr. Polak called a shell corporation set up by Mr. Simpson to hide proceeds from the book.

If the rights had reverted to Lorraine Brooke, Mr. Simpson could have potentially sold them to another publisher, an action the Goldman family was trying to prevent, Mr. Polak said. If no publisher bids on the book, he said, “then the Goldmans will buy it and lock it up.”

After a public outcry over Mr. Simpson’s book last fall, HarperCollins canceled plans in November to publish it. In December, the company dismissed Judith Regan, the publisher of ReganBooks, an imprint of HarperCollins that was to publish the book, and a month later announced that it would dissolve ReganBooks.
413 2007-03-14 Lehman owns minority stakes in several hedge funds, including GLG Partners, a huge London-based fund; Marble Bar Asset Management; Ospraie Management; and the Spinnaker Capital Group. The terms of the D. E. Shaw deal were not made public.

Another perk for Wall Street firms buying hedge fund stakes is the ability to secure space in the funds for their private client investors. Many hedge funds limit the amount of money they will accept to manage — so-called capacity — making it hard for individual investors to get into the best funds. Minority stakes can also act as a valuable option on a potential public offering.

Nomura Holdings, the Japanese Bank, bought a 15 percent stake in the Fortress Investment Group in December for $888 million, valuing the fund at $6 billion. That stake soared when Fortress went public in February, rising to a market capitalization of $14 billion before settling back at about $9.7 billion yesterday.

For David Shaw, who has watched his company grow from $28 million in 1988 to $29 billion today, the deal was probably a way to diversify his wealth, which like many hedge fund managers’, is primarily tied up in his firm. The deal will not change any aspect of the firm’s operations.

Mr. Shaw, who has a doctorate in computer science, now devotes much of his time to building a supercomputer for his molecular biology and drug research. A six-member executive committee runs D. E. Shaw’s business, most of it focused on computer-driven algorithmic models that search for mispriced securities.

D. E. Shaw generally charges 3 percent of assets under management and 30 percent of profits.

Hedge funds have drawn increasing attention from investors as well as from regulators who are grappling with how to handle the sector.

Members of the House Financial Services Committee focused their questions on Tuesday on potential risks to pensioners and potential risks to the financial system caused by hedge funds.

Representatives of hedge funds, hedge fund investors and academics offered several ideas for potential areas of regulation.

Kenneth D. Brody, a founder of Taconic Capital Partners, suggested that hedge funds should be required to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission, but follow a basic set of principles rather than rigid rules. “I believe that mandatory registration is good policy,” he said. “What registration primarily provides is a self-discipline and a self-policing.”

James S. Chanos, head of the Coalition of Private Investment Companies as well as the founder of the hedge fund Kynikos Associates, suggested that the commission could require disclosure of census-type data — information like a fund’s name, location, assets under management and auditor — as part of a safe harbor that hedge funds use to raise money.

Mr. Chanos also asked that all alternative investment groups — private equity, hedge fund and venture capital — be treated equally. “A focus on the activity, not the actor,” he said.

Lawmakers seemed interested in whether the panelists agreed with the recently released report by the President’s Working Group, which concluded that the best way to manage systemic risk was through the major financial institutions that extend credit to hedge funds and act as counterparties. Virtually all the panelists agreed.

Andrew K. Golden, president of the Princeton University Investment Company, which manages Princeton’s $14.2 billion endowment, described the level of due diligence involved when his group invests in a hedge fund. “We spend at least 400 person-hours in our due diligence process before investing in a hedge fund,” he said. “We average approximately 70 person-hours per year monitoring each of our hedge funds.”

Many of the panelists emphasized that they viewed hedge funds as less risky than plain-vanilla stock market investing. “Hedge funds can be an important tool for reducing risk,” Mr. Gordon said. George Hall, founder of the Clinton Group who spoke as a director of the Managed Funds Association, the main hedge fund trade association, added: “Common equities may be more risky than hedge funds.”

Representative Frank made clear that he had no position yet on whether funds had to be regulated, joking that he did not have any conceptions of hedge funds, much less preconceptions.
414 2007-03-14 WASHINGTON, March 13 — A three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rebuked the Environmental Protection Agency in a decision Tuesday, indicating that the regulators had flouted Congress and the courts in setting the standards governing hazardous air pollution emissions from plants making bricks and ceramics.

The panel concurred in a single opinion that the agency had ignored a federal appeals court opinion directing it to follow the Clean Air Act’s instructions in setting emission standards for kilns making bricks and ceramics. These kilns collectively emit more than 6,440 tons of toxic acids and small soot, which can cause breathing difficulties, organ damage and cancer.

The ruling said the agency had ignored the court’s order to ensure that the basis for its standards was emission levels achieved by kilns using the most effective technology currently in use in the industry.

“If the Environmental Protection Agency disagrees with the Clean Air Act’s requirements for setting emission standards it should take its concerns to Congress,” the judges wrote in an unusually pointed final paragraph.

“If the E.P.A. disagrees with this court’s interpretation of the Clean Air Act,” they continued, the agency should appeal its earlier ruling. “In the meantime, it must obey the Clean Air Act as written by Congress and interpreted by this court.”
415 2007-03-14 The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 28.65 points, or 2.04 percent, to 1,377.95, and the Nasdaq composite index slid 51.72 points, or 2.15 percent, to 2,350.57. The Russell 2000 index of small companies fell 19.88 points, or 2.52 percent, to 769.12.

Volume on the New York Stock Exchange, where declining issues outnumbered advancers by five to one, hit 3.49 billion shares. On Monday, 2.62 billion shares were traded. On Feb. 27, when the Dow had its largest fall since 2001, 4.56 billion shares were traded.

“The fear index is rising,” said Steven Cochrane, senior managing director for Moody’s Economy.com.

That anxiety hit stocks of home builders, as lending obstacles could further hurt the lagging housing market. D. R. Horton fell 86 cents, to $22.31; the Centex Corporation lost $2.15, to $42.76; and Toll Brothers dropped 67 cents, to $27.34.

Investors trying to gauge how far problems in the subprime sector have spread pounced on comments from Goldman Sachs, which said that while the subprime sector showed “significant weakness,” the broader credit environment “remained strong.”

Goldman Sachs fell $3.57, to $199.03 a share, even though the company yesterday reported a record first-quarter profit, citing strong revenue from trading and investment banking.

Government data yesterday suggested that consumer spending might be slowing down. The Commerce Department said sales at retailers rose 0.1 percent in February as wintry weather in much of the country kept shoppers away. Analysts had expected an increase of 0.3 percent from January.

Several retailers stumbled after the Commerce Department’s report. Federated Department Stores, parent of Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s, fell 85 cents, to $44.09 a share; Wal-Mart Stores slid $1.08, to $46.18; and Target fell $1.76, to $60.47.

Other economic reports that most likely will be closely followed include the Producer Price Index, to be released on Thursday, and the Consumer Price Index, to be released on Friday. Traders typically study the two reports for clues about whether costs are escalating too fast, or whether the Federal Reserve may give consumers some relief by lowering interest rates later in the year.

The only stock among the 30 companies in the Dow to rise yesterday was the AT&T Corporation, which was up 20 cents and closed at $37.26 a share.

Light, sweet crude fell 98 cents to settle at $57.93 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 17/32, to 101 3/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.495 percent, from 4.55 percent. Following are the results of yesterday’s auction of four-week Treasury bills and 10-year notes.
416 2007-03-14 American officials in Tbilisi and Washington declined to discuss any initial assessments of the strikes, saying they were waiting for the investigation’s findings to be released.

Georgian officials claimed on Monday that Mi-24 attack helicopters from Russia had flown sorties over the border during the previous night and had struck government buildings and houses in the towns of Azhara, Chkhalta and Gentsvishi.

Only experienced and well-trained pilots could have made some of the shots, they said, as the approach to the targets required flying in darkness with night-vision goggles through a narrow and often fog-bound gorge.

There was evidence suggesting that artillery or ground-to-ground rockets might have been fired at the villages as well. Investigators were still examining the shrapnel, however, and the question of whether ground-to-ground ordnance had also been used was not clear, a military officer involved in the United Nations’ investigation said.

All of the towns are near the breakaway region of Abkhazia, a Russian-supported enclave inside Georgia’s borders that has not recognized the Georgian central government since the Soviet Union collapsed. Russian forces are posted in Abkhaz territory and have equipment capable of ground-to-ground bombardments, although the Russian units are formally on peacekeeping duty.

Georgia lost a brief war with Abkhaz separatists in the early 1990s. Since then, the area has been a self-declared republic that seeks independence. No nation has formally recognized it, but Russia has served as its patron, providing aid and political support and granting citizenship to almost all of its residents.

The Kodori Gorge was also outside of Georgia’s control for more than a decade, run by a local strongman and an irregular militia until Georgian forces chased away the militia in July and restored the gorge to the central government’s control.

The operation in July allowed Georgians previously expelled from Abkhazia by the war to open offices of a government-in-exile in Azhara, which lies within the liberated area. It also raised hopes in Georgia that it was a step toward national reunification, which has been a central ambition of Mikheil Saakashvili, Georgia’s pro-Western president — and a source of tension with Russia and the de facto Abkhaz government.

It was the new office of the government-in-exile, housed in a bright pink building that has frequently been in Georgia’s national news, that was struck Sunday night. Pictures of the impact area, posted on a Georgian Web site, show that what seemed to have been a missile struck a flagpole and detonated, shearing the pole and splattering the facade of the building with shrapnel. The remains of the ordnance then slammed into the outside wall, making a large hole.

The shrapnel collected from the site suggested that it had been fired from an Mi-24, said Eka Zguladze, Georgia’s deputy minister of internal affairs, by telephone. The Mi-24 is a Russian attack gunship in abundance just over the border inside Russia, where several aviation units support counterinsurgency operations in Chechnya.

Ms. Zguladze said that United Nations investigators had collected evidence at 13 other impact sites as well and that at least 20 missiles were known to have struck the area.

The United Nations refused to comment on the amount or nature of the shrapnel it had collected, saying the investigation was continuing and patrols examining the impact sites in the mountains had not completed their work. The patrols included United Nations staff members as well as representatives from Abkhazia, Georgia and the Russian peacekeeping force.

“They are going to need at least a couple of days up there to do a thorough job,” Stan Vietsman, the special assistant to the special representative of the United Nations secretary general, said by telephone.
417 2007-03-14 But as multiplayer video gaming online grew more refined on console-only networks, some PC gamers became frustrated that they could not enjoy a similar experience, video game specialists noted.

Aaron Greenberg, group product manager for Xbox 360 and Xbox Live, said that bringing Xbox Live to the more than “200 million PC gamers out there playing on Windows PCs” was no small feat.

Part of what that would mean, Mr. Greenberg said, is that PC gamers would have a single identity online, a gamer tag that would follow them regardless of what game they were playing.

Other features would include text and voice chat, and a unified friends list and list of achievements for games whether they are played on the Xbox 360 or a Windows-based PC. The expanded service, which will have basic and premium tiers, will not work for games intended to play on Macintosh computers, he said.

Ross Rubin, the director of industry analysis for the NPD Group, noted that Microsoft’s inclusion of PC game players into its online network was part of a broader initiative announced last year to bridge gaming platforms — first console and PC, and eventually cellphone.

One benefit of permitting Xbox and PC gamers to play over the same network is that it revitalizes the focus of game developers on Windows. This comes at a time when Intel’s new class of multicore microprocessors, as well as expanded graphics capabilities from companies like Nvidia and Microsoft’s Vista operating system, are enhancing the play of video games on personal computers.

And some gamers prefer PC gaming because of the depth and control they say they have when using a mouse and keyboard instead of a game pad.

In some cases, Mr. Rubin said, unifying online gaming could let developers sell two versions of the game to the same person so the player could experience it on the console and PC.

“It allows them to leverage the tremendous investment — billions of dollars — it has made in the past few years in creating and refining and upgrading Xbox Live,” Mr. Rubin said of Microsoft’s move. “It offers it to a new group of users. It bridges that gap that exists between sometimes totally different kinds of gamers,” who also approach video gaming in radically different ways.

In fact, in June a new game, Shadowrun, is expected to be released and is designed to permit, for the first time, Windows gamers to connect with Xbox 360 users in cross-platform matches, said Kevin Unangst, director of global marketing for Games for Windows. Later this year, he said, another game, UNO, would also be available for similar Xbox 360 and PC play.

He said the basic level of the expanded service, known as a silver membership, was free. A gold membership, required for multiplatform gaming among other advanced features, would cost $50 a year, the same as current Xbox Live gold memberships, which automatically have access to the Windows expansion.
418 2007-03-14 That image of postwar Modernism turns out to be a trick, of course, and the hint is in a barely visible, uneven stainless steel screen curling just over the top of the building. As you walk toward its south end, the screen unfurls across the entire facade, finally lifting at the base of the building to create a canopy over the edge of a small public plaza.

The effect is mesmerizing. The texture of the screen shifts with the quality of the light, turning hard and gray as stone on bright days and more transparent when the light softens, allowing you to discern the skeletal frame underneath.

The delicacy of the composition is offset by a big, cube-shaped terrace that punctures the south facade. A narrow seam extending down one side of the cube continues across the plaza, like a tear across the building’s fabric. (As part of a permanent light installation conceived by the artist James Turrell, the cube will glow in various colors at night.)

The play between transparency and opacity plays up the porous relationship between inside and out, as if the federal bureaucracy had been pried open and reconnected to the world around it. Parts of the screen will open and close mechanically to regulate the light, further breaking down the facade’s uniformity and hinting at the busy and varied activity taking place inside.

As with all of Mr. Mayne’s work, this formal experimentation serves a heartfelt social agenda. Despite the high level of security the building demands, the architect forged a rich hierarchy of public zones. The concrete cylinder bollards that surround the plaza and protect it from car bombings are scattered in an informal pattern and double as stools; a cafe anchoring the southeast corner of the site will give government workers a chance to mingle with the masses at lunch hour.

The main entrance features a single tilting concrete column that braces one corner of the building, setting the entire composition slightly off balance. That effect is repeated in the lobby, framed by leaning columns that heighten the sense of the building’s looming weight above.

Like the plaza, the lobby is intended as a social mixing chamber. A staircase at the front descends to a day care center, a gym and a meeting room that will all be accessible to the public. A grand staircase anchoring the back draws you toward the elevator banks, which also serve as an informal seating area.

As you reach the top of the staircase and turn back toward the lobby, views of the busy lower level open up, including one of a playground. On the left side of the lobby, a long, faceted form that contains the upper-level offices shoots outward, punching through the front window and cantilevering over the street, smashing the boundary between inside and out.

Mr. Mayne’s nostalgia for Modernism reasserts itself in the elevator ride to the office floors. Modeled on the intricate skip-stop system that Le Corbusier invented for his 1952 Unité d’Habitation building in Marseilles, France, the elevators stop on alternate floors. From there, stairs lead up or down to big, loftlike spaces saturated with light.

The sense of airiness is magical. Protected by the perforated steel screen, the windows can be operated from inside, and when they are open, a cool breeze drifts through the space. Beautiful undulating concrete ceilings help channel the air from north to south, sensitizing us to the natural world waiting outside. (Unfortunately, some of this effect has been lost by the erection of a crude system of partitions and office cubicles.) Aside from the compositional inspiration, what the architect is clearly seeking to retrieve from Modernist forebears like Le Corbusier is an unflinching optimism. In a world where commercialism regularly trumps public service, Mr. Mayne seems to be telling us that the values of Old-World Modernism may not be so bad. Rather than obliterate this architectural past, he aims to imbue it with the human element that Modernism forgot, the quirks and odd delights that can root a building in personal and emotional territory.

The sad paradox is that this vision may be threatened, unless the Design Excellence program survives intact. The Federal Building was Mr. Feiner’s last major commission as director, and few architects believe that this level of ambition will survive his departure. Let’s hope they’re wrong, and that this project will inspire further daring government commissions.
419 2007-03-14 “Dear God, thank you for this beautiful night and this great family we got here,” he said in his heavy drawl. “My prayers have been answered. We just found the roots. It’s in the DNA.”

As genetic testing for ethnicity and ancestry has become more available to the public, more Americans are seeking information on their lineage. And many are confronting surprises in family background, racial makeup and newfound relatives.

A recent genealogical study indicated that ancestors of the Rev. Al Sharpton, for instance, were once slaves owned by ancestors of Senator Strom Thurmond, who ran for president in 1948 as a segregationist. A genealogical researcher has said that the white mother of Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, had ancestors who owned slaves.

In that Harlem brownstone earlier this month, DNA results brought about an unlikely pairing of two cousins — one from a cattle ranch in Missouri, the other from the stages and church choirs of Harlem. Each cousin, and their families, have embraced the other.

“If it’s my story, it’s many people’s story too,” Ms. Higginsen said. “It’s the real story of America. People are finally asking: ‘Whose blood is running through our veins? Who are we? Who of us is black, and who’s white?’ They’re realizing there are no thoroughbreds among us, and nobody’s 100 percent anything in this country.”

Ms. Higginsen, who would not reveal her age, said she had been interested in her genealogical background ever since watching the television mini-series “Roots” in 1977. She assumed she was descended from slaves, and her maternal grandmother, Anna West, used to say the family had some American Indian blood. So in 2005 Ms. Higginsen took an ethno-ancestry test.

“I was stunned,” she said. “It said I had no Indian blood, but that I did have, in addition to my African ancestry, 28 percent European blood and 8 percent Asian.”

She persuaded her uncle, the Rev. James O. West Jr., a minister from Washington, to get a Y chromosome test.

Relatives always considered Mr. West black, but she said the results showed 52 percent European lineage and DNA that could link him to British royalty and the original settlers of colonial Jamestown, including Thomas West, an Englishman born in 1577 also known as the third Baron De La Warr, who became the first resident governor of the Virginia Colony.

“I was expecting Kunta Kinte,” Ms. Higginsen said, referring to the character in “Roots,” “but I got Lord De La Warr.”

Ms. Higginsen said she was especially broadsided by these revelations since her career and lifestyle have been shaped by her black heritage. She grew up in Harlem, the daughter of Randolph Higginson, a prominent Pentecostal pastor (as an adult, she changed her name to Higginsen) and she founded the Mama Foundation for the Arts, a school for black music and theater in a brownstone on West 126th Street in Harlem, where African art adorns her office.

She was a prominent D.J. for WBLS-FM and other stations with black listeners, published a lifestyle magazine for black audiences and worked for Ebony magazine. She helped write, produce and direct the gospel musical “Mama, I Want to Sing,” which opened in New York in 1983 and ran roughly 2,200 performances at the Heckscher Theater in East Harlem. The musical was based on her sister Doris Troy, a pop singer who wrote and recorded the 1963 hit “Just One Look.”

Ms. Higginsen is married to Ken Wydro, an author, producer and playwright whom she met in 1978 on a talk show where both appeared as guests to discuss the benefits of staying single. Mr. Wydro is white. Well, mostly — he recently had a DNA test that he said showed that he had 97 percent European lineage, but 3 percent from Africa.

Mr. West, the rancher from Missouri, was also always interested in his lineage. He had a DNA test done in 2005 and submitted the results to an online database of the West family, known as the West Family DNA Project, which collects DNA samples from people worldwide with the West surname. He saw that a certain Vy Higginsen from Harlem had submitted her uncle’s test results, which showed that the uncle and Mr. West shared a common ancestor.

So last year, Marion West called this Harlem niece of the minister.

“He said, ‘Hey, kiddo, I’m a cattle rancher from Poplar Bluff, Mo., and I hear we’re cousins,’ ” Ms. Higginsen recalled. “He said, ‘Who are you? What do you do?’ And I said the same to him.”

She assumed he was white, and he assumed she was black, but neither said anything about it. He sent her a picture, and she sent him information on her gospel school and waited to hear back. She did: Mr. West invited her down for Thanksgiving.

“I thought, ‘Surely, he must be crazy,’ ” said Ms. Higginsen, who wound up going down in January with her 22-year-old daughter, Knoelle.

“As soon as Vy stepped off the plane, I could see in her face she was a West,” Mr. West said. He took her to the ranch and to the community college he helped open. Then he took her up a hill to the pine tree where he prays daily. They knelt and thanked God for each other.

Mr. West’s visit to Harlem this month included tours of churches and soul food restaurants and lots of live music, including a youth choir organized by Ms. Higginsen and led by Cissy Houston, mother of the singer Whitney Houston. Mr. West said the gospel songs reminded him of the “sharecropper songs” many of his black employees used to sing back home.

The West Cattle Company, he said, has had as many as 28,000 head of cattle. Mr. West said his paternal grandfather, James Sturdeman West, fought for the Confederacy in the Civil War, as a Kentucky volunteer and then as a Tennessee volunteer. Although his ancestors may have had slaves, his father and grandfather would certainly not have objected to the news that they had black relatives.

“There would have been no shame in my immediate family, but going back a few generations, I’m sure there would have been some shame,” he said.

He brought laughter to the room when he spoke of cattle breeding.

“I’ve been breeding cattle all my life, and I’ll tell you, cross-breeding is better,” he said. “You mate the black angus with the other breeds, and you have better, healthier offspring.”
420 2007-03-14 After Asia’s sharp falls, European stocks opened weak. By early afternoon trading today, Britain’s FTSE 100 index was down by 1.5 percent, at 6,070. Germany’s DAX Index was down 108, or 1.6 percent, to 6,514, and the CAC 40 Index in France dropped 78 points, or 1.4 percent, to 5,355.

Francis Lun, general manager of Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong, said that the crisis in the U.S. housing market was having a “destructive effect on global financial markets around the world.”

After several months of smooth climbing, Asian equity investors have been treated to a bumpy ride in recent weeks. They could face even more volatility in the future, analysts say.

Asian markets have been flooded with liquidity in the past 24 months, thanks to a combination of domestic investors, hedge funds, and proprietary trading desks at banks. Many of these investors trade on the movement of market indices, exacerbating stock drops and heightening their jumps.

The shares of banks and lending institutions in Asia were hard hit today, as were companies that make consumer goods. The number of United States consumers who are late paying off their home loans is climbing steadily, particularly among borrowers with a history of credit problems, known as subprime borrowers.

Asian investors and economists predict that these consumers will stop buying new cars, electronics and other goods, hurting Asian economies.

Japan’s Chiba Bank closed down 4.31 percent to 1,022 yen today, and Sony Corp dropped 4.09 percent to 5,869 yen.

HSBC Holdings, the British bank, dropped 1.5 percent in Hong Kong to HK$135.

HSBC has been hurt by United States housing market problems after it bought Household International in 2003, a United States lender that specializes in loans to borrowers with bad credit. On Feb. 7, HSBC shocked investors when it said it was setting aside $1.76 billion to cover potential mortgage losses in America, 20 percent more than analysts estimated.The drumbeat of bad consumer news from the United States, where more than 1 in 10 subprime home borrowers are late paying back their loans, is having an effect on investors’ appetite for risky stocks, analysts say.

“Investors are becoming a bit more risk adverse,” said Yiping Huang, economic and market analysis with Citigroup Global Markets Asia.

In Europe today, investors’ worries about continuing negative news concerning the American economy, including possible slower earnings growth, were behind the stock market declines, analysts said.

“Even though European earnings have been much more robust and Europe has not suffered the same problems in banking and consumer behavior as the U.S., if the U.S. is going in a slowdown direction then that is the main driver,” Andrew Lapthorne, a research analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort in London, said.

Mortgage lenders in Europe, where the sub-prime lending market is far less developed, have not suffered as much as their American counterparts.

Annik Lambert, secretary general of the European Mortgage Federation, said that sub-prime lending is not as much of a problem in Europe because consumer protection legislation prevents financial institutions from granting loans with interest rates above a certain level.

Nevertheless, investors in Europe are concerned about earnings growth at banks.

In Britain, higher interest rates and rising costs for gas and electricity have pushed personal insolvencies to record levels.

Lloyds TSB Group, the biggest provider of consumer loans in Britain, said last month that its consumer and mortgage lending was decelerating.

Meanwhile, the Bank of England’s three interest-rate increases since August have so far failed to cool the property market, meaning that consumers are still willing to take on debt, although at a slower rate. despite the interest rates rises.
421 2007-03-14 But the ills in the mortgage securities market are infecting even issues that carry higher ratings from those agencies. These securities have declined along with the broad market in recent days, although they have not fallen as far as lower-quality issues.

As prevailing interest rates have remained low, portfolio managers seeking income from their investments have had difficulties generating attractive yields. Pension funds with significant financial obligations to retirees took on more and more risk to generate income. During the housing market boom, mortgages became a favored investment vehicle among these managers.

The Regions Morgan Keegan Select High Income Fund, for example, a $1.2 billion portfolio run by Morgan Keegan, a regional brokerage firm based in Memphis, held $159 million, or 13 percent of its portfolio, in unrated mortgage-backed securities, or those below investment grade. Among the issues in its portfolio at the end of the year: a $3.4 million holding in home equity loans underwritten by New Century in 2006.

The fund also held five securities worth $30.4 million issued by First Franklin, a subprime lender that was bought by Merrill Lynch for $1.3 billion last year.

Some 4.4 percent of the Regions Morgan Keegan Short Term Bond Fund, an $80 million fund, was in investment-grade-rated home equity loans — a $2.9 million stake — and another 11.3 percent of the portfolio, or $8.8 million, consisted of investment-grade mortgage securities.

Kathy Ridley, a Morgan Keegan spokeswoman, declined to comment on the funds’ holdings, saying that it was the firm’s policy not to discuss the stakes.

Legg Mason Partners Capital and Income Fund, a $3.4 billion fund, also owns home equity loans issued by subprime lenders. Some 1.1 percent of the portfolio consists of home equity loans, with $2.25 million issued by New Century; $3.6 million issued by NovaStar; and $2.7 million issued by Fremont General, the parent company of a lender who consented to a cease-and-desist order from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation a week ago. That order called for the company to stop “operating with a large volume of poor quality loans” and “engaging in unsatisfactory lending practices.”

Mary Athridge, a Legg Mason spokeswoman, confirmed that its funds own some of the trusts issued by troubled lenders. But the firm is comfortable with the holdings, she said, because they are overcollateralized and very little of the loans are left outstanding.

Funds that are part of the American Skandia Trust also own mortgage securities issued by troubled lenders. The trust’s American Century Strategic Balanced portfolio held mortgage securities issued by NovaStar and Accredited Home Lenders that were rated Aaa at the time and valued at just over $500 million. Of the fund’s $175 million under management at the end of the year, 2.3 percent of it was in asset-backed securities including mortgages.

Officials at American Century could not be reached for comment last night.

Several American Skandia Trust portfolios managed by T. Rowe Price — a global bond fund and asset allocation fund — also showed stakes in New Century home equity loans at the end of 2006.

A T. Rowe Price spokesman said that managers with knowledge of these portfolios were not available last night.

A spokesman for Prudential Financial, which acquired American Skandia, was not able to confirm last night whether the funds still held the securities.

The Builders Fixed Income Fund, a mutual fund with $248 million under management that is overseen by Capital Mortgage Management in Manchester, Mo., has substantial mortgage stakes. Asset-backed securities, including those issued by mortgage lenders, made up 28.4 percent of the fund’s portfolio at year-end. It held two stakes worth $1.14 million in home equity loans underwritten by New Century.

Mike Stewart, chief compliance officer at the fund, said he was “not at liberty to say” if the New Century stake was still in the portfolio.
422 2007-03-14 A recipe for Skillet Irish Soda Bread Served With Cheddar and Apples....
423 2007-03-14 The rights to the aborted O. J. Simpson book, ''If I Did It,'' will be publicly auctioned so the family of the murder victim Ronald L. Goldman will receive all future proceeds from their sale, a judge in Los Angeles ruled yesterday.      Jonathan ...
424 2007-03-14 The French Oil Giant Total is fighting criminal charges that it is responsible for an oil spill that devastated much of the Brittany coast in 1999, hoping to avoid a conviction that carries a relatively modest fine but could expose it to enormous ...
425 2007-03-14 Asian and European stock markets tumbled today, following the sharp drop in U.S. stocks on Tuesday, as concerns spread about the consequences of loose lending practices in the United States housing market.      Most markets in Asia closed down bet...
426 2007-03-14 Prince Norodom Ranariddh, a former prime minister, was sentenced in absentia to 18 months in prison for selling the headquarters of the party he once led. He is accused of earning $3.6 million on the deal but denies the charge. Prince Ranariddh wa...
427 2007-03-14 A choreographer for people who hate modern dance, Matthew Bourne is known for bringing both narrative and nudity center stage. (Jesse Green called Mr. Bourne's ''Swan Lake'' ''a psychosexual hybrid of Hitchcock's 'Birds' and an Abercrombie & Fitch...
428 2007-03-14 ECHOES OF A RECENT BOOM Many technology veterans of Silicon Valley's dot-com era have regrouped and found a new mission in alternative energy: developing wind power, solar panels, ethanol plants and hydrogen-powered cars. [Page A1.]    VIACOM TAKE...
429 2007-03-15 He's so not into dresses....
430 2007-03-15 The New York Times Chief Movie Critic A.O. Scott reviews "The Wind That Shakes the Barley," a film about the Irish uprising of the early 1920s.
431 2007-03-15 The city Health Department is investigating a case of drug-sensitive tuberculosis in a health care worker who works at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx. Mothers, babies, patients, and staff who were in the maternity, neonatal, or psychiatric uni...
432 2007-03-15 Readers respond to David Brooks's Mar. 15 column, "The Long Exit." John Hayward, Wilton, Conn.: Have always liked your column. Today's was a zinger. Yes I agree the Dems are playing nothing but politics. It would be a disaster after we left. But I...
433 2007-03-15 Around the Winthrop basketball team, it is a compliment to be known as a "JunkYard Dog,'' such an honor that Coach Gregg Marshall presents a doll of a professional wrestler by that name after Eagles victories to the player who is judged to have pl...
434 2007-03-15 New shows in New York include "Talk Radio," "The Attic" and "Moby Dick — Rehearsed."...
435 2007-03-15 The Republican presidential contender revs up a new Straight Talk Express in Iowa....
436 2007-03-15 Has the IntercontinentalExchange sparked a bidding war? Investors seem to hope so. Shares of CBOT Holdings, the parent of the Chicago Board of Trade, rose 15 percent, to $191 in early trading Thursday after Intercontinental, an electronic marketpl...
437 2007-03-15 The IntercontinentalExchange said Thursday that it offered to merge with the Chicago Board of Trade, seeking to derail that exchange's agreement to combine with its hometown rival, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. The surprise bid, valued at about...
438 2007-03-15 L-3 Communications Holdings, a maker of battlefield communications systems, was asked Wednesday by the Securities and Exchange Commission for information on past stock option practices. The company plans to provide the requested material to the ag...
439 2007-03-15 The recent volatility and pullback in Asian markets have prompted some investors to sound a familiar refrain: It's all the fault of the hedge funds. Many small traders and brokers in the region argue that the growing influence of hedge funds in As...
440 2007-03-15 Goldman Sachs was fined $2 million by market regulators Wednesday for allowing clients to make illegal short sales before stock offerings. Goldman did not follow procedures that might have uncovered a pattern of illegal trades from 2000 to 2002, t...
441 2007-03-15 Images from “Faith and Fortune: Five Centuries of European Masterworks” at the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art....
442 2007-03-15 Finley, the maverick basher of the baseball establishment, famously likened Kuhn to “the village idiot.”

But Peter O’Malley, then the Los Angeles Dodgers’ owner, viewed Kuhn as having upheld important values. “His support of the integrity of the game was excellent,” O’Malley said as Kuhn’s tenure neared its end. “The game has never been more popular.”

Bowie Kent Kuhn grew up in Washington, the youngest of three children. His father, Louis, an immigrant from Bavaria, was an executive with a fuel company. His mother, Alice, her roots in 17th-century Maryland, descended from five governors, two United States senators and the frontiersman Jim Bowie.

As a youngster, Kuhn worked in a $1-a-day job tending to the scoreboard at the Washington Senators’ Griffith Stadium.

He graduated from Princeton and the University of Virginia Law School and became a partner in Willkie Farr & Gallagher, the National League’s law firm. In 1966, he won an antitrust court battle clearing the way for Braves’ move from Milwaukee to Atlanta.

Kuhn was elected baseball commissioner as a compromise choice on Feb. 4, 1969, two months after the club owners fired William D. Eckert, a retired Air Force general who was a figurehead. Kuhn was a baseball insider, he was familiar with the legal challenges increasingly facing the game, and he was a good speaker with a 6-foot-5-inch frame cutting a forceful image.

The owners gave Kuhn a one-year, interim contract, but he quickly asserted himself. When the players’ union urged its members not to sign contacts for the 1969 season, imperiling spring training, in a dispute over pension demands, Kuhn orchestrated a settlement favorable to the players.

Expansion teams began play in 1969 in Montreal, Seattle, San Diego and Kansas City. With two 12-team leagues split into divisions, baseball inaugurated a playoff system as a prelude to the World Series, foreshadowing a rise in the game’s popularity.

In August 1970, Kuhn was elected to a seven-year term with a contract valued at more than $1 million. But troubles had arrived for the baseball hierarchy.

Curt Flood, the St. Louis Cardinals’ star outfielder, had asked Kuhn to void his trade to the Philadelphia Phillies after the 1969 season and allow him to sign with a team of his choice. Flood maintained that the reserve clause, which bound players to their teams until they were traded or released, violated federal antitrust law.

Kuhn rejected the demand, and when Flood sued in federal court, Kuhn testified against him, predicting that baseball would be engulfed in chaos if players could sell themselves to the highest bidder. Flood ultimately lost in the Supreme Court, but the drive for free agency had begun.

Kuhn’s suspension of the Detroit Tigers’ star pitcher Denny McLain from April 1 to July 1, 1970, for past involvement with bookmakers was alternately criticized as too lenient or too harsh. When Jim Bouton, then pitching for the Houston Astros, collaborated with the journalist Leonard Schechter on “Ball Four,” a behind-the-scenes and sometimes risqué look at baseball, Kuhn called him in to voice his dismay. The flap served only to increase the book’s sales.

Kuhn championed World Series night games, inaugurated in 1971, a move that brought enhanced television revenues but much criticism. When Kuhn sat in the stands without a topcoat, seemingly in denial while everyone else was shivering, during Game 2 of the 1976 World Series on a frigid night in Cincinnati, he became the object of ridicule.

In 1972, the players staged their first general strike, a 13-day walkout at the start of the season, with pensions again at issue. Kuhn essentially stayed out of the dispute, leaving matters to management’s Player Relations Committee.

Kuhn was faced with a contentious issue of another sort when the Atlanta Braves sought to hold Hank Aaron out of their 1974 season-opening series in Cincinnati so that he could eclipse Babe Ruth’s career home run record of 714 when the team played at home. Kuhn ordered the Braves to play Aaron in Cincinnati, citing the need to protect the integrity of the game.

Aaron tied Ruth’s record in the season-opener, with Kuhn present. But when Aaron broke the record in the Braves’ first home game, against the Dodgers, Kuhn was in Cleveland. He had sent Monte Irvin, a baseball official and one of the major leagues’ first black stars, in his place, rankling Aaron for some time to come.

Kuhn became embroiled, meanwhile, in disputes with owners. He fined or reprimanded Finley several times, and in November 1974, he suspended Steinbrenner for two years after Steinbrenner pleaded guilty to making illegal contributions to President Richard M. Nixon’s 1972 re-election campaign. (The ban was dropped after 15 months.)

In the summer of 1975, Finley was among several owners who sought to block Kuhn from a second seven-year term that would begin in August 1976, but Kuhn won re-election with key support from Walter O’Malley, at the time the Los Angeles Dodger owner.

In December 1975, an arbitrator ruled that players were bound to their teams only for the lengths of their contracts, a fatal blow to the reserve system that Flood had challenged.

Labor turmoil arose once more in 1976, when the club owners refused to open spring training camps after union negotiations had stalled. Kuhn ordered an end to the lockout in mid-March.

In June 1976, Finley, anticipating the loss of his best players to free agency, sold pitcher Vida Blue to the Yankees for $1.5 million and outfielder Joe Rudi and reliever Rollie Fingers to the Boston Red Sox for $1 million each. Invoking “the best interests of baseball” cause, Kuhn voided the sales on grounds that they would upset competitive balance. It was the first time a commissioner had canceled a cash deal. Finley sued Kuhn and the major leagues in federal court but lost.

In 1981, players staged a 50-day strike to protest a plan to compensate clubs that were losing players to free agency. When the strike ended, Kuhn decreed a controversial split-season format to determine the playoff teams. That resulted in the Cincinnati Reds’ failing to make the playoffs, although they had the best overall record in the major leagues.

When Kuhn became commissioner, baseball was often derided as slow and dull in comparison with pro football. Baseball became revitalized in Kuhn’s years as commissioner, but management’s battles with Miller and the Players Association overshadowed the turnaround.

“There was about Miller a wariness one would find in an abused animal,” Kuhn wrote in “Hardball,” his memoir. “It precluded trust or affection.”

Miller had been pleased with the labor accord that Kuhn brokered in 1969, but their relationship deteriorated over the years. In his own memoir, “A Whole Different Ball Game,” Miller accused Kuhn of violating “basic rights” of players and others in the game “in his efforts to give the impression that he was in control.”

On a front beyond the labor strife, Kuhn was determined to be vigilant against gambling. He barred Willie Mays, in 1979, and Mickey Mantle, in 1983, from further association with baseball because of their promotional work for casinos.

Although a majority of owners continued to support him, Kuhn failed to muster enough votes for a third seven-year term, which would have begun in 1983. He stayed on during a search for his successor, then left on Oct. 1, 1984, when Peter Ueberroth replaced him. Soon after his election, Ueberroth reinstated Mays and Mantle.

Kuhn returned to his former law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher, then joined with the lawyer Harvey Myerson to form Myerson & Kuhn in January 1988. Their firm filed for bankruptcy in December 1989, and Kuhn moved from New Jersey to Florida. His creditors charged that Kuhn was seeking to avoid them, but he denied that. He later formed a consulting firm and spoke widely about his Roman Catholic beliefs.

In addition to his son Paul, of Redding, Conn., he is survived by his wife, Louisa; his sons George, of Somers, N.Y., and Stephen, of Chappaqua, N.Y., a daughter, Alix Bower, of Ridgefield, Conn.; a sister, Alice McKinley, of St. Augustine, Fla., and 10 grandchildren.

Upon losing his bid for a third term, Kuhn summed up his perception of the commissioner’s mandate in offering advice for his successor.

“He’ll be told, for instance, that legalized gambling and baseball are perfectly compatible and that we can even turn a profit from the relationship,” Kuhn wrote in The New York Times. “He should tell the compromisers to get lost. They are burglars of our patrimony. They will never understand the threat to baseball posed by such things as legalized gambling, sports betting, drug abuse and undesirable associations. He should use his powers fearlessly to protect the integrity of the game. The critics will call him self-righteous and moralistic. Have courage. Ignore them.”
443 2007-03-15 General Fil acknowledged that the American soldiers would be at greater risk, but said they would be ready to defend themselves against any attacks. There are 4,300 American troops now in the Baghdad area, and many are still expected to operate out of large bases rather than the garrisons.

The establishment of the garrisons may already have contributed to a rise in the percentage of American deaths that occur in Baghdad. The overall number of American soldiers killed in Iraq from hostilities since Feb. 14, the start of the new Baghdad security plan, fell to 66 from 87 in the previous monthlong period. But with more soldiers in the capital on patrol and in the neighborhood garrisons, a higher proportion of the American deaths have been in Baghdad — 36 percent after Feb. 14 compared with 24 percent in the previous month. Also over the past four weeks, a higher proportion of deaths from roadside bombs have occurred in the capital — 45 percent compared with 39 percent.

Yet, many Iraqis, especially ones in predominantly Sunni Arab neighborhoods, say they welcome the Americans in their streets. Moderate Sunni Arabs say they have been targets of the Mahdi Army and other Shiite militias, as well as radical Sunni groups. Sunni neighborhoods in western Baghdad are increasingly the scene of fighting between moderate Sunni Arabs and hard-line militants, and the moderate Sunnis see the Americans as potential allies.

The American garrisons are of two kinds: joint security stations in which company-size units (about 120 to 150 troops) operate with Iraqi forces, and combat outposts that serve as temporary forts. The units at the combat outposts vary widely, from a platoon to a battalion. The joint security stations are expected to be permanent, perhaps transformed into Iraqi police stations in the long term. As today, there were 23 joint stations in Baghdad and 54 combat outposts.

General Fil said the American and Iraqi forces regularly based in Baghdad are being supplemented by nine Iraqi Army battalions coming in from outside the city. Each battalion has 700 officers or soldiers, he said.

In the first month of the security plan, the kind of murders usually attributed to Shiite militias or death squads dropped by a third, General Fil said. Shiite militia commanders say Moktada al-Sadr, the firebrand Shiite cleric, has told his Mahdi Army to lie low for now. Suicide car bombs remain a problem, and American and Iraqi forces have made it a priority to root out car bomb factories, he added.

Gunmen tried to derail a crucial aspect of the security plan today by ambushing a convoy carrying Rahim al-Daraji, the mayor of Sadr City, the sprawling Shiite district of Baghdad. Mr. Daraji was seriously wounded and Lt. Col. Muhammad Motashar, the head of the Sadr City police station, was killed. Sadr City is home to the Mahdi Army, and Mr. Daraji has been leading negotiations with the Americans over what to do about the militia.

Inside the Green Zone, an Iraqi appeals court ruled today that Saddam Hussein’s former vice president, Taha Yassin Ramadan, will be hanged in the next 30 days.

The decision, which is final, completes a reversal of fortune for Mr. Ramadan, who was sentenced last November to life in prison for his role in the killing of 148 men and boys from the Shiite town of Dujail in the 1980s. A series of appeals later increased the sentence to death — pushing Mr. Ramadan to the gallows, where Saddam Hussein was executed in December for masterminding the massacre and two former aides have also already been hanged.

Mr. Hussein’s execution stirred up discontent across the Middle East after he, a Sunni Arab, was greeted with sectarian taunts by Shiite attendees at his execution. Iraq’s judicial efforts took another macabre turn a month later when Saddam Hussein’s half brother, Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti, was decapitated by the hangman’s noose after he dropped through the gallows trapdoor.

In Mr. Ramadan’s case, international human rights groups have argued that the evidence of his involvement in the crimes fails to justify the sentence of death. But the nine-judge appeals panel — following the recommendation of an earlier decision on Feb. 12 — ruled unanimously for execution today, said Munir Hadat, one of the judges. He said the process had been deliberate and he denied accusations that the ruling reflected a political effort by Iraq’s Shiite-led government to inflict extreme punishment on aides close to Mr. Hussein.

“The decision, it’s not political,” said Mr. Hadat at a news conference. “The judges, all of them, are independent.” Noting that Iraqi law required that executions be carried out within 30 days, he said the hanging could take place “at any moment.” An announcement about the execution, he said, would be made after it was completed.

Violence roiled central and northern Iraq today. A suicide car bomb at an Iraqi security checkpoint in downtown Baghdad killed at least eight soldiers and policemen and wounded at least 29 people, an Interior Ministry official said. A homemade bomb in Sadr City killed one person and wounded four others, and a car bomb in Yarmouk killed at least one Iraqi soldier and wounded two people. The police found 17 bodies across Baghdad, an Interior Ministry official said.

A car bomb by a factory in the area around Iskandariya, south of Baghdad, killed at least four workers on a bus and wounded at least 24. In the town of Kifil, gunmen ambushed a convoy carrying the local police chief on Wednesday, injuring the police chief and killing his driver, officials said today. That prompted the police to arrest at least 44 Mahdi Army militiamen, and a Sadr legislator in the national Parliament accused the police of burning a Sadr mosque in the area.

Near Saddam Hussein’s hometown of Tikrit, a senior policeman and his driver were killed late Wednesday. Policemen found the bodies of two women in the region. In separate incidents in volatile Diyala Province, insurgents killed at least seven people and abducted at least four Iraqis. The body of an abducted policeman was found near a prison.

The American military said today that a soldier was killed in combat in Anbar Province on Wednesday, and a marine died the same day in Anbar in a noncombat incident. In Mosul, the military said, American forces accidentally killed an Iraqi soldier and wounded three of his colleagues during a firefight with insurgents.
444 2007-03-15 Mr. Mickins, whose criminal record included an attempted murder charge, was fatally shot by the other officers. The police said yesterday that the four officers clearly identified themselves before approaching Mr. Mickins.

About 90 minutes later in Brooklyn, Angel Cruz, 30, a transit officer, was alone when he encountered two men smoking cigarettes on a platform of the Broadway Junction subway station in East New York. Officer Cruz ordered both men upstairs to a mezzanine area of the station, where he intended to issue them summonses for smoking, the police said.

The officer also asked the men if they were armed, the police said. One man cooperated and turned over a Swiss Army knife, but the other man, identified as Hugo Hernandez, 22, became belligerent and punched Officer Cruz when he tried to frisk him, said Paul J. Browne, the Police Department’s chief spokesman.

Mr. Hernandez’s companion rushed out of the station and was not involved or charged in what escalated into a life-and-death encounter between Officer Cruz and Mr. Hernandez that sent both to hospitals.

Mr. Browne described a fierce struggle: Officer Cruz tried to subdue Mr. Hernandez, who pulled out a six-inch hunting knife and slashed the officer over his left ear. Officer Cruz staggered backward and fell to the ground near a pay telephone while Mr. Hernandez threatened him again with the knife. Officer Cruz responded by firing three times at Mr. Hernandez, but it was unclear if any of those shots hit him. Mr. Hernandez attacked Officer Cruz again, plunging the knife so hard into the officer’s temple that it entered his skull, Mr. Browne said, adding that the police had interviewed six witnesses.

Mr. Cruz fired two more shots at Mr. Hernandez, who turned and fled downstairs to the subway platform.

At that point, although “he was bleeding profusely,” Mr. Browne said, Officer Cruz ran after Mr. Hernandez down the length of the platform. Both collapsed. Other officers who had been summoned found Mr. Hernandez lying on the platform and Officer Cruz kneeling on one knee about three feet away, appearing as if he was about to lose consciousness.

Officer Cruz was in serious but stable condition at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, the police said.

Mr. Hernandez, charged yesterday with attempted first-degree murder of a police officer and criminal possession of a weapon, was in guarded condition at Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center after being shot twice in the elbow by Officer Cruz, the police said.

Mr. Hernandez’s criminal record includes five arrests in New Jersey. In 2003 and 2004, he was charged twice with assaulting police officers in Netcong, Mr. Browne said. That led to his deportation to Guatemala in July 2005, the authorities said.

Michael Gilhoody, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Mr. Hernandez had been deported as a felon for life and that it was unclear how he had returned to the New York area.

Mr. Gilhoody said Mr. Hernandez’s mere presence in this country could be prosecuted as a federal felony but that any action by the federal government would await the outcome of his prosecution and potential prison term on the charges in New York.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told reporters yesterday that Officer Cruz’s stabbing was “another example of the kinds of risk that the men and women who work in our Police Department endure every day.”

Mr. Hernandez had been living in Freeport, Long Island, with his brother, Roberto, who said yesterday that Mr. Hernandez had experienced bouts of serious depression throughout his life.

He said Mr. Hernandez received some treatment recently at Nassau University Medical Center and was scheduled to meet yesterday with a representative of an outpatient psychiatric facility on Long Island.

Roberto Hernandez said the episode could only have resulted from his brother’s depression. “The word for it is insanity,” he said. “He could not have been himself.”
445 2007-03-15 L-3 Communications Holdings Inc., a maker of battlefield communications systems, was asked yesterday by the Securities and Exchange Commission for information on past stock option practices.

The company plans to provide the requested material to the agency’s enforcement division and will continue to cooperate fully, according to an S.E.C. filing.

L-3 said in July that an internal review found some problems with option grant dates. From May 1998 to July 2003, the price of the stock on the day selected as the grant date was lower than the price when the grants were approved. The timing of the grants can inflate the profit when the options are exercised.

At least 200 companies have disclosed internal or federal investigations into stock options, and 100 have announced they must restate previously reported financial results. So far, the restatements, revisions and charges exceed $11 billion. More than 70 executives and directors have left their jobs, and over 300 lawsuits have been filed against more than 100 companies.

L-3 said on Aug. 9 that it planned to reimburse employees for incremental taxes on options after finding discrepancies in the prices for some of the grants.
446 2007-03-15 Jeffrey A. McDermott, one of three global heads of investment banking at UBS, will leave June 30 after six years at the bank, according to a company memo.

Mr. McDermott, 48, is leaving “to pursue outside entrepreneurial opportunities,” according to a memo sent to employees yesterday.

The memo’s contents were confirmed by Rohini Pragasam, a spokeswoman in New York, who declined to comment further.

UBS’s global investment banking division, which advises clients on takeovers and equity and debt underwriting, is jointly led by Mr. McDermott, J. Richard Leaman III and Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell, who is based in London. Mr. Leaman and Mr. Wilmot-Sitwell will continue as co-heads of the division, the memo said.

UBS, based in Zurich, is Switzerland’s biggest bank and was the No. 2 underwriter of equity offerings globally last year, behind Goldman Sachs, and the seventh-ranked adviser on global takeovers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
447 2007-03-15 The House overwhelmingly approved legislation to force government agencies to be more responsive to the millions of Freedom of Information Act requests for public documents they receive every year. It also easily passed bills to require donors to presidential libraries to identify themselves — an issue as President Bush prepares for his own library — and to reverse a 2001 Bush decision making it easier for presidents to keep their records from public scrutiny. The White House, citing the president’s constitutional prerogatives, warned that Mr. Bush would veto the presidential records bill.
448 2007-03-15 Use of the anemia drugs Aranesp and Epogen, made by Amgen, and Procrit, from Johnson & Johnson, will be reviewed by federal health insurance programs because of concerns that side effects may be harming patients.

The study will lead to a determination by the Medicare agency on whether it will continue to pay for use of the drugs.

Plans for the review were disclosed in a statement released yesterday in Washington by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

The announcement followed the Food and Drug Administration’s disclosure on March 9 that it would require the makers of the three drugs to include stronger warnings about health risks, including death.

“We pay close attention to F.D.A. black box warnings because the safety of our Medicare beneficiaries is paramount,” said Leslie V. Norwalk, acting director of the Medicare agency. “We will carefully examine the effect of these labeling changes on Medicare’s policies.”

Black boxes are the highest level of warning contained in drug information provided to doctors and patients.
449 2007-03-15 Families of victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks cannot view hundreds of thousands of nonpublic documents used in the trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, an appeals court said, overturning a lower court’s order. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, said the families were not entitled to view documents that were given to Mr. Moussaoui’s lawyers to aid his defense but were not made public. Mr. Moussaoui, 38, is the only person charged in the United States in connection with the attacks.
450 2007-03-15 “What was mishandled was the explanation of the cases to Congress,” he said. “And Al has got work to do up there.”

Mr. Bush’s critique, at a morning press conference with President Felipe Calderón of Mexico that was supposed to showcase close ties between the two countries, underscored the tenuous nature of Mr. Gonzales’s hold on his job. A Republican close to the White House said Mr. Fielding would determine whether Mr. Gonzales could remain.

In the afternoon, Senator John E. Sununu of New Hampshire became the first Republican lawmaker to call for the attorney general to step down.

“The president needs a strong, reliable, assertive attorney general who will be effective in dealing with Congress on domestic security, immigration issues and the war on terrorism,” Mr. Sununu said in a telephone interview. “Unfortunately, Alberto Gonzales over the last 18 months has lost the confidence of the Congress and the American people, and he’s not in a position to serve the president effectively.”

Mr. Sununu tangled with Mr. Gonzales over the reauthorization of the Patriot Act last year,

Other Republicans, though not quite as pointedly, also expressed strong doubts about Mr. Gonzales on Wednesday, particularly in light of his press conference the day before, where he apologized by saying “mistakes were made.”

At a private meeting of Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday, no one spoke up in support of Mr. Gonzales, according to a person who was there.

“The U.S. attorney general is probably facing the deepest crisis of his particular tenure,” Senator John Ensign, a Nevada Republican who has been critical of the dismissal of a prosecutor in his state, said in an interview. “We will find out how he handles this over the next few weeks, whether he is the kind of leader that deserves to stay in office.”

Questions about the dismissals have been swirling around the administration since January, but reached a fever pitch this week when the White House, trying to get out in front of the Democrats’ investigations, acknowledged that Mr. Bush had relayed complaints to Mr. Gonzales and released e-mail messages showing correspondence between White House officials and the Justice Department over a list of which prosecutors would lose their jobs.

Democrats are now demanding additional documents, as well as testimony under oath from three top current and former White House officials: Mr. Rove; Harriet E. Miers, the former White House counsel; and William Kelley, the deputy counsel.

The chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, said he would subpoena them if they refused to appear.

“I intend to get the testimony,” Mr. Leahy said in an interview. “If they don’t want to come voluntarily, then I will subpoena them. If the White House wants still to refuse, you have to ask yourself, Why stonewall? If they’ve got nothing to hide, why not testify?”

Mr. Fielding, who met privately with a small group of lawmakers to discuss the requests for documents and testimony, promised an answer after he consulted with Mr. Bush, said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has been spearheading the investigation in the Senate and attended the session.

“He said that he’s got to check it with the higher-ups,” Mr. Schumer said, “and the higher-up he mentioned was the president, and he said he would get back to us on Friday. We made a real pitch that he shouldn’t invoke privilege, and he seemed to agree with us. And he said that he wanted to make this work because he had a reputation, his own reputation, to uphold.”

The lone Republican to attend the meeting, Representative Chris Cannon of Utah, said Mr. Fielding’s visit sent an important signal to the group. “That’s the president’s way of saying, ‘We take this seriously’ ” Mr. Cannon said.

United States attorneys are political appointees and serve at the pleasure of the president — a point Mr. Bush took pains to note at his press conference on Wednesday, when he said, “Past administrations have removed U.S. attorneys; they’re right to do so.”

The recent dismissals, involving eight prosecutors, however, are unusual.

In the past, incoming administrations have replaced United States attorneys with their own presidential appointees after taking over from the other political party, as President Bill Clinton did when he won the White House after 12 years of Republican control. But neither the Clinton nor the Reagan administrations sought the removal of United States attorneys in their second terms.

Democrats, as well as some Republicans, including Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, say they want to know whether the dismissals were motivated by a desire to squelch corruption investigations involving Republicans.

Mr. Specter has expressed particular concern about the dismissal of Carol C. Lam, who prosecuted Randy Cunningham, the former Republican congressman now serving an eight-year sentence in a corruption case.

Mr. Specter, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, said Wednesday that he was not satisfied with Mr. Gonzales’s public comments, in which he said he did not know how his staff had handled the dismissals. Mr. Specter has been a critic of Mr. Gonzales on several issues, especially the administration’s domestic eavesdropping program.

“It’s not a matter of accepting responsibility,” Mr. Specter said. “It’s a matter of whether there is justification for asking those U.S. attorneys to resign. That is the issue, and we need to know a lot more than we’ve been told. Gonzales said yesterday he didn’t know why they were asked to resign. Well, it’s time he knew. ‘’
451 2007-03-15 “Let me assure you that no one is proud of what happened last year,” Mr. Hurd told shareholders. “We need to transform our board the same way we transformed the company.”

Federal investigators are still looking into the spying incidents.

The quiet resolution of the case was a vindication for the defendants, who briefly became symbols of the challenge of balancing corporate responsibilities and individual privacy rights. It came after several weeks of negotiations between lawyers for the defendants and the office of the California state attorney general, Jerry Brown.

The attorney general’s office ultimately endorsed the dismissal of charges against Ms. Dunn and reduced the charges against the three others: Kevin T. Hunsaker, a former company lawyer, and two private investigators, Ronald R. DeLia and Matthew DePante.

Lawyers for the defendants argued that their clients did not commit a crime, in part because they acted without criminal intent. James J. Brosnahan, a lawyer for Ms. Dunn, said she consulted accomplished lawyers before approving an investigation that ultimately involved pretexting, and was told that she was acting within the law.

“She received the benefit of advice that what was being done was perfectly legal.” Mr. Brosnahan added. “She never had the slightest criminal intent.”

While ignorance of the law is not a defense, Mr. Brosnahan said there were other considerations, including the fact that the pretexting laws were in flux at the time of the offense.

“The law was shifting and changing,” he said. “This resolution recognizes they may have gotten caught up in a changing legal landscape.”

Joseph A. Grundfest, a professor of law and business at Stanford University, said another important factor could have been the changing political landscape. The charges against the defendants were brought by the former attorney general, Bill Lockyer, who was elected California state treasurer in November.

“The one important thing that’s changed between now and then was an election,” Mr. Grundfest said. “The indictment was brought by an official on the eve of seeking election, and the dismissal and reductions of charges were brought by an official that had just been elected.”

A spokesman for Mr. Brown, Nathan Barankin, said officials had not made a mistake in bringing charges against the defendants. He would not directly address whether politics had played a role in the filing of charges or their ultimate outcome.

“Criminal complaints are filed all the time, and it’s a judge who determines the appropriate sentence,” Mr. Barankin said. He said the resolution of the case had been proposed by the court and agreed to by the attorney general.

The case stemmed from an internal investigation at Hewlett-Packard that was started by Ms. Dunn in 2005 and aimed at finding the sources of apparent leaks to journalists from the board. The first phase of the investigation ended inconclusively, but the hunt started again in January 2006, after more articles that appeared to contain information from directors.

The investigation ultimately involved the hiring of outside investigators, who obtained personal phone records of board members and journalists in an effort to find connections between them and ferret out the source of leaks.

Prosecutors asserted that the chain of investigators included Mr. DeLia, a Boston-area private detective; Mr. DePante, manager of the Action Research Group, an information broker in Melbourne, Fla.; and Bryan Wagner of Littleton, Colo., who worked for Mr. DePante gathering phone records. The original criminal complaint said that pretexting was involved in the obtaining of records from 24 individuals’ homes, offices, cellphones and fax numbers.

Mr. Wagner, who was at the bottom of the investigative chain, later pleaded guilty to federal pretexting charges, the one conviction in the case.

But the fallout was broader, including the resignations of Ms. Dunn, Mr. Hunsaker and Ann O. Baskins, the company’s top lawyer.

Mr. Barankin said the case also brought wider attention to pretexting and has led to a decline in the use of the practice. He cited information provided by telephone companies.

“Since the case was filed, the amount of pretexting going on in the entire country has fallen dramatically,” Mr. Barankin said.

Ms. Dunn’s case was complicated by the fact that she is suffering from late-stage ovarian cancer. Her lawyer, Mr. Brosnahan, said Judge Cunningham indicated that her health was among the factors involved in the dismissal of charges, but not the overriding one.

The dismissal “was much more on the merits than it was on her health,” Mr. Brosnahan said.

In a statement, Ms. Dunn said, “I am pleased that this matter has been resolved fairly, and want to express my deep gratitude to my husband and family, who never lost faith in me throughout this ordeal.”

At the start of the shareholder meeting’s question-and-answer session on Wednesday, Mr. Hurd said he would not talk about Ms. Dunn or the resolution of the case.

Shareholders appeared to give Mr. Hurd a vote of confidence at the meeting and indicated that they thought last year’s problems were now squarely behind the company.

They voted to re-elect all eight members of the current board, and voted down a proposal to allow stockholders to nominate up to two board candidates, leaving the responsibility with Mr. Hurd and the other directors.

That proposal, which gained about 39 percent of the shares voted on Wednesday, was fiercely opposed by H.P. executives, who said the board already accommodated shareholder input.

Proponents of the proposal said that it would have prevented the company from electing directors who represented “special interests,” and that it was an appropriate response to the spying scandal.

“The board of H.P. has exemplified dysfunction,” said Scott Adams, a spokesman for the pension fund of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which sponsored the proposal along with the New York State Common Retirement Fund and several other funds. “The board’s greatest contribution in 2006 was introducing the word ‘pretexting’ into the American lexicon.”

Mr. Hurd moved to assure shareholders that the company was back on track. “There’s been solid progress across H.P.,” he said. “We are committed to executing with discipline.”
452 2007-03-15 So far, the housing bust has been mainly about subprime lenders going broke, bankers and investors trying to avoid the fallout, and regulators rousing — too late, apparently — from hibernation. The story yet to unfold involves the millions of American families who are in danger of losing their homes.

Last December, the nonpartisan Center for Responsible Lending estimated that 1.7 million homeowners were in harm’s way. Fresh evidence of a meltdown — from the Mortgage Bankers Association — suggests that estimate may be too low. The association reported this week that the share of mortgages entering the foreclosure process in the last quarter of 2006 was at its highest level since the group began keeping track 37 years ago. Borrowers with subprime loans have been hardest hit, but all major loan types have been affected, as the housing market weakens amid upward adjustments in monthly payments on many mortgages.

The personal tragedy is only the start. Borrowers presently faced with losing their homes stand to lose $164 billion of wealth in the process. Whole communities pay the price. Foreclosures tend to cluster in neighborhoods, leading to sharp declines in property values, business investment and tax revenues.

Responding to the mortgage bankers’ grim report, Senator Christopher Dodd, chairman of the Banking Committee and a presidential hopeful, broached the possibility of federal help for struggling homeowners. The most plausible relief measures — detailed in a new report by the Center for American Progress, a liberal research and advocacy group — involve federal boosts to existing state and local programs. Those include counseling to help strapped families plan for rising monthly payments and renegotiate their loans, legal aid and short-term loans for eligible borrowers. One study shows that a federal grant of $25 million could replicate proven local programs in other areas now experiencing spikes in foreclosures.

Mr. Dodd and his fellow lawmakers could be particularly effective at this stage in framing the case for federal help. Relief would be a cost-effective, humane response to homeowners trapped by complex, unmanageable — and, in a growing number of cases, seemingly predatory — loans. Time and resources to renegotiate those loans or sell an unaffordable property could save many families and communities from calamity.
453 2007-03-15 Microsoft said yesterday that it had agreed to buy Tellme Networks to add voice-recognition software that lets users obtain a phone listing, order a pizza and search the Internet.

Financial terms were not disclosed, but the deal was said to be worth more than $800 million, making it Microsoft’s biggest acquisition since 2002.

The purchase gives Microsoft voice-recognition programs it can combine with mobile phone applications, as well as Office word processing and e-mail software. Steven A. Ballmer, the Microsoft chief executive, said that search on cellphones would be one of the next battlegrounds between Microsoft and the Internet search leader, Google.

Microsoft said it expected the acquisition to close in the second quarter.

Tellme handles toll-free customer-support hot lines for companies, among them Merrill Lynch, FedEx, Domino’s Pizza and American Airlines. About 40 percent of directory assistance calls in the United States are handled by Tellme through contracts with phone service providers, according to the company’s Web site.

The company, which is profitable and will become part of Microsoft’s business division, is also testing a service that lets users speak into a mobile phone to find local business listings — a florist in Palo Alto, Calif., for example. The phone displays information and maps.

“They’re using software as a way to help people get access to the information they need,” said Jeff Raikes, president of Microsoft’s business division. “We think that is a powerful use of software.”

Jason Maynard, an analyst at Credit Suisse in San Francisco, estimated in a note yesterday that Tellme had annual revenue of more than $100 million. Tellme also operates 1-800-555-TELL, where callers can obtain stock quotes, sports scores and driving directions.
454 2007-03-15 BAGHDAD, March 14 — From the day that Mudhafer al-Ubaidi, 47, took the job as the head of the Adhamiya District Council in Baghdad, he was a marked man. His predecessor had been killed by insurgents in the predominantly Sunni neighborhood four months ago.

Most areas of Baghdad are battlegrounds, but none are worse than Sunni Arab neighborhoods, where anyone trying to help fellow residents, even Sunnis helping fellow Sunnis, is viewed as a traitor to the insurgent cause.

On Wednesday, it was Mr. Ubaidi who was gunned down. The hulking former army officer was on his way to work at 8:30 in the morning when gunmen opened fire on his car. Two escorts with him were also killed; his son, who was in the car, was unharmed.

Mr. Ubaidi talked to a reporter in his sparely appointed neon-lit office within the battered gray council building on Monday, just days before his death.

That day, he loomed over his desk, greeting women on the verge of tears and stony-faced men who had come to tell their troubles. Before him on the desk were piles of letters from community members documenting their grief. Each letter was a plea for help. Written by hand in flowing Arabic script that often traveled to the edge of the page as if the writer had more to say than each line could fit, they documented the battle to survive.
455 2007-03-15 BOLOGNA, Italy, March 14 — The Vatican on Wednesday rebuked a Jesuit priest who is a leading proponent of liberation theology, saying that some of his writings, well known in Latin America, were “either erroneous or dangerous.”

But the rebuke, issued two months before Pope Benedict XVI travels to Brazil in his first trip to Latin America, stopped short of any immediate disciplinary action against the priest, the Rev. Jon Sobrino. He is a Spanish theologian who has lived for decades in El Salvador and was close to Archbishop Óscar Romero, who was killed in 1980 during the civil war there.

Several other key figures in liberation theology, which stresses the church’s special responsibility to defend the poor and dispossessed, have been barred from teaching and publishing in the last decades. Conservative theologians, among them Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the former Vatican defender of the faith who became pope in 2005, criticized liberation theology as unorthodox and influenced by Marxist notions of class struggle.

A Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, told reporters in Rome that the purpose was not to criticize Father Sobrino personally but “to explain what was found erroneous in the writings, and thus to alert the faithful.” He said the “warning” did not bar Father Sobrino from publishing or teaching, but he did not rule out future actions from his immediate superiors in the Jesuit order.

While the rebuke said “the preoccupation of the author for the plight of the poor is admirable,” it nonetheless criticized his work on six broad theological grounds, largely accusing him of insufficiently emphasizing the divinity of Jesus Christ.

Father Sobrino, who lives in San Salvador and is reportedly suffering from diabetes, did not issue any statement.
456 2007-03-15 Barbara Gittings, a prominent gay rights activist who a decade before the Stonewall rebellion of 1969 was agitating for the rights of lesbians and gay men, died on Feb. 18 at her home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 74.

The cause was breast cancer, said her partner, Kay Tobin Lahusen.

At a time when few gay men and women dared come out in private, much less in public, Ms. Gittings was a vocal — and highly visible — figure in the fledgling gay rights movement. In the late 1950s, she founded the New York chapter of the Daughters of Bilitis, the first national organization for lesbians. In the 1960s, she took part in early gay rights demonstrations at the White House and elsewhere. In the early 1970s, she helped lobby the American Psychiatric Association to change its stance on homosexuality; in 1973, the association rescinded its definition of homosexuality as a mental disorder.

“She was one of the rare people in the homophile movement — before Stonewall — who took a militant stance,” David Carter, the author of “Stonewall: The Riots That Sparked the Gay Revolution” (St. Martin’s, 2004), said in a telephone interview. “And she not only took a militant stance, but she was in the forefront.”

Ms. Gittings also worked to make information about gay men and lesbians more widely available in libraries. Though not a librarian by training, she was for many years the head of the American Library Association’s Gay Task Force. (It is known today as the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgendered Round Table.) In that capacity, she oversaw and edited the association’s comprehensive bibliography of literature by and about gay men and lesbians.

As Ms. Gittings often said in interviews, she became keenly aware of the need for such a bibliography as a young woman, when she scoured local libraries, seeking, but seldom finding, something that would help her understand her own life.
457 2007-03-15 The Goldman Sachs Group was fined $2 million by market regulators yesterday for allowing clients to make illegal short sales before stock offerings.

Goldman did not follow procedures that might have uncovered a pattern of illegal trades from 2000 to 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange said in statements.

If there are signs clients are lying, “the broker must investigate the customer’s trading,” David Nelson, an S.E.C. regional director overseeing the case, said in a statement.

Regulators are increasingly holding prime brokers accountable if they do not act on signs that hedge funds and other clients are conducting illegal trades. Susan L. Merrill, the exchange’s enforcement chief, warned in November that agencies would take action if brokers did not prevent abuses like making improper short sales before public offerings.

In short selling, traders bet a stock’s price will decline by borrowing shares to sell in the open market, with the intention of repurchasing them later and pocketing the difference. Goldman’s clients broke rules by seeking to cover their short sales with stocks to be bought in secondary offerings, the S.E.C. said. That let them take advantage of expected price drops when the shares hit the market.
458 2007-03-15 The Anti-Defamation League reported yesterday that anti-Semitic occurrences were down last year in New York and New Jersey, states with the highest number of cases of vandalism and harassment against Jews, but that such events increased in Connecticut, which ranks seventh nationally. In 2006 there were 284 such cases in New York, down 25 percent from the previous year, the league said. There were 244 cases in New Jersey, down 8 percent, and 77 in Connecticut, up 35 percent from 2005. “While the decreasing numbers in New Jersey reflect a national trend, they also show a continuing need to erase the persistent scourge of anti-Semitism, especially among our youth,” said Etzion Neuer, the league’s regional director, based in New Jersey.
459 2007-03-15 Regulators are keeping a close eye on these funds. Market regulators from Britain and Hong Kong are meeting Indian regulators in Mumbai in April to discuss hedge fund participation in markets. It is the first time India has been host of such a roundtable.

A fifteenfold increase in market capitalization on Vietnam’s stock market recently ignited fears among regional market analysts that Vietnamese regulators would impose capital controls to start shutting out foreign investors.

Aggressive hedge fund managers normally take positions intended to profit from a market decline if they anticipate one. Many say that the correction in late February was widely expected. In December, fund managers in Asia say they had begun warning of an imminent slide in markets.

What is surprising about the February drop, though, analysts said, was how few hedge fund managers appeared to have actually profited from the market declines. Instead, they seemed to have been trying to take advantage of the bull market for Asian stocks and bonds by buying aggressively.

Short selling, bets that certain stocks will fall, is not allowed in some Asian equity markets. But fund managers can mimic that strategy by using complicated financial derivatives and options to achieve the same effect. When stocks started to move down, though, investors jumped out, making drops even steeper.

Referring to the sell-off that began in late February, Henry To, investment adviser at MarketThoughts, said, “At the height of the selling, money managers in Asia were remarking that they have not experienced this kind of selling intensity since the height of the Asia Crisis” in 1997 and 1998.

A focus on hedge funds does not tell the whole story, though, emerging market veterans say.

“The ferocity to which the market decline in China spilled over to the global markets is to some extent attributable to hedge funds,” said Marc Faber, an investment adviser, nicknamed Dr. Doom for his bearish sentiments. “But today, it is not just the hedge funds that act like hedge funds — it is also the proprietary desks of banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.”

Because the compensation of traders at these banks is based on short- term trading profits, “when the market goes down they all sell,” Mr. Faber said.

Wall Street investment banks have poured money and talent into proprietary trading desks in recent years, helping to earn record profits for their banks. Assets under management at these proprietary desks are difficult to quantify, but analysts at Keefe Bruyette & Woods estimate that these banks have more than doubled the amount of money in those businesses since 2001.

Other factors are also influencing the Asian equity markets. Hedge funds are “a growing player, and arguably a shorter-term player,” said Hugh Young, managing director at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia. “But there is a lot of human emotion involved across the board,” from both hedge funds, traditional funds and other investors.

A wide array of established hedge funds and the firms that service them are setting up shop or expanding operations in Asia, including K2 Advisors and Bisys Alternative Investment Services.

In some thinly traded Asian markets, the influx of new capital can be felt keenly.

Trading volume of Asian interest rate derivatives tripled, to $414 billion, in 2006 from the year before, Greenwich said, and the amount of credit derivatives doubled to $67 billion. Greenwich Associates estimates that hedge funds account for 30 percent of the total trading in one of these assets, structured credit derivatives.

What is difficult is quantifying how each market participant adds to Asian volatility. “Liquidity is an ephemeral concept at best,” said Edmund Harriss, investment director at Guinness Atkinson Asset Managers and manager of three Asia-focused funds.

For example, estimates for the carry trade, where investors borrow yen at low interest rates and convert into other currencies to make investments in higher yielding markets, “range from $100 billion to $600 billion, and we have no idea and can’t measure it,” Mr. Harriss said.

Rather than blaming hedge funds, “we should take a step back and look at what is going on in equity markets generally: we should expect volatility in equity markets, period, and that is because we are not sure which way the economy is going to go,” Mr. Harriss said.

Heavy-handed efforts to control foreign investment have proved disastrous for Asian regulators. Citing a flow of $1 billion into its bond market in a single week, Thailand’s central bank imposed capital controls in December, a move that investors punished by sending the country’s stock market down 7 percent in a single day. Thailand has since relaxed those controls.

Policy makers in South Korea and the Philippines have relaxed restrictions on capital outflows to slow the appreciation of their currencies.
460 2007-03-15 The Venerable Maha Ghosananda, a Buddhist monk who led the rebuilding of his religion in Cambodia, calling for peace and reconciliation after the overthrow of the Khmer Rouge in 1979, died Monday in Northampton, Mass. He was in his late 70s and lived in Providence, R.I., and Leverett, Mass.

The death was confirmed by Christina Trinchero, a spokeswoman for Cooley Dickinson Hospital in Northampton.

Cambodian monks elected Maha Ghosananda (his monastic name) as a supreme Buddhist patriarch in 1988. By then, his efforts to bring solace to a nation in which more than 1.5 million people were starved, worked to death or executed under the Communist dictatorship of Pol Pot had inspired many to call him “the Cambodian Gandhi.”

In his 2002 book “The Future of Peace: On the Front Lines With the World’s Great Peacemakers,” Scott A. Hunt, a professor of Buddhism at the University of California, Berkeley, wrote that Maha Ghosananda’s ability to forgive those “responsible for the murder of his entire family is incomprehensible,” until one heard his explanation of Buddhism.

Maha Ghosananda said he “does not question that loving one’s oppressors — Cambodians loving the Khmer Rouge — may be the most difficult attitude to achieve,” then added, “But it is the law of the universe that retaliation, hatred and revenge only continue the cycle.”

Reconciliation, he continued, “means that we see ourselves as the opponent; for what is the opponent but a being in ignorance, and we ourselves are also ignorant of many things.”
461 2007-03-15 The Miss America organization said yesterday that it had moved the Miss New York competition from Watertown, near the Canadian border, where it had been held since 1982, to Huntington, on Long Island, more than 300 miles south, so that the pageant could be more convenient for women from New York City.

The current Miss New York is Bethlene Pancoast, a property manager for 25 shopping centers and whose talent was “a cappella tap dance.” She is from Brooklyn and majored in mathematics and musical theater at New York University.

This year’s Miss New York competition will be held July 12-to-14 at the Dix Hills Center for the Performing Arts in Huntington.

The winner of each year’s pageant goes on to compete in the Miss America contest. And the shift in New York locations is one of many changes in the larger competition, once one of the most watched network television events in the nation but now consigned to the narrower reach of cable television.

The contest moved from its longtime home in Atlantic City to Nashville and other cities. In January, the contest drew 2.4 million viewers on the CMT network, down from a recent peak of 25 million viewers in 1995 on ABC.

Huntington with a population of nearly 200,000 is more than seven times larger than Watertown.

“So many of the past Miss New Yorks have been from the New York City metropolitan area that we felt that it was time to showcase our community and play host to the pageant and really utilize all the resources we have on Long Island,” Dr. Paul C. Brown, a pageant co-executive director, said in a statement. By contrast, Miss Americas in the recent past have come from the Midwest and the South, usually from small towns.

The last Miss New York to be crowned Miss America came from a Watertown competition, but her reign came to a hasty end.
462 2007-03-15 If the United States were a nation of independent voters and open primaries, people could avoid the angst that goes with party affiliation.

Imagine if we all directed our loyalty to our fellow citizens, and our donations to individuals and groups that make our country and the world a better place, instead of to political parties. Just imagine.
463 2007-03-15 Prescription sleeping pills can cause unusual behavior like driving and eating while asleep, the Food and Drug Administration warned today.

The F.D.A. ordered the makers of Ambien, Lunesta and 11 other commonly used sleep medications to issue strong new label warnings about those risks, and to produce brochures about safe use of the drugs. Pharmacies would give the brochures to patients when prescriptions are dispensed.

The agency will also require label warnings to note the possibility of severe allergic reactions and facial swelling associated with the use of such sleep medications.

The agency had been reviewing the side effects of sleeping pills since last year, after some users of the widely prescribed drug Ambien complained that they sleepwalked and gorged themselves on food or were arrested while driving in their sleep.

In each case the consumers had no recollection of the events, which occurred after they took Ambien and headed for bed.
464 2007-03-15 Investors sold Asian and European equities after United States stocks fell significantly yesterday because of concerns about home loans made to borrowers with weak credit histories. An American mortgage association said yesterday that a record number of homes entered the foreclosure process at the end of last year.

The Dow Jones had its second-worst trading day of the year yesterday, finishing down 1.97 percent. The S.& P. 500 fell 2.04 percent. Shares of financial companies led the way.

Today in Asia, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index closed down 2.57 percent at 18,836.93. Tokyo’s Nikkei 225 was down 2.92 percent at 16,676.89, and Standard & Poor’s Australia index dropped 2.1 percent to close at 5,741.90.

After Asia’s sharp falls, European stocks opened weak. At the end of the trading day, indexes in Britain, France and Germany were each down about 2.5 percent.

Francis Lun, general manager of Fulbright Securities in Hong Kong, said that the crisis in the United States housing market was having a “destructive effect on global financial markets around the world.”

After several months of smooth climbing, Asian equity investors have been treated to a bumpy ride in recent weeks. They could face even more volatility in the future, analysts say.

Asian markets have been flooded with liquidity in the past 24 months, thanks to a combination of domestic investors, hedge funds and proprietary trading desks at banks. Many of these investors trade on the movement of market indices, exacerbating stock drops and heightening their jumps.

The shares of banks and lending institutions in Asia were hard hit today, as were companies that make consumer goods. The number of United States consumers who are late paying off their home loans is climbing steadily, particularly among borrowers with a history of credit problems, known as subprime borrowers.

Asian investors and economists predict that these consumers will stop buying new cars, electronics and other goods, hurting Asian economies.

Japan’s Chiba Bank closed down 4.31 percent today to 1,022 yen, or about $8.72, and the Sony Corporation dropped 4.09 percent to 5,869 yen.

HSBC Holdings, the British bank, dropped 1.5 percent in Hong Kong to 135 Hong Kong dollars, or about $17.28.

HSBC has been hurt by United States housing market problems after it bought Household International in 2003, a United States lender that specializes in loans to borrowers with bad credit. On Feb. 7, HSBC shocked investors when it said it was setting aside $1.76 billion to cover potential mortgage losses in America, 20 percent more than analysts had estimated. The drumbeat of bad consumer news from the United States, where more than 1 in 10 subprime home borrowers are late paying back their loans, is having an effect on investors’ appetite for risky stocks, analysts say.

“Investors are becoming a bit more risk adverse,” said Yiping Huang, economic and market analysis with Citigroup Global Markets Asia.

In Europe today, investors’ worries about continuing negative news concerning the American economy, including possible slower earnings growth, were behind the stock market declines, analysts said.

“Even though European earnings have been much more robust, and Europe has not suffered the same problems in banking and consumer behavior as the U.S., if the U.S. is going in a slowdown direction then that is the main driver,” Andrew Lapthorne, a research analyst at Dresdner Kleinwort in London, said.

Mortgage lenders in Europe, where the subprime lending market is far less developed, have not suffered as much as their American counterparts.

Annik Lambert, secretary general of the European Mortgage Federation, said that subprime lending is not as much of a problem in Europe because consumer protection legislation prevents financial institutions from granting loans with interest rates above a certain level.

Nevertheless, investors in Europe are concerned about earnings growth at banks.

In Britain, higher interest rates and rising costs for gas and electricity have pushed personal insolvencies to record levels.

Lloyds TSB Group, the biggest provider of consumer loans in Britain, said last month that its consumer and mortgage lending was decelerating.

Meanwhile, the Bank of England’s three interest-rate increases since August have so far failed to cool the property market, meaning that consumers are still willing to take on debt, although at a slower rate.
465 2007-03-15 President Bush said Wednesday that he had confidence in Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, but that he was ''frankly not happy about'' the way Mr. Gonzales had handled the dismissal of federal prosecutors, a move that has led to a Congressional...
466 2007-03-15 The Anti-Defamation League reported yesterday that anti-Semitic occurrences were down last year in New York and New Jersey, states with the highest number of cases of vandalism and harassment against Jews, but that such events increased in Connect...
467 2007-03-15 To the Editor:     Re ''G.O.P. Voters Voice Anxieties on Party's Fate'' (front page, March 13):     If the United States were a nation of independent voters and open primaries, people could avoid the angst that goes with party affiliation....
468 2007-03-15 The clashes were the bloody culmination of routine, if risky, police work: One officer was shot in a Harlem restaurant on Tuesday night, and another was stabbed in the head in a Brooklyn subway station about 90 minutes later.      In each case, of...
469 2007-03-15 WARNING FOR SLEEPING PILLS -- The most widely prescribed sleeping pills, including Ambien and Lunesta, can cause strange behavior like driving and eating while asleep, the Food and Drug Administration said, announcing that strong new warnings woul...
470 2007-03-16 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
471 2007-03-16 "Brian, help!"...
472 2007-03-16 He backed off his use of the term in response to a question about divorce....
473 2007-03-16 In one way, at least, there is a winner in the competition between private equity and hedge funds: Private equity, by a score of 30-17. This battle was fought not on Wall Street, or even in the leafy environs of Greenwich, Conn., but on a basketba...
474 2007-03-16 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
475 2007-03-16 The research analyst who is a key player in the fight between Fairfax Holdings and short-selling hedge funds was indicted Thursday on wire fraud charges unrelated to the case. Spyro Contogouris was formally charged in relation to a case related to...
476 2007-03-16 Evidence is weak that hedge funds are better stock pickers than mutual funds, a recent academic study suggests. The study was based on quarterly reports of funds' long positions filed with regulators, rather than on published hedge fund indexes, w...
477 2007-03-16 Vivendi's Universal Music has offered to sell key catalogues, including the songbooks of Britney Spears and the Spice Girls, to win the European Union's go-ahead for its 1.63 billion euro ($2.17 billion) takeover of BMG Music Publishing, The Guard...
478 2007-03-16 The Intercontinental Exchange's surprise $10 billion bid for the Chicago Board of Trade is expected to provide an added lift to Montreal Exchange's initial public offering, and could help boost the value of the upstart derivatives market to more t...
479 2007-03-16 Mitchel S. Guttenberg, the UBS banker who has been charged with conspiracy and securities fraud Thursday for allegedly masterminding an insider tarding scheme, apparently got his inside dope from his perch on an elite committee at UBS that signed ...
480 2007-03-16 The finance minister of Germany said Thursday that he favored the development of an internationally accepted "code of conduct" for the $1.4 trillion hedge fund industry but that it would take the world's leading economies at least a year to decide...
481 2007-03-16 There would seem to be plenty of differences between E. Stanley O'Neal and Deborah C. Wright. He heads Merrill Lynch, one of Wall Street's largest firms, while she leads Carver Federal Savings Bank, the country's largest black financial institutio...
482 2007-03-16 Mr. Ghosn would focus on the overall strategy for both Renault and Nissan, said Nissan, which shuffled its management team.

In the statement, Mr. Ghosn said, “The priority for our new management team is to act decisively on the multiple challenges facing Nissan and to boost our overall performance in 2007.”

Frederique LeGreves, a spokeswoman for Nissan North America, said the management changes were part of a normal review by Nissan. The company usually leaves senior managers in place for two years. However, Mr. Ghosn had not made changes for three years and felt it was time for executives to be reassigned.

“I think it was the right time for him” to take those steps, Ms. LeGreves said. “And it’s just the right time for him to focus on the bigger picture for Nissan and Renault. He will continue to watch the U.S. very closely.”

Ms. LeGreves said Mr. Saikawa would be based in Japan, where he also is in charge of Nissan’s purchasing operations, leaving day-to-day responsibilities for North America to Nissan executives here.

Mr. Ghosn became a global figure in the automobile industry for his stunning turn around this decade at Nissan. Named its president after Renault took management control in 1999, Mr. Ghosn implemented three successive restructuring plans, which collectively cut the company’s debt, improved its profits and expanded its global sales, particularly in the United States, where Mr. Ghosn put himself in overall charge of its operations.

But as Nissan was rising, problems occurred at Renault, where Mr. Ghosn had led a turnaround in the 1990s that honed his reputation as a restructuring specialist. Last year, Mr. Ghosn announced a recovery plan for Renault and began leading both companies.

Meanwhile, Nissan’s sales fell last year in the United States, where it experienced a product drought after a relentless push of new vehicles over the past few years.

In the midst of that, Mr. Ghosn joined forces last summer with Kirk Kerkorian, then the largest shareholder at General Motors, to propose a three-way alliance between G.M., Renault and Nissan. But the discussions fell apart after G.M. demanded an up front payment from Renault and Nissan to account for the value that it thought those two companies would gain from an arrangement.

Though Mr. Ghosn had said he might seek another North American partner, he has since backed away from the idea of expanding the Renault-Nissan alliance. Neither company has taken part in discussions with DaimlerChrysler, which is talking to potential bidders for the Chrysler Group, a sale that may take place as soon as this spring.

[In response to a sharp slide in its domestic sales, Nissan said today that it would move to a single shift between April and June at the Oppama and Tochigi plants, which assemble about a dozen models ranging from the March subcompact to the Infiniti Q45 sport-utility vehicle, The Associated Press reported].
483 2007-03-16 Gas-powered boots, first conceived by a Russian student in 1974, have been held up as a symbol of Russia's inability to convert rich scientific traditions into useful merchandise....
484 2007-03-16 SACRAMENTO, March 15 — The Indiana Hoosiers came to California and seemed to lose all of their core Midwestern values.

In doing so, they advanced to the second round of the N.C.A.A. tournament.

Famous for their bruising defense and stubborn interior play, the Hoosiers hung out at the 3-point line Thursday night and took down the Gonzaga Bulldogs from long range, 70-57.

Gonzaga was most concerned about D. J. White, the Indiana power forward who muscles his way through the paint. But the player who really hurt the Bulldogs was Roderick Wilmont, a senior from Florida, who had six 3-pointers and 22 points.

Wilmont was hardly alone on the perimeter. The Hoosiers attempted 25 3-pointers, making 9. It is not uncommon for college basketball teams to take 25 3-pointers in a game. But it is somewhat rare for a power team from the Big Ten.

Seeded 10th, Gonzaga made a run in the second half that cut the deficit to 4 points, but Indiana controlled the game throughout. The Hoosiers continued the trend of higher-seeded teams holding off lower-seeded teams on the first day of the tournament.

The seventh-seeded Hoosiers will be prohibitive underdogs when they face U.C.L.A. in the second round on Saturday at Arco Arena. Gonzaga can be beaten from the 3-point line, but U.C.L.A. probably cannot. To upset the Bruins, the Hoosiers will probably have to get back to their strength, finding White and controlling the post.

Regardless of the outcome, Kelvin Sampson's first year as Indiana's coach has to be considered a success. The Hoosiers struggled at times early in the season, but they won 10 games in the Big Ten, putting them one rung below Ohio State and Wisconsin.
485 2007-03-16 Although sixth-seeded Duke was upset, 79-77, by No. 11 seed Virginia Commonwealth, the Blue Devils will be just fine. Granted, Thursday's open-rounding exit from the N.C.A.A. tournament marks the first time Duke has lost in the first round since 1...
486 2007-03-16 WILMINGTON, Del., March 15 (Dow Jones/AP) — A Delaware judge has barred Netsmart Technologies from polling shareholders on a $115 million offer to sell out to private equity firms until it tells investors more about how the software company was shopped.

The ruling, issued late Wednesday, bars a vote, now scheduled April 5, on a $16.50-a-share proposal until Netsmart’s management explains why they agreed to the offer from Insight Venture Partners and Bessemer Venture Partners.

Vice Chancellor Leo E. Strine Jr. of Chancery Court, in a case that some consider a test of how the influential corporate law tribunal will treat the recent rash of private equity deals, was critical of what he termed Netsmart’s “sporadic” efforts to find a strategic buyer that might offer more for the company than private equity investors.

Shareholders who sued to block the deal cited reports that private equity investors court management of target companies to such an extent that top leaders do not always bargain as hard for shareholders as they should.

By looking only at private equity buyers, Netsmart’s board may have failed to find a better deal among strategic buyers, companies that might be interested in adding Netsmart’s software for the mental health industry to their own portfolio of offerings, the judge suggested.

Messages seeking comment on the ruling from Netsmart and the private equity firms were not immediately returned.

Consistently profitable, Netsmart, based in Great Neck, N.Y., drew attention from private equity buyers after buying its largest rival, CMHC Systems, the judge noted.
487 2007-03-16 Nissan Motor plans to cut production at two plants in Japan from April 2 until the end of June because of weaker demand. Nissan will cut a shift on a production line in Kanagawa and in Tochigi Prefectures, a spokesman, Yuichi Nakagawa, said. Each plant has two lines. The plant in Kanagawa makes subcompacts like the March, and the Tochigi plant builds Skyline sedans and other vehicles. Nissan’s domestic vehicle sales, excluding minicars, fell for a 17th straight month in February.
488 2007-03-16 Luxury home prices in London rose at an annual rate of 31 percent in February, the fastest pace in 28 years. The average price of London’s most expensive houses and apartments gained 2.6 percent on a monthly basis, according to data compiled by Knight Frank, a real estate broker based in London. “Prices in central London have for the past two years been growing at three times the rate” of the rest of Britain, said Liam Bailey, the partner in charge of residential research at Knight Frank.
489 2007-03-16 The body of a 6-year-old boy who vanished a week ago while playing near his home in Brunswick was found by a state ranger about three miles from the home. This week, the police arrested four people — a convicted child molester living in the same area, his parents and a friend of theirs — in connection with the disappearance of the boy, Christopher M. Barrios, left. Investigators said the four had told a tangle of stories, that they knew nothing about the disappearance, that the boy was still alive and that he had been abducted, killed and buried. Chief Matt Doering of the Glynn County Police Department said all four would probably be charged with murder in the slaying.
490 2007-03-16 Mr. McCain’s methodical effort to calm conservatives seems to have achieved only limited success, as he was reminded Thursday at a town hall meeting here when a voter challenged him over his stance on immigration. At the same time, the appearance that he has veered to the right may well have cost him critical support among independent voters who once flocked to his candidacy, analysts said.

And as was clear from the rolling procession of local and national television crews that interviewed him throughout the day, Mr. McCain has not put an end to questions about his age, either with deliberately rigorous campaign excursions or with the patter of jokes that have become a standard part of his repertory. “I knew you’d bring that up,” he said with a wan smile when another television interviewer asked him if he was too old, at 70, to be president. “I think I’m doing fine.”

So it was that an updated version of the Straight Talk Express was pressed back into service for the start of four days of campaigning in Iowa and New Hampshire. And Mr. McCain was back on board, promising to expound — at length and with candor — on any question presented as he sought to recapture his Happy Warrior campaign of 2000 and to pivot from the uneasy start of his second campaign.

“This is the way I campaign best: Get on the bus, get off the bus,” Mr. McCain said as the Straight Talk drove circles through downtown Des Moines to permit three networks to get five minutes with him. “I love it.”

Again and again, Mr. McCain said he was pleased with the state of his campaign, unconcerned about a new swell of criticism about his ideological credentials by conservatives this week, and not concerned about early polls. “I am convinced that we are going to be just fine — our campaign is going to be just fine,” he said.

Mr. McCain drew strong crowds at the two town hall meetings he held Thursday, perhaps both by a chance to hear him and to have the free meal offered by the campaign. While he seemed lethargic as the day began, by his second and final public appearance — after being repeatedly questioned by reporters about whether he really had his heart in running again — he had grown increasingly brisk and energized by the applause and another hour of questioning. He seemed in particularly good spirits as he bantered with reporters on the back of his bus.

Whatever problems he might have faced on the public front, behind the scenes, his experienced team of advisers and operatives has been busy raising money, and a strong fund-raising report next month could go a long way toward alleviating concern in Republican circles about the strength of his candidacy.

Still, Mr. McCain’s decision to reprise such a well-known symbol of his 2000 candidacy was evidence of the concern in Mr. McCain’s campaign about the problems he faces in trying to adjust to an election that is not unfolding the way it had hoped.

The outsider of 2000 is now an insider: the familiar face of Washington and the Republican Party, tied to an unpopular war and an unpopular president. It has, as his own advisers said, not been an easy adjustment.

On Thursday, even as he promised a stream of the candid comments that distinguished him in 2000 — “Anything, anything you want to talk about,” he said — he steered clear of offering opinions on two of the biggest issues on the political landscape this week. He declined to say whether he agreed with the assertion by Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that homosexuality is immoral, or whether he thought Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales should be ousted for his handling of the firing of federal prosecutors.

“Congressional hearings should be held,” he said. “A lot of this information is very disturbing.”

As he campaigned for support in what is perhaps the most conservative Republican electorate in the country — Iowa caucus voters — he encountered reminders that he faces deep suspicion because of, among other things, his support for an immigration bill that would permit some illegal immigrants to apply for citizenship.

“I want to know on behalf of veterans why you are not doing more to protect our borders,” said Jeff Heiden, a member of the Air National Guard.

Robert Parker, 72, a retired business teacher, recalled that Mr. McCain had initially opposed Mr. Bush’s tax cuts. “I have been concerned about his consistency,” Mr. Parker said. “He was against the tax cuts.”

Mr. McCain has come under fire for not attending two high-profile gatherings of conservatives in the past two weeks, and the sponsor of one of them, the Club for Growth, issued a report attacking his effort to present himself as a fiscal conservative by recalling his opposition to the tax cuts.

The bus trip “worked very well for him last time,” said Pat Toomey, the president of the Club for Growth. “But it works less well for him now, as he tries to tell people he’s this real conservative candidate and people look at his opposition to the tax cut.”

David A. Keene, who ran the Conservative Political Action Conference, the other conservative event Mr. McCain missed, said the senator had made some progress in repairing relations, but not a significant amount. “His whole thing of trying to get right with the base part of the party, the Bush part of the party, worked,” he said. “But I think he’s been kicking it away.”

If elected, Mr. McCain would be 72 when he took the oath of office, the oldest president ever inaugurated.

The persistence of questions about his age has stirred concern among Mr. McCain’s advisers, particularly as the campaign has focused considerable attention on Senator Barack Obama, the Illinois Democrat who, at 45, could be Mr. McCain’s son.

The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll found that 59 percent of Republicans believed the ideal age of a president was in the 50s. Thirteen percent said the 60s. The number who selected 70s as the ideal age was too low to measure in the poll.

Mr. McCain’s supporters said whatever problems he might be having now, they continued to view him as the strongest candidate. “I wouldn’t trade places with anybody else on the field,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a longtime McCain supporter. “I believe at the end of the day, Republican voters will be looking for a combination of conservatism and electability, and I think John is the best choice when you look at these two qualities.”
491 2007-03-16 The White House had said earlier this week that Harriet E. Miers, who succeeded Mr. Gonzales as White House counsel, initiated the idea in early 2005 of replacing all the prosecutors.

Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, said again Thursday that Ms. Miers had first proposed the dismissals, but Mr. Snow acknowledged in an interview that the e-mail shifted the time line earlier than the White House had previously said.

“The e-mail does not directly contradict nor is it inconsistent with Karl’s recollection that after the 2004 election, Harriet Miers raised a question of replacing all the U.S. attorneys and he believed it was not a good idea,” Mr. Snow said. “That’s his recollection.”

The e-mail messages are the latest disclosure in the uproar over the dismissals in December of seven United States attorneys. Accusations that the removals were politically motivated and that the administration has misled lawmakers about the reasons for them have led to Congressional investigations, thrown the White House on the defensive and prompted calls for Mr. Gonzales’s resignation.

A Justice Department spokesman said Thursday that Mr. Gonzales did not remember the discussions cited in the e-mail. “The attorney general has no recollection of any plan or discussion to replace U.S. attorneys while he was still White House counsel,” said Tasia Scolinos, the department spokeswoman.

“The period of time referred to in the e-mail was during the weeks he was preparing for his confirmation hearing, Jan. 6, 2005, and his focus was on that,” Ms. Scolinos said. “Discussions of changes in presidential appointees would have been appropriate and normal White House exchanges in the days and months after the election as the White House was considering different personnel changes administrationwide.”

When the Rove inquiry described in the Jan. 6 e-mail message — sent by Colin Newman, a White House lawyer, to David G. Leitch, another lawyer — was forwarded to Mr. Sampson, then a top aide in the Justice Department, he replied with an outline of his thinking, as presented to Mr. Gonzales. “As an operational matter we would like to replace 15-20 percent of the current U.S. attorneys — underperforming ones,” Mr. Sampson wrote.

In the message, Mr. Sampson said, “The vast majority of U.S. Attorneys, 80-85 percent, I would guess, are doing a great job, are loyal Bushies, etc.”

Even then, Mr. Sampson realized there might be a backlash caused by replacing a large number of prosecutors and said it would be “weird” to remove prosecutors before they had completed a single four-year term. “I suspect that when push comes to shove,” he wrote, “home state senator likely would resist wholesale (or even piecemeal) replacement of U.S. Attorney they recommended.”

The White House and Justice Department have defended the dismissals as appropriate, pointing out that the prosecutors are political appointees who serve at the pleasure of the president. But some of the fired prosecutors told Congress that Republican lawmakers had pressed them about corruption or voter fraud investigations, provoking charges from Democrats that the dismissals may have been political and that they threatened the traditional independence of the prosecutors.

The White House has said Mr. Rove passed on complaints to the White House counsel’s office, and perhaps to Mr. Bush, about prosecutors’ failure to investigate voter fraud cases. He also pushed for the appointment of a former aide as the United States attorney in Arkansas, which outraged local officials and the state’s senators because the prosecutor, J. Timothy Griffin, had limited experience.

Mr. Rove, speaking at Troy University in Alabama on Thursday, again defended the administration’s handling of the dismissals, saying it was entirely appropriate for the Justice Department to selectively remove any who were not performing or following department policies.

“This to my mind is a lot of politics, and I understand that’s what Congress has the right to play around with, and they’re going to do it,” he said.

The e-mail disclosed Thursday, first reported by ABC News, came as the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to issue subpoenas to senior Justice Department staff, including Mr. Sampson. Republicans succeeded in blocking an effort by Democrats to subpoena Mr. Rove and Ms. Miers, who left the administration earlier this year.

Separately, the House Judiciary Committee, opened a new front in its investigation of Mr. Gonzales, asking him to respond to an article published in The National Journal asserting that he had advised President Bush to effectively terminate a Justice Department inquiry into the program of domestic surveillance without warrants only after Mr. Gonzales learned he might be a subject of the investigation.

Even Republican defenders on Capitol Hill are expressing growing unease.

“I think the attorney general is going to have to explain himself because this has cast a cloud over the department,” said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, before the latest disclosures. “How much is justified? I don’t know. But it has cast a cloud there.”
492 2007-03-16 Raritan Bay Medical Center has agreed to pay $7.5 million to settle federal lawsuits that accuse it of improperly increasing charges to Medicare patients, the Justice Department announced yesterday. The hospital received larger reimbursements than warranted from the federal program from 1998 to 2003, and it will make changes meant to ensure compliance with Medicare regulations, the department said. In a statement, the hospital said that at the time, it believed that its billing practices were in accord with regulations.
493 2007-03-16 Under the C.M.E.-C.B.O.T. proposal, C.B.O.T. shareholders would receive about 31 percent of the company.

“This will be an offer that C.M.E. will find difficult to counter,” said Michael Henry, senior executive of the capital markets practice of Accenture, a consulting firm. “Obviously they will counter. They have invested so much into this.”

Allan L. Schoenberg, a spokesman for the Mercantile Exchange, declined to comment on ICE’s proposal. The company said in a statement that it “was working toward the successful completion of our transaction.”

Shareholders from both Chicago exchanges are scheduled to vote on the merger on April 4, with an expected closing of the deal by the middle of the year.

A spokeswoman from the Board of Trade did not return a call seeking comment.

Under terms of the proposed deal, ICE would issue 1.42 of its shares for each Board of Trade share, valued at $187.34 a share based on Wednesday’s closing price for ICE shares. The ICE proposal factors in a required $240 million breakup fee if the Board of Trade walks away from the Mercantile Exchange’s offer.

News of ICE’s offer sent shares of the Chicago Board of Trade up 17 percent, to $194.95. ICE’s shares slipped 3 percent, to $128.10, while the stock of Chicago Mercantile Holdings, the parent company of the Mercantile Exchange, fell 5.5 percent, to $532.88.

The latest offer for the Board of Trade, which trades bond futures and agricultural contracts, underscores the tremendous potential that investors see in the exploding market for financial derivatives. Only 17 percent of global derivatives are traded on exchanges, with the rest being traded bilaterally between banks or other financial players.

“There is plenty of room to build a derivatives exchange five times bigger than anything that is out there now,” Mr. Henry of Accenture said.

The notional amount of derivative contracts outstanding — the face amount of the underlying assets and not the amount of money at risk — has nearly quadrupled in a decade to about $325 trillion in 2005, according to Accenture research.

The proposed combination of the two Chicago exchanges was trumpeted last fall as signaling the growing importance of Chicago as a center of global finance. Chicago politicians have praised the planned combination of the two exchanges, which were founded in the 19th century to trade agricultural futures, saying together they could better compete against global players like Deutsche Börse and the New York Stock Exchange, which is set to merge this month with the European exchange Euronext.

Paying homage to Chicago was an important consideration in how ICE structured its deal as well, said two people involved in the discussions. Besides basing the entity in Chicago, ICE plans to keep the Chicago Board of Trade name and create a new identity for its regulated exchanges in New York, London and Dublin.

Mr. Sprecher said in a conference call Thursday that while it would be smaller than the other merger, an ICE-Board of Trade combination would have a major presence in derivatives categories, including agricultural and energy products, interest rates and metals.

He indicated in the call that he would retain more of the Chicago Board of Trade’s senior management team. The Mercantile Exchange has indicated that only one executive from the board of trade, Bryan T. Durkin, the executive vice president and operation officer for C.B.O.T. , would become part of the combined entity. He would join C.M.E. as chief operating officer.

Mr. Sprecher, a former developer and operator of power plants in California, has enjoyed meteoric success since he started ICE in 2000 as an alternative to Enron Online, the once-powerful electronic market for natural gas and electricity.

Mr. Sprecher initially recruited energy and financial companies like BP, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to invest and trade on his electronic system. Unlike Enron, which served as the counterparty to every trade on Enron Online, ICE served as a neutral host where investors would trade with one another.

The fledgling ICE went public last year and acquired the New York Board of Trade, which deals primarily in agricultural commodity futures.

After ICE digested that deal, Mr. Sprecher was able to consider other transactions, said two people with knowledge of his strategy. He was spurred to consider making a proposal for one of the Chicago exchanges in part because of mounting criticism over the planned merger.

Last month, the Futures Industry Association expressed concern that a giant exchange might have too much pricing power.

The proposed merger would “concentrate significant market power” and “substantially lessen competition among U.S. futures exchanges, and raise even higher the barriers to entry for new competitors,” the association said in a news release.

Mercantile Exchange executives responded by saying the merger would increase competition in the global derivatives marketplace by better positioning financial players in the United States to compete against rapidly growing international exchanges.

Then last week, Crain’s Chicago Business reported that Justice Department investigators had sought signed statements from customers and competitors of the exchanges describing their objections to the merger. The publication cited as sources three recipients who spoke on condition of anonymity. Analysts said that the requests could be an indication that regulators were preparing to block the merger.
494 2007-03-16 “He was not chatty,” said Representative Linda T. Sánchez, the California Democrat whose subcommittee is running the House inquiry. “He said, You have to understand that I have certain constraints that I am working under, and there are some things I need to work out.”

In a city where politics can devour even the savviest inside player, Mr. Fielding has been a survivor. As a young lawyer for President Richard M. Nixon, he escaped the fallout from Watergate, and he spent decades fending off speculation, later proven untrue, that he was the informant Deep Throat. As counsel to Reagan, he glided past the Iran-contra affair, whose participants purposely kept him in the dark. And he has developed a specialty in running ethics inquiries, including some into his own friends.

Grayer-haired and a bit more jowly than in his Nixon and Reagan days, Mr. Fielding is trying to keep a low profile. (He declined to be interviewed for this article.) Friends describe him as sensible yet playful. He drives a black Mercedes convertible (“He wouldn’t drive a red car” — too flashy, says his former law partner, Richard E. Wiley) and spends weekends hitting garage sales to supplement his extensive antique-toy collection, which includes a tiny electric train that goes around in circles on his White House desk. His office — the same one he occupied two decades ago — is filled with memorabilia from his rich Washington past, including a photograph of himself and Reagan, holding a bumper sticker that proclaims, “My lawyer can beat your lawyer.”

His hallmark is that of a smooth negotiator. One close friend, Theodore B. Olson, the former solicitor general, said Mr. Fielding was “wily, and I mean that in a good way.”

And he is careful; John W. Dean III, his boss in the Nixon White House, recalled that Mr. Fielding insisted on wearing surgical gloves when, under instructions from superiors, he inspected E. Howard Hunt’s safe. “He thought it was a good idea not to touch the evidence,” Mr. Dean said, “and the doctor’s office was right across the hall.”

One of Mr. Fielding’s first acts in his new job was to pay a courtesy call to the Capitol Hill office of Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who is investigating prewar intelligence and how the White House has handled classified information.

This week, Mr. Fielding presided over the decision to turn over e-mail messages that demonstrated White House involvement in the prosecutors’ dismissals, a decision that Richard V. Allen, Reagan’s national security adviser and a close friend of Mr. Fielding, says reflects the counsel’s belief in “the get-it-out-right-away approach to anything that is trouble or appears to be trouble.”

Mr. Fielding declined repeated requests to talk about his philosophy — a far cry from his Reagan days, when he granted an interview to The Washington Post in the middle of investigating whether Mr. Allen had accepted payments from a Japanese journalist (Mr. Allen was cleared, but resigned anyway) and joked in a New York Times interview that he was able to survive a White House staff replete with rivalries because “I have their F.B.I. files.”

The current situation may be even stickier. In addition to testimony from Mr. Rove, lawmakers want it from Mr. Fielding’s predecessor, Harriet E. Miers, and Ms. Miers’s deputy, William K. Kelley, who now works for Mr. Fielding. If Mr. Fielding allows the testimony, it will be a change in the Bush administration’s assertions of executive authority. If he does not, he will provoke a confrontation, because Democrats are already threatening subpoenas.

“He’s got to move carefully,” said Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, who was the host of Wednesday’s meeting. Mr. Conyers said he was satisfied that “we’re not meeting with an ideologue, or somebody that’s coming in to play defense attorney.”

Mr. Fielding already has experience persuading the White House to release information it would rather not give up . As a member of the commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks, he played the role of “back channel to the White House,” said Jamie Gorelick, a Democrat on the commission. It was Mr. Fielding who negotiated with Mr. Gonzales, then the White House counsel, to persuade Mr. Bush to meet with the panel and release sensitive documents.

“We got what we needed,” Ms. Gorelick said.

Many of Mr. Fielding’s associates wonder why he took the White House job in the first place. He left a life as a high-powered private lawyer in his own firm, Wiley, Rein & Fielding, in a city where such work can bring in a yearly salary of more than $1 million. In an interview in January with The Legal Times, Mr. Fielding explained his decision this way: “I was asked if I would consider serving my country again. I am not looking for another line on my résumé.”

Ms. Gorelick has her own explanation: “I’m sure he saw potential train wrecks that were avoidable.”

Some things have not changed since Mr. Fielding last worked at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. His telephone number is the same, and when he pulled open a desk drawer, he found a name tag he had put there 20 years ago. His friends say he is enjoying his return, though some wonder about his timing.

“The best time to be the White House counsel is just after your candidate, or the president who hires you, has won by a monstrous 49-state landslide and takes both houses of Congress,” Mr. Olson said. “Fred’s done it the wrong way.”
495 2007-03-16 “It gives us a reach into urban markets in a way that would have been hard for us to find another way into,” he said. “The Carver name is so well established in that community.”

By both Mr. O’Neal’s and Ms. Wright’s reckoning, the partnership is a first for both their institutions and within Wall Street. Among its goals, Ms. Wright said, is educating blacks about finance, a realm few grew up with and that many today still feel uncomfortable with.

To that end, Carver and Merrill will also hold evening educational seminars at the bank’s branches, creating a space where people “don’t have to feel like a dummy” for raising their hands, Ms. Wright said.

The alliance has been formed at a time when Wall Street, and the financial industry in general, is still struggling to overcome its popular image of being “an all-white boys club,” as Ms. Wright put it.

Merrill Lynch itself faces a racial discrimination lawsuit filed in 2005 by current and former brokers, who accuse the firm of limiting the opportunities blacks have as brokers. Merrill executives have disputed many of the plaintiffs’ claims, but have pledged to do more on diversity.

Through the partnership with Carver, Merrill is hoping to demonstrate its seriousness in reaching out to a new demographic, said Colbert Narcisse, chief operating officer of Merrill’s global private clients group and a Brooklyn native who attended high school in Fort Greene.

“It’s important for us because it strengthens our brand recognition in terms of a diverse community,” Mr. Narcisse said. “Others will start to perceive us as receptive to forming new business partnerships.”

Being a partner with Merrill represents a new chapter for Carver, which was founded by Harlem businessmen and church leaders in 1949. The bank grew over the decades by serving churches and nonprofit groups, some of which now hold substantial assets that should be invested in Wall Street, Ms. Wright said.

Since joining Carver in 1999, Ms. Wright, a former housing commissioner under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, has helped the bank expand its reach. Since 2001, Carver has opened three new branches, including the two that will be host to Merrill’s advisers.

But the new alliance, which her team codenamed Friendly Bull, will be among the most ambitious steps Ms. Wright has taken in her tenure.

Of Mr. O’Neal, Ms. Wright said: “I never dreamed that he would take it to the next level.”

At the Carver branch in Harlem on Malcolm X Boulevard, Ms. Wright and Mr. Narcisse surveyed one of those booths for the first time. Mr. Narcisse glided his hand over the desk, before asking whether a nearly invisible smudge under the Merrill logo would be cleaned before next week’s rollout.

Though Ms. Wright joked that the deal could have been sealed in about 30 minutes, most of the project consisted of making sure the deal did not run afoul of banking regulations. Both banks had to erect literal and figurative walls to make clear that the products Merrill offered were not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Carver and Merrill are waiting to see how the project fares before deciding what comes next. Should it prove successful, Mr. O’Neal said that Merrill would look for similar opportunities in other markets.

For her part, Ms. Wright said that beyond earning profits, she hopes that her customers, from black professionals to institutions like the Abyssinian Baptist Church, will become more financially astute.

“We’re hoping to coax people to take some of their money out from under the pillows,” she said.
496 2007-03-16 Until death came to the doorstep, that was enough.

“It was like a code: You don’t mess with the athletes,” said Walt Harris, Collins’s uncle. “But when they killed his friend, Sherron realized it could happen to him. Bullets don’t have no name.”

Sherron Collins made it out, a feat as impressive as making it back. The West Region’s top-seeded Jayhawks play Niagara on Friday at the United Center, about a half-mile from Crane Tech Prep Common School, where Collins went to high school.

“It’s a thin line from where he came from and where he is now,” said his mother, Stacey Harris.

The Daniel A. Cotter Boys & Girls Club is an oasis of activity next to the dying Lathrop Homes, a 30-building public-housing complex along the Chicago River. Built in the 1930s and celebrated for the design of its three- and four-story, dark, brick buildings and its green open spaces, Lathrop Homes had 3,000 residents after World War II.

Time and geography took their toll, and Lathrop Homes eventually became a crossroads for gangs — the Deuces, the Stones, the Latin Kings and the Gangster Disciples. It is a bleak place, with 400 residents, 200 fewer than a year ago. Redevelopment is coming, and apartments are not filled once they are vacated.

That is why 2868 Clybourn Avenue has brown-painted plywood covering its windows and the door. Stacey Harris and her sons, Steve (21) and Sherron (who will turn 20 on Sunday), moved out when the boys were in high school, soon after their friend was killed after visiting their three-bedroom apartment.

“Before, it was not that close to home — usually a couple of blocks away,” Harris said of the violence. “But as soon as he left my home, he was killed.”

Harris was familiar with the gang culture, because it captured the boys’ father, Steven Collins. He spent stretches of his sons’ childhood in jail, and the time between running from trouble — “just gang-banging,” Harris explained.

She worked two jobs as a nursing assistant in nursing homes, often working until midnight. The boys would go days without seeing her, touched only by a kiss in the middle of the night. She took them to steak dinners and movies every couple of weeks to teach them culture and suppress her guilt. She would call the Boys & Girls Club to make sure the children were O.K.

“If it would not have been there, there is no telling where they’d be now,” Harris said. “I shudder to think.”

On Wednesday, youngsters played a beanbag toss game in front of the club. The hallway was a hive of activity. Every room had youngsters playing cards, working on computers, watching television or reading. This was the childhood of the Collins boys.

“They participated in every sport we did,” Leach said. “Even square dancing.”

The club made sure that homework was done. Neighbors made sure the boys were fed and their clothes were clean.

“We had too many people in our life who would step in if they felt we were getting dragged into that life,” said Steve, a student at West Valley College in California, where he hopes to play for the basketball team next season.

The boys were usually at the club until they were shooed away late at night. On weekends, Sherron would spring from bed and go to the gym or the Lathrop playground court. By seventh grade, high school coaches were there to watch, and they showered him with compliments and gym shoes, hoping to sway his allegiance.

“Basketball was like a vacation,” Collins said. “It was like a break from all the hard things you’ve been through.”

The family struggled to fully outrun trouble. Harris moved a few miles south, to West Monroe Street, tightly lined with row houses. It seemed O.K. until a friend of Sherron’s burst into the house shouting that a would-be robber, with a gun, was chasing her son. No one knew him as the boy who could play basketball and should be left alone.

A 5-foot-11-inch guard, who also starred in baseball and football, he led Crane to two conference and city basketball championships. His pass to himself off the backboard for a one-handed dunk at the end of last year’s McDonald’s all-American game can be seen on YouTube.

He made the Big 12 Conference’s all-rookie team and averaged 12.7 points and 3.7 assists a game during the conference tournament, which Kansas won.

His mother saw a change in Sherron last summer, after the death of his son, who had been born months prematurely. Sherron struggled with depression, his family said, and gained weight that he shed only recently. His right forearm bears a tattoo reading R.I.P. Sherron Jr. around clasped hands. He looks down at it before every free throw.

“I always thought nothing could hurt him,” Harris said of her son. She lives with her parents in suburban Richton Park and now works at a meatpacking plant. “He’s very powerful, a strong little cat. But when that happened, I saw that he is just like everybody.”

At the United Center, friends and family — including Sherron’s father — plan to welcome him home, to scream for teammates to give him the ball so they can watch him go, as they did when he was a little boy, not so long ago.

“He loves basketball,” Walt Harris said. “Through all the heartaches and stuff, Sherron is a ball player. And he knows the show must go on.”
497 2007-03-16 Yesterday Lehman Brothers increased its forecast for overall consumer inflation for the month to 0.5 percent, from 0.3 percent, based on the new producer price data.

While some economists flinched at the numbers, the stock market did not. In recent weeks, stock markets worldwide have been jolted by fears that the United States economy is more vulnerable to a downturn than economists initially thought. But Wall Street appeared unmoved by the report, and closed up mildly from Wednesday, even though investors were expecting far tamer numbers.

The Labor Department’s report also showed that the core index for producer prices, a less volatile measure than the overall rate because it strips out energy and food prices, doubled from January, to 0.4 percent. That, too, far exceeded economists’ forecasts. Higher prices for tobacco and light trucks — sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and minivans — helped raise the core rate.

The rise in the overall inflation was driven largely by food and energy prices, pushed up by a cold snap last month. Gasoline prices rose 5.3 percent last month, after falling 13 percent in January. The price of home heating oil rose 6 percent, after falling 8.3 percent in January.

Utility companies also reported higher prices; residential electricity rose 1.1 percent, compared with a 0.4 percent increase in January, and residential gas jumped 4.1 percent, after a 1.9 percent fall in January.

Food prices rose in nearly every category, from fresh fruits and melons (up 15.7 percent) to pork (up 4.9 percent). Citrus prices in particular remained high because of a deep freeze in California this winter.

Economists said a number of factors, from harsh weather to increased demand for corn to make ethanol, have pushed food prices up in recent months. “There are a number of people in the market starting to become worried about food price inflation,” Andrew Tilton, an economist with Goldman Sachs, said. “That is something that could end up being a more persistent trend.”

Another potentially worrisome statistic in the report was that core inflation for intermediate goods used in the early stages of manufacturing, like car parts and lumber, rose for the first time in six months.

“Inflation pressures are still there in general, and they’re still at a level that the Fed is not comfortable with,” said Peter E. Kretzmer, senior economist with Bank of America. “The Fed still has work to do, and we have to remain cognizant that if we’re looking for the Fed to respond to a softer economy, they’re going to find it more difficult to look away from these inflation risks.”

Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist with Global Insight, said, “There’s been an upward creep, and that’s a little unsettling.”

In a separate report, the Labor Department said that first-time claims for unemployment benefits fell 12,000 last week, to 318,000.
498 2007-03-16 Michael G. Oxley, who as a lawmaker was a co-author of one of the most sweeping corporate oversight bills in recent years, was named a nonexecutive vice chairman of the Nasdaq Stock Market yesterday, a newly created position.

Mr. Oxley, a former representative from Ohio and former chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, will meet with chief executives of Nasdaq-listed companies on public policy issues.

“Every C.E.O. in America realizes their success is directly tied to some policy in Washington,” said Robert Greifeld, the president and chief executive of Nasdaq.

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted by Congress in 2002 in the wake of high-profile bankruptcies of companies including Enron and WorldCom, has drawn criticism for its extensive disclosure requirements and the costs of adhering to the rules.

This year President Bush said that too many lawsuits and overregulation were hurting competitiveness in the financial markets. Mr. Oxley and Mr. Greifeld said that they stand by the legislation’s core ideas, but said they wanted to see some changes.

Nasdaq has been under pressure from a rival, the NYSE Group, and alternative trading platforms.
499 2007-03-16 In the meantime, the organization has struggled. Donations fell in 2005, and, according to its financial statements, its expenses were $17 million and its revenues were $9.4 million.

Stephen E. Herbits, the executive who has overseen an overhaul of the organization, said he could not discuss the specific reasons for Mr. Singer’s removal. “It is important that the World Jewish Congress stand for integrity around the world,” Mr. Herbits said.

Mr. Singer did not respond to a call requesting comment.

Isi Leibler, a former official of the group who has been Mr. Singer’s biggest critic, declined to comment.

But Menachem Rosensaft, an ally of Mr. Leibler, applauded the ouster and predicted it would lead to changes at other organizations, like the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, in which Mr. Singer has played a leading role.

“This is a long overdue move,” said Mr. Rosensaft, a lawyer and founder of the International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors. “It is simply impossible for any Jewish leader or any nonprofit leader to exercise moral authority if there is even the appearance of financial impropriety.”

But an official of the congress’s Israeli affiliate said Mr. Singer’s ouster was an effort by the United States office, led by Mr. Herbits, to exert control over the entire organization.

That official, who would not speak for the record, supplied letters from the leaders of the Israeli and European affiliates to Edgar M. Bronfman, the liquor magnate who is the organization’s president and chief patron, that threatened to sever ties with the group unless decisions made during a conference call on Wednesday, including the decision to remove Mr. Singer, were retracted.

“We are disgusted by what has just transpired,” wrote Shai Hermesh and Mati Droblas, representatives of the Israeli branch.

Mr. Herbits said the threats were not a concern. “The decision to remove Mr. Singer was solely and completely on his behavior, not mine and not Edgar’s, who is distraught over this,” Mr. Herbits said.

Mr. Bronfman has said he wants his son Matthew to succeed him as president of the congress.

But Ronald S. Lauder, the cosmetics billionaire, has said he might run for the position, and the leader of the European Jewish Congress, Pierre Besnainou, has said he favors having a non-American take the helm.
500 2007-03-16 In a sign of deep troubles in New York City’s middle schools, state officials yesterday identified nine additional city schools in danger of being shut down for academic failure — eight of them serving the middle grades.

The ninth school was Canarsie High School in Brooklyn, which has struggled with overcrowding and violence in recent years as lower-performing schools nearby were closed, sending hundreds of extra students to Canarsie.

The continued failure in many of the city’s middle schools, which serve sixth through eighth grades, comes two years after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced $40 million in additional spending on the middle grades, including an enhanced summer school program and other initiatives.

All eight middle schools had previously appeared on the list. Five had been closed and reopened under new names, and three had improved enough to come off the list but fell back.

In a statement, the city Education Department noted yesterday that the total of 35 city schools on the list of schools in danger of being closed was the lowest in the last 10 years.
501 2007-03-16 WASHINGTON, March 15 — The finance minister of Germany said Thursday that he favored the development of an internationally accepted “code of conduct” for the $1.4 trillion hedge fund industry but that it would take the world’s leading economies at least a year to decide how to establish a set of standards.

“I would prefer self-imposed and self-monitored practices by this industry,” the finance minister, Peer Steinbrück, said, adding that Germany’s intention to put the subject of hedge funds on the international agenda had been widely misunderstood as a call for more government regulation.

Mr. Steinbrück made his comments to reporters during a visit to Washington for meetings with the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr.; Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve; and other financial officials.

As the current head of the group of finance ministers of the leading industrial democracies known as the Group of 7, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has proposed that the hedge fund industry be put on the agenda for the summit meeting of the leaders of those countries in Germany this summer.

Mr. Steinbrück said that a “sizable number” of hedge funds “are not behaving properly” because they engage in risky trades financed by heavy borrowing and could easily get caught with losses that would be extremely damaging to investors, those from whom they buy and sell and to the world economy at large.

He said he had discussed the need for ways to monitor the industry with both Mr. Paulson and with Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the exchequer in Britain, and that both were sympathetic to the idea.

Mr. Paulson and Mr. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, have also said that the best approach is for hedge funds to regulate themselves and engage in more disclosure rather than be subjected to more government regulations.
502 2007-03-16 Bowie Kent Kuhn grew up in Washington, the youngest of three children. His father, Louis, an immigrant from Bavaria, was an executive with a fuel company. His mother, Alice, her roots in 17th-century Maryland, descended from five governors, two United States senators and the frontiersman Jim Bowie.

As a youngster, Kuhn worked in a $1-a-day job tending to the scoreboard at the Washington Senators’ Griffith Stadium.

He graduated from Princeton and the University of Virginia Law School, and became a partner in Willkie Farr & Gallagher, the National League’s law firm. In 1966, he won an antitrust court battle clearing the way for the Braves’ move from Milwaukee to Atlanta.

Kuhn was elected baseball commissioner as a compromise choice on Feb. 4, 1969, two months after the club owners fired William D. Eckert, a retired Air Force general who was a figurehead. Kuhn was a baseball insider, he was familiar with the legal challenges increasingly facing the game, and he was a good speaker with a 6-foot-5-inch frame cutting a forceful image.

The owners gave Kuhn a one-year, interim contract, but he quickly asserted himself. When the players’ union urged its members not to sign contacts for the 1969 season, imperiling spring training, in a dispute over pension demands, Kuhn orchestrated a settlement favorable to the players.

Expansion teams began play in 1969 in Montreal, Seattle, San Diego and Kansas City. With two 12-team leagues split into divisions, baseball inaugurated a playoff system as a prelude to the World Series, foreshadowing a rise in the game’s popularity.

In August 1970, Kuhn was elected to a seven-year term with a contract valued at more than $1 million. But troubles had arrived for the baseball hierarchy.

Curt Flood, a star outfielder with the St. Louis Cardinals, had asked Kuhn to void his trade to the Philadelphia Phillies after the 1969 season and allow him to sign with a team of his choice. Flood maintained that the reserve clause, which bound players to their teams until they were traded or released, violated federal antitrust law.

Kuhn rejected the demand, and when Flood sued in federal court, Kuhn testified against him, predicting that baseball would be engulfed in chaos if players could sell themselves to the highest bidder. Flood ultimately lost in the Supreme Court, but the drive for free agency had begun.

Kuhn’s suspension of the Detroit Tigers’ star pitcher Denny McLain from April 1 to July 1, 1970, for past involvement with bookmakers, was alternately criticized as too lenient or too harsh. When Jim Bouton, then pitching for the Houston Astros, collaborated with the journalist Leonard Schechter on “Ball Four,” a behind-the-scenes and sometimes risqué look at baseball, Kuhn called him in to voice his dismay. The flap served only to boost the book’s sales.

Kuhn championed World Series night games, inaugurated in 1971, a move that brought enhanced television revenue but much criticism. When Kuhn sat in the stands without a topcoat, seemingly in denial while everyone else was shivering, during Game 2 of the 1976 World Series on a frigid night in Cincinnati, he became the object of ridicule.

In 1972, the players staged their first general strike, a 13-day walkout, with pensions again at issue. Kuhn essentially stayed out of the dispute, leaving matters to management’s Player Relations Committee.

Kuhn was faced with a contentious issue of another sort when the Atlanta Braves sought to hold Hank Aaron out of their 1974 season-opening series in Cincinnati so he could eclipse Babe Ruth’s career home run record of 714 when the team played at home. Kuhn ordered the Braves to play Aaron in Cincinnati, citing the need to protect the integrity of the game.

Aaron tied Ruth’s record in the season opener, with Kuhn present. But when Aaron broke the record in the Braves’ first home game, against the Dodgers, Kuhn was in Cleveland. He had sent Monte Irvin, a baseball official and one of the major leagues’ first black stars, in his place, rankling Aaron for some time to come.

Kuhn became embroiled, meanwhile, in disputes with owners. He fined or reprimanded Finley several times, and in November 1974 he suspended Steinbrenner for two years after he pleaded guilty to making illegal contributions to President Richard M. Nixon’s 1972 re-election campaign. (The ban was dropped after 15 months.)

In the summer of 1975, Finley was among several owners who sought to block Kuhn from a second seven-year term that would begin in August 1976, but Kuhn won re-election with key support from O’Malley.

In December 1975, an arbitrator ruled that players were bound to their teams only for the lengths of their contracts, a fatal blow to the reserve system that Flood had challenged.

Labor turmoil arose once more in 1976, when the club owners refused to open spring training camps after union negotiations had stalled. Kuhn ordered an end to the lockout in mid-March.

In June 1976, Finley, anticipating the loss of his best players to free agency, sold pitcher Vida Blue to the Yankees for $1.5 million and outfielder Joe Rudi and reliever Rollie Fingers to the Boston Red Sox for $1 million each. Kuhn voided the sales on grounds that they would upset the sport’s competitive balance. It was the first time a commissioner had canceled a cash deal. Finley sued Kuhn and the major leagues in federal court, but lost.

Kuhn clashed with ownership again in 1977, levying a one-year suspension against the Braves’ Turner for improper conduct in pursuing Gary Matthews, a San Francisco Giants outfielder, when he was planning to file for free agency.

In 1981, players staged a 50-day strike to protest a plan to compensate clubs that were losing players to free agency. When the strike ended, Kuhn decreed a controversial split-season format to determine the playoff teams. That resulted in the Cincinnati Reds’ failing to make the playoffs, although they had the best overall record in the major leagues.

When Kuhn became commissioner, baseball was often derided as slow and dull in comparison with pro football. Baseball became revitalized in Kuhn’s years as commissioner, but management’s battles with Miller and the players’ union overshadowed the turnaround.

“There was about Miller a wariness one would find in an abused animal,” Kuhn wrote in “Hardball,” his memoir. “It precluded trust or affection.”

Miller had been pleased with the labor accord Kuhn brokered in 1969, but their relationship deteriorated over the years. In his own memoir, “A Whole Different Ball Game,” Miller accused Kuhn of violating “basic rights” of players and others in the game “in his efforts to give the impression that he was in control.”

On a front beyond the labor strife, Kuhn was determined to be vigilant against gambling. He barred Willie Mays, in 1979, and Mickey Mantle, in 1983, from further association with baseball because of their promotional work for casinos.

Although most owners continued to support him, Kuhn failed to muster enough votes for a third seven-year term, which would have begun in 1983. He stayed on during a search for his successor, then left on Oct. 1, 1984, when Peter Ueberroth replaced him. Soon after his election, Ueberroth reinstated Mays and Mantle.

Kuhn returned to his former law firm, Willkie Farr & Gallagher, then joined with the lawyer Harvey Myerson to form Myerson & Kuhn in January 1988. Their firm filed for bankruptcy in December 1989, and Kuhn moved from New Jersey to Florida. His creditors charged that Kuhn was seeking to avoid them, but he denied that. He later formed a consulting firm and spoke widely about his Roman Catholic beliefs.

He is survived by his wife, Luisa; his son, Stephen, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; his daughter, Alix Bower of Ridgefield, Conn.; two stepsons, Paul Degener, of Redding, Conn., and George Degener of Somers, N.Y.; a sister, Alice McKinley of St. Augustine, Fla.; and 10 grandchildren.

Upon losing his bid for a third term, Kuhn summed up his perception of the commissioner’s mandate in offering advice for his successor.

“He’ll be told, for instance, that legalized gambling and baseball are perfectly compatible and that we can even turn a profit from the relationship,” Kuhn wrote in The New York Times. “He should tell the compromisers to get lost. They are burglars of our patrimony. They will never understand the threat to baseball posed by such things as legalized gambling, sports betting, drug abuse and undesirable associations. He should use his powers fearlessly to protect the integrity of the game. The critics will call him self-righteous and moralistic. Have courage. Ignore them.”
503 2007-03-16 The diplomatic struggle over whether to funnel aid through Mr. Fayyad is just beginning. Germany, which currently holds the presidency of the European Union, is likely to support Israel, as will Britain.

The French foreign minister, Philippe Douste-Blazy, said in Paris that the new Palestinian government “could open a new page in relations with the international community.” But he also called for the immediate release of Corporal Shalit and for an end to “all forms of violence against Israel and its citizens.”

The European Union’s foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, said the European Union would wait to see the government list as approved by the Palestinian legislature, expected on Saturday, and the political document that governs it.

A State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said similarly that Washington “will wait until the government is actually in place and we have an understanding of what their platform will be before we make any final judgments about it.”

The document was slowly negotiated on the basis of a unity statement put together by Palestinian prisoners in Israel jails and was pushed along early in February at a meeting called by the Saudis in Mecca.

Mr. Abbas argues that it implicitly meets international demands, and argues further that as the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization, he is the only legal negotiator for the Palestinians in any case.

The document mentions Israel only as an occupier of Palestinian land. It does not recognize Israel’s right to exist and does not explicitly accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements, but says the agreements, including international agreements, will be “respected.”

And it does not forswear violence. On the contrary, it “affirms that resistance is a legitimate right of the Palestinian people.” It says “halting resistance depends on ending the occupation and achieving freedom, return and independence,” a reference to “the rights of Palestinian refugees and their right of return to their lands and properties.” Israeli officials called that “a step backward” from the agreement in Mecca.

The document does call for an extension of the often-broken cease-fire by Israel and the Palestinians and for further discussions on how to organize the many — and often competing — Palestinian security forces.

One of the main aims of the unity government is to end the violence that has broken out between Hamas and Fatah in recent months.

In Gaza, an Abbas aide, Nabil Abu Rudeineh, said the main aims of the government were “internal security and ending the suffering of Palestinians,” by getting aid abroad to again pay full salaries and stopping the internal clashes. Mr. Haniya said the main aim was “internal security.”

In Gaza, Mustafa el-Sawaf, a political analyst close to Hamas, noted the continuing Hamas-Fatah clashes and said, “One can say there is really no Palestinian consensus on the program. I give this government six months.”

One of the sticking points in the negotiations was the Interior Ministry post, which had been held by an important Hamas figure, Said Siam, who is said to oppose this new agreement with Fatah. The two sides settled on a bureaucrat, Hani al-Qawasmi, 50, whose family is from Hebron in the West Bank but who was born and lives in Gaza.

But most experts expect that he will have little power, and that the Executive Force, set up by Mr. Siam in Gaza as a parallel police force loyal to Hamas, will continue to be controlled by Hamas leaders.

Diana Buttu, a former adviser to Mr. Abbas and to the key Fatah figure in Gaza, Muhammad Dahlan, noted that except for the deputy prime minister, Azzam al-Ahmed, the head of the Fatah faction in the legislature, the Fatah ministers were relatively unknown and untainted by accusations of corruption.

“Fatah needs time to reorganize and reform and is playing for the next elections,” Ms. Buttu said. “This government is based on ‘samoud,’ or steadfastness. It doesn’t seem to have any other policy, and Palestinians have no real expectation that they will do anything about serious problems.”

Hamas also appointed a number of lesser-known figures, leaving out of the government well-known hard-liners like Mr. Siam and Mahmoud Zahar, who had been foreign minister. While Israel sees the unity government as a victory for Hamas, it is clear that some key Hamas figures are very unhappy with the coalition, which makes Hamas look less principled and more willing to compromise to keep its hold on cabinet seats.

The new foreign minister is a former Fatah member and independent, Ziad Abu Amr, who has a Ph.D. from Georgetown and was supported by Hamas, but who also has close ties to the West.

The new government has 25 ministers. In a complicated formula, Hamas controls the most seats, then Fatah, while the two factions also control the appointment of some independent figures. There are also members of four other parties in parliament, including Mr. Fayyad and Information Minister Mustafa Barghouti.

In Ramallah, there was relief and hope. Said Batrawi, owner of Samir Restaurant, said: “This is great news. We want law and order so we can feel there is authority and government. We need the siege to be lifted so we can improve the economy.”
504 2007-03-16 During that time, economic growth averaged 6 percent a year while inflation often remained below 3 percent. Millions of Mexicans entered the middle class, and the country began its transformation from a largely rural economy to an industrial one.

But after he left, two successive presidents embarked on economic policies characterized by runaway spending and excessive borrowing that undid many of his accomplishments.

After Mr. Ortiz Mena’s tenure, Mexico lurched from financial crisis to crisis for roughly a quarter-century. While a return to close fiscal management and a tight monetary policy have restored stability over the last decade, the economy has at times grown anemically.

In an era of globalization these days, many of Mr. Ortiz Mena’s policies — like his protection of local industry and a policy of replacing imported goods with locally made ones — seem outdated. Mexico has entered the free-market camp.

Mr. Ortiz Mena was born in Parral in the northern state of Chihuahua on April 16, 1907. A lawyer by profession, he was a graduate of the National Autonomous University of Mexico. He held a series of government posts before becoming finance minister under President Adolfo López Mateos and continuing under President Gustavo Díaz Ordaz.

In 1970, he was named president of the Inter-American Development Bank, one of the World Bank’s regional financiers, and he remained there until his retirement in 1988. During his tenure there, lending increased tenfold, to $40 billion in 1987 from $4 billion in 1970, the bank said.

While the Inter-American bank concentrated most of its efforts during that time on lending to build Latin American infrastructure projects and heavy industries, Mr. Ortiz Mena also set up the bank’s first financing operations for microenterprise.

He resigned in 1988 at a time of tension over perceptions in the region that the Reagan administration was trying to control the bank.

Mr. Ortiz Mena was a stalwart of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which governed Mexico for 71 years until 2000. As finance minister, he was considered a possible candidate for the presidency.

In 1994, a dinner was held at his home at which the president of the party asked Mexico’s top business executives to contribute $25 million each to the party. When an account appeared in newspapers, it was an enormous embarrassment to the party, although he was spared public outrage.

Mr. Ortiz Mena is survived by his wife, Martha Salinas de Ortiz Mena, six children and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
505 2007-03-16 The election is a crucial test of Nigeria’s fragile young democracy. If it is successful, it will be the first time a civilian has been elected to succeed another civilian. Any interruption in that process could upset the delicate ethnic and religious balance in the fractious nation, which has 140 million people, evenly divided between Christians and Muslims, and drawn from more than 250 ethnic groups.

The chairman of the electoral commission told the BBC that the Constitution required that candidates under indictment be barred. But that decision runs afoul of a high court ruling that said the commission may not bar Mr. Abubakar, despite the corruption charges.

Mr. Abubakar was once an ally of President Olusegun Obasanjo, but the two have had a very public and acrimonious falling-out over whether Mr. Obasanjo should seek a third term. Mr. Obasanjo, a Yoruba Christian from the southwest who was first elected in 1999, is constitutionally barred from running again, but his supporters tried to change the Constitution last year to eliminate the two-term limit.

That move angered many northern Muslims, who under the unspoken rules of Nigerian politics — aimed at keeping peace in a deeply divided nation — expected that one of their own would take power in this year’s election. The third-term bid was defeated in the legislature, and the governing party chose Umaru Yar’Adua, the governor of Katsina State, as its candidate.

Mr. Yar’Adua has pledged to continue the reforms of Mr. Obasanjo, who has been credited with fighting corruption and improving Nigeria’s financial management, but he has been dogged by concerns about his health. These worries were amplified last week when he was flown to Germany for emergency medical care.

Nigeria’s last two elections, in 1999 and 2003, were marred by violence and allegations of fraud, though they were ultimately deemed largely free and fair by international observers. Since its independence from Britain in 1960, the country has suffered through civil war, military coups, grim ethnic and religious violence and corrupt misrule that drained hundreds of billions of dollars in oil wealth from government coffers.

In Kano, an ancient city in the heart of the Muslim north, there was little surprise but much dismay at the decision to bar Mr. Abubakar. Standing near the crumbling walls of the old city, Jamilu Suleman, a 30-year-old trader, said Mr. Abubakar should be allowed to run.

“As young Nigerians, we are always yearning for a good person to rule this country, but it never happens,” he said. “This latest attempt at Atiku is another example of leaders’ blocking a good man.”
506 2007-03-16 SACRAMENTO, March 15 — The typical No. 3 seed contends for its conference championship every season, advances to the N.C.A.A. tournament almost every year and views first-round games as minor irritants, to be endured rather than enjoyed.

When a No. 3 seed wins its first-round game, no one is allowed to get too excited. When it loses, a state of emergency can be declared on campus.

The Washington State Cougars are seeded third in the East Region, but they approached this year’s tournament with the joy and enthusiasm of a No. 16 seed, perhaps because it had been 24 years since they last won a tournament game.

Washington State is an easy team to pick against, but a difficult team to play against. Oral Roberts, the No. 14 seed facing the Cougars, was a fan favorite to pull the tournament’s landmark upset Thursday at Arco Arena.

But Washington State is used to taking the underdog role. The Cougars played with the kind of intensity expected from midmajor teams like Oral Roberts, rallying from a first-half deficit and rolling to a 70-54 victory.
507 2007-03-16 It’s hard to believe that Maná, the enormously popular Mexican rock band, has been together since 1986, give or take a few lineup changes. Its show at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday — one of two, both sold out — seemed more like the work of a band recently convened by supermanagers in order to be attached to advertising. The four handsome core members didn’t evince much chemistry, no inside jokes; they hardly interacted. The show was tight as a drum, stripped of longeurs and entertaining, in a businesslike way.

On the other hand ’86 is about right. That explains — has always explained — Maná’s sound in relation to the reggae-rock of the Police, from which this band drew heavily. (To be fair, in recent years this influence has waned: Fher Olvera’s voice has thickened, and on the band’s new record, “Amar es Combatir” — “To Love Is to Fight” — from Warner Music Latina, he doesn’t sing high notes á la Sting anymore.) It also explained the sudden onset of hair-metal guitar solos in the show’s second half, as well as the midconcert, set-piece drum solo by Alex González, the band’s one clear virtuoso.

Much respect to this solo, which was a blizzard of speed and technique, and a maze of neat rolls and tiny accents across a huge kit. (Mr. Gonzalez and his drums were on a motorized riser, which turned 90 degrees in each direction, to prove that his limbs were doing what you thought they were doing.) He smiled through it all, played the snare drum behind his back for a while and finished by standing up and keeping his rhythms steady. Then he stood atop the stool and jumped off it, triumphant. There was no second-guessing in his work. He was driving the disciplined, optimistic kapow! of ’80s pop right into the heart of the present-day culture, and the middle-aged Latin American audience knew its coordinates cold.

A lot of Spanish-language rock has never lost that authentic optimism. In Maná’s songs the hope and romance in old songs like “Vivir Sin Aire” (To Live Without Air”) or new songs like “Manda una Señal” (“Send Me a Signal”) and “Combatiente” (“Combatant”) is authentic even when the sonic material isn’t. Mana is a loud rock band with a lot of female fans; it’s on the side of safety, dreams, love and comfort. And likewise the music: Whether the template is the Police, U2, or broad-gesture ’80s pop-rock like Journey, you hear each chord change nosing confidently around the corner.

In “Se Me Olvido Otra Vez” (“I Forget Myself Again”) and “Perdido en un Barco” (“Lost in a Boat”), run together as a medley, the band played mock salsa, stretching its musicianship a little. In its cover of the old Mexican ranchera “El Rey” (“The King”), the group switched from a ranchera two-beat to reggae-rock, then to a straight four-four new-wave; in the new song “Bendita tu Luz” (“You’re Blessed With Light”) it played a modified version of Dominican bachata. These were high points. Maná’s music stretches pretty thin when it doesn’t look further back than the ’80s for cultural input. But when it did, the concert lit up.
508 2007-03-16 When the jazz legend Annie Ross barks out “I Got Rhythm,” she turns this great Gershwin standard into a hipster’s credo. If you’ve got as much rhythm in your body and music in your head as Ms. Ross does at 76, who indeed could ask for anything more?

Ms. Ross, who is appearing at the Metropolitan Room early Tuesday evenings in an open-ended engagement, is accompanied by a quartet that includes Tardo Hammer on piano, Neal Miner on bass, Jimmy Wormworth on drums and Warren Vaché on trumpet. The passionate musical romance of Ms. Ross and Mr. Vaché is a joy to behold. An intuitive musical dancing partner, he slips behind her, lifts her up, twirls her around, covers her with kisses, then deposits bouquets at her feet.

About Ms. Ross’s voice, you might say the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. The only semireliable register of her tattered voice is the low end. The tricky notes of her signature song, “Twisted,” are nonnegotiable, but she tries anyway. But as she sang this spoof of psychoanalysis (for which she wrote the hilarious words), the song, which she must have sung thousands of times by now, sounded as fresh and frisky as though it had just popped into existence.

Ms. Ross is the antithesis of an aging diva reflectively considering her life and loves. She treats “My Old Flame” as a song of no regrets, a happy memory of the lover who sexually awakened her but whose name slips her mind.

Only once on Tuesday did Ms. Ross plunge into the dark side. “Lush Life,” a half-spoken dramatic monologue, pressed every emotional and psychological button in Billy Strayhorn’s precociously sophisticated lyric. She became the self-pitying, self-destructive narrator drinking away her disappointment over a failed relationship that was only a fantasy to begin with. I’ve never heard so much bitter juice extracted from lyrics that contain several pitchers of extra-dry martinis.
509 2007-03-16 Once separated, both businesses could fall prey to bids from rivals or private equity companies. Last year Lion Capital and the Blackstone Group, two private equity firms, bought Cadbury’s Continental European soft drinks business for 1.85 billion euros, or $2.44 billion. Shares of Cadbury have lagged those of rivals after the company suffered some setbacks at its confectionary unit. Even before the Easter egg episode, the company recalled thousands of its milk chocolate bars a year ago from supermarket shelves after some traces of salmonella were found.

John M. Sunderland, Cadbury’s chairman, said that “now is the moment to separate” and give both management teams the opportunity to “extract the full potential” of the businesses.

Shareholders have repeatedly asked management in recent years to consider separating the two businesses. Only six months ago the board seriously began to contemplate a split because of strong growth, bankers said.

The management, lead by Todd Stitzer, Cadbury’s chief executive officer, had been discussing the possibility over the last three weeks with its biggest shareholders. Then Mr. Peltz, the shareholder activist, announced that he had amassed a 3 percent stake in the company.

Last year, Mr. Peltz pressured H.J. Heinz’s management into selling parts of the business and other changes. Once word was out that Mr. Peltz, 64, was among Cadbury’s five largest shareholders, the stock jumped more than 10 percent. The market clearly had judged that Mr. Peltz would not remain passive.

Last year, Mr. Peltz waged a six-month battle at Heinz, demanding five board seats for his 5.5 percent stake and finally settling for two. He pushed for the sale of noncore businesses, a higher marketing budget for the ketchup brand and more share buybacks. Heinz’s shares have since risen about 25 percent.

Now, Mr. Peltz, who has made no secret of favoring a split of Cadbury, is focusing on making money with that investment. He is no stranger to the firm; in 2000, Mr. Peltz helped Cadbury expand its beverage business by selling Snapple, the fruit drink maker, to the company for $1.45 billion. Cadbury’s confectionary business is complex, making its beverage division, which generates cash, easier to sell, according to Martin Deboo, an analyst at Investec in London. Cadbury’s soft drink business has grown modestly in the United States, even as the soft drink industry overall has declined. Snapple has struggled to find a niche while its competitors have thrived. PepsiCo and Coca-Cola are not likely buyers because of antitrust issues, he said.

But John Sicher, publisher of Beverage Digest, predicted that Cadbury would eventually become its own publicly traded beverage company. He noted that, besides the soft drink business, Cadbury owned Mott’s juices, Hawaiian Punch and Nantucket Nectars.

“It has the brands and the financial power and the management to exist and compete effectively on its own,” Mr. Sicher said.

European companies are coming under increasing pressure from individual shareholders to reorganize and sell noncore assets to raise their share prices. Bernard Arnault, the French billionaire who is the chairman of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, and Colony Capital, an American private equity firm, last week bought a 9.1 percent stake in Carrefour, the world’s second-largest retailer behind Wal-Mart Stores.

The purchase ignited speculation that the two investors might pressure management to change its strategy, which could include a sale of some assets. Carrefour has retained Morgan Stanley to advise it on the situation.

Cadbury said today that it would provide more details about how it would decide to split on June 19, when it would present a financial update.

The company traces its roots to 1783 when Jean Jacob Schweppe, a watchmaker and amateur scientist, perfected the process of making carbonated mineral water.

He founded the Schweppes Company in Geneva and then moved to England, where he added Schweppes tonic water to its products. Schweppes later merged with the Cadbury Group, which was founded by John Cadbury as a chocolate drink maker in 1824.
510 2007-03-16 One loan that caught my attention this week is going to a software company called Attachmate. Being privately held, it does not release financial information to the public, and when I asked for some I was politely turned down.

But S.& P. reports that the company is borrowing $775 million, or roughly twice its annual revenue. Most of the money will go to pay off old debt, and $280 million is being used to pay dividends.

“The company has a narrow product portfolio in mature markets, with numerous well-capitalized competitors,” wrote David Tsui, the S.& P. analyst. “Revenues continue to decline because of the mature nature of its markets and uncertainty with respect to product support” for some of its software.

The loan is divided into two parts, with the junior one — $275 million that will finance the dividend — getting a CCC+ rating, which is about as low as you can go. S.& P. says that in case of default, lenders can expect “negligible recovery” of principal.

One reason such loans are popular is that they have worked just fine in recent years, with few defaults. Securitization has made it possible to transfer risks and to provide apparent market prices. And traders have developed models that seem to tell them when to sell, thus assuring that they can get out in time.

“The potency of this combination — its effect on risk-taking — cannot be overstated,” said Henry Kaufman, the economist, in a speech this week at Yeshiva University. “Armed with complicated modeling techniques, increasingly powerful computers and reams of historical market data, a growing number of investors have become entranced with the dream of scientific rectitude.”

Mr. Kaufman warned that “such modeling assumes constancy in market fundamentals,” an assumption that he deems risky.

Securitization also made subprime mortgages seem not to be very risky, until the market fundamentals changed and home prices stopped soaring. Suddenly the ability of borrowers to repay mattered. So, too, the ability of companies to generate cash may come to matter.

Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG, recalls that back in 2000, when the technology bubble started to deflate, money managers sold the stock with bad news and put the cash into tech stocks that were still doing well, thus sending prices of those stocks up.

“That turned out to be a strategy that allowed you to ride all of the sleds down the hill,” he said.

So it could be now. The unraveling of the subprime market is being seen as a phenomenon in itself, related to the unwinding of a housing boom. But it could also be the first sign of what happens when credit standards grow far too lax. Investors moving money to other instruments — ones for which there is “overheated demand” — may get to suffer pain again.
511 2007-03-16 “Of course, then we got some cold weather and made a lot of snow,” Mr. Godsey said. “Now we’ll probably be open to the end of March, so I don’t know if I made such a good business decision.”

But the word “free” has done a lot to attract attention. Mr. Godsey said business tripled in recent weeks, while hits on the Tuxedo Ridge Web site (www.skituxedoridge.com) quadrupled.

On a visit last weekend, the lodge was indeed full of families. The four open trails were full of a mix of teens playing on the jumps and beginners giving skiing or snowboarding a try.

“I don’t care if people come up just to have a snowball fight,” Mr. Godsey said. “Let them play in the snow. People have been coming up to me all day and saying, ‘I’ve never skied and I never would have, but because it’s free, I decided to try it.’ ”

Mr. Godsey said an average weekend customer to Tuxedo Ridge would have spent about $70 between lift ticket and rented equipment. The ski area is charging $5 for parking, which it did not do in the past. And, of course, visitors might spend $30 a person, or more, for food and drinks before they head home.

But Mr. Godsey concedes that he and his partners, Eric Karlewicz and Louis Degiulio, who have agreed to pay $7 million for the 250-acre property, are losing money during this month’s promotion.

“It’s an investment in our future,” said Mr. Godsey, who lives in Rockland County and has a background in finance and real estate. “We had to let people know we’re back. Now they can get reacquainted with the place and look forward with us to next year.”

Tuxedo Ridge faces ample competition in the storied hills about an hour’s drive northwest of Manhattan.

Less than 10 miles from Tuxedo Ridge, in Warwick, N.Y., is Mount Peter, one of New York State’s oldest ski areas; it has a loyal local following, good snowmaking and a couple of steep pitches. In Vernon, N.J., about 15 miles away, there is the rebuilt Mountain Creek resort (it is the former Vernon Valley/Great Gorge), which has a large new hotel, the Appalachian, and 45 trails.

TUXEDO RIDGE has eight generally gentle trails and no on-site lodging. But that may change; Tuxedo Ridge has big plans that include a hotel, a conference center, a spa, an indoor water park and perhaps time-share units on the slopes.

The goal, after an outlay of about $85 million, is a year-round destination in the verdant woods off Route 17 in Orange County. This summer, Mr. Godsey said, Tuxedo Ridge hopes to put on outdoor concerts and movies, comedy performances, teenager nights and paintball tournaments.

The 1960s-era lodge that the new owners inherited has been refurbished and now includes an upscale restaurant that will remain open year-round. For several weekends in the late summer and early fall, property adjacent to the ski area is used to stage the popular New York Renaissance Faire, which brings thousands to the region.

Tuxedo Ridge, like the other ski areas in its vicinity, is chasing the family-and-schoolchildren market.

“Typically, this place used to sell 3,000 season passes in the winter,” said Mr. Godsey, seated next to a grand hearth uncovered during the lodge renovation. “This year, we sold about 50. People didn’t know we reopened.

“But this place has a 40-year history of entertaining the community. I expect next year to be quite profitable. We don’t necessarily need to grow the business, we just want our regulars to come back.”

Warm temperatures this week halted the snowmaking at Tuxedo Ridge, which closed Tuesday through Thursday. With snow in the immediate forecast and with a manmade snow base accumulated in frigid February and early March, Tuxedo Ridge expects to reopen for three days beginning today.

“I walked through this place when it was closed and it was just heart-wrenching,” Mr. Godsey said. “I knew it was worth bringing it back. I didn’t know we’d be giving things away for free, but it’s still worth it.”
512 2007-03-16 Opens today in Manhattan. 

Directed by Anders Thomas Jensen 

In Danish, with English subtitles 

Not rated; 91 minutes 



The Danish writer and director Anders Thomas Jensen's 2005 feature, ''Adam's Apples'' -- about a neo-Nazi sentenced to community service at a rural church run by a sunshine-and-lollipops vicar -- is one of the latest examples of the post-''Pulp Fiction'' bloody comedy. It's also one of the weirdest, mixing glib humor with dead-serious spiritual inquiry.

At first the film plays like a particularly grim sitcom. The glowering, bald Adam (Ulrich Thomsen, a star of ''The Celebration'' and the henchman in ''The World Is Not Enough'') moves into staff quarters at a church run by the young minister, Ivan (the frequent Jensen repertory company member Mads Mikkelsen, the blood-weeping bad guy from ''Casino Royale''), and nails a portrait of Hitler onto his bedroom wall. He grimaces through hs new job, which mainly consists of taking care of the church's apple tree.

Other troubled church employees and parishioners are defined in broad strokes: a tubby, alcoholic ex-tennis pro, Gunnar (Nicolas Bro); a hot-tempered Arab immigrant, Khalid (Ali Kazim), who protests the misdeeds of global oil companies by robbing local gas stations; and a depressed woman named Sarah (Paprika Steen), who's dissuaded from aborting her out-of-wedlock pregnancy by Ivan, an improbably optimistic widower who believes his paralyzed and uncommunicative son in not only healthy but also a math genius.

Mr. Jensen subverts the film's grim but frivolous wit with supernatural events. Some are dime-store DeMille. (The apple tree is infested with worms and attacked by giant crows.) Others are more slapstick: reverberating church bells knock Adam's Hitler portrait off the wall; a Bible, when dropped, always opens to the Book of Job. All have obvious metaphoric implications, but they're also literal events: manifestations of God's judgment.

Smart-aleck comedy and spirituality aren't incompatible, but in ''Adam's Apples'' they cancel each other out. The film's cutesy, misanthropic characterizations; Scorsese-style beatings; and bloody, comic gunplay announce, ''People are deluded animals, God is blind or dead, and life is meaningless,'' but the supernatural events say the opposite, and Mr. Jensen's tone is so cagey that it's hard to tell if he has an opinion one way or the other.

Nasty Adam is clearly headed for a fall into goodness, but along the way we have to endure overcooked scenes in which he plays Satan to Ivan's Jesus, torturing him with cynical statements about the futility of faith. Such scenes may seem daring on the page, but here they simply play as fashionably hip: a Quentin Tarantino remake of ''Going My Way.'' MATT ZOLLER SEITZ 



''Adam's Apples'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for profanity, violence, sexual situations and various disturbing images. 



Photo: Ivan (Mads Mikkelsen), left, and Adam (Ulrich Thomsen) in ''Adam's Apples.'' (Photo by Rolf Konow/Outsider Pictures)
513 2007-03-16 A bid by a private equity consortium to take over Qantas Airways appears to be in trouble after improvements in the airline's earning prospects have left the offer looking inadequate. The Airline Partners Australia consortium, which includes the T...
514 2007-03-16 The finance minister of Germany said Thursday that he favored the development of an internationally accepted ''code of conduct'' for the $1.4 trillion hedge fund industry but that it would take the world's leading economies at least a year to deci...
515 2007-03-16 The Indiana Hoosiers came to California and seemed to lose all of their core Midwestern values.     In doing so, they advanced to the second round of the N.C.A.A. tournament....
516 2007-03-16 HANDLING BAD NEWS How do medical device manufacturers react when they start receiving reports of injuries caused by their products? Some case studies are revealing. [Page C1.]    BID FOR THE BOARD OF TRADE The Intercontinental Exchange surprised f...
517 2007-03-17 No one specifically blamed the officials, but it seemed to be implied by every Knick who spoke. All of them cited the absence of free throws.

“We’re known for taking the ball to the basket, we got guys that take it to the basket and we’re known for putting the ball inside,” Thomas said. “Tonight, we didn’t do as good a job of getting to the foul line as we normally do. And the other team did a better job.”

The Knicks blew an 18-point first-half lead, then blew a chance to leap into seventh place in the Eastern Conference. Instead, the Knicks (29-36) slipped to 10th place, just behind the idle Indiana Pacers, with 17 games to play.

“We hate to lose any game, but this is extremely important,” said Channing Frye, who had 20 points. “I don’t think it’s a killer, but it doesn’t help our cause.”

Missed opportunities have become something of a defining trait for the Knicks. They had three chances in the final seconds, but Stephon Marbury missed a baseline floater and Frye missed from 18 feet before Francis got the ball and dribbled around the arc to find an opening.

Two nights earlier, Francis had blamed himself for a loss at Toronto, and this was his shot at redemption. He nevertheless played one of his best games as a Knick, finishing with 21 points and 10 assists, including a nice lob-and-dunk play with Eddy Curry, who had barked at Francis on Wednesday at Toronto.

Curry, who complained about a lack of touches against the Raptors , scored 18 points last night and went 8 for 14 from the field. But he went to the free-throw line twice in 42 minutes. He averages 8 free throw attempts a game.

“I was definitely struck by that during the game,” Curry said. “I’m feeling the same contact that I normally feel when I go to the line. Just not able to get there tonight.”

Paul repeatedly broke down the Knicks’ defense and went 7 for 8 from the free-throw line. Butler hurt the Knicks from the outside, making all five of his 3-point attempts, including one that gave the Hornets an 88-86 lead.

The Hornets (29-36) trailed for nearly 40 consecutive minutes, then took their first lead of the second half, 83-82, on Butler’s 3-pointer. The lead swung back and forth for the final five minutes, neither team leading by more than 2 points.

West scored what proved to be the winner, on an 18-footer with a little less than a minute to play. Curry, double-teamed by Chandler and Paul, forced an 8-footer and missed badly. When Paul missed a 14-footer at the other end, the Knicks had their final shot.

After spending two days talking about how to get Curry the ball, the Knicks seemed strangely uninterested in doing so in the opening minutes. Curry took only three shots in the first quarter. But the Knicks raced to a 14-point lead, thanks to Frye’s hot hand and the Hornets’ inability to shoot (4 for 22 in the first quarter).

But the Hornets made 27 of 51 shots (.529) in the final three quarters. Asked about the Knicks’ inability to grab rebounds and keep the Hornets off the offensive boards, Thomas said that the Knicks had done fine defensively.

“If a team gets an offensive rebound, that means you made them miss a shot,” he said. “They only shot 42 percent from the field, and we outscored them by five field goals, so the foul line really hurt us tonight, and our inability to get there.”

Steve Francis, who got into a couple heated exchanges with Eddy Curry in Toronto, took the blame for the loss, but was defensive last night. “When things aren’t going well, who else would be the donkey that they pin the tail on than myself?” he said. “It’s been like that since I’ve been here. It’s nothing.”
518 2007-03-17 Abreu said that he expected to take batting practice on the field Saturday with the other players staying back while the Yankees played the Phillies in Clearwater. Abreu said that he was not bothered by missing the chance to face the Phillies, the team that traded him to the Yankees last summer.

“I just want to be ready,” he said.

WILLIAMS’S CHANCES FADING The next call Joe Torre expects to make to Bernie Williams will be a social one. Williams never returned two calls Torre made to him in an attempt to persuade him to report to camp, and Torre said before Friday’s game that he doubted Williams would play this season for anyone.

“I probably would be surprised, because if it was going to happen, it would have happened by now,” Torre said. “I’m not saying I’m pleased about it. Bernie feels he can still play, and when you’ve had the career he’s had, you don’t want to see somebody else making the decision for you.”

Williams would not report to camp without a guaranteed major league contract from the Yankees, who offered him only a minor league deal. The Yankees did not pursue Williams when Bobby Abreu was injured last month, and Torre said he doubted that would change.

WANG FEELS BETTER Chien-Ming Wang allowed one run and four hits in five innings Friday in the Yankees’ 4-3 loss to the Astros. He did not report feeling the wrist and forearm stiffness that he felt in his last start. Robinson Canó hit a three-run homer in the first inning for the Yankees.

Third baseman Alex Rodriguez had a tough first inning. Houston catcher Brad Ausmus doubled him off first base on Todd Pratt’s foul-out near the screen to end the inning. Rodriguez then missed Craig Biggio’s sharp grounder leading off the bottom of the inning. That ball was ruled a hit.

Ron Villone failed to hold a 3-1 lead for the Yankees in the seventh, giving up bases-empty home runs to Morgan Ensberg and Adam Everett. The Astros won on Brooks Conrad’s run-scoring double in the ninth against Ben Kozlowski.

HEILMAN WILL WORK THOUGH PAIN Aaron Heilman found out last season what it was like to pitch for an extended period with tendinitis. It put a painful asterisk on the year for Heilman, who is resigned to more of the same this season.

“Unfortunately at this point in time, I don’t think it is going to miraculously clear up,” Heilman said after returning from a week’s absence with arm soreness to pitch a perfect inning in the Mets’ 5-4 loss to the Florida Marlins in Jupiter, Fla. “It’s also probably not going to get worse, either. So I’ll have to manage, hopefully like I did last year.”

Heilman, who threw 12 strikes in 14 pitches and struck out two, said he felt fine once he warmed up. But he added, “There is probably going to be very few days where, from start to finish, I feel great.”

With the regular season a little more than two weeks away and Guillermo Mota and Duaner Sánchez still unavailable, the Mets are counting on Heilman to be a reliable eighth-inning option, as he was for the final two months of last season.

“At least this year I know where I stand,” said Heilman, who has not lost his desire to return to a starting role. “I’ve got a job to do and I plan to do it.”

The right-handed Heilman, who had surgery Oct. 23 to remove bone chips from his right elbow, said he picked up several tips last season on how to mitigate the impact of tendinitis. He has learned to better anticipate when to begin his in-game preparation. He also does some selective exercising to get his body loosened up. Then he tries to be ready to enter a game in less than 20 pitches.

“People forget that a lot of times we warm up and then don’t have to go in the game,” Heilman said. “They say, ‘He hasn’t pitched in three days, he can’t be tired.’ But we may have gotten up five times and never gotten in.”

Heilman appeared in a team-high 74 games last season with a 4-5 record and 3.62 earned run average in 87 innings, but he described the year as very frustrating because he could never tell how his arm would feel each day. CHARLIE NOBLES
519 2007-03-17 A former trash company supervisor was convicted of murdering six women whose strangled bodies were found scattered in the Kansas City area in 1986 and 1987. Under a deal with prosecutors, the defendant, Lorenzo Gilyard, 56, is expected to be sentenced to life in prison. The police were testing genetic evidence in old unsolved cases in 2004 when they linked Mr. Gilyard’s DNA to the deaths of at least a dozen women, all but one of whom were prostitutes. Prosecutors pursued charges in what they considered the seven strongest cases; Mr. Gilyard was acquitted in the seventh case. Prosecutors agreed in January not to seek the death penalty against Mr. Gilyard, as long as defense attorneys allowed a trial before a judge without a jury and agreed to give up nearly all of their client’s appeal rights.
520 2007-03-17 A court in Moscow has for the second time ordered Mikhail M. Kasyanov, a former prime minister, to return a luxury home he bought from the state in 2004, ruling that he had acquired it illegally. Mr. Kasyanov, who served under President Vladimir V. Putin from 2000 to 2004, dismissed the decision as politically motivated and vowed to appeal, as he did when a court ordered the return a year ago. The purchase came under scrutiny after he declared his opposition to Mr. Putin and vowed to run for president next year.
521 2007-03-17 Last month, a 22-year-old Egyptian blogger was sentenced to four years in prison for what he had posted online; he’d been charged with criticizing President Hosni Mubarak and insulting Islam. This week, the police violently broke up a peaceful protest against pending constitutional amendments and detained a number of people. None of these things bode well for human rights or democracy in Egypt.

President Mubarak says the amendments — soon to be voted on by Parliament — are meant to create a more open, balanced government. They are almost sure to do the opposite. One change would put elections under the control of a supposedly independent commission, but democracy advocates suspect it would be a puppet of the government.

Under pressure from Washington, Mr. Mubarak allowed limited competition in the 2005 parliamentary elections — and some independent oversight. Critics fear that the new commission would roll back those gains, clearing the way for Mr. Mubarak’s son to take power. Equally worrisome is an amendment that would weaken privacy rights and standards for arrest and detention.

This week, the courts rejected an appeal by the blogger, Abdel Kareem Nabil. The Bush administration has rightly condemned his conviction as a “setback for human rights.” Washington should also express concern over the rights of peaceful protesters. Before the amendments come to a vote, President Bush needs to tell Mr. Mubarak privately that this is not the path to long-term stability. Washington and the European Union should also speak out publicly against the most dangerous pieces of legislation.

If the amendments pass, the next step will be a referendum. Washington should help independent groups organize in the event of such a vote. Dissenting voices are essential if there is to be any hope of free debate and democracy in Egypt.
522 2007-03-17 Ms. Wilson said she had long been aware that her identity could be disclosed by foreign governments. “It was a terrible irony that administration officials were the ones who destroyed my cover,” she said, and did so “from purely political motives.”

At the time, the Bush White House was in the midst of a bitter dispute with her husband, Joseph C. Wilson IV, who had charged that senior officials had willfully distorted intelligence about Iraq’s efforts to obtain uranium in Africa to bolster the case for going to war.

Ms. Wilson, whose outing led to the conviction last week of I. Lewis Libby Jr., the former chief of staff to Vice President Dick Cheney, is reticent by nature and profession. She posed for an infamous photo shoot with Vanity Fair, which she declared Friday to be “more trouble than it was worth.”

Her instinctive quiet always seemed more pronounced next to the chronic noisemaking of her husband, the unreticent former diplomat, who was glaringly absent from Friday’s proceedings. According to a family friend who attended Friday’s hearing, Mr. Wilson was skiing in Utah with the couple’s 7-year-old twins, awaiting his wife’s arrival. Next week, the Wilsons will begin their new life at their new home in New Mexico.

But first Ms. Wilson had solemn business to dispatch with in Washington. In answer to questions from friendly Democrats on the committee, Ms. Wilson sharply disputed accounts that she had played any meaningful role in the decision to send her husband to Niger, which resulted in his report, in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times, that the White House had exaggerated intelligence that Iraq tried to buy uranium there. She also disclosed that she had made “several secret” trips abroad in the last few years to gather intelligence on unconventional weapons, which she said proved that those who said she did not have covert or undercover status when her identity was disclosed were incorrect.

Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who became chairman in January, said that the purpose of the hearing was to consider legislative changes in the way the government handles information about Central Intelligence Agency employees. But the appearance seemed less a platform for legislation than for Democrats, who now control the committee, to criticize the Bush administration.

The leaking of Ms. Wilson’s name “undermined the trust and confidence with which future C.I.A. employees and sources hold the United States,” Mr. Waxman said.

The committee’s ranking Republican, Representative Thomas M. Davis III of Virginia, tried at the beginning of the hearing to pre-emptively label the event as meaningless. As if to underscore his point, he was one of only two of the 17 Republicans on the committee who bothered to show up.

Mr. Davis said that the investigation by a special counsel ended without anybody being charged with knowingly leaking the name of an undercover C.I.A. officer. The disclosure of Ms. Wilson’s identity, he said, was unintentional. (Mr. Libby was convicted of perjury, obstruction of justice and lying to the F.B.I.)

Friday’s episode, Mr. Davis added, was but a “media maelstrom,” an assessment no one quibbled with.

But that description understated the cinematographic aura that pervaded the room. Representative Lynn Westmoreland, Republican of Georgia, declared himself nervous.

“I’ve never questioned a spy before,” he said, either star-struck or sarcastic but drawing laughs either way.

Ms. Wilson replied, “I’ve never testified under oath before,” to more laughter.

Earlier, she had detailed how she felt upon learning of her outing in a syndicated column by Robert D. Novak. She learned early on the morning of July 14, 2003, after her husband dropped the newspaper on their bed and said simply, “He did it.” (“He,” it was later ascertained, referred to Mr. Novak.)

“I felt I had been hit in the gut,” Ms. Wilson said.

She needed only slight coaxing from Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, to criticize President Bush. She was asked to comment on the fact that Mr. Bush had said he would fire anyone involved in the leak and that Karl Rove, the deputy chief of staff who confirmed Ms. Wilson’s identity to two reporters, is still employed at the White House. “I believe it undermines the president’s word,” she said.

She gave a detailed account of how her husband was selected for the Africa mission, saying that another agency official suggested him. “I did not recommend him, I did not suggest him, there was no nepotism involved,” she said. She agreed only to relay the idea to him, an idea she said she herself was ambivalent about because it would leave her alone with their children for a time.

The audience sat rapt, all eyes fixed on Ms. Wilson, even when congressmen were talking, as if she could vanish at any moment.

And then, all talked out, she slipped out a side door.
523 2007-03-17 The reason, analysts said, is that he has his hands full running two troubled companies.

“His schedule required almost superhuman strength,” said Jeremy Anwyl, president of Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives consumers car-buying advice. “At some point you think something’s got to give, and it appears that may have been Nissan sales over the last 12 months.”

Nissan’s sales fell 5 percent in the United States last year, when the company took a breather from a steady stream of product introductions over the last few years.

It resumed its flow of new models last fall, when it introduced restyled versions of the Altima sedan and the Sentra compact. A new small crossover vehicle, the Rouge, is expected this year, as is an Altima coupe that looks similar to a luxury model, the Infiniti G35.

Nissan sales are up 2.7 percent this year compared with the first two months of 2006.

But in response to a sharp slide in its Japanese sales, Nissan said on Friday that it would move to a single shift from April to June at the Oppama and Tochigi plants, which assemble about a dozen models that include the March subcompact and the Infiniti Q45, a luxury sedan.

Nissan said Hiroto Saikawa, the vice president for European operations, would assume Mr. Ghosn’s duties for North America.

His appointment came as Nissan reshuffled its management team. Its priority, Mr. Ghosn said, would be “to act decisively on the multiple challenges facing Nissan and to boost our overall performance in 2007.”

A spokeswoman for Nissan North America, Frédérique Le Grèves, said the company usually left senior managers in place for two years. But Mr. Ghosn had not made changes for three years and felt new assignments were overdue.

“I think it was the right time for him” to take the steps, Ms. Le Grèves said. “And it’s just the right time for him to focus on the bigger picture for Nissan and Renault. He will continue to watch the U.S. very closely.”

Ms. Le Grèves said Mr. Saikawa would be based in Japan, where he is also in charge of Nissan’s purchasing operations, leaving day-to-day responsibilities for North America to Nissan executives here.

At Nissan, Mr. Ghosn has initiated three successive revamping plans, which collectively cut the company’s debt, improved its profits and expanded its global sales, particularly in the United States, where he put himself in overall charge of its operations.

But as Nissan was rising, problems occurred at Renault, where Mr. Ghosn had led a turnaround in the 1990s that honed his reputation as a restructuring specialist. Last year, Mr. Ghosn announced a recovery plan for Renault and began leading both companies.

In the midst of that, Mr. Ghosn joined forces last summer with Kirk Kerkorian, then G.M.’s largest shareholder, to propose a three-way alliance of G.M., Renault and Nissan. But the discussions fell apart after G.M. demanded an upfront payment from Renault and Nissan to account for the value that it thought those two companies would gain from an arrangement.

Though Mr. Ghosn had said he might seek another North American partner, he has since backed away from the idea of expanding the Renault-Nissan alliance. Neither company has taken part in discussions with DaimlerChrysler, which is talking to potential bidders for the Chrysler Group, a sale that may take place as soon as this spring.

Although Mr. Ghosn has shied away from recent auto shows, Ms. Le Grèves said he would be back in the United States this spring, for a speech in Washington and a visit to Detroit. She pointed out that Nissan would still be profitable for the 2006 fiscal year, which ends March 31.
524 2007-03-17 Much of the rise in inflation was because of a rebound in energy costs after they declined in January. The price of household energy rose 1.4 percent last month, driven by a 1.5 percent increase in piped gas and electricity as cold weather across much of the country forced Americans to keep their heat on. Gasoline at the pump also inched up 0.3 percent, after falling 3 percent in January.

Other prices also rose. Frosts earlier this year that damaged oranges and other crops contributed to a 4.7 percent gain in fruit and vegetable prices last month and helped lift the overall price of food by 0.8 percent.

And a 1.1 percent increase in February in the price of meat, fish and poultry products underscored how the diversion of corn to make ethanol is having an effect on prices further up the food chain by increasing the cost of animal feed.

The price of clothes also jumped 0.5 percent, and so did medical costs. Indeed, after a 0.8 percent increase in January, medical costs this year have posted their biggest two-month increase since January and February of 1992, suggesting that the moderation of health care costs late last year was more a fluke than the beginning of a trend.

“Some of the deceleration in prices that we saw at the end of 2006 is proving to be short-lived,” said David Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley. “It’s unlikely we will see much of a decline in inflation unless the labor market and the economy show some signs of weakening.”

Price gains are eating into the budgets of workers, rapidly gobbling up the wage increases that started materializing late last year. For workers outside of management ranks, real weekly earnings declined by 0.3 percent in February for the second consecutive month. Wages are now only 1.5 percent above where they were a year ago.

Still, with unemployment at 4.5 percent, the labor market is tight. Productivity growth has slowed and unit labor costs have risen, slowing the growth in corporate profits. If workers manage to obtain bigger paychecks to compensate for rising prices of gasoline and other items, they will add pressure to inflation, as businesses will be more likely to respond by raising prices.

Mr. Greenlaw observed that if the economy continues to grow at about 2 percent, unemployment will rise and inflation will abate, but unless unemployment rises from its current level of 4.5 percent, prices are likely to remain under pressure.

The higher readings on inflation posit something of a quandary for the Fed. The Fed’s interest-rate-setting committee will meet next week. Most economists expect it to leave the short-term rate unchanged, at 5.25 percent. But some economists suggested that the current readings on inflation change the game plan somewhat, underscoring that inflation remains a substantial risk.

Most Wall Street economists had anticipated the Fed would start cutting interest rates later this year, as slower growth pushed up unemployment and put a brake on prices. These expectations grew as the turmoil in financial markets increased the risk that economic growth could slow more sharply than expected.

But higher inflation leaves less room for lower rates. The core Consumer Price Index — the Fed’s preferred price gauge, which excludes volatile food and energy prices — increased by 0.2 percent in February. This left core prices 2.7 percent higher than in the same month of last year, well in excess of the 1 percent to 2 percent range that the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has said he is comfortable with.

“There is a hint that inflation pressures are starting to rise,” said Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass. “If we get another couple of months with strong core inflation readings in the range of 2.5 percent, certainly the chances of a rate cut in 2007 will be near zero.”
525 2007-03-17 Promising that he would be relentless in upholding his “solemn responsibility” to deter terrorist attacks at New Jersey’s industrial facilities, Gov. Jon S. Corzine announced a proposal yesterday to enact tighter security measures at more than 50 plants that use the kind of deadly chemical gases that could pose a threat to thousands of people in the surrounding communities. Since 2005, 42 of the state’s most vulnerable plants have been forced to evaluate ways to reduce risks, and several have changed chemicals or processes. Mr. Corzine’s proposal would require more stringent regulations to be adopted at 52 additional facilities, including water treatment plants and food processing factories, which use deadly chlorine gas. If adopted by the Legislature, the regulations would be among the tightest in the nation. Rick Hind, legislative director for the Greenpeace toxics campaign, urged Congress not to enact a Bush administration proposal, supported by the chemical industry, that would allow looser federal guidelines to supersede New Jersey’s regulations.
526 2007-03-17 AUSTIN, Tex., March 16 — As a recent favorite among music bloggers, the earnest indie-rock band Cold War Kids drew a teeming throng of hundreds to its performance on Thursday night at South by Southwest, the music industry’s annual convention and music festival here. Offering a clutch of hooky riffs and anxious vocals, the band stood a chance to win new fans. But few are likely to match the influence of Naoki Shimizu, the Japanese music executive who watched silently from the back of the room, standing with arms crossed and bouncing on his toes.

Mr. Shimizu runs Creativeman Productions, one of Japan’s leading concert promoters, and the band’s representatives had made a point of inviting him. As Mr. Shimizu tells it — through a translator — he has all but committed to adding Cold War Kids to the bill at Summer Sonic, his multistage music festival in Tokyo and Osaka, and Thursday night’s performance could seal the deal.

“It’s incredibly important for me to have them there, so we can all have the same perspective on the band,” said Brett Williams, the manager of the group, which is from Los Angeles. “What we’re about is reaching more people.” And the international contacts, he added, “are going to help us get there.”

Mr. Shimuzu represents a little-noticed undercurrent in the surge of international visitors attending the festival, which runs through Sunday. Performers from countries like Australia and Norway have long added an international flair to this tastemaking festival, which is regarded as a supermarket for talent scouts to shop for new acts aiming to break through in America. But in a twist, the growing number of international players like Creativeman at the festival have reversed some of the traffic — many artists from North America now visit Austin to pursue overseas opportunities, like releasing their music in Germany or booking a show in Japan.

As a result, the festival, which started as a small regional music showcase, and where conventiongoers still gorge on barbecue and beer, has become a passage to the global marketplace. In the age of instant messaging and MySpace, an enterprising artist could hobnob with prospective foreign business partners, share music and even negotiate a deal from a computer — and many do. But for those who prefer promoting themselves live, the festival has become a crucial destination.
527 2007-03-17 In death, Captain America’s been given back to the marketing department — everyone acting as though he’s Uncle Sam, murdered before our eyes, when what he’d become over the years was something much more interesting.

It takes a lot for a mid-level superhero to keep going — up there on the store shelves every month, decade after decade, punching people out, aging out of context into an increasingly whimsical universe, trying to make it work. He never got promoted to, say, Major America or Colonel America. His shield was a gift, not from a god or alien visitor, but from F.D.R. For all his trouble, he got frozen in ice, fought his own clone and was reduced at times to playing pitchman for Twinkies.

Though he never ascended to icon status, at least Steve Rogers wasn’t the stiff, nationalist bully you’d expect. He was a surprisingly likable, even troubled guy I find it hard to be too cynical about.

During the Watergate scandal he had a crisis of conscience and changed his name to the Nomad. He formed a partnership with the Falcon, the first African-American superhero. In his final adventure, he rebelled against a Superhuman Registration Act to license heroes in a kind of super-D.M.V. The man struggled, visibly and with great effort, to do what he saw as the decent thing.

Captain America’s failure to hack it as a national icon, to stay a cardboard cut-out, made him a compelling multilayered character. But, in a sense, it’s also what killed him.

Superman has his mythic quality and billion-dollar brand, and you knew, during the much-publicized “Death of Superman” story in the ’90s, that he was always going to come back. But I cringed to see Cap take those bullets, panel by panel, a vulnerable man in a flag suit.

It doesn’t matter if it’s just a P.R. stunt, or if it turns out a robot duplicate was killed in his place, or another Steve Rogers reappears from some alternative future dimension. In the end, Captain America was never the eternal symbol — he was the publicity stunt who grew on the page into a failed but likable human being, and was therefore believably mortal. The Captain’s co-creator, Joe Simon, is said to be sitting shiva for him.

Making the late Captain America the legend he never was in life, or trying to read into his demise some allegory for our country’s current crises, misses the point. Behind that vibranium shield, behind that kitschy Fourth of July mask, Steve Rogers was still just this art student who got drafted into a special assignment that lasted 65 years.

So, sure, Superman has plenty of fans, but I prefer my superheroes like Cap: earthbound, struggling and all too human.
528 2007-03-17 It’s strange to imagine a musical deity like Bach humbly applying for a job and being judged by inferior mortals. It’s even odder to think that he initially wasn’t the preferred candidate for the dual position of cantor of St. Thomas Church and music director of Leipzig.

But not surprisingly, Bach wowed the Leipzig city council at his audition. At a concert on Thursday night at the Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, the New York Collegium and Andrew Parrott presented the two employer-pleasing cantatas (BWV 22 and 23), as well as Cantata 75 (the first he wrote after taking the position) in a program titled “Leipzig 1723: Mr. Bach Comes to Town.”

The presence of the Collegium, however, will unfortunately be diminished, as budget woes stemming from “rising expenses and static revenues” have forced the ensemble (which gave its debut concert in 1999) to scale back its performances drastically next season.

The Collegium offered the large crowd that turned up for its seasonal swan song a worthy performance. The strings played with conviction and a lively lilt, and there were excellent contributions from Stephen Hammer on oboe d’amore, the alto version of the instrument invented in the Leipzig area a few years before Bach’s appointment. A messy trumpet solo in BWV 75 was the only blip in an otherwise commendable orchestral performance.

The vocal soloists, including the tenor Marc Molomot and the soprano Emily Van Evera, were strong, although Kirsten Sollek, who sang with an appealingly rich alto, and the bass Curtis Streetman, who performed with dramatic flair, were the most consistently solid.

The soloists also doubled as the chorus, joined by an additional four singers. Mr. Parrott is a disciple of the musicologist Joshua Rifkin, who theorized in 1981 that Bach’s choral works were performed with a single voice to a part, instead of the soaring, majestic choruses familiar to most listeners.
529 2007-03-17 What would George Bernard Shaw think about urban renewal or the United States’ current policy toward the poor? Or hip-hop music? Do you care?

All these questions are raised by the Epic Theater Center’s clumsy new production of Shaw’s “Widowers’ Houses,” which gives his work the modernizing treatment that is quite common for plays of Shakespeare and Chekhov. In this case the 1892 drama, adapted by Ron Russell and Godfrey L. Simmons Jr., is updated to Harlem one century later.

“Widowers’ Houses,” Shaw’s first (and far from best) play, follows a young innocent, Dr. Harry Trench (James Wallert), who discovers to his surprise that the father of his wife-to-be, Blanche Sartorius (Rachael Holmes), earned his fortune as an exploitative landlord. This prompts the doctor to tell his fiancée that he won’t accept any of her family’s money. But love does not conquer all this time, and what happens next is what inspired the critic Eric Bentley to call the play “the most revolutionary act in modern English drama.”

The bride balks at giving up her father’s money, and when it’s discovered that the groom’s wealth comes from the same unseemly source, he drops his righteous pose, and the lovebirds return to each other’s arms in the kind of happy ending that only a true cynic would enjoy.

In this new version the couple’s reconciliation comes off as a broad, confusing joke rather than a bitter one, which is typical of this production. Mr. Sartorius (played with a regal bearing by Peter Jay Fernandez) has become a wealthy African-American who owns the Rosa Parks Houses, and Dr. Trench is a white conservative who likes rap music. (This is surely the first Shaw play that quotes Snoop Dogg.) Mr. Russell, who also directed the production, has given us a jaded picture of the members of the new black upper class, who occasionally sound like Victorian Englishmen.

The script frequently tests the limits of credibility. Can the slumlord’s daughter really have no idea about the business that has allowed her to live a life of luxury? And would any New Yorker, even one putting on airs like Trench’s friend Mr. Cokane (played by Mr. Simmons), wear a cravat and urge others to be gentlemen?
530 2007-03-17 Socially responsible investing dates back hundreds of years and has a religious cornerstone, said Steven J. Schueth, president of First Affirmative Financial Network, an investment advisory firm that focuses on such investments. Methodists, for example, did not want to invest in sin stocks, meaning companies that sold tobacco or liquor, and Quakers refused to invest in slavery or war.

It was during the 1980s that I and many others became aware of investing as a political strategy — pressuring companies that did business with South Africa’s apartheid government.

Negative screening to eliminate companies that do or make things you do not like is one way to choose an investment. According to the Social Investment Forum’s report, “2005 Report on Socially Responsible Investing Trends in the United States,” the most common product people screen out is tobacco. More than 88 percent of the total assets in the universe of socially screened funds are in tobacco-free companies.

Less common is screening out companies that are reputed to violate human rights, or that traffic in pornography or test products on animals. Those factors are taken into account in 5 percent to 10 percent of socially screened fund assets.

The opposite approach to such investments is positive screening, or actively seeking out companies that operate in a way that supports your political beliefs or at least meets your standards for good corporate citizenship.

And that is where it gets tricky.

Numerous companies focus on such investing. Among the best known are Calvert, Domini Social Investments and Pax World Funds. But if your notion of a socially responsible investment is, say, a small wind-power company or a health food start-up, you may be surprised that Amy Domini, chief executive of Domini Social Investments, also has McDonald’s on her list.

“When it comes to a McDonald’s, it’s very much on our watch list and we always struggle with it,” Ms. Domini said. “But we attempt to draw from the better 50 to 60 percent of the universe available to us.” The strategy is known as “best in class” — McDonald’s may not be the most socially responsible company over all, but it may be one of the better companies in the fast-food industry.

McDonald’s has improved its packaging over the years in response to concerns about the environment, and its beef does not come from cattle raised on land that was once rainforest, Ms. Domini said.

“It’s horrific how we raise chickens in this country, but McDonald’s, while still horrific, is less horrific,” she said. “You have to keep your eye on the ball. It’s hard to argue that they haven’t made progress at McDonald’s.”

For some, that is too much of a compromise. Paul Hawken, a longtime environmental advocate and co-founder of the Smith & Hawken gardening tool business, ignited a debate several years ago when he wrote several articles critical of socially responsible investing, calling it “so broad it is meaningless.”

“If a fund doesn’t own companies involved with gambling and pornography, it can be called socially responsible,” he wrote

But purity is subjective. Mr. Schueth tells of working with an animal rights activist who would not invest in anyone who had leather couches in the executive suite.

“We said, ‘We can do that, but it really limits your investment universe,’ ” he said.

Complicating matters is that a company that gets high grades in one area — say, it sells a product deemed worthy, like organic foods — may have flaws in another area, like labor relations.

If specific political issues are important to you, it is possible to check out investment companies that cater to them. The Women’s Equity Fund (www.womens-equity.com) invests in stocks that advance women in the workplace, for example. Portfolio 21 (www.portfolio21.com) and Sierra Club funds (www.sierraclubfunds.com) focus on companies they consider environmentally progressive.

Lachlan Cooke, 46, of Seattle decided he would put some inherited money into socially responsible investments.

“I’m not out manning the barricades, but I am socially conscious,” he said. An avid tango dancer, he got the name of a financial adviser who works with such investments from his tango teacher. While he did not have many stipulations, he said, “I wanted to make sure the companies didn’t have ill-gotten gains from the war on Iraq.”

He is also happy that his rate of return is comparable to that of other investment portfolios. And because the companies that deal with socially responsible investments are small, he gets a lot of attention.

“When I go to Merrill Lynch, I’m lucky to get someone to answer the phone,” he said. “It’s a cliché, but I sleep well at night knowing that I’m part of the solution, not part of the problem.”

And it helps his sleep to know he’s not losing money.

“In the early days, people who wanted to invest in socially or environmentally responsible companies were not so concerned about performance, but wanted to see their money make a difference,” Mr. Schueth of First Affirmative Financial Network said. “Now they want to see their money do double duty. They want to make a difference, but they want to retire comfortably.”

In the late 1990s and early 2000s, such investors were attracted to portfolios that focused on high-tech and health care, which were booming. But Mr. Schueth said the industry was now “running into some headwinds,” because tobacco and oil companies and weapons manufacturers — unacceptable to most socially responsible investors — have done particularly well over the last few years.

Roy Weitz, publisher of Fund-Alarm.com, a Web site that takes a skeptical look at the mutual fund industry, said he believed that in the long run, socially responsible investments “get a less optimal return, because any time you place artificial limits on what you invest in, you’re limiting your upside.”

Over the five years ended in February, for example, the total return of the Domini 400 index averaged 4.81 percent a year, while the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index averaged 6.81 percent.

“We were largely a victim of a war economy,” Ms. Domini said.

But, Mr. Weitz said, one needs to consider the psychic rewards.

“If it makes someone feel good, who am I to judge?” he said.

Besides ensuring that your money is not being used in ways you disapprove of, socially responsible investment has also evolved to include the practice of shareholder advocacy. Some shareholders use their ownership of stock to try to pressure companies to change their behavior.

After thinking it over, I decided that socially responsible investment can be oversold on both sides: it can be so loosely defined that it means almost nothing, but it can also be too easy to cynically dismiss those who, as Mr. Weitz said, are at least “trying to change the world one dollar at a time.”

Cellphone battery update: The last Shortcuts column discussed whether it was possible to overcharge cellphone batteries (no), and several readers asked if that applied to car chargers as well as home chargers. The answer is yes, assuming you use a charger approved by the manufacturer.
531 2007-03-17 When Fidelity looked at specific age groups, the news was slightly more favorable. Baby boomers, those born from the end of World War II to 1964, have enough saved to provide them with 62 percent of preretirement income, the survey found. Those who told Fidelity they were on track to a comfortable retirement anticipated a 68 percent rate.

If you believe in the wisdom of crowds, that might be further evidence that the contrarian economists are right when they say that 85 percent is excessive. After all, those who think a lot about saving may have arrived at their own rule of thumb.

Fidelity still disagrees. “Our sense is that is not nearly enough,” said Mr. Patton, who notes that a savings rate of 10 percent to 15 percent for someone in their 20s is required to have enough to provide 85 percent of preretirement income.

Of course, using a 68 percent rule of thumb can be as arbitrary as using 85 percent. The only way to know is to examine your savings plan and use the resources of a financial services company to help determine if you are saving too much or too little. (Just recognize that it is their business to persuade you to save more.) Only 23 percent of respondents had detailed and formal retirement plans.

Speaking of the wisdom of crowds, Fidelity says that those Americans over age 25 who think they are saving enough save about 7.5 percent of their annual pay.

About 30 million used tires were sold in the United States last year, almost 10 percent of all replacement tires sold.

Used tires are a money-saving choice for people who need to replace tires on a leased vehicle or on a car they are planning to sell soon. A new Goodyear Eagle RS-A that goes for about $100 at a Big O tire store sells for about $18 at BorderTire.com, a used-tire dealer.

Jobbers collect used tires from tire stores and the auto departments of Wal-Mart or Sears after they are replaced with new tires. The used-tire companies can get about $1 each by scrapping them or up to $10 apiece selling them to tire dealers. The profit margins for used tires are far better than for new tires, which explains why almost every tire store sells them.

Reputable dealers examine the tires and grade them. But the problem is that most consumers, unless they have a degree in polymer science, will not be able to see flaws in a tire. Some tires are detailed — that is, meticulously cleaned — and even painted so they look younger.

Sean Kane, an auto safety consultant at Safety Research and Strategies (safetyresearch.net) in Rehoboth, Mass., said that although consumers look at the depth of tire tread, the real concern should be the age of the tire. He wrote in a recent issue of The Safety Record, his firm’s newsletter, that “tires age in a way that often cannot be detected visually.”

A tire that looks new can be deteriorating internally, he said, in the same way that an old rubber band in your desk drawer might gradually develop cracks. It all depends on how the tire has been driven — underinflation ruins a tire — or where it has been stored.

Mr. Kane said that the scope of problem tires was unknown. But he said that he had found 108 incidents in which tires older than six years were involved in loss-of-control crashes. These incidents caused 85 deaths and 115 injuries. Slightly less than a third of the vehicles had tires that were bought used.

State governments regulate how much tread must be left on a tire — the depth varies state to state — but not the age or integrity of the tire’s structure. Mr. Kane wants tires taken off the road after six years.

Howard Levy, president of UsedTires.com in Boca Raton, Fla., said Mr. Kane’s proposal might not do consumers any favors. He said that rules regulating the age of tires on the road would mean consumers would spend more to swap out tires long before their useful life was over. The tire makers would love this, of course. “I don’t see where the real benefit comes for the consumer,” he said.

If you want to know how old your tires are, look at the wall of the tire for the word “DOT” followed by six numbers. The first two designate the factory where it was made and the next four denote the week and year of its manufacture. For example, 3105 would mean the 31st week of 2005.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration site has information on that code and all the rest of the text on a tire at www.nhtsa.gov/cars/rules/TireSafety/ridesonit/brochure.html#dotcode.

Discover Financial Services says it wants to reward its best credit card customers.

Discover, a unit of Morgan Stanley with more than 50 million cardholders, defines its best customers as those who pay their bills on time but do not pay off their whole bill every month. They maintain a balance and pay interest as high as 18 percent on the money they have borrowed.

Its new card, Motiva, will reward those people every six months by paying the next month’s interest on their balance.

Margo Georgiadis, executive vice president and chief marketing officer of Discover, called it a “breakthrough new product.” The card is a result of research that showed that those who carried balances felt they deserved a reward for their patronage, she said. After all, reward cards, which Discover pioneered, repay the people who spend the most. About 50 percent of consumers carry a balance and 80 percent of them pay on time, the company said.

Motiva also rewards spending. Cardholders get a 1 percent rebate on all purchases after they have spent $3,000.

But what about the consumers who pay on time and do not run up debts? Where is their reward?

Ms. Georgiadis said she did not have a card for them. Maybe good behavior is its own reward.

FOLLOW-UP One rap against Redfin, the online real estate brokerage company that issues rebates for a portion of its commission to customers, has been that its agents do not negotiate as well as full-service agents getting a full 6 percent commission. The company studied the Seattle market and found that its buyers’ agents negotiated lower prices than were listed, while negotiations by traditional brokers resulted in a price above the listing price. The average difference amounted to $4,420 (www.redfin.com/stingray/do/landing-page?uid=pr-redfin-advantage).
532 2007-03-17 A rising Mexican rock guitar duo has had to cancel an American tour because of visa problems, its record label said. The performers, Rodrigo y Gabriela, were scheduled to begin the tour last Sunday in Miami, but the visa renewal for one, Rodrigo S...
533 2007-03-17 Bobby Abreu took another step Friday in his cautious recovery from a strained oblique muscle.      While many of his Yankees teammates headed here for a 4-3 loss to Houston, Abreu took batting practice in the indoor cages at Legends Field in Tampa...
534 2007-03-17 A court in Moscow has for the second time ordered Mikhail M. Kasyanov, a former prime minister, to return a luxury home he bought from the state in 2004, ruling that he had acquired it illegally. Mr. Kasyanov, who served under President Vladimir V...
535 2007-03-17 Promising that he would be relentless in upholding his ''solemn responsibility'' to deter terrorist attacks at New Jersey's industrial facilities, Gov. Jon S. Corzine announced a proposal yesterday to enact tighter security measures at more than 5...
536 2007-03-18 Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo does not think Michigan was fair when it fired its basketball coach, Tommy Amaker, on Saturday....
537 2007-03-18 More than 60 million cans of dog and cat food sold under dozens of brand names were recalled on Saturday after being linked to the deaths of 10 animals.

The food was manufactured by Menu Foods, of Streetsville, Ontario, which makes wet food sold as store brands for companies like Wal-Mart, Kroger and Safeway.

The company also makes food on behalf of many brand-name pet food makers. Menu Foods said it had recalled some food made for the Iams unit of Procter & Gamble. Two other pet food companies — Nestlé Purina PetCare and Hills Pet Nutrition, the unit of Colgate-Palmolive that makes the Science Diet brand — recalled some of their products that were made by Menu Foods.

Menu Foods is recalling only certain gravy-style pet food in cans and pouches it made from Dec. 3 to March 6.

The company said in a statement that tests of its food had “failed to identify any issues with the products in question.” But it did associate the timing of the reported deaths with its use of a new supplier for wheat gluten, a source of protein. Sarah Tuite, a spokeswoman for Menu Foods, declined to name the supplier.
538 2007-03-18 Virginia Commonwealth (28-7) reached this game by defeating Duke in Thursday’s opening round and did not go quietly. Even after Pittsburgh raced to a 7-point lead with two minutes to play in overtime, Virginia Commonwealth pulled to 80-77 with 32 seconds to play. Then after Pittsburgh’s Sam Young missed two free throws, Eric Maynor (14 points) who beat Duke with a last-second shot Thursday, scored on a drive to make the score 80-79 with 22.6 seconds left.

But Maynor, who shot 5 for 14 from the field, ran out of magic, and so did his team. The Rams fouled Mike Cook with 19.1 seconds to play, and he made two free throws to give Pittsburgh a 3-point edge. Virginia Commonwealth got a good look on its last chance to tie, a 3-point attempt by B. A. Walker from behind the key. But Walker’s shot missed, and on the fight for the rebound, he was called for a foul with 6.6 seconds to play. Young made both foul shots, and Pittsburgh could finally exhale.

“I think the clock just ran out,” Virginia Commonwealth Coach Anthony Grant said. “We never stopped battling. I’m proud to coach this team.”

This game was on the verge of being a blowout, as Pittsburgh built a 19-point lead with a little more than 12 minutes to play. But Pittsburgh slowly wilted under the pressure created by Virginia Commonwealth’s full-court press. The Panthers started to commit turnovers. Virginia Commonwealth started to make shots. And the momentum swung to the Rams, as more fans in the arena jumped on their bandwagon, fueling the rally.

“They just seemed to get a little more aggressive, and maybe we didn’t finish as well on some plays,” Pittsburgh Coach Jamie Dixon said. “It can change quickly. They made some shots, they made some free throws, and we had a little spell where we took a step backwards.”

With three minutes left in regulation, the Rams had pulled to 3 points behind. Then with about 90 seconds to play and Pittsburgh leading by 67-64, Maynor poked the ball away from Fields near midcourt. The Rams took advantage of the turnover, finding Walker open behind the key. Walker, who finished with 20 points, made the 3-pointer to tie the score at 67-67 with 1 minute 42 seconds left, and Jesse Pellot-Rosa (20 points) gave Virginia Commonwealth its first lead of the second half, scoring on a driving layup with 52 seconds to play. Young answered with a layup off a long lead pass to tie the score with 48 seconds left in regulation.

After Pellot-Rosa missed a 3-point attempt with 19 seconds to play, Fields drove to the basket on Pittsburgh’s next possession and was fouled to set up his two missed free throws.

Pittsburgh showed resiliency by regrouping during the final five minutes. After the Panthers lost by 23 to Georgetown in the championship game of the Big East tournament March 10, some wondered about their psychological state heading into the N.C.A.A. tournament.

Pittsburgh bounced back by manhandling Wright State by 21 points, and in this game, the Panther set the tone early by establishing a physical presence inside.

Center Aaron Gray (14 points, 8 rebounds) was effective in 26 minutes of play, despite having food poisoning Friday. Five Panthers reached double figures, led by Young with 15 points.
539 2007-03-18 Fourteen hours after boarding an airliner to fly to North Africa for an endurance run across the Sahara, Jeremy Colgan walked through the cabin door and back onto the jetway today. In the ice storm that pelted the New York area overnight, the plane never left Kennedy International Airport.

The Royal Air Maroc flight’s scheduled departure time was 7:30 p.m. Friday. After de-icing the plane twice as the hours ticked by, the pilot gave up about 10 a.m. today. The plane taxied back to the gate.

Some passengers complained that the flight crew had told them almost nothing after an initial announcement that the takeoff time would be 9 p.m. Friday. His flight appeared to have spent the most time circling the airport at tarmac level as the storm created fresh headaches at J.F.K., where hundreds of JetBlue passengers were stranded for as long as 10 hours during a snowstorm a month ago.

When the Royal Air Maroc plane finally pulled back up to the gate today, Mr. Colgan said, a voice came on the loudspeaker and said: “We deeply apologize for the delay. The gods are against us.”

A representative of the airline could not be reached for comment this afternoon to explain the delay.
540 2007-03-18 AMMAN, Jordan, March 17 (AP) — Saadoun Hammadi, the highest-ranking Shiite official in Saddam Hussein’s government and one of the most senior Iraq Baath Party leaders, has died in a hospital in Germany, a Baath Party spokesman and the party’s Web site said.

Mr. Hammadi, 77, was released from a prison camp in Iraq in February 2004 after being held by American troops for nine months. He left Iraq to seek medical treatment in Jordan, Lebanon and Germany, and settled in Qatar in early 2005. He was believed to have had leukemia.

Mr. Hammadi died late Wednesday in a German hospital, a Baath Party spokesman, Hisham Odeh, said in Amman. The spokesman said he was told of the news by a friend of the Hammadi family in Qatar.

The Baath Party Web site reported his death on Thursday. There were no further details.

Under Mr. Hussein, Mr. Hammadi held the posts of foreign minister, oil minister and prime minister and was the last speaker of the Iraqi Parliament before the American invasion in 2003.

He joined the Baath Party in his Shiite hometown, Karbala, in the mid 1940s, steadily climbing the ladder. He was oil minister and foreign minister before becoming prime minister in March 1991, after Mr. Hussein crushed a Shiite uprising that followed Iraq’s defeat in Kuwait.

He was the Parliament speaker from 1996 until the fall of Mr. Hussein’s government.

Mr. Hammadi received a doctorate in economics from the University of Wisconsin in 1956 and was a proponent of economic liberalization and other changes in Iraq.
541 2007-03-18 Symbol though she was, Ms. Walker also cultivated a private life, and in her 20s was in a serious relationship with another woman.

Today, however, Ms. Walker, 37, has become what she called a new Rebecca, one who has a male partner, a child and some revised theories about the ties that bind, which she explores in a new book, “Baby Love: Choosing Motherhood After a Lifetime of Ambivalence” (Riverhead), to be released on Thursday. A review appears in The Times Book Review today.

Its inspiration? Her son, Tenzin, 2, who is named after the Dalai Lama. (Ms. Walker’s father voted for Chaim and lost.)

Ms. Walker and her partner, a Buddhist teacher named Glen (whose last name does not appear in the book), have been living in Maui, where Tenzin plays amid the lush landscape and is pushed about in a Maclaren stroller.

“I feel like I have arrived in myself to where I want to be and who I want to be,” Ms. Walker said in a telephone interview.

Motherhood, she writes in “Baby Love,” is “the first club I’ve unequivocally belonged to.”

The book explores the usual pregnancy topics like food intake, genetic counseling and the doctor-versus-midwife debate, and reveals that Ms. Walker is now estranged from her famous mother.

But it is also unusual in that it is a pregnancy book with a message for women who are not yet pregnant, amplifying a theme Ms. Walker sounds on the undergraduate lecture circuit.

“I keep telling these women in college, ‘You need to plan having a baby like you plan your career if it’s something that you want,’ ” she said. “Because we haven’t been told that, this generation. And they’re shocked when I say that. I’m supposed to be like this feminist telling them, ‘Go achieve, go achieve.’ And I’m sitting there saying, ‘For me, having a baby has been the most transformational experience of my life.’ ”

And so Ms. Walker has become the latest to lend her voice to the long-running debate of work versus motherhood, a trade-off that to younger women probably no longer seems as stark as it did to Ms. Walker.

Jennifer Baumgardner, 36, an author of “Manifesta: Young Women, Feminism, and the Future,” who also lectures on the college circuit, said that students today do see having children as important. If they are shocked at hearing Ms. Walker talk about the epiphanies of motherhood, it may be because of her image as something of a radical feminist.

“Rebecca Walker is extremely significant for younger feminists,” Ms. Baumgardner said. “She’s definitely a superstar to them, and to me.”

Ms. Walker said she is not suggesting that all women have children, only that those who feel the urge should not ignore it because they fear career derailment or because they had difficult childhoods.

“Mine is the first generation of women to grow up thinking of children as optional,” Ms. Walker writes in the new book. “We learned that children were not to be pursued at the expense of anything else. A graduate degree in economics, for example, or a life of renunciation, devoted to a Hindu mystic.”

Children, she writes, “smelled of betrayal and a lack of appreciation for the progress made on behalf of women’s liberation.”

But Tenzin has since erased her doubts.

The most incendiary notion in “Baby Love” may be that, for Ms. Walker, being a stepparent or adoptive parent involves a lesser kind of love than the love for a biological child.

In an interview, Ms. Walker boiled the difference down to knowing for certain that she would die for her biological child, but feeling “not sure I would do that for my nonbiological child.”

“I mean, it’s an awful thing to say,” said Ms. Walker, who in a previous relationship helped rear a female partner’s biological son, now 14. “The good thing is he has a biological mom who would die for him.”

Ms. Walker acknowledged that her idea of blood being thicker than water runs contrary to her own philosophy in “Black, White and Jewish,” in which she writes that “all blood is basically the same.”

In a 2001 Curve magazine article she said, “the bonds you create are just as important and just as powerful as the bonds that you are born into.”

When asked about this incongruity, she explained: “To grapple with how my parents raised me I had to come up with a philosophy that could sustain me. Having my own child gave me the opportunity to have a completely different experience. So hence a different view.”

That she is altering a belief or two is something that Ms. Baumgardner said is part of Ms. Walker’s contribution to the Third Wave sensibility, not a betrayal of it.

“She reserves the right to evolve, and that’s a good model for us,” Ms. Baumgardner said.

Ms. Walker’s own evolution, from wounded daughter to earth mother, was perhaps particularly significant because “she was raised in a more radical zone,” Ms. Baumgardner said.

There is a tradition of feminist writing about pregnancy and motherhood, but not everyone had such a complex mother-daughter dynamic to process.

Alice Walker “gave to the world this incredible thing,” Ms. Baumgardner said. “But what you want from your parents is parenting.”

Attempts to reach Alice Walker through her literary agent and her daughter this week were unsuccessful.

Ms. Walker and her mother have a complicated love, according to Rebecca. In high school, Rebecca legally changed her last name from Leventhal to Walker because, as she put it in “Black, White and Jewish,” she wanted to link herself to her mother “tangibly and forever” and to associate herself with blackness because she does not feel “an affinity with whiteness, with what Jewishness has become.” (That last sentiment, which is echoed in other parts of the memoir, led several publications to criticize it for reinforcing stereotypes.)

The Walker estrangement was decades in the making. Most recently, Ms. Walker was saddened by what she called her mother’s lack of enthusiasm to the news that she was pregnant.

During that time they exchanged e-mail messages, with Rebecca demanding an apology for years of hurt, and her mother responding that she had apologized plenty, Rebecca writes in the book. A cousin later tells Ms. Walker that she has been cut out of her mother’s will.

But what if Tenzin wants to meet his grandmother — the writer, the social activist, the matriarch who helped to shape his own mother?

“Yeah,” Ms. Walker said gently. “Sure. I mean there’s only so much I can do. I can explain the situation and help him understand. But I’ve always been and I always will be open to reconciliation with my mother, you know? I love my mother.”
542 2007-03-18 Your March 11 editorial “Fiasco in Brooklyn” placed blame on a candidate while not acknowledging the role of two of the agencies overseeing the 40th District’s special election: the Board of Elections, which placed candidates on the ballot who lived outside the district, and the City Council, which failed to anticipate the confusion over residency.

While prior residency might have been best, residency status wasn’t a secret to the voters on Election Day, and they chose accordingly, in a convincing fashion. The common-sense presumption: residency could be “cured” once the vote was known — and before swearing-in.

In fact, those agencies disenfranchised all 40th District voters and compelled the re-run — likely to have the same result — not any subversive action or misrepresentation by the winner as your editorial suggests. Hence there is no basis for suggesting that he shouldn’t run again, and serve if elected.

Re “Local Rule,” by William Ouchi (Op-Ed, March 11), about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s latest proposed reforms of the New York City school system:

I would direct readers to The Times’s Jan. 28 editorial “New York’s Public Schools,” which observed that the reforms potentially undermine successful schools, deprive principals of necessary support services, and rush into action budgetary reallocations whose consequences have not been fully considered by the administration or aired before the public.

Although these proposals sound equable and right-minded in the abstract, it is in their application to our particular schools that their flaws become visible, and the chancellor has refused to engage in questions and criticisms about the proposals’ application, or to provide parents and school personnel with adequate information to address the proposals’ consequences.
543 2007-03-18 “Willie G. was literally looking over my shoulder while I designed it,” said Mr. Christoph, referring to Mr. Davidson, who is a grandson of one of the company’s founders.

“The Nightster is a cool new interpretation of the Sportster theme that embodies the original essence of a bike that’s been part of the Harley family for 50 years,” Mr. Davidson said in an e-mail message.

Mr. Christoph grew up on a farm near New Hampton where, he said, “you can either work in the barn or at the feed mill.” His unconventional résumé suggests that he departed from the straight and narrow.

He left Iowa State University after a year, he said: “Flunked out basically — partying.” He liked to draw cars, so he loaded up his battered Dodge Aries K-car and drove to Detroit, where he found a job in the clay modeling studio at Ford Motor while attending classes at the College for Creative Studies.

Then he moved on to the industrial design program at the University of Wisconsin-Stout.

Mr. Christoph, who had owned a succession of Kawasakis, began to draw motorcycles. “When I started doing that, I realized it was what I wanted to do for the rest of my life,” he said. For a class, he built his own custom bike, using welding and metal-bending skills he learned fixing his father’s old Oliver tractors.

He took his bike down to Harley’s headquarters in Milwaukee. “I came riding my portfolio to the interview,” he said. Even the Harley design staff was impressed.

He was hired — his title was Industrial Designer 2 — and assigned the task of dreaming up a no-frills version of the Sportster. For what became the Nightster, Mr. Christoph took off all the chrome and ordered up a cover for the drive belt drilled for weight reduction in what sales materials call a bullet hole pattern. He gave the bike a very low seat and specified fork gaiters, those old-fashioned bellows on the front suspension that he says protect the seals from the exoskeletons of bugs.

“I went back to the immediate post-World War II period when G.I.’s came back and rode used Army bikes,” he said. “They took off everything they could for speed — front fender, a lot of the back fender.” The bobbed (shortened) rear fender became the keynote of a whole bobber tradition, a Harley motif that in recent years has been overshadowed by the elaborate custom choppers produced for television shows.

“Willie G.’s own bobber — a ’47 knuckler — sits 20 feet from my desk,” Mr. Christoph said. (For aficionados, the knucklehead engine is a landmark of Harley history.) Bobbers contributed to the outlaw image of Harleys and bikers in general.

Aiming for what he calls “the clean bobber look,” Mr. Christoph devoted considerable effort to the bike’s rear view. Instead of hanging a stoplight from the fender, he combined its function with the turn signal lamps, as is typical on cars, and placed the license plate on the left side of the bike. That side-mounted plate is the signature of the Nightster’s outlaw theme of rebellion.

“I wanted people to wonder if it was legal,” Mr. Christoph said. Among the first to wonder was Harley’s legal department. The design sent them digging through motor vehicle statutes; even after assurances that it was in compliance, many in the company were nervous and wanted to change the arrangement. “We organized project ‘save the license plate,’ ” Mr. Christoph said.

Mr. Davidson added: “The clean rear fender is the key to the styling of the Nightster. It’s a look that couldn’t have been achieved without the stop-turn taillights and the side-mount plate.”

Even with Mr. Davidson backing the idea, according to Mr. Christoph, it took weeks to get the configuration approved.

That process may suggest why the personality of the finished product contrasts with the mood of Mr. Christoph’s jagged original sketches and enthusiastic descriptions of the bike. As produced, the Nightster is awfully well housebroken for a machine with aspirations of grit and grunge.

It comes with elegant details: a classy orange pinstripe on the fuel tank, and light stitching on the seat that emphasizes its handmade quality.

“I also wanted it to have a rat-rod quality,” Mr. Christoph said, referring to the revival of interest in historically authentic finishes among hot rodders. He thought of matte black, like the repainted 1961 Chrysler Imperial he once drove. The wheel rims and hubs, handlebar and front suspension legs are black. Most of the chrome is gone, to be sure, except on the exhaust pipes, whose length and cut was specified by Mr. Davidson.

The engine, the same rubber-mounted, fuel-injected V-Twin used in other 1,200 cc Sportsters, is done up in a matte finish called Medium Gray, a hue also found on the transmission and airbox cover. All that gray mutes the bike’s rebel black, a reminder that for all its overtones of rebellion, Harley-Davidson is quite a conservative company.

And why shouldn’t it be, given its record of success?

The company reached its 100th birthday in 2003 and during the decade preceding, the average age of its riders had increased by roughly 10 years. It has since held roughly steady. Luring 20-somethings will require squaring respectability with rebellion.

Is the Nightster different enough to appeal to younger riders? “I expect it to be highly customized,” Mr. Christoph said of the bike. The company’s huge accessory catalog may be the true masterpiece of Harley design today. The success of Harley has always been in the ability of riders to imprint the bikes with their own personalities.
544 2007-03-18 “The Hospital’s Bill of Rights,” by Brett Harwood (Op-Ed, March 4), about how to save New Jersey’s medical centers, does not acknowledge a critical point. In the United States there are annually 2 million cases of hospital-associated infection, resulting in approximately 90,000 deaths. This death rate is increasing rapidly because of the appearance of new strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.

The average hospital-associated infection requires extra days in the hospital and is expensive to treat. As a result, the overall annual cost to hospitals exceeds $30 billion. This places a huge financial burden on the system and greatly undermines the standard of care.

New Jersey’s Department of Health has assigned a task force to find solutions to this problem. Lowering infection rates would go a long way toward saving New Jersey’s hospitals.

All these problems result from the fact that hand washing or alcohol rubs have proven to be inadequate. One reason is that the glove of a health care worker is a vast reservoir of bacteria, more so than the bare hand. The solution to the problem is to deploy new infection control capabilities, such as disinfecting a gloved hand during a patient visit.

I respectfully disagree with some elements of your editorial about the practice of eminent domain (“Don’t Cripple Eminent Domain,” March 11).

It is my view that unless in the rarest of circumstances, eminent domain should not be used. A vital part of the American dream is land ownership, and while redevelopment of our cities is important, it pales in comparison to the right of individuals to keep their land until they, not government officials, see fit.
545 2007-03-18 Residents of the Hudson Valley should be paying close attention to a simmering debate in Albany over legislation that environmentalists call the “bigger, better bottle bill” and that water-carriers for the beverage industry call an onerous new tax.

The environmentalists, in this case, are right. The bill is not a tax, it is an expansion of the existing law on bottle deposits for beer and soda to include non-carbonated beverages like juice and water, require the beverage industry to return all unclaimed deposits to the state to finance recyling and other envionmental needs (industry now keeps these deposits) and tweak the current law in other useful ways.

The goal is to collect lots and lots more nickels to save lots of trees and farms and, of course, eliminate a lot of roadside litter, which was among the law’s main purposes when it first passed the legislature in 1982.

Gov. Eliot Spitzer strongly supports the enlarged bill, which he wants to use to add $25 million to the state’s Environmental Protection Fund. The fund, which increased from $125 million to $225 million in George Pataki’s last two years as governor, underwrites most of the state’s important environmental programs.

Regrettably, however, Senate majority leader Joseph Bruno and his fellow Republicans are balking, even though their party boasts a long and distinguished record of environmental stewardship and many individual Republicans have environmental records they can be justly proud of.
546 2007-03-18 Under federal law, it is a crime to hire illegal aliens. Labor laws for which Americans have fought and died in the past are being flouted by employers who are making illegal profits by paying to illegals wages below what American workers are entitled to, and not paying the millions of income and Social Security taxes that could cover the vast expenses of free medical, educational and welfare benefits these invaders line up for the minute they sneak through the weak borders of our supposedly sovereign nation.

“They take jobs Americans don’t want” — that is the ugliest lie being circulated by those who have vested interests in illegal laborers. The truth is they take jobs — all of which used to be done by Americans before the invasion, by teenagers, African-Americans, retired people, unionized workers and so on. Only now, these jobs pay much less and ignore every hard-won labor law designed to ensure fair treatment for American citizens.

As a textbook author and editor, I spent weeks at a time in Texas and California doing “the dog and pony show” to get school boards to adopt my publisher’s offering. If you didn’t make the state list, you didn’t sell books. Such a system gave little alternative to teachers who didn’t like any of the heavy, bloated texts selected.

By contrast, Shoreham-Wading River schools were founded by educators who believed in experiential learning and using a wide array of tools to match the varied learning styles of students — long before the computer. So don’t fret, parents.

Textbooks don’t teach kids. Teachers do. And no lack of math textbooks at Miller Avenue School prevented my daughter from being the National Merit Scholar of her graduating class.

I have taken my dog to Coindre Hall Park (“Living the Good Life, Off the Leash,” March 4) for many years. We are harassed and ticketed. Now the parks department wants to force us to accept a 1.5-acre dog park that no one thinks is in a good location — dog owners and non dog owners alike.
547 2007-03-18 Here’s his mantra: “Sometimes when it doesn’t make the right kind of sense to go by the letter of the law, you need to go by the spirit of the law.” A Town of Islip Republican hired on the strength of his “aggressive personality” by the Democrat-run Town of Babylon, Mr. Margiotta gleans his professional credo from the town supervisor, Steven Bellone. “He told me when he hired me that when a situation comes up that’s not a regular situation, I should use my own judgment and do the right thing,” Mr. Margiotta says.

Enter Simba the yellow Labrador retriever, a dog so eager to be a helpmate and so compliant about following orders that when on duty he alerts his master, John Cave Jr., to every important sound, from fire alarms to fast-approaching vehicles to voices calling his master’s name. That’s mind-blowing, says Mr. Margiotta, whose own dogs, itsy-bitsy alpha types, tend to boss him around. In his opinion, helping Simba help a hearing-impaired ninth-grader pursue independence is the right thing, even if hearing dogs in public schools tend to be the exception, not the rule.

Mr. Margiotta jokes that neither he nor Simba is litigious, merely dogged in the conviction that Simba belongs in school and that his training skills, which cost $20,000, will atrophy if he is left at home to mingle with three relatively unskilled family pets: two mutts and a cat.

Sheila O’Brien, executive director of Neads/Dogs for Deaf and Disabled Americans, the Massachusetts group that supplied Simba, said Simba’s training might stall, if not regress, if he is off duty more than he is on duty. And if dog hours are like dog years, yipes, each schoolday represents 42 hours of solitary confinement in his crate, where he is sequestered when John’s parents leave for work.

Last month Simba and John took the stand before Judge Arthur D. Spatt in Federal District Court in Central Islip in hope of winning a preliminary injunction to force W. Tresper Clarke High School to let Simba attend classes while the federal suit is processed. (District officials cited health and safety concerns in barring Simba.)

Judge Spatt, despite citing Simba’s impeccable courtroom behavior — not a peep out of him — turned Simba down, noting the school district’s efforts to accommodate John in other ways. John cried, then authorized an appeal.

“Where I think the school is wrong and the judge is wrong is that they’re not seeing John as an individual with a disability, they see him only as a student with a disability,” Mr. Margiotta says. “Simba is an independent life tool, not an education tool.

“They’re deciding what a disabled person’s tool will be, like telling a blind person to use a cane instead of a dog. My opinion is, they should thank God they aren’t disabled and let him have anything that makes his lot in life better.”

Simba’s reaction to the ruling has been to whine at the front door when John leaves for school. Mr. Margiotta, who considers himself empathetic to a fault, worries that Simba is depressed.

Mr. Margiotta has two pets: Beauty the Pomeranian and Fawna the Chihuahua, the antithesis of service dogs. “They alert me to whatever they want,” he says. No wonder he relates to Simba.
548 2007-03-18 SOME film critics wax nostalgic about the big-screen experience in the age of the diminishing movie image, but I can’t relate. For me movies are movies whether on the big screen or small, on my laptop or on a plane, captured in celluloid or digital. My preferred medium is film, though like a lot of Americans, I imagine, my movie love was nurtured at home while flopped in front of a television, in my case while watching “Chiller Theater” and, every Sunday morning without fail, Abbott and Costello. The first commercially exhibited moving pictures were watched through peepholes in machines called Kinetoscopes, so watching a film on an iPod shouldn’t really seem all that different.

A screen is a screen is a screen — isn’t it?

My interest in that question partly explains why I was eager to start downloading movies, which, like DVD and video rentals, seems to offer choices not only in what we watch but also in how. I enjoy the social aspect of going to the movies, but I also love watching films at home, for both the ease of use and the intimacy. When I was a teenager, I watched movies on a tiny black-and-white television in my bedroom, wrapped in an adolescent cocoon. Now I watch DVDs on a plasma television set in my living room and on the computer monitor in my office, sometimes with family, sometimes alone. On occasion I will watch a movie on my small laptop, so I can take the images with me as I fold the laundry or wash dishes.

Certainly the idea of downloading sounds irresistible: you scroll through the delectable offerings — in the video store in my head, Abbott and Costello and Bela Tarr are both just clicks away — hit a few buttons, and voilà: cinema! The reality, as I recently discovered, is messier. No matter how souped up, a television set is just another household appliance; adding TiVo makes it a better appliance, but you still turn the box on and off. Downloading movies onto a computer, by contrast, is rather more complicated because computers are not yet appliances; they’re infernal machines.

When all the planets are aligned and your computer has enough memory and hasn’t been deluged with spam for lots of little multicolored pills, it will function just dandy. But try to download without enough disk space and through a wireless connection, as I initially did, and you may soon wonder why you’re spending so much time and energy to watch films you’ve never heard of on your computer rather than watching a “Children of Men” DVD on your dreamy big television.

My first download stop was a new site called Jaman (jaman.com), still in the test stage, which promotes itself as “a global online community” that’s “pioneering social cinema.” I didn’t recognize most of the titles, though I see hundreds of films a year, and neither did a friend who programs a major American film festival. I did, however, come across Bryan Singer’s first feature, the creepy “Public Access,” which wasn’t dated, but which I saw when it had its premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in 1993. Scrolling through the 55 titles from Asia, I scoped out that some of the women looked as if they were wearing bouffants, while a few of the men looked ready to hit the disco. Jaman doesn’t date its offerings, but a search on a movie information site soon solved two mysteries: “King Cat” was from 1967 and “Hong Kong Nocturne” from 1966.
549 2007-03-18 Ferris also sneaks in a fair amount of first-person singular. The novel is largely told through watercooler tales — Ferris’s ad-people are big talkers, from nerves, boredom and professional training — and through them, “we” gradually refracts into individual voices. There is Karen Woo, senior art director, office gossip and font of specious intelligence, who, working on a campaign for a cookie for the health-conscious, inserts the boast that it has no “lastive acid,” a dangerous substance that does not actually exist. (“I was trying to think out of the box,” she explains.) There is Chris Yop, a desperate middle-aged copywriter who sneaks into the office to work on the breast-cancer project even after being fired. There is Joe Pope, Lynn Mason’s lieutenant, resented by “us” for his antisocial distance. There is the single, pregnant, devoutly Catholic basket case; her married lover, praying she’ll have an abortion, who regards her like a pinless grenade; and the grieving mother, taunted daily by a “Missing” ad for her daughter that the billboard owner has not gotten around to taking down months after the little girl was found murdered.

Ferris, who once worked at a Chicago ad agency, is fluent in the language of white-collar wordsmiths under siege. His characters even concoct their own vocabulary for the layoff process. Being fired becomes “walking Spanish down the hall,” a phrase with origins in pirate days borrowed from a Tom Waits song about an execution.

Above all, Ferris has a sixth sense for paranoia. Information professionals crave information, and when it is denied them — who is going next, how many and why — they spin superstitious theories and adopt curious totems. The employees discover that the office coordinator keeps tabs on which furniture belongs in which offices, and they fear that their chairs — scavenged from laid-off peers with better furniture, in a round-robin so complex no one remembers whose Aeron was originally whose — will get them fired. The chair becomes a symbol for all that is hated and lusted-after about work. It is a prison and a status symbol, a reminder that “their” offices are not really their own, a means of exercising minor tyranny, a reward, a throne, a life preserver.

The major story lines of “Then We Came to the End” hold few surprises. Like a make-work project, they are an excuse to get through the real joys of the day, which come from Ferris’s small-bore observations. The Pavlovian magnetism of free bagels. The incredible sadness of a hard-boiled egg eaten at one’s desk. And the prophylactic amnesia that separates time on the clock from the set of waking hours we call “our lives”: “Half the time we couldn’t remember three hours ago. Our memory in that place was not unlike that of goldfish. Goldfish who took a trip every night in a small clear bag of water and then returned in the morning to their bowl.”

Like the paper-pushers of the British and American versions of “The Office,” Ferris’s admen amuse themselves with tiny, absurd rebellions. A garrulous sad sack named Benny Shassburger decides to spend a day speaking in nothing but quotes from “The Godfather,” on the theory that either no one will notice or they will be too polite to say so. When an associate asks for advice on a project, he replies, “This one time I’ll let you ask me about my affairs.” “Cool,” his co-worker answers.

Still, Ferris’s novel is not the satire you might expect. From “The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit” to “Dilbert,” the default position for American stories about business — especially as easy a target as advertising — has been derision. White-collar work is meant to be soul-killing and pernicious. It can be all those things, of course, and Ferris funnels that point of view through Tom Mota, a bitter, divorced desk jockey fond of guns, Emerson and e-mailing eloquent, profane and multiply cc’ed treatises on how sedentary office life goes against man’s nature. (Here again, Ferris is smart enough to put his most persuasive rants in the mouth of a character who may well be dangerously crazy.)

But work — even, or especially, useless work — can also offer purpose and meaning, as when Lynn Mason, dreading her impending surgery, drives to her office in the middle of the night and finds solace in the ridiculous pro bono assignment. “They have two weeks until presentation,” she thinks. “It’s insane to think she has even a moment to spare. She sits down at her desk. Here is a good place to be, right here, thinking.”

It is a ridiculous sentiment, counter to every carpe diem truism — who ever died wishing they had worked more hours? It is also perfectly understandable and beautifully expressed. Even after moving on and rebuilding their lives, the employees who exit Ferris’s unnamed firm come to miss it, the drudgery, the infuriations, the hours spent with “this person or that who rankled and bugged and offended angels in heaven.” And the reader will be able to empathize, coming to the end of this perceptive and darkly entertaining novel. “Then We Came to the End” would, it turns out, make a pretty good read on the beach. Particularly if you still have a job to vacation from.
550 2007-03-18 SMALL-CAP stocks are significantly overvalued. In fact, they are even pricier, on average, than they were in March 2000, just before the Internet bubble burst. In contrast, the average large-cap stock is moderately undervalued.

This picture of a highly bifurcated stock market is painted by data from Ford Equity Research of San Diego, which tracks around 4,500 publicly traded companies in the United States. Among companies that have been publicly traded for at least seven years, the firm reports that 55 percent have higher price-to-earnings ratios today than they did in March 2000. The bulk of these pricier issues, however, are in the smaller-cap sectors. Among the very largest companies, the average P/E ratio is now just a third of what it was seven years ago.

If investors focused only on the broad stock market averages, however, they might conclude that the entire market is undervalued. According to Standard & Poor’s, for example, the P/E ratio of the S.& P. 500 currently stands at 17, based on trailing 12-month operating earnings. The comparable ratio at the end of March 2000 was 31.1, almost double the current level.

Though the S.& P 500 includes many large-cap stocks, it also contains smaller-cap issues. Why is the index’s P/E ratio nevertheless so much lower than it was seven years ago?

The answer lies in how the index is put together. The S.& P. 500 is a capitalization-weighted index, meaning that each company’s contribution to it is a function of the company’s size. That would not necessarily skew the average P/E ratio for the index itself, if the average valuations of both larger and smaller stocks were similar. But that’s not the situation today, according to Ford Equity Research: the 50 companies in the S.& P. 500 with the smallest market caps have an average P/E ratio that is much higher than it was seven years ago, while the ratio for the 50 largest-cap stocks in the index is significantly lower.
551 2007-03-18 The Associated Press reported that a Cathay Pacific flight to Vancouver, British Columbia, was finally canceled yesterday after more than nine hours of waiting at J.F.K.

Hoping for a break in the weather, Delta Air Lines boarded three flights from Kennedy on Friday evening. But the storm continued, and the three flights were eventually canceled. The planes never left the gates.

Many flights were also canceled at La Guardia Airport on Friday, but most flights there appeared to be on schedule yesterday, according to FlightStats.com.

Even after the storm had crawled away, it continued to throw off passengers’ plans. Continental Airlines canceled 125 flights in the East yesterday. Most were morning flights at Contintental’s big hub at Newark Liberty International Airport, where Continental did not begin operations for the day until noon.

JetBlue, which canceled 400 of its 550 flights on Friday, moved early to avoid any chance of a rerun of its troubles on Feb. 14. A spokeswoman said yesterday that JetBlue was operating 95 percent of its scheduled flights and with only brief delays.

The ice and sleet put unusual pressure on Kennedy’s de-icing operations, which are handled by the private companies that operate the terminals.

“This storm was the worst type of storm you could have,” said Edward J. Paquette, the executive director of the management company that runs Terminal 1 at Kennedy, the terminal used by Royal Air Maroc. “It was freezing rain and sleet that adheres to everything, the flight surfaces, the fuselage, the wings. It’s difficult to remove.”

Terminal 1, which handles 17 foreign airlines, used 30,000 gallons of de-icing solution on Friday night. Ordinarily, that amount of the liquid, often referred to as glycol, would last half the winter, Mr. Paquette said.

Because the slick, sloppy roads made the going slow, “the folks who deliver the glycol ran behind” and could not keep up, Mr. Paquette said.

The ice also caused problems for the planes and the equipment that attends to them — baggage and fuel trucks, for example.

“You have difficulty moving just like you would driving a car,” Mr. Paquette said. “Everything has to go that much more slowly.”

Some planes at Kennedy were de-iced the conventional way, by trucks with hoses that spray the de-icing fluid. But Kennedy also has a de-icing station, a tentlike structure that functions like a jet-size car wash.

The de-icing station can handle seven planes an hour in a snowstorm, said William DeCota, the director of aviation for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, but an ice storm increases the time needed to complete the process. Mr. DeCota and passengers on at least one of the stranded flights talked of de-icing times as long as four hours.

Compounding the delays, an Alitalia plane broke down while in the de-icing station. The Alitalia jet had to be towed out, and the wait for a tractor to pull the plane held up other planes waiting to go in for de-icing.

The planes were filled with tense and increasingly angry passengers, none more so than the Air Maroc jet, which was to have taken off at 7:30 p.m. on Friday. but did not leave the ground until 9:40 p.m. yesterday. They spent a restless night and morning of napping, wandering the aisles and eating what would have been their in-flight meal a few feet above the tarmac.

“This has just been an absolute mess,” said one passenger, Andrew Kolker of Brooklyn. “They knew they were going to have trouble, it was pretty clear from the weather they were going to have trouble, and they should never have let us get on the plane.”

Another passenger, Peter Shinkle, said he had asked to speak with the pilot about midnight. The flight attendants refused, telling him the pilot was busy. At about 6 a.m., he said, “I began raising a fuss again, and I was permitted to go up in the cabin” and talk with the pilot and co-pilot.

“That’s when they told me if we got out of line and went back to the gate, it would take three hours just to go back to the gate,” he said. “It’s hard to believe, but that’s what he said.”

After all that, the plane headed back to the gate shortly after 10 a.m. Mr. Paquette, the Terminal 1 official, said the crew had “timed out,” meaning that they could no longer be at the controls.

Barhoumi Rochdi, an account executive for the airline, said the terminal lacked the manpower and equipment to handle the de-icing in such a severe storm.

Once the passengers finally left the plane, the airline told them they could show their boarding passes for free meals at restaurants. Mr. Rochdi said the airline was flying in a larger plane to accommodate the passengers from the Friday flight as well as those with tickets on one scheduled to depart last night.
552 2007-03-18 To the Editor:     Your March 11 editorial ''Fiasco in Brooklyn'' placed blame on a candidate while not acknowledging the role of two of the agencies overseeing the 40th District's special election: the Board of Elections, which placed candidates ...
553 2007-03-18 To the Editor:     I respectfully disagree with some elements of your editorial about the practice of eminent domain (''Don't Cripple Eminent Domain,'' March 11).      It is my view that unless in the rarest of circumstances, eminent domain should...
554 2007-03-18 GURFEIN--Jay J., passed peacefully in his sleep March 9, 2007. Our mighty oak has fallen, but his spirit lingers on. Jay enriched all who knew him, lovingly sharing his knowledge and wit. He had an elegant presence and great love of family, giving...
555 2007-03-18 To the Editor:     I have taken my dog to Coindre Hall Park (''Living the Good Life, Off the Leash,'' March 4) for many years. We are harassed and ticketed. Now the parks department wants to force us to accept a 1.5-acre dog park that no one think...
556 2007-03-19 It's easy to write off the warnings about Wall Street losing its position as the center of the financial universe as merely the cries of prideful opportunists. After all, even if foreign exchanges are taking bigger shares of the world's stock offe...
557 2007-03-19 In an article on the ubiquity of hedge funds in Hollywood these days, The Economist says that the survival rate of the new wannabe studios backed by investment pools may not be high. Noting that three-quarters of the newly financed outfits may be ...
558 2007-03-19 Microsoft's move to buy Tellme for about $800 million represents a boon for Benchmark Capital, as well as Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers, but no home run on the order of Google, says The Red Herring. Benchmark, the biggest outside investor, an...
559 2007-03-19 Google purchased a video game advertising firm, Adscape, to expand into in-game advertising, Google said on Friday. Financial details were not disclosed, but Red Herring last month reported the value of the expected deal at about $23 million. Go t...
560 2007-03-19 Viacom's $1 billion copyright-infringement lawsuit has turned fears that Google's purchase of YouTube would end up being a legal quagmire into a reality. Now, attention is turning to whether other predicted pitfall's of the $1.65 billion deal - na...
561 2007-03-19 Russell L. Schweickart’s warning about objects striking the Earth was a thoughtful call to action (“The Sky Is Falling. Really,” Op-Ed, March 16).

As he noted, the first step is discovering, tracking and characterizing the near-Earth environment, and the next step is to establish capability for very early warning of any real danger.

Sadly, the only facility on Earth capable of precise radar tracking of near-Earth objects may lose its financing. The Arecibo radio telescope in Puerto Rico, the world’s largest, may be closed by the National Science Foundation in a misguided attempt by a few scientists to clear the decks for financing new projects.

It is ridiculous to shut the telescope down when it can be operated for just a few million dollars per year, far less than all the space missions being discussed. This is one case in which the politicians may be smarter than the scientists. Congress should act to keep Arecibo open.
562 2007-03-19 Richard Hamilton has played a lot of basketball in his life, and almost all of it has gone better than yesterday.

In a nationally televised game between the best teams in the Eastern and Western Conferences, Hamilton missed five free throws in the fourth quarter before ending the game on the Detroit Pistons’ bench, bleeding heavily from a cut inflicted by one of his teammates.

Then the host Pistons lost, 92-88, to the Dallas Mavericks to end their five-game winning streak.

“It was crazy,” said Hamilton, who came into the game shooting 87.1 percent from the line. “I never expect to miss back-to-back free throws twice in a row. That’s crazy to me.”

Hamilton received three stitches over his left eye after colliding with Chris Webber’s elbow. His trademark mask protected his nose but dug into his eyelid.

Detroit went 2 for 8 from the free-throw line in the fourth and made only 8 of 20 shots from the field.
563 2007-03-19 More than 60 million cans and pouches of dog and cat food sold under dozens of brand names were recalled on Saturday after being linked to the deaths of 10 animals.

The food was manufactured by Menu Foods, of Streetsville, Ontario, which makes wet food sold as store brands for companies like Wal-Mart, Kroger and Safeway.

The company also makes food on behalf of many brand-name pet food makers. Menu Foods said it had recalled some food made for the Iams unit of Procter & Gamble. Two other pet food companies — Nestlé Purina PetCare and Hills Pet Nutrition, the unit of Colgate-Palmolive that makes the Science Diet brand — recalled some of their products that were made by Menu Foods.

Menu Foods is recalling only certain gravy-style pet food in cans and pouches it made from Dec. 3 to March 6.

The company said in a statement that tests of its food had “failed to identify any issues with the products in question.” But it did associate the timing of the reported deaths with its use of a new supplier for wheat gluten, a source of protein. Sarah Tuite, a spokeswoman for Menu Foods, declined to name the supplier.
564 2007-03-19 The past year of dizzying violence here has produced thousands of Iraqis like Ms. Rashid — sad-eyed seekers caught in an endless loop of inquiry and disappointment. Burdened by grief without end or answers, they face a set of horrors as varied and fractured as Iraq itself.

Has my son or husband or father been killed by a death squad, his body hidden? Or has he been arrested? Is he in a legitimate prison with his name unregistered, or trapped in a secret basement jail with masked torturers?

Most importantly: How can he be found?

Under Saddam Hussein, the disappeared were not discussed. Asking for information about people believed to be detained or killed by the regime only brought more danger to the family. But since the war, and particularly following the sharp rise in sectarian fighting over the past year, searching has become an obsession.

Nearly 3,000 Iraqis visited the American-run National Iraqi Assistance Center in the Green Zone last month to look for missing relatives, roughly triple the monthly traffic of last spring, and an increase of 50 percent since December, according to military figures.

Capt. Lance Carr, the director of the center, which also manages programs for medical aid, employment and other issues, said the swell in inquiries about missing men tracks with a rise in detentions under the new Baghdad security plan. Iraqis said that despite the legacy of abuses at Abu Ghraib prison, their best-case scenario was still American detention because at least then their loved ones were registered and had a chance to be released if innocent.

But American-run prisons hold only a small portion of Iraq’s detainees. Because many victims of the violence here are never identified, and because the Iraqi detention system remains corrupt, sectarian and opaque, according to Iraqi and American officials, most Iraqis never find who they are looking for.

“There are so many different sides that are fighting now, without names or uniforms,” said Muhammad Haideri, a Shiite cleric and chairman of the human rights committee in the Iraqi Parliament. “There’s terrorism; there are kidnappings, armed militias and gangs. On top of that, when a bomb explodes, people end up deformed, and they are considered missing, too.”

Mr. Haideri said his committee had pressed the Ministries of Interior and Defense to compile lists of prisoners and improve how detainees were treated, but that progress has been slow. He said that both the army and the police had been infiltrated by sectarian gangs and that individual units and commanding officers feared giving people open access to detainee information because it would cut off a source of bribes and the security forces could be accused of torture, especially by Sunni Arabs.

“It does not serve the Interior Ministry, the Ministry of Defense or the prime minister to publish numbers or names, because it will stir up more anger,” Mr. Haideri said. “Even if the Shiites are innocent, it will be chaos.”

The political calculation has only made life harder for those in search of the missing. On a recent day at the National Iraqi Assistance Center, known as NIAC (and pronounced “nye-ack”), 190 people streamed in; 110 of them had come to search for missing relatives.

One door away from the main media office of the United States military in Iraq — the source of upbeat news releases with headlines like “Iraqis leading the way to their future” — the rotating crowd of Iraqis sat quietly, glum, eyes looking toward the floor as if they had not laughed or smiled in months. Most were women, dressed in black and carrying folders with pictures of the missing, their identification cards, and handwritten notes with the worn corners and creases that come from repeated use.

The stories Iraqis told in interviews over several days sounded like different verses of the same dirge.

Anwar Mialla’s brother, a Sunni farm worker near from Falluja, disappeared June 24 during his hourlong commute to work. Neither he nor his car were found.

Hisin Najim, a Shiite, said her husband and 15-year-old son disappeared Aug. 1 near Taji, a Sunni area north of Baghdad, where they had taken a job moving furniture with their pickup truck.

Jemila Jassam’s son Falah, a Sunni Arab, left a friend’s house in the Sunni Baghdad neighborhood of Amiriya on Jan. 8 to get gas. He never returned.

Kadem Mnahi Badr, 61, a Shiite laborer from Sadr City, said his son 21-year-old son Talib disappeared Sept. 9 while driving a taxi. “His car was never found, there was no phone call, no trace at all,” he said.

For many of the Iraqis at NIAC, the lack of information seemed to hurt as much as the loss itself. They provided the basic facts of their stories in monotones, but describe their quests with raised voices and tear-filled eyes.

Ms. Rashid, 45, said she began her search the day after her husband failed to come home. He had called from his cellphone the night before from a checkpoint to say that he was running late at work in Baghdad and was taking a minibus to their home in Mahmudiya, a town 20 miles south of the capital. She kept calling him, but his phone had been turned off, and when he did not arrive, she feared the worst.

“I didn’t sleep at all,” she said.

The next morning, she called her husband’s commanders, who said they knew nothing about it. She drove to Baghdad. At checkpoints along the way, she asked if there had been any car accidents or bombings that might have cost him his life.

At the morgue later that day, and for the next nine days in a row, she said she looked through dozens of ghastly images of the dead — people with their heads cut off, their chests drilled, their faces peeled. Her mustached husband of 19 years, Ali Mahmoud al-Ajelee, the loving father who always kissed his youngest daughter before leaving for work, was not among them.

Hospitals were next. Then the Ministry of the Interior; the Ministry of Defense; the Ministry of Human Rights.

She said she also visited two American military bases in Mahmudiya, and at one point, walked the route from her home to Baghdad, asking everyone she met if they had seen her husband on the day he disappeared.

“I’ve spent two months like this,” she said. “Still, I find nothing.”

It was her second time at NIAC, and she waited patiently while others stepped into the white trailer with the wooden sign that said “detainee section.” A child in a wheelchair looking for medical assistance sat nearby.

Captain Carr, 44, a Navy reservist who works as a risk management consultant in Washougal, Wash., moved through the group softly, like a doctor near sleeping patients.

Though he has grown so dedicated to the center that he is trying to extend his tour past April, he said that most Iraqis who visit leave disappointed.

“For 75 or 80 percent, we can’t give them any news,” he said. “It’s tough. We still get requests for things that happened last April.”

In some cases, mistakes add to the pain. Mr. Badr, the laborer from Sadr City, said he was told a few months ago that his son Talib was in Camp Bucca, an American detention center in southern Iraq. He and his wife drove there a few days later, anxious yet relieved. They would finally get to see their son.

But when they arrived, they discovered there had been a mistake. They young man who greeted them had the same name and date of birth, but it was not their Talib.

“When his mother saw it was not her son, she fainted,” Mr. Badr said.

He said he was just as heartsick. He ran up to the young man and shook him.

“I kept asking that boy — even though I knew it was not my son — I kept asking him his name,” he said. “I had some feeling, some hope that maybe his face had changed while he was imprisoned. I just couldn’t believe it.”

Nonetheless, Mr. Badr was back to continue his search. He said his wife had fallen ill after the visit to Camp Bucca. “She hasn’t left her bed,” he said.The Iraqi workers in the detainee section trailer, one of several that make up NIAC, said that seeing so much hopelessness sometimes made them cry. An employee with a business degree, who called himself Abu Jassim, said he was particularly galled by the stories that involved lawyers and informants who charged families for false information.

It had become a common problem, he said. And in fact, several of the Iraqis who entered the trailer each day said they had paid someone for information.At one point, a woman wearing a blue scarf appeared with a registration number that she said she received from a lawyer. She had paid him 200,000 Iraqi dinar, about $137, for help, and she entered the trailer smiling, confident that things would be different for her. She said she could not wait to visit her husband.

She gave Abu Jassim his name (Wafah Altifat), his year of birth (1974), the date he disappeared (April 25, 2006) and the registration number.

Abu Jassim typed the information into his computer. He looked her in the eye. “I’m sorry,” he said. “The number has another name attached to it, with a different date of birth and a different date of arrest. Your lawyer is a liar.”

“They told me that a detainee who was released saw him,” she said. She dabbed her eyes with a tissue. “They told me he was there.”

Mr. Jassim said the database took time to update. Maybe it was just a misspelling and he really was with the Americans: “If you want to come here every 10 days,” he said, “we don’t mind.”

After she left, Mr. Jassim said that they did not have the heart to tell people that it was rare for a name to appear in the database more than a few weeks after the person was supposedly arrested.

Even those who knew better seemed to have a hard time giving up.

Ms. Rashid received the same message from a NIAC employee who goes only by the name Google. He told her that her husband could not be found in the system. He said that the database was updated every week or so if she wanted to come back.

“Do you think three months could pass and he wouldn’t be in the database?” she asked him.

He did not respond.

“I’ve heard of cases where someone was arrested in Mahmudiya and they didn’t show up in the database for seven months,” Ms. Rashid said, leaning forward, composed, the tissue in her hand. “Could that be what happened?”

“But it has happened right? It has happened.”

The employee mixed a shrug with a nod. Ms. Rashid stood up. She said she would return before the end of the month.
565 2007-03-19 Engaging in their own form of March madness, New York City and London are each proclaiming to have come out on top when matched up against a group of world capitals.

City officials from London and business leaders from New York brandished dueling studies on the global competitiveness of their hometowns, whose rivalry for the title of business capital of the world has been intensifying in the past few years.

A study commissioned by the Partnership for New York City found that New York ranked first in “financial clout,” ahead of London, Paris, Tokyo and seven other big cities. But a separate survey commissioned by the City of London concluded that London had surpassed New York as a global financial center.

London’s survey said that the two cities stood apart from all other big cities, but that London had edged ahead of New York, said Mark Yeandle, a consultant with Z/Yen, a London firm that produced the survey. New York lost points because the American system of financial regulation is viewed as more complex and onerous than England’s.

“I can understand if you New Yorkers got a little sensitive because New York was well ahead and now London has caught up,” Mr. Yeandle said in an interview.
566 2007-03-19 “Di Yam Gazlonim!,” which the National Yiddish Theater-Folksbiene presented in November, reopened last night at the JCC in Manhattan, Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street, (212) 279-4200. Following are excerpts from the review that appeared in The New York Times on Nov. 8. The show runs through April 1.

If people whose language skills are limited to English can revel in grand opera sung in Italian or French, is there anything really so odd about comic operetta sung in Yiddish?

Well, no and yes.

Those answers are to be found at the JCC in Manhattan, where the venerable National Yiddish Theater-Folksbiene has brought back “Di Yam Gazlonim!,” a brisk, bright, funny Yiddish version of Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Pirates of Penzance,” with supertitles in English and Russian.

The setting remains the Cornish coast in 1897, and the broad outline of the plot is unchanged. The music (played on piano, keyboard and clarinet by the spirited Folksbiene band, led by Zalmen Mlotek, the Folksbiene’s executive director) retains its sparkle. But something is surely different about the book and lyrics by Al Grand.

In “Di Yam Gazlonim!” (roughly “The Rascally Robbers of the Sea!”), the pirates of Zhitkovits count among their number not the good-hearted apprentice Frederic but the good-hearted apprentice Fayvl (Jacob Feldman), as well as brigands named Shmuel, Yankl and Mendl. And when romance finally comes Fayvl’s way, it takes the form not of the major general’s daughter Mabel, but of der groyser general’s daughter Malke, winningly brought to life by Dani Marcus, who possesses the charm of Minnie Mouse, the allure of Betty Boop and a true operatic voice.

When her father (Stephen Mo Hanan) sings, it’s not “I Am the Very Model” but “Ikh Bin a Groyser General,” and in the end the pirates pursued by the Keystone Kops who sing “Ven der Soyne Vayzt di Shverd” (“When the Foeman Bares His Steel”) turn out to be just a bunch of yeshiva boys who have lost their way.
567 2007-03-19 I didn’t think that the Bush administration was capable of appalling me any more than it already has, but “Whose Oil Is It, Anyway?,” by Antonia Juhasz (Op-Ed, March 13), proved me wrong.

So one of our vital “benchmarks” for Iraqi progress, a measure by which we determine when to bring home our brave service members, is to allow multinational oil companies to take control of Iraqi oil, thus increasing their already burgeoning profits while reducing the amount of oil revenues available for Iraqi national reinvestment?

Remember those antiwar protesters and their signs that read “No Blood for Oil”? Remember how they were derided as anti-American and antimilitary? It appears that those protesters spoke the truth.

This is just another example of Big Oil’s dominance of American foreign and domestic policy, right alongside the administration’s refusal to take meaningful action to combat global climate change.

I was mortified to read Antonia Juhasz’s Op-Ed article about the proposed Iraqi oil law and to realize that the world’s suspicions about oil being the primary agenda of the Iraq invasion were correct.

Now that we have devastated Iraq and killed untold numbers of its citizens, the United States intends to magnify the impact of its malevolent presence by depriving the Iraqi people of the means to rebuild their shattered nation.
568 2007-03-19 OFFER FOR ABN AMRO -- Barclays, Britain's third-largest bank, has made an informal takeover offer for ABN Amro, the largest bank in the Netherlands, which is under pressure from hedge funds to consider a merger or asset sales to bolster its laggin...
569 2007-03-19 To the Editor:     Russell L. Schweickart's warning about objects striking the Earth was a thoughtful call to action (''The Sky Is Falling. Really,'' Op-Ed, March 16)....
570 2007-03-19 To the Editor:     I didn't think that the Bush administration was capable of appalling me any more than it already has, but ''Whose Oil Is It, Anyway?,'' by Antonia Juhasz (Op-Ed, March 13), proved me wrong....
571 2007-03-19 If people whose language skills are limited to English can revel in grand opera sung in Italian or French, is there anything really so odd about comic operetta sung in Yiddish?      Well, no and yes....
572 2007-03-19 A review for a big new assignment from Nike will take place without the lead Nike creative agency, Wieden & Kennedy.      Nike, which has used Wieden & Kennedy as its principal creative shop since 1982, is seeking an agency to create worldwide cam...
573 2007-03-20 In a week of deals, the specter of yet another buyout sent the stock of one company spiking. Trading volume for shares of Archers Daniel Midland, the food-processing giant, spiked on Tuesday as the market responded to rumors of a takeover. But ana...
574 2007-03-20 Mitch Lasky, who as chief executive of Jamdat led the company to the top of the cellphone-games market, is leaving his post as head of Electronic Arts's mobile-games unit to join Benchmark Capital as a general partner. The move suggests that Bench...
575 2007-03-20 Tour the vacation home of Barbara Benish, an artist, and Petr Kalny, an architect, in the mountains of southern Bohemia in the Czech Republic....
576 2007-03-20 A biotech firm, NimbleGen Systems, filed an initial public offering with the Securities and Exchange Commission to sell up to $75 million in common stock. The company, based in Madison, Wis., makes microarrays, or biological assays, and related pr...
577 2007-03-20 Delta Air Lines said Monday that its chief executive, Gerald Grinstein, who has shepherded the carrier through reorganization, would not receive any stock, incentive payments or severance when the company exits bankruptcy protection this spring. M...
578 2007-03-20 Third, I recognize there is significant interest in the role the White House played in the resignations of these U.S. attorneys. Access to White House staff is always a sensitive issue. The President relies upon his staff to provide him candid advice. The framers of the Constitution understood this vital role when developing the separate branches of government. And if the staff of a President operated in constant fear of being hauled before various committees to discuss internal deliberations, the President would not receive candid advice, and the American people would be ill-served.

Yet, in this case, I recognize the importance of members of Congress having — the importance of Congress has placed on understanding how and why this decision was made. So I'll allow relevant committee members on a bipartisan basis to interview key members of my staff to ascertain relevant facts. In addition to this offer, we will also release all White House documents and emails involving direct communications with the Justice Department or any other outside person, including members of Congress and their staff, related to this issue. These extraordinary steps offered today to the majority in Congress demonstrate a reasonable solution to the issue. However, we will not go along with a partisan fishing expedition aimed at honorable public servants.

The initial response by Democrats, unfortunately, shows some appear more interested in scoring political points than in learning the facts. It will be regrettable if they choose to head down the partisan road of issuing subpoenas and demanding show trials when I have agreed to make key White House officials and documents available. I have proposed a reasonable way to avoid an impasse. I hope they don't choose confrontation. I will oppose any attempts to subpoena White House officials.

As we cut through all the partisan rhetoric, it's important to maintain perspective on a couple of important points. First, it was natural and appropriate for members of the White House staff to consider and to discuss with the Justice Department whether to replace all 93 U.S. attorneys at the beginning of my second term. The start of a second term is a natural time to discuss the status of political appointees within the White House and with relevant agencies, including the Justice Department. In this case, the idea was rejected and was not pursued.

Second, it is common for me, members of my staff, and the Justice Department to receive complaints from members of Congress in both parties, and from other citizens. And we did hear complaints and concerns about U.S. attorneys. Some complained about the lack of vigorous prosecution of election fraud cases, while others had concerns about immigration cases not being prosecuted. These concerns are often shared between the White House and the Justice Department, and that is completely appropriate.

I also want to say something to the U.S. attorneys who resigned. I appreciate your service to the country. And while I strongly support the Attorney General's decision and am confident he acted appropriately, I regret these resignations turned into such a public spectacle.

It's now my hope that the United States Congress will act appropriately. My administration has made a very reasonable proposal. It's not too late for Democrats to drop the partisanship and work together. Democrats now have to choose whether they will waste time and provoke an unnecessary confrontation, or whether they will join us in working to do the people's business. There are too many important issues, from funding our troops to comprehensive immigration reform, to balancing the budget, for us to accomplish on behalf of the American people.

Thank you for your time. Now I'll answer a couple of questions.

Q: Mr. President, are you still completely convinced that the administration did not exert any political pressure in the firing of these attorneys?

THE PRESIDENT: Deb, there is no indication that anybody did anything improper. And I'm sure Congress has that question. That's why I've put forth a reasonable proposal for people to be comfortable with the decisions and how they were made. Al Gonzales and his team will be testifying. We have made available people on my staff to be interviewed. And we've made an unprecedented number of documents available.

THE PRESIDENT: There's no indication whatsoever, after reviews by the White House staff, that anybody did anything improper.

Q: If today's offer from Mr. Fielding is your best and final offer on this, are you going to go to the mat in protecting the principle that you talked about? And why not, since you say nothing wrong was done by your staff, why not just clear the air and let Karl Rove and other senior aides testify in public, under oath? There's been a precedent for previous administrations doing that.

THE PRESIDENT: Some have, some haven't. My choice is to make sure that I safeguard the ability for Presidents to get good decisions.

Michael, I'm worried about precedents that would make it difficult for somebody to walk into the Oval Office and say, Mr. President, here's what's on my mind. And if you haul somebody up in front of Congress and put them in oath and all the klieg lights and all the questioning, to me, it makes it very difficult for a President to get good advice. On the other hand, I understand there is a need for information sharing on this. And I put forth what I thought was a rational proposal, and the proposal I put forward is the proposal.

Q: And then you'll go to the mat, you'll take this to court —

THE PRESIDENT: Absolutely. I hope the Democrats choose not to do that. If they truly are interested in information — in other words, if they want to find out what went on between the White House and the Justice Department, they need to read all the emails we released. If they're truly interested in finding out what took place, I have proposed a way for them to find out what took place. My concern is, they would rather be involved with partisanship. They view this as an opportunity to score political points.

And anyway, the proposal we put forward is a good one. There really is a way for people to get information. We'll just fine out what's on their mind.

Q: Sir, in at least a few instances, the attorneys that were dismissed were actively investigating Republicans — in San Diego, in Arizona, in Nevada. By removing them, wouldn't that have possibly impeded or stopped those investigations? And, sir, if I may also ask about the Attorney General. He does not have support among many Republicans and Democrats. Can he still be effective?

THE PRESIDENT: Yes, he's got support with me. I support the Attorney General. I told you in Mexico I've got confidence in him; I still do. He's going to go up to Capitol Hill and he's going to explain the very questions you asked. I've heard all these allegations and rumors. And people just need to hear the truth, and they're going to go up and explain the truth.

Q: In San Diego, Nevada, Arizona, Republicans were the targets of investigations, and those U.S. attorneys were removed. Does that not give the appearance —

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I don't — it may give the appearance of something, but I think what you need to do is listen to the facts, and let them explain to — it's precisely why they're going up to testify, so that the American people can hear the truth about why the decision was made.

Listen, first of all, these U.S. attorneys serve at the pleasure of the President. I named them all. And the Justice Department made recommendations, which the White House accepted, that eight of the 93 would no longer serve. And they will go up and make the explanations as to why — I'm sorry this, frankly, has bubbled to the surface the way it has, for the U.S. attorneys involved. I really am. These are — I put them in there in the first place; they're decent people. They serve at our pleasure. And yet, now they're being held up into the scrutiny of all this, and it's just — what I said in my comments, I meant about them. I appreciated their service, and I'm sorry that the situation has gotten to where it's got. But that's Washington, D.C. for you. You know, there's a lot of politics in this town.

And I repeat, we would like people to hear the truth. And, Kelly, your question is one I'm confident will be asked of people up there. And the Justice Department will answer that question in open forum for everybody to see.

If the Democrats truly do want to move forward and find the right information, they ought to accept what I proposed. And the idea of dragging White House members up there to score political points, or to put the klieg lights out there — which will harm the President's ability to get good information, Michael — is — I really do believe will show the true nature of this debate.

And if information is the desire, here's a great way forward. If scoring political points is the desire, then the rejection of this reasonable proposal will really be evident for the American people to see.

Listen, thank you all for your interest.
579 2007-03-20 Four years after the U.S. invasion of Iraq, most Americans still have no direct sense of the war beyond the television set, Alessandra Stanley writes in today's Arts section. And news programs are not the only place where viewers are exposed to th...
580 2007-03-20 Ernst Haefliger, a Swiss tenor who was most renowned as an interpreter of German art song and oratorio roles, died on Saturday in Davos, Switzerland, where he maintained a second home. He was 87 and lived in Vienna.

Mr. Haefliger was a graceful singer with a flexible, lyrical voice that served him well in recitals — particularly in Schubert lieder — and made him an ideal Evangelist in Bach’s St. Matthew Passion and St. John Passion, or an eloquent Tamino in Mozart’s “Magic Flute.” His repertory included most of the Mozart tenor roles, as well the tenor roles in nonoperatic scores like Mahler’s “Lied von der Erde,” Bach’s Mass in B minor and the Beethoven Ninth Symphony.

Ernst Haefliger was born in Davos on July 6, 1919, and studied at the Wettinger Seminary and the Zurich Conservatory before moving to Vienna, where he became a student of the tenor Julius Patzak.

At first he focused on the recital and choral repertory, and in 1942, he made his public debut as the Evangelist in Bach’s St. John Passion, in Geneva. He also sang in the first performances of several works by the Swiss composer Frank Martin, including “Le Vin Herbé” in 1941, “In Terra Pax” in 1945, and “Golgotha” in 1949.

At the urging of the conductor Ferenc Fricsay, with whom he went on to record several Mozart operas, as well as Beethoven’s “Fidelio,” Mr. Haefliger began studying opera as well, and joined the Zurich Opera in 1943.

His first important operatic appearance outside Switzerland was as Tiresias in the premiere of Carl Orff’s “Oedipus,” at the Salzburg Festival in 1949. In 1952, he left the Zurich Opera and joined the Städische Oper (later the Deutsche Oper), in Berlin, where he remained one of the company’s principal lyric tenors until 1974.
581 2007-03-20 The House Judiciary Committee posted them one by one on the Web, and hundreds of pages remained to be posted early Tuesday morning.

The new e-mail provided fresh details about the internal administration deliberations and the at times clumsy handling of the dismissals.

In one case, Margaret M. Chiara, a United States attorney in Michigan, pleaded for a few extra weeks on the federal payroll while she looked for a job. In another case, a top Justice Department official who oversaw the dismissals said he had never even reviewed the performance of a prosecutor who was summarily removed, Daniel K. Bogden of Nevada.

A sarcastic internal e-mail message from one top Justice department official to another appears to confirm that personal and policy differences drove the termination of Carol C. Lam, the San Diego prosecutor who initiated investigations of Randy Cunningham when he was a Republican representative from California and Representative Jerry Lewis, as well as some defense department officials.

After a colleague said in a July 8 e-mail message that he was “sad” about something, Bill Mercer, a top Justice Department official, jokingly suggested some reasons.

“That Carol Lam can’t meet a deadline,” he wrote, “or that you’ll need to interact with her in the coming weeks or that she won’t just say, ‘O.K. You got me. You’re right, I’ve ignored national priorities and obvious local needs. Shoot, my production is more hideous than I realized.’ ”

The e-mail messages show Justice Department officials, who themselves had only an incomplete account of events, scrambling to prepare Mr. Gonzales and other senior officials for Congressional testimony that turned out to be inaccurate.

Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said Mr. Gonzales was upset about Mr. McNulty’s remarks to lawmakers. “He believed Bud Cummins’ removal involved performance considerations and it was that aspect of the D.A.G.’s testimony the attorney general was questioning,” the spokesman said, referring to Deputy Attorney General McNulty.

One e-mail message released showed that even top officials were not certain of the rationale for some firings. In a December 5 Mr. McNulty admitted that he had not even reviewed the record of Mr. Bogden and appeared to have mixed feelings about removing him.

“I’m still a little skittish about Bogden,” Mr. McNulty wrote to D. Kyle Sampson, then Mr. Gonzales’s chief of staff, noting that Mr. Bogden had never worked outside of government and was counting on a longer tenure.

“I’ll admit have not looked at his district’s performance,” Mr. McNulty added.

The documents are the second installment of e-mail messages that the Justice Department has turned over to Congressional investigators in a week.

The department has already disclosed messages showing that the White House was deeply involved in discussions, beginning early in 2005, to remove United States attorneys considered to be either weak or not aggressively enforcing administration policy.

In one note, Ms. Chiara urged Mr. McNulty to quickly revise the explanation the department was offering for the dismissals.

“The legal community in Grand Rapids and organizations throughout Michigan are outraged that I am being labeled a ‘poor performer,’ ” she wrote in a March 4 message to Mr. McNulty. “Know that I am considered a personification of ethics and productivity.”

She also wrote that she had heard she was being removed to make way for a member of Congress who was expected to lose his seat in the November election.

Patrick J. Fitzgerald, the United States attorney in Chicago who recently led the successful prosecution of I. Lewis Libby Jr., who was a top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney, was on a list of prosecutors whose performance was ranked as “not distinguished” on a list Mr. Sampson sent to the White House in March 2005, Justice Department officials say.

The list was released last week by the department, but the names of most United States attorneys were deleted, except for some of those who were dismissed.

Mr. Fitzgerald was never seriously considered for removal, say Justice Department officials, who said the list represented the thinking of Mr. Sampson, who resigned last week as Mr. Gonzales’ top aide.

The documents also show that department officials were concerned Mr. Cummins, the dismissed Arkansas prosecutor, might testify before Congress. On Feb. 1, Michael Elston, a senior Justice Department official informed Mr. Sampson that two Democratic senators had requested that he do so.

Mr. Elston said Mr. Cummins had declined, “but wanted to know if we wanted him to testify.”

Mr. Sampson responded: “I don’t think so,” explaining that he could be asked all kinds of questions, including: “Did you resign voluntarily?” and “Were you told why you were being asked to resign?”

Mr. Sampson also said it could be troublesome if Mr. Cummins were asked about his knowledge of his successor. “Did you ever talk to Tim Griffin about his becoming U.S. Attorney?” was one possible question he mentioned, as well as whether Mr. Griffin had talked about getting the job by avoiding Senate confirmation.
582 2007-03-20 The Suffolk County police are investigating a fire that injured a woman late Sunday in Bohemia, the police said yesterday. The fire, at 883 Wall Street, started about 11:40 p.m. in the living room of a ranch house. Three teenagers escaped and alerted a neighbor. After the police were called, a neighbor, Joseph Imperato, 53, a New York City firefighter, entered the house to search for the woman, but was driven back by the fire. The woman, Donna Blieka, 46, was rescued by firefighters and taken to the Nassau University Medical Center. She was in critical condition yesterday, the police said. The fire was not considered suspicious, the authorities said.
583 2007-03-20 Chelsea and Manchester United advanced to the semifinals of the Football Association Cup last night with victories in quarterfinal replays. Andriy Shevchenko scored in the 54th minute and Shaun Wright-Phillips added a goal seven minutes later to lead Chelsea to a 2-1 victory at Tottenham Hotspur. Manchester United defeated Middlesbrough, 1-0, as Cristiano Ronaldo scored on a penalty kick in the 76th minute. In semifinals on April 14-15, United, which has won a record 12 F.A. Cup titles, plays Watford, which is in last place in the Premier League. Chelsea plays Blackburn.
584 2007-03-20 More than 60 million cans and pouches of the company’s wet-style food have been recalled. The F.D.A. is focusing on wheat gluten, a protein used as filler in the food’s manufacture, as the likely source of contamination. Menu Foods and Dr. Sundlof said the illnesses had coincided with the timing of the company’s use of a new wheat gluten supplier.

Sarah Tuite, a spokeswoman for Menu Foods, said: “We just don’t know exactly what’s causing the problems. All we know is the illness coincided with the introduction of a new supplier. I think we’re looking at everything right now.”

Dr. Sundlof would not identify the supplier other than to say it dealt only with manufacturers of pet food and had plants in Kansas City, Mo., and New Jersey. Most of the contaminated lots originated at the Kansas City plant, he said.

“We don’t have any information that any other manufacturer has been supplied ingredients from this particular supplier,” he said. “We are working feverishly to determine that.”

Dr. Sundlof urged people who think their pet might have been affected to contact their local F.D.A. office and a veterinarian. Symptoms of kidney failure include lethargy, loss of appetite and vomiting, he said. Cats, he said, are more likely to be affected than dogs.

Around the country, worried owners of dogs and cats kept veterinarians’ offices and pet stores busy fielding calls yesterday, concerned that the food might have sickened their pets.

Lisa Moses, a staff veterinarian at Angell Animal Medical Center-Boston, said the emergency room had been flooded with pet owners. The hospital said that one cat had died and two dogs been stricken with kidney failure in the last week and that it was reviewing all the renal cases it had seen in the last few months.

“People are panic-stricken,” Dr. Moses said. “This is really scary to people, and I don’t blame them.”

In Denver, PetSmart stores were referring customers to a manufacturer hotline — (866) 463-6738 and (866) 895-2708 — and in San Francisco, employees at a cat hospital tried to calm nervous callers.

Amanda Cassetty, a veterinarian at the Murphy Road Animal Hospital in Nashville, said her clinic received about 100 calls from worried pet owners on Saturday and 30 more by midafternoon yesterday.

Marcella Nelson of Mattapoisett, Mass., changed her cat’s food to Iams after a checkup on Feb. 5 where kidney function was tested and was found to be normal. A week later, the cat became lethargic and would not eat, and a test on Feb. 20 showed that it was suffering from kidney failure and had to be euthanized. Ms. Nelson, who did not throw out the food, said the product numbers matched those in the recall.

“We are angry,” she said. “We thought we were doing a better thing for our cat, improving her food. You trust these companies that have these reputations, and you expect them not to poison your animals with the food they sell.”

Elizabeth Krottinger of Addison, Tex., usually feeds her five dogs dry food but bought them wet Nutro Natural Choice-brand turkey and gravy, and chicken and rice, as a treat for the birthday of her mini pinscher Minnie. The dogs started becoming sick in the days after eating the food March 11, and all were hospitalized last week with kidney damage. They are recovering but might have to be placed on a restricted diet indefinitely.

Day Keel of Basking Ridge, N.J., had to euthanize her dog, Soju, on March 5 after he suffered from kidney and liver failure — a result, she suspects, of his eating the tainted food. Soju, a mutt the family adopted while living in Korea, ate Natural Choice chicken with rice and gravy and started vomiting the next day. Within a week, he was found to have renal failure.
585 2007-03-20 “You’re going to hear Mr. Garson say, ‘In the end, she gets nothing,’ ” Mr. Alexis said.

Mr. Garson’s lawyer, Michael S. Washor, told the jurors that while the judge violated judicial-conduct codes and “acted stupidly” by accepting the largess of the divorce lawyer, Paul Siminovsky, nothing he did was a crime. “There was conspicuously absent any criminal intent or motivation of gain, any criminal thoughts,” Mr. Washor said.

As the two sides laid out their arguments, Mr. Garson, dapper and relatively healthy-looking, his hair a few shades less gray than it was when he was arrested, sat passively at the defense table. Behind him, the courtroom was half-filled with women — matrimonial litigants and officials of advocacy groups — looking to see him held accountable.

Not present in the courtroom but looming over the proceedings was the Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, who has spent four years chasing Justice Garson’s allegations, made when he was first questioned by investigators in 2003, that judges in Brooklyn had bought their nominations for as much as $50,000. Mr. Hynes’s exhaustive investigation has turned up tantalizing leads but, so far, no charges of judgeship selling.

Justice Garson’s case grew from his friendship with Mr. Siminovsky, which Mr. Siminovsky has testified goes back to at least 2001. A judge hearing a case is forbidden, under judicial-conduct rules, to have contact with a lawyer for one side without the permission of the other side, but prosecutors have said that Mr. Siminovsky took Justice Garson out for meals or drinks 130 times, often while he had a case before him.

In addition to coaching Mr. Siminovsky on how to argue cases before him, Mr. Siminovsky has said, Justice Garson routinely awarded him lucrative guardianships.

Their relationship came under scrutiny in 2002, after a woman who feared losing a pending divorce case contacted Nissim Elmann, an electronics salesman known as a “fixer” who reputedly arranged bribes in divorce and child custody cases for Orthodox Jews in the borough. Mr. Elmann told the litigant that she was too late because her husband, a client of Mr. Siminovsky’s, had already paid a bribe to Justice Garson, prosecutors said.

The woman contacted the district attorney’s office. Investigators confronted Mr. Siminovsky, who quickly cooperated. A camera was installed in the judge’s chambers. It captured him telling Mr. Siminovsky that he would award one of Mr. Siminovsky’s clients the house he and his wife lived in, even though the man did not deserve it. Other tapes show Justice Garson accepting $1,000 in cash and a $250 box of cigars from Mr. Siminovsky — gifts that Mr. Washor pointed out had been provided by prosecutors.

Over the next two years, Mr. Elmann pleaded guilty to bribery and conspiracy; three other people admitted giving Mr. Elmann money to funnel to Justice Garson; and a court officer was convicted of taking bribes to steer Mr. Siminovsky’s cases to Justice Garson. Mr. Siminovsky pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor.

Justice Garson’s claims about the sale of judgeships, meanwhile, led Mr. Hynes to focus on the head of the Brooklyn Democratic Party, Clarence Norman Jr., who decided nearly single-handedly who got the party’s nomination. Mr. Norman, who is also a former state assemblyman, has been convicted three times, most recently in February, for extorting money for the party from judicial candidates.

Mr. Garson’s case was delayed when a judge dismissed charges of receiving a reward for misconduct, prompting an appeal by prosecutors that led to the charges being reinstated last year.
586 2007-03-20 The report was by Cour de Comptes, an independent French accounting body that supervises the French government’s accounts and is also Unesco’s external auditor. The audit was requested last fall by Unesco’s executive board after staff members complained about contracts worth $2.1 million that Mr. Smith granted to a Chicago-based firm, Navigant Consulting Inc.

The Cour de Comptes audit said the reasons for selecting Navigant “are not immediately apparent.” It noted that the “restricted bidding procedure” used “was conducted in a way that rendered it ineffective.” It said that “incomplete” information on the bidding procedure was provided to Unesco’s Contracts Committee. And it concluded that “the fees payable on the various contracts were not negotiated in any verifiable manner.”

The Unesco spokeswoman in Paris, Sue Williams, said Mr. Matsuura had agreed to carry out the 55-page report’s recommendations for tightening Unesco’s contract procedures. She said any further response to the report would come from the 58-nation executive board, which meets here next month. “At this point, no charges against Mr. Smith are envisaged,” she added.

The case nonetheless represents something of an embarrassment for the United States, which in late 2003 ended a 19-year boycott of Unesco amid pledges to accelerate reforms of the organization. At the time, with the Bush administration giving priority to Unesco’s work in education, it was considered logical for an American to lead its education department.

“It’s a blow to the United States because it always spoke of moralizing Unesco,” said one ambassador to the body who asked not to be identified because of his country’s close ties with the United States.

Unesco officials said that after Mr. Smith took up his post in June 2005, he embarked on a reorganization of the education department. But diplomats assigned to Unesco said they were surprised early last year when he called an informal meeting of Unesco ambassadors to discuss his plans. At the meeting, they said, the presentation was made not by Mr. Smith but by Letitia Chambers, the managing director of Navigant’s Washington office.

In his resignation letter, Mr. Smith made no direct reference to Ms. Chambers, but he noted that “the products developed by our staff with Navigant Consulting were essential elements of the overall effort” at reform.

Navigant did not respond to a request for comment.

Mr. Smith also acknowledged that “because of the pace, scope and visibility of the Ed Sector reform, questions have been raised about the use of derogations” of the rules for some of the contracts.

However, much of Mr. Smith’s letter was devoted to praising his department’s work and complaining about internal resistance to reforms.

“There is a small group who have worked steadily since the unveiling of the reform recommendations to kill the reforms by discrediting me, attacking you, and demonizing America,” he wrote. “I see the latter of these efforts as tactics to achieve the first: kill the reform.”

He also contended that Unesco responded inadequately to a death threat he said he received on Feb. 9. “After receiving the death threat, I can no longer tolerate the working environment of Unesco,” he wrote.

Ms. Williams, the Unesco spokeswoman in Paris, said the French police investigated the death threat and recommended to Mr. Smith that he not discuss it publicly. “But he was very upset and talked openly about it all the time,” she said.
587 2007-03-20 CHICAGO, March 19 (Reuters) — CBOT Holdings Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange, the energy derivatives market, are moving quickly after a proposal on Thursday by ICE to buy the Chicago exchange for $9.9 billion.

The parent of the Chicago exchange said Monday that its board had authorized talks with ICE, adding it had not changed a recommendation that shareholders vote next month in favor of a merger struck with CME Holdings, parent of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.

The CME merger deal, announced in October, values CBOT at about $8.97 billion.

That proposal is undergoing a review by the Justice Department and would also require approval from the shareholders of both companies.
588 2007-03-20 Delta Air Lines said yesterday that its chief executive, Gerald Grinstein, who has shepherded the carrier through reorganization, would not receive any stock, incentive payments or severance when the company exits bankruptcy protection this spring.

Mr. Grinstein, 74, is expected to retire once a new board chooses a chief executive. His two top lieutenants, Edward H. Bastian, chief financial officer, and James M. Whitehurst, chief operating officer, will each receive stock packages valued at $8.4 million that include restricted shares, options and share grants tied to performance, Delta said. The stock compensation vests over three years.

The packages announced yesterday are aimed at returning to employees some of the compensation lost through pay cuts and to give workers an incentive as Delta exits bankruptcy, possibly as early as next month.

Mr. Bastian and Mr. Whitehurst are both considered candidates for the chief executive’s job, though that choice will be made by a new board chosen by unsecured creditors whose claims will convert into most of the airline’s new stock.

Five executive vice presidents will each get stock packages valued at $6.2 million. Over all, 1,200 managers will share 2.4 percent of the new shares to be distributed, valued at $240 million in projections that estimate the airline’s market capitalization postbankruptcy at $10 billion.

Delta’s 39,000 front-line workers who are not represented by a union will share 3.5 percent of the new stock, valued at $350 million, receive cash bonuses equal to 8 percent of their 2006 pay, or a combined $130 million, and will also receive raises totaling $60 million.

The airline also said that it expected to distribute $170 million in profit sharing to workers, based on its 2007 financial expectations.
589 2007-03-20 Mark W. Everson, the I.R.S. commissioner, is scheduled to testify this morning before the oversight subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee. The hearing, the subcommittee’s annual examination of I.R.S. operations, will also look at the gap between the amount of taxes paid and the amount owed.

The issue of the tax gap has taken on new urgency with the Democrats now in control of Congress and hoping to finance an ambitious agenda without raising taxes. House and Senate Democrats say the government could collect as much as $100 billion more a year. But the Treasury Department, which oversees the I.R.S., says it cannot realistically recover a tenth as much as Democrats suggest.

Mr. Everson was gently questioned in the past. At this year’s hearing, the new Democratic majority has asked Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas, a Democrat who is not a member of the subcommittee, to join in questioning the commissioner. Mr. Doggett, a former justice of the Texas Supreme Court, is a longtime critic of what he sees as tax favors for the rich and corporate tax dodges.

Deborah M. Nolan, the I.R.S. official in charge of auditing businesses with more than $10 million of assets, said that her auditors recommended payment of almost $27 billion in additional taxes last year, more than double the amount in 2001, but down 15 percent from 2005 when added taxes totaled almost $32 billion.

She said these numbers vindicated the strategy of focusing on auditing more companies and focusing on large-dollar tax issues, not lesser ones.

“We need to use our scarce resources wisely, focusing on material issues of risk,” while auditing more companies “to improve compliance,” she told her staff in January.

Asked about data showing that additional taxes recommended for each audit are up, the agents who were interviewed all said that this showed only how pervasive tax cheating had become.

The agents insisted on anonymity as a condition of being interviewed because of I.R.S. policies and a taxpayer privacy law that can subject them to felony prosecution if they inadvertently identify a company.

One veteran agent of the largest corporate audits compared the I.R.S. to a crew that walks through an orchard instead of working from ladders. “You can grab all the low-hanging fruit in a few highly productive hours, while leaving most of the harvest untouched,” he said.

In an interview last week, Ms. Nolan said she was aware of such complaints and had created a Web address for employees to tell her about their concerns. She also reiterated her position that the agency would “do the right thing” by keeping cases open past preset deadlines when evidence points to large amounts of tax due.

All 21 agents interviewed over the last two months said that the I.R.S. paid lip service to its “do the right thing” policy. They provided e-mail messages and memos in which managers and executives made little or no mention of anything but closing files quickly.

In one widely circulated directive, Cheryl P. Claybough, who oversees half the audits of communications, technology and media companies, alternately encouraged and chastised subordinates for not closing cases quickly enough, while making only passing references to the “right thing” policy.

Ms. Nolan said that a quality assurance unit checked on audits and would discover any pattern of cases that were being closed prematurely. Agents say that when they are forced to close tax issues against their professional judgment, no report is required. The only way such cases are noticed, the agents and Ms. Nolan said, is by examining auditors’ work papers, a time-consuming process.

A Feb. 1 e-mail message from Kenneth L. Kates of the audit quality assurance operation orders nine subordinates to complete their reviews of audits without mentioning quality.

“We must have ten case apiece closed by 3-7-2007,” Mr. Kates wrote. “You must keep me informed and make me aware immediately if you will have any problems meeting this goal. The goal translates into two cases per week.”

All of the agents interviewed said they believed that the controlling factor in determining whether their superiors qualified for cash bonuses and promotions was their success at closing cases. “How the managers get paid; that’s the real policy,” one auditor in Texas said.

Only in cases of blatant fraud, agents said, are deadlines ignored. A few agents supplied e-mail messages and memos to support their statements.

Two auditors described separate training sessions that began with a few words about the “right thing” policy, then focused entirely on closing cases by the preset deadlines.

“What message do you think employees get when almost an hour is spent on cycle time and overage, and doing the right thing gets a brief mention?” one auditor said.

One agent, who said he had worked on some of the largest I.R.S. cases, said he was admonished for resisting management pressure to close a case in which his team believed that vast sums were due.

The agent said his team was forced to sign off on a closing agreement allowing the company to permanently underpay its taxes by hundreds of millions of dollars a year.

When a taxpayer receives a formal closing agreement from the I.R.S. after the agency has explicitly examined a deduction or practice, the taxpayer may forever follow that practice, even if it violates the tax law.

From clues on a return, the auditors say they can spot what may be a tax issue involving large sums of taxes due. But only after the audit is under way, they say, can they tell if the issues they negotiated with a company to look at are the most significant.

When auditors discover that different issues are the most significant, one of the agents told a reporter, they do not have any information to show superiors “that an issue would have resulted in a tax adjustment, which is true since the issue hadn’t yet been factually developed.”

“Hence the controversy — how do you know an issue isn’t there unless it is investigated fully?” the agent said.

This agent, like the others interviewed, said he would favor following “the professional judgment of the case auditors in making these decisions.” But, he said, “in most cases management is making these decisions in order to drive case closure goals.”
590 2007-03-20 “It makes me blink,” Levy said in a telephone interview. “It certainly raises the risk ante.”

One of the biggest shocks came from the Bills. They gave a guard who has never made a Pro Bowl, Derrick Dockery, a $49 million contract, including $18.5 million in guaranteed money. It was the richest contract in Bills history and nearly equaled a contract given by the Minnesota Vikings last season to Steve Hutchinson, widely regarded as the league’s best guard. And it came from a small-market franchise that does not have limitless cash to cover its mistakes.

“It’s stunning you get paid that much money to play a game, but it’s a game that’s generating a lot of funds.” Levy said of the upswing in money.

Teams have long offered lucrative contracts during free agency, but they usually go to big-name players. This year, the spoils so far have gone to players who were lucky enough to become free agents but were not so valuable to their current team that they received the franchise tag. Guard Leonard Davis, a career underachiever, received $18.75 million guaranteed from the Dallas Cowboys, their biggest bonus ever. The Denver Broncos gave $15 million in guaranteed money to tight end Daniel Graham, who is more of a blocker than a receiver.

The list of free agents this year was thin for the same reason that so much money was available for them. The new collective-bargaining agreement resulted in a jump in the salary cap at the same time that the league’s lucrative television contracts gave every team enough money to keep its best players off the free-agent market.

Teams used the franchise tag to hold onto one top player; for instance, the Indianapolis Colts made defensive end Dwight Freeney their franchise player. Teams must pay their franchise player the average of the five highest salaries at his position, usually less than that player would receive on the open market.

When free agency began March 2, the pickings were slim, but most teams’ coffers were full. Teams had an average of about $15 million available, and some teams had much more. The San Francisco 49ers, in salary cap purgatory for several years, had nearly $40 million to spend. They gave cornerback Nate Clements $22.6 million guaranteed on a deal reportedly worth $80 million for eight years. That was more guaranteed money than a more talented cornerback, Denver’s Champ Bailey, received in his contract in 2004.

“If anything is surprising, it’s the money handed to players that if everyone was a free agent, they wouldn’t get,” San Francisco Coach Mike Nolan said in a telephone interview. “Some of the guards who have signed are getting money of Hutchinson value, but they are not near him as a player. But teams had to pay more just to get a void filled. That’s the luck of the draw.”

Patriots Coach Bill Belichick does not seem bothered by the large guarantees given this year. He compares them with large signing bonuses frequently given in the past to players with lower annual salaries as a way to spread the cost of the salary and bring it under the salary cap.

“I really think it’s not as big of a deal as everybody is making it out to be, in relation to the expansion of the cap,” Belichick said in a telephone interview. “In the end, it’s just shuffling money around. It’s more accounting than it is a fundamental change.”

Somebody will probably have to explain that to the players. One unintended consequence of the free-agency largess is the resentment it is likely to breed among players who were not due a new contract this year, but who must watch teammates — some of them lesser talents — cash far heftier checks. Nolan is already imagining the repair work needed in locker rooms.

“It is a concern,” Nolan said. “They have agents, and agents will be in their ear. They see the numbers handed out. My thing is you’ll get a deal, but you’ve got to play out your deal. Maybe you’ll strike it rich. When your contract is up, you get an opportunity as a free agent. By last year’s numbers, you got a great deal. This year’s numbers, maybe it doesn’t look as great.”
591 2007-03-20 Most of the shows echo the public’s disenchantment after Abu Ghraib and the military failures in Iraq.

Sometimes the Iraq conflict takes over an entire plotline: an episode of “Criminal Minds,” a CBS series about serial killers and psychopaths, turned its focus to a Muslim terrorist suspect being held at Guantánamo — without due process. (He is thrown on the floor of an interrogation room in his underpants, hands and feet bound by chains and his face bruised from beatings.)

Other times, references to the war pop up almost gratuitously. On CBS’s “Without a Trace,” an F.B.I. agent described a potentially disastrous pipe leak in the ocean as “the ecological equivalent of Iraq.”

Television shows process news events much faster than ever before, but not much more directly than they did at the time of “Hogan’s Heroes,” “M*A*S*H” or “China Beach.” They do not grapple any more straightforwardly with the larger issues of whether the war is right or wrong, or even try to paint the full reality of the war itself. “The Unit,” a CBS series about the derring-do of top-secret special forces, prefers to set its combat scenes elsewhere than Iraq, sometimes as close as Afghanistan, but more often Africa or Asia.

That could be because Steven Bochco’s “Over There,” a 13-episode series about soldiers fighting in Iraq, was not a hit. Shown on FX, it was the first television drama about the conflict, and hard to watch: a series that turned a war into entertainment while it was still being fought.

Producers and writers prefer a more elliptical approach, siphoning off the most dramatic and troubling elements. On ABC’s “Brothers & Sisters,” the drug-addicted youngest brother is a damaged veteran of the war in Afghanistan. Even “Grey’s Anatomy” wriggled its way into the war: Meredith’s half-sister, Molly, gave birth while her husband was in Iraq.

But most of all, shows write in references to torture and the abuse of prisoners, perhaps because those acts so sharply undermine the idealization of civil servants and servicemen on shows like “CSI” or “NCIS” on CBS. Fox’s “24” is a counterterrorism thriller that supports the notion that in the war against extremism, the use of torture is both necessary and effective. It’s the exception.

Last season “Sleeper Cell,” a series on Showtime, dramatized the opposite argument: the terrorist leader, Farik, sat in a C.I.A. prison, withstanding gruesome psychological and physical torture and taunting his captors about their ambivalence about such methods. “You Americans are so obsessed with yourselves,” Farik says, “that you care more about analyzing your guilt than achieving victory. That is why we will win, and you will lose.” (The C.I.A. outsources him to the less inhibited interrogators in Saudi Arabia.)

Torture is turned into a joke on “Saturday Night Live” or “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart,” as well as on the much discussed and now defunct Fox series “Arrested Development.” At the end of that sitcom’s run in 2006, two Bluth brothers traveled to Baghdad to seek their other brother’s release from an Iraqi prison. “It’s U.S.-run,” one says. “God knows what they are doing to him.”

The topic is anything but funny on dramas. On NBC’s “Heroes” two Los Angeles police officers race to interview a suspect unfairly tagged as a Muslim extremist. “He’s got one hour before Homeland Security sends him down the rabbit hole as a suspected terrorist,” an officer says.

Crime series have long dramatized the tensions between police officers and the F.B.I., but over the past four years the F.B.I.’s handling — or mishandling — of the terrorist threat has provided new fodder for conflict. On TNT’s show “The Closer,” the F.B.I. tries to take over a homicide case from the Los Angeles Police Department, arguing that the murder is a matter of “national security.” An Iranian suspect tells an agent that he has legal rights. “Really?” the agent replies. “You might want to take a closer look at the Patriot Act.”

Americans don’t watch the news as closely as they should, but the news has a way of closing in on popular culture.
592 2007-03-20 I am no fan of fraternities or sororities in a university. I think that all clubs and organizations should be open to whoever has an interest.

But it does seem ironic that the young women who were evicted from the sorority on the basis of their weight or attractiveness should feel so affronted.

Sororities pick members who they think will enhance their prestige, so it is hardly surprising that they exclude people on the basis of arbitrary criteria like weight and attractiveness.

Exclusion is exclusion, whether practiced before being chosen or afterward.

I don’t see what entitles the ones who were once chosen and now rejected to indignation.
593 2007-03-20 Patients who have trouble paying their medical bills do significantly worse in the year after heart attacks than patients under less financial pressure, a new study finds.

In the study, which appeared last week in The Journal of the American Medical Association, the researchers surveyed almost 2,500 patients when they were hospitalized for heart attacks.

Although most of the patients were insured, the researchers found that almost one in five reported that financial barriers had led them to avoid health care over the previous year. More than one in 10 said they had not been able to afford some medications.

Dr. Harlan M. Krumholz of Yale and his co-authors found that a year after the heart attacks, there were 12 percent more cases of angina among the patients who had reported financial barriers. The rate of rehospitalization for those patients was more than 11 percent higher than for other patients.

The patients who had problems paying for medication did even worse. Their angina rate was 17 percent higher, and they were 50 percent more likely to be rehospitalized than other patients were.

The issue goes beyond the group in this study. The researchers pointed to earlier studies finding that more than 16 million Americans, despite having health insurance, say they avoid medical care because of its cost or have trouble paying for medications. And things seem likely to grow worse, the study said.
594 2007-03-20 The financial problems of some carriers prohibit them from affording the $300 million craft. But, even more, American carriers say they have no need for a plane so big — preferring instead smaller planes that can carry 200 to 300 passengers for more frequent nonstop service between more cities.

American Airlines, for example, has not purchased any A380s. Tim Wagner, a spokesman, said that American was instead using the Boeing 777, which carries 250 to 350 passengers, on such long-haul flights as Chicago to New Delhi or Dallas to Tokyo. If demand on these routes increases, American would rather offer more flights than use bigger planes, he added.

“We’d rather meet customer demand with multiple flights a day between cities than by having one flight on one gigantic aircraft,” said Mr. Wagner.

Even Airbus concedes that its prospects are dim in the American market.

“In the near term, we are not expecting any sales to U.S. carriers,” Clay McConnell, an Airbus spokesman, said. “It is not saying that someday we won’t sell to the North American market. It’s just not in the near term.”

That outlook differs sharply from Airbus’s optimism in the late 1990s, when it predicted a global demand for 1,440 of its superjumbo jets, and forecast that at least 10 North American carriers would buy 281 superjumbos.

Airbus, in its global market forecast at the time, even went so far as to proclaim, “The 747 is now too small for many routes.”

In the air freighter market, the giants of the United States air cargo industry — Federal Express and United Parcel Service — have canceled nearly $6 billion in orders for a cargo version of the A380, a move that caused some freighter orders to migrate to Boeing.

Airbus has not helped itself — problems with the plane have delayed production. There are more than 300 miles of wires in the A380, and problems installing them have forced Airbus to announce two delays in its delivery schedule. The delivery problems have cost Airbus $3.3 billion so far and have led to layoffs of thousands of employees and the ouster of the chief executive.

By contrast, Boeing has forecast a global demand for only 325 superjumbo jets. Rather than design an entirely new plane, Boeing came up with a stretch version of the three-decades-old 747 and used it to poach orders from A380 customers who grew tired of waiting. Most recently, for instance, Lufthansa, one of Airbus’s core customers, put in an order for 20 stretch 747s.

Come this October, however, prospects may brighten a bit as Airbus expects to deliver the first passenger A380. Airbus has 156 A380 orders from 14 carriers, with the biggest purchases from Emirates, Singapore, Lufthansa and Qantas. It was a Lufthansa flight that landed in New York yesterday; a Qantas plane landed in Los Angeles. Some plan to take advantage of the plane’s size to offer more first-class amenities; others plan to pack the planes with as many budget travelers as possible.

While most carriers say they will put 550 or so passengers in the A380, the craft is certified to carry up to 853 — about twice the capacity of the biggest version of the Boeing 747.

Even though American carriers are not buying the craft, the A380 will be flying in American skies. International carriers are planning to use the plane for flights in and out of Kennedy, O’Hare, Dulles, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Eventually, Miami, Orlando, Dallas and Denver may also see A380s.

For airports, the sheer size of the plane represents both a challenge and a solution. Its wingspan is almost as long as a football field, and it is eight stories tall, meaning airports have had to come up with special double-deck gates so that passengers can enter the plane on two levels.

Because airports are concerned about congestion both in the air and on the ground, anything that increases the number of passengers without increasing the number of flights is welcome.

“It’s not desirable to have more flights, but it is desirable to have more people,” said William DeCota, director of aviation for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates airports in the New York region, including Kennedy.

At the moment, many have been spending millions of dollars to make the changes needed to accommodate the A380. New passenger gates must be built. In some cases, runways or taxiways must be moved or expanded. Taxiways over highways at some airports need to be strengthened to carry the additional weight.

Over the last few months, Airbus has sent the A380 to about 40 airports around the globe to generate publicity and give rides to local officials and the media. The flight in Washington this week will carry members of Congress, their staffs and other government officials.

Part of the reason for the demonstration tour is to see whether the plane can actually fit at gateway airports (and to prompt airports that are lagging to speed up their renovations). At night, airports will test how the plane maneuvers at gates and how it negotiates taxiways and clears buildings.

At Kennedy Airport, planning for the A380 began a decade ago. While the A380 was designed to fit into any airport that can handle a 747, most American airports still needed to make modifications on the tarmac and in their terminals to accommodate the A380.

“In 1996, Airbus came to us and was describing the plane,” said James Fazio, chief operating officer of JFK International Airport Terminal, the company that operates Terminal 4. “I remember looking at them and thinking, ‘Are they crazy?’ But Airbus persevered and started to push us to make the changes we needed to make.”

At Kennedy, where the runways were laid out in 1948, anticipating the A380 led to a $179 million modernization program. Further changes could raise the cost to about $300 million.

To that end, a major taxiway at Kennedy from the runway to the terminal had to be moved so that the A380’s wings would not hang over the edge and the plane could turn without hitting the terminal.

Another taxiway was built so the A380 could reach Runway 13, one of the longest in the United States. Additional work was done to prevent the A380’s jet blasts from destroying the ground next to the runways.

Airbus has tried to fend off criticism about the A380 requiring costly airport overhauls. It has issued press releases outlining “myths” about the plane and making the case that the A380 will be more efficient in getting passengers on and off and can, for the most part, use existing runways.

Over at Terminal 4 — where Emirates, Singapore, Virgin and Thai Airways, all A380 customers, operate — new passenger-loading bridges are being built so that travelers can enter the lower and upper deck of the plane at the same time. Emirates plans to have three loading bridges, one set aside for passengers who can exit its airline club directly into the craft’s first-class lounge.

There are also two new baggage carousels able to handle more than 1,000 pieces of luggage each. The number of immigration officials is also being increased. Mr. Fazio, the chief operating officer of the terminal, estimated the Terminal 4 upgrades would cost around $5 million.

And even though Mr. Fazio has seen planes of many sizes and shapes, he is still impressed with the massive scale of the A380.

“Wait until it flies over Manhattan,” he said. “It will block out the sun.”
595 2007-03-20 The Suffolk County police are investigating a fire that injured a woman late Sunday in Bohemia, the police said yesterday. The fire, at 883 Wall Street, started about 11:40 p.m. in the living room of a ranch house. Three teenagers escaped and aler...
596 2007-03-20 A budget released by the minority Conservative government on Monday would phase out special tax concessions for investors in oil sands projects by 2015. The current system dates back to 1972 and allows oil companies to depreciate capital investmen...
597 2007-03-20 To the Editor:     Re ''After Evicting Members, Sorority Is Itself Evicted'' (news article, March 13):...
598 2007-03-20 MISSING MEDICARE TAXES Federal investigators say thousands of doctors and other health professionals participating in Medicare are late in paying more than $1 billion in federal income and payroll taxes. [A1.]    QUESTIONS FOR THE I.R.S. The head ...
599 2007-03-20 When Marv Levy was the coach of the Buffalo Bills in the 1980s and 90s, he never knew how much money his players made. He did not have an agent, and his own salary negotiations consisted of the Bills' owner, Ralph Wilson, telling him what he would...
600 2007-03-21 Your fancy pet food brands, on the same recall list as the cheap ones....
601 2007-03-21 In December, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear an antitrust case involving Credit Suisse. This week, Justice Anthony Kennedy abruptly recused himself, most likely because his son Gregory is a managing director at the investment bank. Now, some...
602 2007-03-21 Amaranth Advisors, which managed $9 billion in assets before imploding after its energy-market trades went bad, is the best-known hedge fund casualty of 2006. But there were lots of others: At least 83 of these private investment pools gave up the...
603 2007-03-21 Examining the escalating battle between the white-shoe firm Sullivan & Cromwell and a former associate, Aaron B. Charney, who claims he was harassed because he is gay, The New York Observer concludes that this is a case of "lawyers behaving badly"...
604 2007-03-21 A hedge fund, Farallon Capital Management, rode to the rescue of a suffering subprime mortgage lender, Accredited Home Lenders Holding, extending a five-year $200 million loan after the company's financial backers cut it off. But the deal comes wi...
605 2007-03-21 The former chief executive of Qwest Communications, Joseph P. Nacchio, deceived investors and the public when he secretly sold $101 million in stock before its share price fell sharply, a federal prosecutor declared during opening statements Tuesd...
606 2007-03-21 Though it may have saved a life, the ransom has set off a worried debate in Italy and in other countries with soldiers, reporters and aid workers in danger zones.

The exchange sent “the wrong signal to prospective hostage takers,” a spokeswoman for the British Foreign Office told Reuters.

On a visit to Kabul on Wednesday, the Dutch foreign minister, Maxime Verhagen, told reporters: “When we create a situation where you can buy the freedom of Taliban fighters when you catch a journalist, then in the short term there will be no journalists anymore.”

The concern was underscored on Tuesday just after the release of one of the prisoners, Ustad Yasir, who was identified as a Taliban spokesman. He said he would return immediately to war, and was “grabbing two rifles to begin jihad again to hunt down invaders and fight nonbelievers,” according to a statement attributed to him on the Internet.

The government of Romano Prodi, the Italian prime minister, said the central issue surrounding the kidnapping of Mr. Mastrogiacomo was not complicated.

“We think that the life of a person is very precious,” said Mr. Prodi’s spokesman, Silvio Sircana, who is also a friend of Mr. Mastrogiacomo’s. “So if there is a chance to save a life, we must do all we can do. And this was our very simple line, and not anything more.”

Mr. Mastrogiacomo was abducted as he was driving with an interpreter and a driver to an interview with a Taliban commander near Lashkhar Gah, in southern Afghanistan, he wrote in La Repubblica on Tuesday, the day he returned to Rome.

Dragged from place to place, nearly always in chains, he was forced to watch a Taliban soldier decapitate his driver, then wipe the blade clean on the headless body.

“I imagine myself with my neck sliced, the blood splashed from all the arteries drained into the sand, the body committed to the river’s course,” he wrote.

On Monday, he continued, a Taliban commander came into the mud hut where he and the interpreter were being held and proclaimed, “You are free, fly away!” The fate of the interpreter is still unknown.

Italy’s domestic politics seemed to play a role in the decision, in a nation where weak domestic support for foreign involvement had prompted earlier allegations of payments for hostages.

It was widely reported that the former Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, paid cash for the freedom of at least three hostages in Iraq in 2004 and 2005. The issues then were at once humanitarian and political: Italians broadly opposed Mr. Berlusconi’s decision to send troops to Iraq, and critics said any deaths there could further erode support for him as national elections neared. Italy has since withdrawn its troops from Iraq.

The kidnapping of Mr. Mastrogiacomo occurred at a similarly delicate time for Mr. Prodi’s already fragile government, which fell briefly last month, partly because of a lack of support inside his coalition for the presence of nearly 2,000 Italian troops in Afghanistan.

Later this month, Mr. Prodi faces a crucial vote on financing for the mission there, a vote that may have been more difficult if Mr. Mastrogiacomo had not been freed.

Italy did not — and could not — act alone in the prisoner exchange, and attention was focused on both Afghanistan and the United States, which exerts broad control inside the country.

A spokesman for the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, told reporters in Kabul that the release was an “exceptional measure taken because we value our relations and friendship with Italy.”

Many experts wondered at the precise role of the United States, which has strained relations with Italy on several fronts, including the indictment of 26 Americans, all but one of them believed to be C.I.A. agents, in the kidnapping in Italy in 2003 of a radical Egyptian cleric.

Diplomatically, the United States could not bar the exchanges, American officials said, given that the Taliban prisoners were being held by the Afghan government and not by the American military or NATO. United States officials have also been mindful of the rising tide in Italian public opinion against the presence of Italian troops in Afghanistan.

Edward Luttwak, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, speculated that American officials made the political calculation that for good relations with Italy, it was better not to stop the transfer.

“They certainly didn’t lean on the Afghans” to trade the prisoners, Mr. Luttwak said. “But they didn’t interpose themselves. They let them have it.”

A former Italian hostage, Giuliana Sgrena, kidnapped in Baghdad in 2005, said she believed the Italian government was obligated to do all it could to save a hostage’s life. She argued that paying ransom for reporters was a far smaller issue than the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

“If there is no war, there will be no hostages,” Ms. Sgrena, also a journalist, said in a telephone interview from New York, where she is promoting a book about her experience.

She added that, whatever the dangers, it was important for reporters and aid workers to go to places like Iraq or Afghanistan to provide information independent of the governments or groups waging wars there.

“It’s a problem of democracy,” she said. “If we say we want democracy, democracy is based on information.”
607 2007-03-21 Charges were dismissed yesterday against a man arrested in Flemington in the summer of 2005 after the police said he organized an antiwar protest in the borough without receiving a permit. The man, Bob Flisser, was fined $100 after the police charged he organized a protest of 24 people in front of the courthouse in Flemington, said his lawyer, Fernando M. Pinguelo. The American Civil Liberties Union argued that the town’s ordinance was overly broad and helped Mr. Flisser appeal. Yesterday, Flemington officials asked a State Superior Court judge to dismiss the charges. The borough’s lawyer, Barry Goodman, said that borough officials did not want to spend the money to fight the appeal.
608 2007-03-21 The main French business federation said that the French economy would be unable to grow at its full capacity under programs put forth by the existing candidates for president and announced an economic program of its own. The federation, Medef, called for looser labor rules, lower taxes and incentives to bolster investment and innovation. Laurence Parisot, left, president of Medef, said there was little hope of achieving what she called “an ambitious but realistic goal” with the platforms of the three leading presidential candidates: Nicolas Sarkozy, Ségolène Royal and François Bayrou. “If you look at the three principal programs, none of them is proposing what we believe is right,” she said at a news conference. The first round of voting in the election is scheduled for April 22 with a runoff set for May 6.
609 2007-03-21 Jamont Gordon had 16 points and 7 assists and host Mississippi State neutralized one of college basketball’s most dynamic players in defeating Florida State, 86-71, last night in the National Invitation Tournament.

Mississippi State (21-13), the top seed in the North Region, held Al Thornton to 16 points in 22 minutes and advanced to play West Virginia in the N.I.T. semifinals Tuesday at Madison Square Garden.

“We went at him, forced him to guard us and got some calls,” Mississippi State Coach Rich Stansbury said of Thornton.

Thornton drew two personal fouls in the first four minutes of the game, then two more in the first five minutes of the second half. Without its star, Florida State wilted under ball-hawking man-to-man defense.

Mississippi State’s pressure resulted in 15 steals and 25 turnovers, and the game would have been out of hand midway through the first half without the play of Florida State’s Isaiah Swan. Swan scored 28 points, including eight 3-pointers, to keep the game within reach.
610 2007-03-21 Two Border Patrol agents examining packages of marijuana that had floated ashore along the Rio Grande were fired upon by unseen assailants on the Mexican side of the river, the authorities said. The agents, who returned fire, were not injured, and there was no sign that their bullets had struck anyone, said Oscar Saldana, a Border Patrol spokesman. It was the second such episode this year along a narrow part of the Rio Grande near Donna, about 13 miles northeast of McAllen. Mr. Saldana said the shooting was most likely a response by drug smugglers to the Border Patrol’s more intensive searches of the area.
611 2007-03-21 The Mississippi Senate voted 31 to 20 to reject an effort that would have cut the state’s 7 percent grocery tax in half and raised the cigarette tax. Gov. Haley Barbour, left, a Republican, has said that he opposes raising taxes but that the time is not right to reduce the grocery tax because Mississippi faces too much economic uncertainty in its recovery from Hurricane Katrina. A Senate resolution would have allowed the filing of a bill to cut the grocery tax and to raise the cigarette tax to $1 a pack from 18 cents, the third lowest in the nation. Mississippi residents pay the nation’s highest taxes on groceries, yet rank among the lowest-paid households in the country.
612 2007-03-21 The Japanese health authorities warned this morning that the anti-influenza drug Tamiflu should not be given to teenagers, after reports that some children who took the drug exhibited bizarre behavior, according to Japanese news reports.

The Kyodo news service reported from Tokyo that the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare had issued the new instructions after two 12-year-old boys taking the drug jumped from the second floors of their homes within the past two months, suffering broken legs.

But concerns have been mounting for years in Japan, where children taking Tamiflu have jumped from balconies or rushed headlong into the street. In at least a few cases the children were killed.

However, the authorities in both the United States and Japan have said that it is unclear if the behavior is caused by the drug, by the flu itself or by another cause. Ministry officials could not be reached because it was a holiday in Japan. It was not immediately clear if the officials now believed that evidence of a link between the drug and the behavior was stronger, or if they were just deciding to err on the side of caution.

The Food and Drug Administration said in a statement last night that it was continuing to monitor the side effects reported in users of Tamiflu, and that it would update the drug’s prescribing information in the future if warranted.
613 2007-03-21 DENVER, March 20 (AP) — The former chief executive of Qwest Communications, Joseph P. Nacchio, deceived investors and the public when he secretly sold $101 million in stock before its share price fell sharply, a federal prosecutor declared during opening statements Tuesday in Mr. Nacchio’s insider trading trial.

“This is a case about cheating,” an assistant United States attorney, James Hearty, told jurors. “He sold $100 million worth of Qwest stock when he knew about problems at Qwest — problems that people outside Qwest did not know.”

The case, Mr. Hearty said, “is based on a very simple principle — fairness. Corporate insiders are in a position to take advantage of information people outside don’t know.”

But a defense lawyer, Herbert Stern, told jurors that Mr. Nacchio sold no stock based on insider information. Mr. Nacchio based his projections in part on analyses by the investment banking houses Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and Lehman Brothers, Mr. Stern said.

Mr. Nacchio, 57, is accused of improperly selling the stock in the first five months of 2001 while privy to nonpublic information indicating that Qwest Communications International Inc. was at financial risk. The company, which provides phone service to 14 mostly Western states, soon after became mired in an accounting scandal and eventually restated $2.2 billion in revenue.

He is charged with 42 counts of insider trading.

Mr. Hearty said that in late 2000 Mr. Nacchio became aware of problems Qwest would be facing in 2001, and that Qwest stood to fall far short of financial targets it had set publicly.

Still, Mr. Hearty said, Mr. Nacchio repeatedly “told investors that everything at Qwest was great.”
614 2007-03-21 Pfizer, the drug maker, won a court ruling yesterday blocking a rival company, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, from marketing a generic version of the painkiller Celebrex, the world’s top-selling arthritis drug, until 2015.

Federal District Judge John Lifland in Newark upheld the validity of three Pfizer patents covering the drug, after hearing arguments during a two-week trial in November.

“The patents are neither invalid nor unenforceable, and Teva has infringed the patents,” Judge Lifland wrote in a 201-page ruling. Teva’s argument that the patents were just an obvious variation of earlier inventions “fails at every major crossroad.”

Pfizer, the world’s biggest drug maker, sued Teva in 2004 to halt its attempt to win Food and Drug Administration approval to sell copies of Celebrex. The drug generated $1.57 billion in United States sales in 2006, Pfizer said in a statement.

Pfizer, based in New York, claimed its patents protect Celebrex from generic competition until June 2015.
615 2007-03-21 Beacon Rock Capital has been charged with defrauding mutual funds of $2.4 million, the first hedge fund to be criminally accused of deceptive market timing, the United States attorney in Philadelphia said.

Thomas J. Gerbasio, 36, the former vice president of mutual funds at Fiserv Securities in Philadelphia, was also charged in the case, the United States attorney, Patrick L. Meehan, said yesterday. Market timing involves short-term trading that tries to take advantage of perceived inaccuracies in mutual fund share prices, Mr. Meehan said.

Mr. Gerbasio and Beacon Rock, which is based in Portland, Ore., executed trades using that strategy, knowing that it was potentially harmful to investors in the funds, Mr. Meehan said. Beacon Rock made more than 26,000 market-timed trades and Mr. Gerbasio earned about $215,000, Mr. Meehan said.

“Gerbasio and Beacon Rock were aware of and received numerous potential warnings from mutual fund companies that market timing was unwanted and potentially harmful to their shareholders,” Mr. Meehan said. “The defendants simply found a way around the obstacles by cheating.”

Beacon Rock deceived the mutual funds, none of them identified by Mr. Meehan, by using multiple account numbers, trading in amounts that were just under the thresholds that would have activated fund surveillance and misrepresenting trading strategy when questioned by the funds, Mr. Meehan said.

In April 2006, Mr. Gerbasio settled a civil suit over market timing with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an undisclosed amount.
616 2007-03-21 WASHINGTON, March 20 (AP) — The Air Force will not reopen the $15 billion contract awarded to Boeing to build rescue helicopters. but will continue to talk to two rival companies that contested the contract.

An Air Force spokesmanm, Major Aaron Burgstein, said the Air Force was working with the Government Accountability Office, Boeing, Sikorsky and Lockheed “to resolve the concerns and ensure and open and transparent process.”

Boeing, which plans to build the helicopters at its plant in Ridley Park, Pa., beat out Lockheed Martin and the Sikorsky unit of United Technologies in November for the contract to build 141 helicopters by 2019. The aircraft will be used to recover downed pilots.

The G.A.O., the Congressional auditing arm, recommended on Feb. 26 that the Air Force reopen discussions with all competitors and request revised proposals.

Air Force Secretary Michael W. Wynne announced during questioning Tuesday at a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing that the competition would not be reopened.

Boeing pitched a modified version of its CH-47 Chinook helicopter. Lockheed’s aircraft had a roomier cabin, three powerful engines and was cheaper than Boeing’s, and some industry and Wall Street analysts had predicted it would get the contract.
617 2007-03-21 The audit itself has had an unusual history.

Mr. Weitzman started the process in 2004, during the 12-year tenure of Ms. O’Connell’s predecessor, Karen Murphy, a Republican, who initially resisted the inquiry on the ground that it was beyond the comptroller’s authority. After a successful court battle, the comptroller was permitted to undertake the audit, but he suspended it during Ms. Murphy’s successful 2005 election campaign for the State Supreme Court. In that election, Ms. O’Connell, a former state assemblywoman, was elected county clerk.

When the audit resumed in March 2006, Mr. Weitzman said, Ms. O’Connell, like her predecessor, tried to block his office when she “imposed strict and in our view unjustified limitations on the scope of our audit.”

“We were provided with photocopies instead of originals for every type of document requested,” he said.

By the time the audit was concluded, Ms. O’Connell had decided to make a bid for a vacated State Senate seat in a special election on Feb. 6, which she lost. This time, Mr. Weitzman withheld final release of the audit until after the campaign.

In a brief interview in her office, which is across the hall from Mr. Weitzman’s on the second floor of a county office building here, Ms. O’Connell said she was determined to modernize the operations of her department and would welcome constructive suggestions from the comptroller “or anyone else.”

The office of the clerk, like county clerks throughout the state, collects mortgage filing fees, court fees, license fees and fees for recording documents like deeds and official business filings. It holds the money for short periods until the funds are disbursed to various municipal and state agencies. Ninety-five percent of the funds collected by the clerk are sent to the state treasury.

Ms. O’Connell and her predecessors have worked for years with an admittedly antiquated filing system. During every real estate boom going back decades, the recording of documents has lagged. While the recording of deeds and filing of mortgages is made in neighboring Suffolk County in less than a month after the documents are executed, the backup in Nassau can stretch two years.

While those problems were not the focus of the audit, Mr. Weitzman said they were consistent with a general lack of administrative discipline throughout the department.

“This office has fewer financial controls in place than the Roslyn School District did when it failed to detect a multimillion-dollar embezzlement and fraud,” he said, referring to the Long Island school district where several administrators stole more than $11 million over several years.

Mr. Weitzman urged the clerk’s office to adopt the accounting system used in other county departments. He also suggested a more transparent system of checks and balances in cash transactions and urged more rigorous efforts to obtain high interest rates for cash deposits. He even offered to have members of his staff help raise the standard of bookkeeping.

“In light of our findings,” Mr. Weitzman said, he was asking the newly appointed state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, a former Nassau County assemblyman, to consider auditing county clerks’ offices throughout the state.
618 2007-03-21 Ernst Haefliger, a Swiss tenor who was most renowned as an interpreter of German art song and oratorio roles, died on Saturday in Davos, Switzerland, where he maintained a second home. He was 87 and lived in Vienna.

Mr. Haefliger was a graceful singer with a flexible, lyrical voice that served him well in recitals — particularly in Schubert lieder — and made him an ideal Evangelist in Bach’s St. Matthew Passion and St. John Passion, or an eloquent Tamino in Mozart’s “Magic Flute.” He sang most of the Mozart tenor roles, as well the tenor roles in non-operatic scores like Mahler’s “Lied von der Erde,” Bach’s Mass in B minor and the Beethoven Ninth Symphony.

Ernst Haefliger (pronounced HEFF-ligger) was born in Davos on July 6, 1919, and studied at the Wettinger Seminary and the Zurich Conservatory before moving to Vienna, where he became a student of the tenor Julius Patzak. At first he focused on the recital and choral repertory, and in 1942, he made his public debut as the Evangelist in Bach’s St. John Passion, in Geneva. He also sang in the first performances of several works by the Swiss composer Frank Martin, including “Le Vin Herbé” in 1941, “In Terra Pax” in 1945, and “Golgotha” in 1949.

At the urging of the conductor Ferenc Fricsay, with whom he went on to record several Mozart operas and Beethoven’s “Fidelio,” Mr. Haefliger began studying opera as well, and joined the Zurich Opera in 1943.

His first important operatic appearance outside Switzerland was as Tiresias in the premiere of Carl Orff’s “Oedipus,” at the Salzburg Festival in 1949. In 1952, he left the Zurich Opera and joined the Städische Oper (later the Deutsche Oper), in Berlin, where he remained one of the company’s principal lyric tenors until he left the roster in 1974.

Mr. Haefliger made his debut at Glyndebourne in 1956, as Tamino, and at the Lyric Opera of Chicago, in the same role, in 1966. In the United States, however, he was heard mainly in recitals and in the Bach Passions. In recent years, he appeared as the Speaker in Schoenberg’s “Gurrelieder” with James Levine and the Met Orchestra at Carnegie Hall in 2001; he sang Schubert’s “Winterreise” in a recital at the Metropolitan Museum of Art with his son the pianist Andreas Haefliger in 1995.

Mr. Haefliger taught for many years at the Munich Hochschule für Musik and published a book, “Die Singstimme” (“The Singing Voice”), in 1983. In 2006, the Ernst Haefliger Competition was established in his honor in Switzerland.
619 2007-03-21 McGRADY, N.C., March 20 (AP) — A rescue dog led searchers Tuesday to a 12-year-old Boy Scout missing since Saturday, who was weak and dehydrated but alive in the rugged North Carolina mountains, about a mile from the camp where he had wandered off.

“He was a little disoriented, but he was great,” said Misha Marshall, a volunteer with the South Carolina Search and Rescue Dog Association, whose dog found the scout, Michael Auberry, on a wooded ridge.

Joe Ware, the assistant fire chief in this western North Carolina town not far from both Virginia and Tennessee, said the boy had told the rescue team that picked him up that he had been drinking water out of the streams in the area.

“He was calm,” though a bit disoriented, as he talked to the rescuers, Mr. Ware said.

After Michael was checked for injuries, he was carried to a ranger station, where a medical team and his parents met him. He was later taken by ambulance to a hospital.

Dog teams, about 70 people and a plane with heat-sensing equipment had been searching the rugged area around the campsite. Overnight temperatures were in the upper 30s to the low 40s on Tuesday, milder than the night before, when temperatures dropped into the 20s. Tina White, a spokeswoman for the National Park Service, said Michael, a member of Troop 230 in Greensboro, N.C., had been wearing two jackets, one of them fleece.
620 2007-03-21 I appreciate Nicolette Hahn Niman’s efforts in raising awareness about the conditions in which pigs are raised (“Pig Out,” Op-Ed, March 14), but I was struck by her comment that it is incumbent on us to ensure that animals have decent lives because we ask them to make the ultimate sacrifice for us. This doesn’t ring true, suggesting as it does that we actually ask the animals to make a sacrifice for our sake.

What we are doing is raising and then killing animals so that we can eat them. They don’t volunteer.

If we’re going to raise farm animals and then kill them to eat them, we should say so.

Contrary to the assertions in Nicolette Hahn Niman’s attack on modern pork production, America’s 67,000 pork producers treat their animals humanely. They do so because it’s the moral and ethical thing to do, and it’s in their best economic interest.

For many producers, treating pigs humanely means raising them in climate-controlled facilities; safeguarding them from biosecurity hazards and the threat of diseases; placing sows in crates to stop them from fighting with one another and protect their piglets from being crushed; to ensure that they get the feed and water needed; and to better monitor their health.

According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, management and husbandry are more important for ensuring the health and well-being of pigs.

And while producers do use antibiotics to keep their pigs healthy, drugs are F.D.A.-approved and used judiciously, and administered responsibly under the direction of a veterinarian. Jill Appell
621 2007-03-21 6 large duck legs, including thighs

1 tablespoon coriander seeds, lightly toasted

1 1/2 teaspoons black peppercorns

1 teaspoon allspice berries

1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme, or 1 teaspoon dried

2 teaspoons coarse salt

1 cup tawny port 

 1/2 cup dried cherries (not sweetened)

2 large shallots, thinly sliced

2 bay leaves

2 cups chicken stock

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Polenta or mashed potatoes, for serving.

1. One day before cooking, prepare duck legs: without cutting into skin, trim off excess fat (there may be quite a bit; reserve for roasting potatoes or vegetables). Place legs in a shallow bowl or sealable plastic bag. In a spice grinder or a mortar, combine coriander, peppercorns and allspice, and grind until coarse. Mix in thyme and coarse salt, and rub mixture all over duck legs. Cover and refrigerate overnight.

2. The next day, preheat oven to 325 degrees. In a small bowl pour port over cherries and set aside. Pat duck legs dry with paper towels; do not rub off spices. Heat a large, heavy skillet over medium-high heat. When hot, add 3 duck legs, skin side down. Cook until skin is browned and crisp, 8 to 10 minutes; turn and brown other side, about 4 minutes more. If skin begins to burn, adjust heat; bits at bottom of pan should be dark brown, not black. Transfer duck legs to a heavy 4- to 5-quart pot with a tight-fitting lid. Pour off all fat from skillet.

3. Repeat with remaining duck legs, but leave 2 teaspoons of fat in empty skillet. Return skillet to medium heat, add shallots and cook, stirring, 2 minutes. Add cherries and soaking liquid and simmer until reduced by half. Add bay leaves and stock and simmer until reduced by half. Pour over duck legs in pot. Cover tightly. Bake 1 hour, then turn and cook 1 hour more, or until tender.

4. If serving immediately, transfer duck legs to broiler pan and preheat broiler. Spoon off and discard as much fat as possible from braising liquid. Simmer liquid until thick and saucy, 8 to 10 minutes; add salt and pepper to taste. Broil duck legs until skin is crisp and sizzling, 8 to 10 minutes. Serve one whole leg on polenta or mashed potatoes, with sauce spooned over and around.

5. If holding for one or two days, refrigerate duck legs and braising liquid separately. Remove chilled fat from top of braising liquid and discard, then gently reheat duck legs in liquid. Transfer duck legs to broiler pan and preheat broiler. Finish dish as in Step 4.
622 2007-03-21 A recipe for Chorizo With Sweet Pepper and Onion Stew and Fried Croutons....
623 2007-03-21 Ernst Haefliger, a Swiss tenor who was most renowned as an interpreter of German art song and oratorio roles, died on Saturday in Davos, Switzerland, where he maintained a second home. He was 87 and lived in Vienna.      Charlotte Schroeder, his A...
624 2007-03-21 The main French business federation said that the French economy would be unable to grow at its full capacity under programs put forth by the existing candidates for president and announced an economic program of its own. The federation, Medef, ca...
625 2007-03-21 Charges were dismissed yesterday against a man arrested in Flemington in the summer of 2005 after the police said he organized an antiwar protest in the borough without receiving a permit. The man, Bob Flisser, was fined $100 after the police char...
626 2007-03-21 To the Editor:     I appreciate Nicolette Hahn Niman's efforts in raising awareness about the conditions in which pigs are raised (''Pig Out,'' Op-Ed, March 14), but I was struck by her comment that it is incumbent on us to ensure that animals hav...
627 2007-03-21 Two Border Patrol agents examining packages of marijuana that had floated ashore along the Rio Grande were fired upon by unseen assailants on the Mexican side of the river, the authorities said. The agents, who returned fire, were not injured, and...
628 2007-03-21 A PUZZLING BUSINESS A Japanese publishing company called Nikoli, widely regarded as the world's most prolific wellspring of logic games and brain teasers, is looking for the next big puzzle to follow the sudoku craze. [Page C1.]    PENALTIES FOR D...
629 2007-03-22 David Pogue reviews Apple's TV box, which can connect your computer to your TV without wires.
630 2007-03-22 "Japan's economy has finally entered a period of land price rises," said Takuji Aida, chief economist at Barclays Capital.

"Land price rises in metropolitan areas are accelerating, which is partly due to (the Bank of Japan) keeping interest rates abnormally low," he said.

The land ministry conducts the survey each year in about 30,000 places across the country to measure price growth in the previous year. The results serve as a benchmark for private land transactions in surrounding areas and for calculating how much the government would pay to acquire land for public use.

Other government surveys have also shown that land prices in Japan are finally starting to rise after persistently sliding since the end of the "bubble economy" some 15 years ago.

The survey results may prompt the Bank of Japan, which kept rates on hold on Tuesday after raising them in February, to pay more attention to any sign of asset inflation in implementing monetary policy.

In a news conference after Tuesday's policy decision, BOJ Governor Toshihiko Fukui said rising land prices are among the factors that warrant monitoring in guiding policy.

"The speed of rises in land prices in some areas of big cities seems to be accelerating," although land price moves on the whole are not excessive, he said.

With consumer price growth tame, the BOJ has pledged to raise rates only gradually. But some within the bank worry that keeping rates low for too long could overheat the economy and spur excessive investment.

Property prices rose particularly in big cities like Tokyo.

In Tokyo prefecture, residential land prices jumped 8.0 percent in 2006 after a rise of just 0.8 percent in the previous year, the survey showed.

Strong corporate demand for property investment and capital expenditure pushed up Tokyo commercial land prices by 13.9 percent, sharply higher than the growth of 2.9 percent in 2005.

The nation's three major metropolitan areas -- greater Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya -- saw both residential and commercial land prices rise in 2006.

Some upscale or popular residential property in these areas saw prices rise by 30 to 40 percent, inflating overall land prices in Japan, the ministry said.

But such properties made up only 0.2 percent of all residential land and just 3 percent of all commercial land in the three metropolitan areas, the ministry said, shrugging off the view that rising asset prices in big cities could be a sign of a "mini bubble."

In a news conference after the survey's release, Vice Finance Minister Hideto Fujii said the rise in land prices reflects the state of the economy and does not indicate an asset bubble.

"Their price levels now have not yet reached those seen in the bubble economy era (of the late 1980s)," he said.

Japan's residential land prices on average are still half what they were at their peak in 1990, the survey showed.

In a bright sign, land prices in regional areas -- excluding the three major metropolitan areas -- saw their pace of declines slow for the third straight year.

Residential land prices in regional areas fell 2.7 percent in 2006, compared with a 4.2 percent drop in 2005. The decline in commercial land prices in these areas slowed to 2.8 percent from 5.5 percent in the year before, the survey showed.
631 2007-03-22 The Chicago Mercantile Exchange insists that its $8.97 billion bid for its crosstown rival, the Chicago Board of Trade, will prevail in the end. But as the InterContinental Exchange touts its $9.9 billion higher bid, the Merc may have lost one of ...
632 2007-03-22 Blackstone Group chairman Stephen Schwarzman may want to pay himself as little as possible if his private equity firm decides to go public, according to Breakingviews. That is because each dollar he foregoes is likely to boost his firm's earnings ...
633 2007-03-22 A former Bear Stearns municipal bond banker on Wednesday won dismissal of federal criminal charges that he was involved in a kickback scheme tied to the construction of a hospital in the Chicago area. The banker, P. Nicholas Hurtgen, was indicted ...
634 2007-03-22 NYMEX Holdings, the parent company of the New York Mercantile Exchange, sold shares valued at $956 million in a secondary offering of shares held by NYMEX stockholders. The offering is expected to close on March 27. Go to Article from Reuters »...
635 2007-03-22 "You can't hold a gun if you're holding an air guitar."

That Cheech and Chong sentiment is the manifesto of this documentary's title subculture, in which pantomiming aspiring rockers compete for the right to represent their country in a global championship based in Oulou, Finland. The movement, such as it is, aims to unite a war-torn planet in musical fantasy and to rawwwwwwk! — but not necessarily in that order.

It sounds like the premise of a reality show. Sure enough, according to news releases, this breezy 82-minute movie is descended from an aborted VH-1 series overseen by Magical Elves Productions, the makers of "Project Runway" and "Last Comic Standing." Stylistically, it's nothing special, apart from its T-shirt-ready freeze-frames and lucid, playful editing (by Conor O'Neill). Like "Spellbound," "Murderball" and other competition documentaries, it's a valentine to underdog dreamers: "Rocky" gone basic cable.

But the movie's wild performances and droll humor are tough to resist. So are its obsessive yet self-mocking heroes: the Los Angeles-based actor David Jung, who performs as C-Diddy, who has a kung phooey stage persona and wears a Hello Kitty pouch like a warrior's breastplate; and the New York writer-musician Dan Crane, a k a Björn Turöque, whose parched wit and jackhammer performance style suggest Bill Murray trapped in the body of Sid Vicious. Mr. Crane also wrote and sang the closing credits theme, a garage band anthem that lodges in the brain like a fishhook.

"Air Guitar Nation" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It includes profanity and some adult (if not necessarily mature) themes.

Directed by Alexandra Lipsitz; director of photography, Anthony Sacco; edited by Conor O’Neill; music by Dan Crane; produced by Dan Cutforth, Jane Lipsitz and Anna Barber; released by Shadow Distribution. At the Angelika Film Center, Mercer and Houston Streets, Greenwich Village. Running time: 82 minutes.
636 2007-03-22 In "Memory" Billy Zane plays Dr. Taylor Briggs, a researcher specializing in memory loss who becomes infected by a powdery substance while examining a patient in Brazil. Before you can say, "What's that again?," Taylor is having dream-infused seizures, during which he sees running children, flapping vegetation and a masked man in a black duster. The more he investigates the source of his visions, the more we are treated to shots of him staring at a computer while furrowing his brow. Audiences will leave the theater wearing a similar expression.

Directed by Bennett Davlin from his own novel (he confesses to beginning the screenplay, along with Anthony Badalucco, the day after finishing the novel), "Memory" is an inane, sluggish mess. Even Ann-Margret and Dennis Hopper, as Taylor's sort-of surrogate parents, appear to have forgotten their profession. Any talent here is evidenced by the cinematographer, Peter Benison, who wakes up during the dream sequences to shoot some interesting angles before nodding off again.

Meanwhile, the plot— a febrile blend of serial murder, genetic contagion and mannequin-making — advances more slowly than a cure for Alzheimer's.

Filled with labored exposition, stilted line readings and the most unconvincing romantic hookup since Michael Jackson and Lisa Marie Presley, "Memory" suffers most from Mr. Zane's Ken-doll performance. (On his face, terror and intestinal distress are indistinguishable.) He may never convince as a researcher or lover, but I bet he'd make a terrific hypnotist. He put me to sleep immediately.

"Memory" is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has strip poker, mild violence and a terrifying lack of logic.

Opens today in New York and Los Angeles.

Directed by Bennett Davlin; written by Mr. Davlin and Anthony Badalucco, based on the novel by Mr. Davlin; director of photography, Peter Benison; edited by Allison Grace; music by Clint Bennett and Anthony Marinelli; production designer, Stephen Geaghan; produced by Mr. Davlin, Jesse Newhouse and Mr. Badalucco; released by Echo Bridge Entertainment. Running time: 98 minutes.
637 2007-03-22 Jerry Schmetterer, a spokesman for Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney, whose office is prosecuting Mr. Megnath on the rape charge, said prosecutors learned late last year of a complaint that Mr. Megnath was trying to locate Ms. Ramen, despite the restraining order. Mr. Schmetterer said Mr. Hynes could have offered Ms. Ramen a bodyguard, or moved her to a guarded location, but elected not to do so.

“We were in constant contact with the victim,” Mr. Schmetterer said, adding that a member of Mr. Hynes’s staff spoke with Ms. Ramen as recently as March 12, three days before she was killed. “She did not express any concerns for her safety or report any threats.”

Ms. Ramen was portrayed yesterday as an attractive and in some ways naïve young woman living in a close-knit community of fellow Guyanese immigrants. She had been separated from her own family since her parents and younger brother returned to Guyana years earlier.

According to her complaint to the police, she was raped by Mr. Megnath, who was then working for a real estate office, after he invited her into his apartment on the pretense that he would help her find her own place. Ms. Ramen, then 18 and engaged, waited about eight months to report the rape to the police, a period in which she married Leonard Ramen, another Guyanese immigrant.

Lilly Kissoon, Mr. Kissoon’s wife, said her delay in reporting the rape might have been a result of nervousness about her immigration status.

“She didn’t have her paperwork,” said Ms. Kissoon, who added that Ms. Ramen’s marriage, to a man with citizenship, had been intended in part to secure her own status as a resident immigrant. “She got her green card, and then she had the courage to speak out,” Ms. Kissoon said.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement in New York said he could not discuss Ms. Ramen’s immigration status.

Mr. Megnath was charged with rape in February 2006 and released on $5,000 bail. With prosecutors planning to put Ms. Ramen on the stand at Mr. Megnath’s trial, a judge issued an order of protection against Mr. Megnath, which remained in effect at the time of her death.

In October, her in-laws told the police that Mr. Megnath had threatened to kill them if they did not divulge her location. “He said he was going to kill my daughter-in-law and my son and that he was going to kill all of us,” Mr. Ramen’s father, Robin Ramen, said yesterday.

Mr. Megnath was arrested on charges of aggravated harassment. But the Ramens did not press charges. “I thought if we didn’t press charges he would leave us alone and just go away,” Robin Ramen said.

Mr. Schmetterer said that after his office learned of the harassment complaint, a prosecutor was told to relay the information to the judge presiding over the rape case.

But Mr. Schmetterer said it was unclear if the prosecutor, whom he did not identity, had followed through. The judge did not order any added protection. Nor did Mr. Hynes, Mr. Schmetterer said.

One reason, Mr. Schmetterer said, was that Mr. Megnath seemed to be a model defendant, appearing in court as ordered more than 10 times for pretrial proceedings.

Another aspect of Ms. Ramen’s life came to light yesterday: her husband had been under a more limited form of restraining order that prohibited him from harming her, although they continued to live together. That order resulted from Mr. Ramen’s guilty plea to assault and harassment, based on a Nov. 25 complaint by Ms. Ramen that he had slapped and punched her.
638 2007-03-22 The Australian airline Virgin Blue Holdings said it would buy six Boeing planes for 2.2 billion Australian dollars ($1.8 billion) as it accelerates plans for long-haul flights to the United States. Virgin Blue said it would buy six Boeing 777-300ER widebody aircraft, with an option for six more, and had signed an agreement with the International Lease Finance Corporation for a seventh, taking the total price to 2.6 billion Australian dollars. The purchase is part of Virgin Blue’s plans to start flights to the United States beginning in 2008 as it seeks new ways to beat competition on its routes within Australia and to islands in the South Pacific.
639 2007-03-22 WASHINGTON, March 21 — The dismissal of eight United States attorneys has elicited a long and ever-growing list of theories by Democrats on Capitol Hill about ulterior motives and suspicious coincidences. Now there is a new one: the document gap.

Democrats on Capitol Hill were privately urging reporters on Wednesday to press the Bush administration to explain why in the thousands of pages of e-mail messages and documents turned over to investigators, there is almost nothing from Nov. 16 to Dec. 7, the day seven of the firings occurred. In contrast, there are hundreds of pages from the weeks after the dismissals. One of the last e-mail messages before this period was sent by D. Kyle Sampson, then chief of staff to Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales, to Harriet E. Miers, then the White House counsel, and includes a request that the White House approve the plan. “We’ll stand by for a green light from you,” said the Nov. 15 e-mail message.

A little more than a half-hour later, Ms. Miers replied: “Not sure whether this will be determined to require the boss’s attention. If it does, he just left last night so would not be able to accomplish that for some time.”

It is not known whether Ms. Miers was referring to Mr. Bush.

White House travel records show that Mr. Bush was traveling for most of the next two weeks. Mr. Sampson did not receive authorization for the firings until Dec. 4.

An e-mail message that day to Mr. Sampson from Ms. Miers’s office said: “We’re a go for the US Atty plan. WH leg, political, and communications have signed off and acknowledge that we have to be committed to following through once the pressure comes.”
640 2007-03-22 A judge dismissed charges yesterday against a political activist who was arrested for approaching and photographing Gov. M. Jodi Rell during her inaugural parade in January. The photographer, Ken Krayeske, 35, was charged with breach of peace, and the Hartford police said his name was on a list of people they had been told might disrupt the proceedings or threaten the governor. The Legislature is considering establishing an oversight committee to review such lists.Compiled by John Sullivan
641 2007-03-22 Last month, Target started selling a 15-disc series that includes new recordings from Kenny Loggins and David Cassidy.

In contrast to those other arrangements, the deal for Mr. McCartney’s next album, expected in early June, does not restrict it to just one retail chain; Starbucks said the album would be sold at other outlets.

Still, the deal does signal that another nontraditional company is nudging its way into the music distribution system that has long been dominated by traditional record corporations.

“It’s a new world now,” Mr. McCartney, the former Beatle, said yesterday during a video chat with Howard Schultz, Starbucks’s chairman, conducted in front of thousands of people attending the shareholders’ meeting. “People are thinking of new ways to reach the people. For me, that’s always been my aim.”

Mr. McCartney’s deal comes at a time when his music has been meeting with mixed results. His 2002 “Back in the U.S.” live album, which followed an extensive concert tour and included performances of the Beatles’ hits, has sold 994,000 copies domestically, according to Nielsen SoundScan data.

His last album of new pop songs in 2005, “Chaos and Creation in the Backyard,” sold about 533,000 copies.

Starbucks executives suggested they could do better by capitalizing on the coffee chain’s audience of loyal latte drinkers.

Glen Barros, who is chief executive of the Concord Music Group, which is a partner in the Starbucks label, said that one of the mainstream music industry’s troubles “is that even when a superstar like Paul McCartney puts a record out there is a very large percentage of his potential audience that doesn’t even know the record came out.”

“Much of that audience,” Mr. Barros said, “will be walking through Starbucks stores on a daily basis.”

For Starbucks, the gamble on Mr. McCartney represents a sort of return to its earliest — and most successful — strategy: marketing new music from a familiar name. (Starbucks helped produce the Ray Charles album “Genius Loves Company” and promoted the CD heavily in its coffee shops; it went on to sell more than five million copies.)

Music executives and rival retailers say the chain has had far less success in selling unknown artists, and in its experiments with kiosks that let customers burn their own custom CD’s.

Nonetheless, they said the company’s latest accord represented a step forward in its effort to cast itself as a tastemaker. Others noted that as more conventional retailers, like Tower Records, die off amid the industry’s prolonged sales slide, the role of more specialized chains in reaching music fans will increase.

“You’re targeting them where they are,” said Jim Brandmeier, chief executive of 180 Music, a label and marketing company that developed Target’s exclusive series. “The nontraditional approach is fast becoming the only way to do it.”
642 2007-03-22 The federal government has done almost nothing since Sept. 11, 2001, to secure chemical plants, perhaps the nation’s greatest terrorist vulnerability. But now it may be about to do something that will actually make things worse: wipe out safety rules at the state level. If Congress will not protect Americans, it should at least ensure that states can do it.

A terrorist attack on a chemical plant could put hundreds of thousands of people at risk. But members of Congress have been more worried about currying favor with the chemical industry, a major campaign donor, than with safeguarding their constituents from this serious threat.

Last year, Congress passed a chemical plant security law that opened the door for the Bush administration to issue regulations that “pre-empt,” or nullify, state and local chemical plant rules, like the ones New Jersey has adopted. Leaders of the new Democratic Congress, who have promised to take a tough line on homeland security, should push through a strong chemical plant security bill. But until they do, they should see that language gets added to this week’s budget bill expressly stating that federal law does not pre-empt state chemical plant security laws.

The chemical industry’s staunchest supporters are leading the charge to take away the states’ power. Disappointingly, Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Norm Coleman, Republican of Minnesota, who have more moderate reputations, have joined them, signing a letter urging the Senate not to pass a law now protecting the states’ authority.

The industry’s supporters say Congress should wait until the Bush administration issues regulations next month, and see what they look like. But the administration has already made clear that it believes in pre-empting state authority to regulate chemical plants. It would be a mistake to let regulations be adopted that put people in danger. Congress has the power to block them right now.
643 2007-03-22 Though it may have saved a life, the ransom has set off a worried debate in Italy and in other countries with soldiers, reporters and aid workers in danger zones.

The exchange sent “the wrong signal to prospective hostage takers,” a spokeswoman for the British Foreign Office told Reuters.

On a visit to Kabul on Wednesday, the Dutch foreign minister, Maxime Verhagen, told reporters: “When we create a situation where you can buy the freedom of Taliban fighters when you catch a journalist, then in the short term there will be no journalists anymore.”

The concern was underscored on Tuesday just after the release of one of the prisoners, Ustad Yasir, who was identified as a Taliban spokesman. He said he would return immediately to war, and was “grabbing two rifles to begin jihad again to hunt down invaders and fight nonbelievers,” according to a statement attributed to him on the Internet.

The government of Romano Prodi, the Italian prime minister, said the central issue surrounding the kidnapping of Mr. Mastrogiacomo was not complicated.

“We think that the life of a person is very precious,” said Mr. Prodi’s spokesman, Silvio Sircana, who is also a friend of Mr. Mastrogiacomo’s. “So if there is a chance to save a life, we must do all we can do. And this was our very simple line, and not anything more.”

Mr. Mastrogiacomo was abducted as he was driving with an interpreter and a driver to an interview with a Taliban commander near Lashkhar Gah, in southern Afghanistan, he wrote in La Repubblica on Tuesday, the day he returned to Rome.

Dragged from place to place, nearly always in chains, he wrote, he was forced to watch a Taliban soldier decapitate his driver, then wipe the blade clean on the headless body.

“I imagine myself with my neck sliced, the blood splashed from all the arteries drained into the sand, the body committed to the river’s course,” he wrote.

On Monday, he continued, a Taliban commander came into the mud hut where he and the interpreter were being held and proclaimed, “You are free, fly away!” The fate of the interpreter is still unknown.

Italy’s domestic politics seemed to play a role in the decision, in a nation where weak domestic support for foreign involvement had prompted earlier allegations of payments for hostages.

It was widely reported that the former Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, paid cash for the freedom of at least three hostages in Iraq in 2004 and 2005. The issues then were at once humanitarian and political: Italians broadly opposed Mr. Berlusconi’s decision to send troops to Iraq, and critics said any deaths there could further erode support for him as national elections neared. Italy has since withdrawn its troops from Iraq.

The kidnapping of Mr. Mastrogiacomo occurred at a similarly delicate time for Mr. Prodi’s already fragile government, which fell briefly last month, partly because of a lack of support inside his coalition for the presence of nearly 2,000 Italian troops in Afghanistan.

Later this month, Mr. Prodi faces a crucial vote on financing for the mission there, a vote that might have been more difficult if Mr. Mastrogiacomo had not been freed.

Italy did not — and could not — act alone in the prisoner exchange, and attention was focused on both Afghanistan and the United States, which exerts broad control inside the country.

A spokesman for the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, told reporters in Kabul that the release was an “exceptional measure taken because we value our relations and friendship with Italy.”

Many experts wondered at the precise role of the United States, which has strained relations with Italy on several fronts, including the indictment of 26 Americans, all but one of them believed to be C.I.A. operatives, in the kidnapping in Italy in 2003 of a radical Egyptian cleric.

Diplomatically, the United States could not bar the exchanges, American officials said, given that the Taliban prisoners were being held by the Afghan government and not by the American military or NATO. United States officials have also been mindful of the rising tide in Italian public opinion against the presence of Italian troops in Afghanistan.

Edward Luttwak, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, speculated that American officials made the political calculation that for the sake of good relations with Italy, it was better not to stop the transfer.

“They certainly didn’t lean on the Afghans” to trade the prisoners, Mr. Luttwak said. “But they didn’t interpose themselves. They let them have it.”

A former Italian hostage, Giuliana Sgrena, kidnapped in Baghdad in 2005, said she believed that the Italian government was obligated to do all it could to save a hostage’s life. She argued that paying ransom for reporters was a far smaller issue than the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

“If there is no war, there will be no hostages,” Ms. Sgrena, also a journalist, said in a telephone interview from New York, where she is promoting a book about her experience.

She added that, whatever the dangers, it was important for reporters and aid workers to go to places like Iraq or Afghanistan to provide information independent of the governments or groups waging wars there.

“It’s a problem of democracy,” she said. “If we say we want democracy, democracy is based on information.”
644 2007-03-22 In this case, Roper v. Weaver, No. 06-313, the Missouri Supreme Court rejected Mr. Weaver’s argument that the prosecutor’s statements were improper. The Federal District Court in St. Louis disagreed, granting his habeas corpus petition and giving the state a choice between giving Mr. Weaver a new sentencing hearing or converting his sentence to life without parole. The Eighth Circuit upheld that ruling in a 2-to-1 decision.

Supreme Court decisions stretching back for decades have disapproved of prosecutors’ closing arguments that appeal to juror’s emotions or that suggest a larger “duty” to society beyond the facts of the individual case. The dispute at the court on Wednesday was over whether those decisions were specific enough to provide the “clearly established” Supreme Court precedents that Mr. Weaver needed to thread the habeas corpus needle.

Andrea K. Spillars, an assistant attorney general from Missouri, argued that they were not. Because the Supreme Court had simply established a “nonspecific standard of fundamental fairness,” Ms. Spillars said, the Eighth Circuit should have deferred to the conclusion of the Missouri Supreme Court.

The prosecutor’s closing argument was “an outlier” that was “beyond the bounds,” Mr. Weaver’s lawyer, John H. Blume, told the justices. “I don’t believe you have to have a United States Supreme Court case directly on point for everything the prosecutor said,” Mr. Blume continued, adding: “At some point, you can say, Well, you don’t have a case on point because no one has said anything so outrageous.”

Mr. Blume, a law professor at Cornell University, where he is director of the Cornell Death Penalty Project, sparred with the conservative justices throughout his argument. It became apparent that this case was performing a kind of double duty: on the surface, it was a habeas corpus case, but it also offered an opportunity, one the conservatives appeared eager to take, to debate deeper death penalty issues.

Justice Antonin Scalia, for example, said that “I just don’t see the argument” that it was improper for the prosecutor to urge the jurors to “look beyond William Weaver.” Paraphrasing the prosecutor’s argument as “if you let a person who is as guilty as William Weaver go, you’re affecting not just William Weaver, you’re affecting the whole war on drugs,” Justice Scalia asked, “What’s wrong with that?”

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. told Mr. Blume that describing the case as bigger than the individual defendant was simply another way of asking the jury to consider the deterrent purpose of the death penalty. “Why is that improper?” Justice Alito asked. “Is it improper at the penalty phase for a prosecutor to refer to the concept of deterrence, which by definition is bigger than the individual whose sentence is being considered?”

Mr. Blume replied that “I don’t think this can properly be considered a deterrence argument when you say over and over, ‘This is far more important than William Weaver, this goes way beyond William Weaver, this is bigger than William Weaver, this doesn’t just pertain to William Weaver’.”

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy entered the conversation. “Deterrence is one of the reasons we have the death penalty,” he said.

Mr. Blume responded: “Deterrence is not a substitute for moral culpability. We allow the deterrent function of the death penalty as a justification for it, but you couldn’t give the death penalty to somebody who didn’t deserve it under the state’s scheme in order to further deterrence.”

Justice Kennedy’s vote is likely to determine the outcome of the case. At the end of the argument, he opened a line of questioning that suggested he might be looking for a way to avoid a ruling, on the procedural ground that the federal law restricting habeas corpus might not apply to this case. That would undoubtedly be welcome news to the court’s more liberal members, who seemed exasperated with the direction of the conservatives’ questioning.

Justice Scalia, for example, staked out a position to the right of the state’s own argument. Ms. Spillars, the state’s lawyer, said that although the court’s precedents on closing arguments were all directed toward the guilt-innocence phase of a trial, they also applied, at least in general, to the sentencing phase.

Justice Scalia said he did not agree. “I’m not sure that you can analogize from the one situation to the other,” he said.
645 2007-03-22 “Those are war zones,” Mr. Sliwa said, speaking of gang violence in Florida with the verbal bluster he has perfected as a radio host. The existence of chapters outside New York is not new, but the number is on the rise.

Exporting a New York image can be jarring, as men who once walked blocks of peep shows and prostitutes now must explain their mission all over again, under Spanish moss or inside Baptist churches. As with any franchise, there are mixed successes; some recent comments about the group echoed those made decades ago when they were formed. Are they vigilantes or volunteer saviors? Visits to two chapters, in Savannah, Ga., and Montgomery, Ala., showed a tug of war between good intentions and reality.

Norman Whipple, 48, joined the Guardian Angels in Philadelphia in 1980, leaving 10 years later for Savannah, where he went to work at the airport as a baggage handler for AirTran Airways. “He said, ‘Oh man, I’m going down here to ‘Leave It to Beaver’ land,’ ” Mr. Sliwa said. “He figured his Guardian Angels days had passed him by.”

But in 2003, a stained glass artist, Gerald Schantz, alarmed by the rise in crime in downtown Savannah and nearby neighborhoods, called Mr. Sliwa. “If you look at the numbers and you’re not one of the numbers, we don’t have a crime problem,” Mr. Schantz said recently. “But if your car’s been broken into or your girlfriend’s been hassled while she’s walking around, then we do.”

Mr. Whipple, more than 10 years and a few extra pounds distant from the last time he put on a beret, dropped by the first meetings.

“I met the guys and said I’d help them out with the chapter,” he said. “I ended up becoming the chapter leader.”

Gary Borum, 44, a bouncer, left Hempstead on Long Island to start a chapter in Colorado Springs in 2000. “They think Guardian Angels are a bunch of thugs, but that’s not the case,” he said. “People are scared because they’ve got a big gang problem out here. This town’s backwards. It reminds me of something from back in the ’60s. They want to expand and they don’t want the big city problems, but guess what? They have them.”

“If I had a choice, I’d be back in Long Island, I swear,” he said. “But it’s too expensive there.”

Mr. Whipple loves Savannah, but the work of being an Angel is not the same as when he started out. Eleven people joined the chapter in 2003, and six or eight members regularly patrolled for a time, but interest seems to have dropped. When people join, they “find it’s not what they’re expecting,” Mr. Whipple said. The mindset of the volunteers has changed since the us-against-them attitude that existed in Philadelphia 20 years ago, he said.

“It was an honor if someone tapped your shoulder and said, ‘Put on a T-shirt. You’re going out on patrol,’ ” Mr. Whipple said. “Now, they think they deserve to go out on patrol.”

He tries to get out once a week, on Saturdays, and usually has just one member with him. They spend more time giving directions to tourists than chasing muggers. The mayor at the time the chapter began, Floyd Adams, was not thrilled about their arrival.

“They came in, organized some citizens who felt there was an extra need of protection, and they took advantage of that need. It was short lived,” said Mr. Adams, who left office in 2004. “This is the most beautiful city in the world. Better than New York.”

In Montgomery, the Angels began making inroads last year. An analyst with the National Guard named DeUndra Christopher, 29, had recently risen to some prominence after a public reconciliation with another woman who had stabbed her in the chest, almost fatally, 11 years earlier. The stabber, Shyvat Cooper, 16 at the time, served a year and a half in prison, and after they reconciled — at a family funeral — they organized stop-the-violence rallies. Then, when Ms. Christopher saw a television news report about the Guardian Angels, she called Mr. Sliwa.

Several months later, in February, three members of the Guardian Angels arrived in Montgomery for two days of patrolling and recruiting. They drove to a blighted neighborhood near downtown, where a house marked “Bad Boys Boxing Gym” leaned so badly it could have been doubling as the heavy bag. They parked, and walked about in red jackets and berets, their arms swinging stiffly at their sides, powerlifter style, and handcuffs clinking on their belts.

They looked like grand marshals of a parade that no one was watching. They had better luck the next day. The ranking member, Frank Lee, who started out patrolling New York City, approached some women watching their toddlers play in the grass outside the Victor Tulane Court housing projects and asked, “How you all doing? Enjoying the nice weather?”

When the Angels walked away, one of the women, Tawana Tellis, 26, said, “I don’t know anything about them.” Her friend, Lazandra Watson, 24, replied, “They’re like that Dog on TV,” referring to a reality show about a bounty hunter.

They visited a shopping mall and met a young security officer with a crewcut.

“You ever have to run anyone down?” one of the Angels, a bounty hunter from Chattanooga who goes by the name Flute, asked.

“Oh, all the time,” the officer said.

That night, Feb. 22, they held a training session in a Baptist church for people who had attended a first meeting in October. But no one from the first meeting returned. Besides the pastor and a church member doing electrical work for him, only one other man attended: a 48-year-old retired auto worker from Michigan the three Angels had met that afternoon.

Mr. Lee ran through some of the basics nevertheless: hand signals, the history of the uniform. “This jacket does not stop a bullet,” he warned. “Ask Curtis. He’s been shot by the mob.” He demonstrated some self-defense moves on a junior member, tipping him to the floor by painfully manipulating his wrist.

Mr. Lee said he was not discouraged by the turnout. “If three people showed up tonight, or 300, if I get to just one. ...” he said, eyeing a possible recruit in the young electrician. Then he and the other two Angels piled into their rental car and headed back to their hotel.
646 2007-03-22 Louisiana, the balky aid recipient, is like some far-flung subtropical possession the government cannot quite ignore. It is still hugely dependent on Washington for housing reconstruction money, infrastructure replacement and protection from storms and criminals. Rancor and partisan speech-making, as practiced by Ms. Blanco, Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans and other officials, have so far not served it especially well.

Few doubt that Mr. Breaux, a Cajun deal maker of legendary smoothness, would bring an entirely different approach. Republicans have begun attacking him even before any announcement of his candidacy, demonstrating its potential potency.

“What Breaux brings is ‘cred,’ ” said the veteran Louisiana pollster and political consultant Elliott Stonecipher. Mr. Breaux “brings, from the outside view, all the things Louisiana doesn’t have,” he added.

On Wednesday, Mr. Breaux, now a lobbyist with the top Washington firm Patton Boggs, released a statement saying merely that he was “seriously evaluating what is best for Louisiana, and determining whether I can be helpful for the state as a candidate for governor.” He added that he would make a decision “in the near future.”

The leading Republican, Representative Bobby Jindal, is also well placed in Washington, having worked as an assistant secretary in the Department of Health and Human Services under President Bush and led a bipartisan commission seeking changes for Medicare.

But Mr. Breaux has been in Washington since before Mr. Jindal was born, starting in 1968 as an aide to the man he later replaced in the House, the future governor (and later convicted felon) Edwin W. Edwards, a fellow native of the Cajun region of Louisiana.

Mr. Breaux served 14 years in the House and then 18 in the Senate, along the way earning a reputation as the Democrat perhaps most willing to compromise with Republicans on taxes, social spending, health care and other contentious issues, to the sometimes ill-suppressed irritation of fellow party members. Mr. Breaux always said he was more interested in passing legislation than in scoring political points.

He played tennis with the previous President Bush, was courted as a potential energy secretary by the current president, and once joked, after a trade-off with the administration early in the Reagan era, that though his vote was not for sale “it is available for rent.”

It is unlikely that, were Mr. Breaux stuck in the sort of permanent negotiations with Washington that is now the lot of Louisiana officials, he would resort to the blustering warfare that Ms. Blanco has sometimes practiced.

Just last month, the governor blasted Washington Republicans as having “discriminated” against “our people.” The remarks drew a quick, sharp retort from Mr. Bush’s emissary to the region, Donald E. Powell, said to have been deeply angered.

In the past week, federal officials threw Ms. Blanco’s entourage into a panic when they said Louisiana was breaking rules by doling out housing aid money for the Road Home program in small allotments instead of giving homeowners the option of getting lump sums.

The program has been widely criticized as being too slow in making grants to desperate homeowners. After hurried negotiations in Washington, state officials agreed this week to change the rules, allowing homeowners without mortgages to get lump-sum payments of up to $150,000. The state’s lack of savvy in dealing with Washington was pointed up again.

Yet the Washington savvy with which Mr. Breaux is widely credited carries its own pitfalls here, too, in a peculiar election year in which beleaguered local voters are more fed up, and more ready for change, than perhaps at any time since the desperate Huey Long years of the Great Depression. Mr. Breaux represents skill, but he also symbolizes the political establishment.

“In a year of reform, John Breaux is a clear personification of Louisiana’s history, not its future,” said Mr. Stonecipher, the consultant.

And in a year when voters here may be looking for something “radical,” said another veteran Louisiana political consultant, Raymond D. Strother, “I don’t know that the relationship with Washington is as important as offering hope.”

While saying that Mr. Breaux is a “loved and popular figure in Louisiana,” Mr. Strother added that he “will represent the status quo unless he can find a way to become an agent of change.”
647 2007-03-22 A former Bear Stearns municipal bond banker yesterday won dismissal of federal criminal charges that he was involved in a kickback scheme tied to the construction of a hospital in the Chicago area.

The banker, P. Nicholas Hurtgen, was indicted in 2005 on charges of wire fraud, mail fraud and extortion. He was accused of helping a member of the Illinois Health Facilities Planning Board force the hiring of a politically connected construction company to work on medical buildings.

Judge John F. Grady of Federal District Court in Chicago said that the Justice Department claimed that Mr. Hurtgen was involved in only one transaction and failed to show that he knew anyone expected a kickback.

“Certainly knowledge is an essential element of extortion,” Judge Grady wrote. “The mail and wire fraud counts against Hurtgen must be dismissed for failure to allege an offense.”
648 2007-03-22 WASHINGTON, March 21 (AP) — Securities regulators voted unanimously Wednesday to approve new rules making it easier and faster for foreign companies to withdraw their stocks from the American market.

Under the new rules, non-American companies may leave United States markets and escape Securities and Exchange Commission oversight if trading in their securities is 5 percent or less of worldwide trading in the same securities over the previous 12 months.

The new rules will take effect by midyear, just in time for non-American companies seeking to avoid stricter internal controls reviews ordered by Congress in 2002 for all public companies.

Christopher Cox, the commission chairman, said the old plan, allowing foreign companies to exit only if they had fewer than 300 United States shareholders, was “seriously outdated” and “off-putting” to companies looking for American investors.

The new approach should make United States markets more inviting to foreigners over the long run, Mr. Cox told reporters after the S.E.C.’s public meeting on the measure

About 29 percent of the approximately 1,200 foreign companies registered with the S.E.C. would qualify to leave immediately once the new rules take effect.
649 2007-03-22 HONG KONG, March 21 — Worsening air pollution has become one of the most contentious issues in the vote on Sunday for Hong Kong’s next chief executive, with the incumbent blaming emissions drifting across the border from mainland China for the problem while his challenger contends that Hong Kong is not doing enough to address the issue.

A report released Wednesday about the sources of pollution in Hong Kong is likely to intensify the debate.

The outcome of the election is not in doubt. Only 796 people are allowed to vote, mainly those with business ties to the mainland. And 641 of them have already nominated the Beijing-backed incumbent, Donald Tsang; his pro-democracy rival, Alan Leong, received only 132 nominations.

But the election has shined a spotlight on an issue that poses a growing problem across much of East Asia: the expanding plume of toxic air pollution that rises from China’s factories and floats toward its neighbors. Particles from Chinese coal-fired power plants in particular now drift all the way across the Pacific and are detectable along the West Coast of the United States, particularly in mountainous areas.

The election has had the unexpected effect, however, of turning Mr. Tsang into a critic of air pollution from the mainland. Criticizing mainland China has been politically delicate in Hong Kong since Britain returned the territory to Chinese rule in 1997. Even officials in South Korea and Japan have been wary of assailing an increasingly assertive China for the periodic clouds of pollution that drift over Seoul and Tokyo.
650 2007-03-22 A Congressional committee has begun an inquiry into the marketing and regulation of widely used anemia drugs that have recently raised safety concerns.

The House Committee on Energy and Commerce has sent letters to Amgen and Johnson & Johnson, the drugs’ marketers, requesting information about when they knew of possible risks and about how they have promoted the products.

The letters also asked them to suspend any consumer advertising of the drugs and any incentive programs for doctors who prescribe them until after the Food and Drug Administration has time to determine whether further safety precautions are necessary.

The products — Epogen and Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson & Johnson — are all forms of erythropoietin, or Epo, a protein made by the human kidney to spur production of red blood cells. The drugs are mainly used to treat the anemia caused by kidney failure or cancer chemotherapy and have combined worldwide sales of roughly $10 billion a year.

On March 9, the F.D.A. and the companies agreed to put a “black box” warning, the most serious kind, on the drugs’ labels after new evidence showed the medicines might cause blood clots, worsen cancer or increase the risk of death if overused.
651 2007-03-22 Wall Street rallied sharply yesterday after the Federal Reserve raised investors’ hopes that it had warmed to the idea of lowering short-term interest rates.

After triple-digit gains yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average has surged 337 points this week, its best three-day performance since November 2004.

The Fed, as expected, left short-term interest rates unchanged at 5.25 percent at the conclusion of its two-day meeting. But investors, who nervously awaited the economic statement that accompanies the Fed’s decision, were encouraged that the central bank had not referred to the possibility of “additional firming” of rates as it did in January.

Instead, policy makers said “future policy adjustments” will depend on inflation and growth — more neutral language that the market interpreted as opening the way for a possible rate cut.

The Dow soared 159.42 points, to 12,447.52, after having been flat until the Fed announcement.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index jumped 24.10 points, to 1,435.04. The Nasdaq advanced 47.71 points, or 1.98 percent, to 2,455.92. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies rose 13.87 points, or 1.75 percent, to 807.47.
652 2007-03-22 Wolfgang Puck, the Los Angeles chef whose culinary empire ranges from celebrity dinners at Spago to a line of canned soups, said yesterday that he would use eggs and meat only from animals raised under strict humane standards.

With the announcement, Mr. Puck has joined a small group of top chefs around the country who refuse to serve foie gras, the fattened liver of ducks and geese. But Mr. Puck, working with the Humane Society of the United States, has taken his interest in animal welfare beyond ducks.

He has directed his three companies, which together fed more than 10 million people in 2006, to buy eggs only from chickens not confined to small cages. Veal and pork will come from farms where animals are not confined in crates, and poultry meat will be bought from farmers using animal welfare standards higher than those put forth by the nation’s largest chicken and turkey producers. Mr. Puck has also vowed to use only seafood whose harvest does not endanger the environment or deplete stocks.

“We decided about three months ago to be really much more socially responsible,” he said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. “We feel the quality of the food is better, and our conscience feels better.”

Many chefs at high-end restaurants, some smaller food-service chains and grocery chains like Whole Foods have refused to buy meat and eggs unless animals are raised under certain conditions. In 2000, McDonald’s became the first American food company to impose minimum animal-welfare standards, like increasing cage size, on its egg producers. But Mr. Puck’s program goes much further than most corporate animal-welfare policies, and he is the flashiest culinary name yet to join with animal rights groups in the movement to change farming practices.

Mr. Puck’s ventures include 14 fine-dining restaurants mostly on the West Coast. The flagship is Spago in Los Angeles, which helped him become the nation’s first celebrity chef. He also runs more than 80 Gourmet Express restaurants, many of which are in airports, and sells frozen pizza, soups, kitchen cookware and cookbooks. Mr. Puck estimated his companies’ value at $360 million.
653 2007-03-22 But faced with growing criticism for the dense smog that now shrouds Hong Kong for most of the year, Mr. Tsang said in a recent speech that “the lion’s share” of the air pollution in Hong Kong came from adjacent cities in southeastern China’s Guangdong Province. He has asked Hong Kong companies to do more to limit pollution from Hong Kong-owned factories on the mainland.

Hong Kong government agencies under Mr. Tsang have been emphasizing that 80 percent of the tonnage of air pollution released in the Pearl River delta region comes from mainland cities.

Mr. Leong contends that Mr. Tsang is reluctant to address pollution released in Hong Kong itself by cars, ships and power plants. “I don’t think he is doing anything,” Mr. Leong said Wednesday evening.

Anthony Hedley, chairman emeritus of the department of community medicine at Hong Kong University, said that mortality from respiratory, cardiovascular and other diseases increases sharply during periods of high smog.

A local nonprofit group, Civic Exchange, released a report prepared with Hong Kong University specialists showing that a majority of the high-pollution days in the heart of the city, where most of the people live, are caused by local sources. The report calculated that smog limits visibility to less than eight kilometers, or five miles, for 89 percent of the year.

On 36 percent of the days each year, the pollution is worst at the border with the mainland and spreads across the territory of Hong Kong, the report said. But on 33 percent of the days, pollution is worst in the center of the city and comes mainly from vehicles on local roads and shipping in the harbor.

On another 20 percent of the days, the report estimated, pollution is also worst in the city center and comes mainly from vehicles and local power plants.

Shipping traffic in and around Hong Kong has increased in the past decade as Chinese exports have soared. Local power plants have become more reliant on coal as a depleted natural gas field nearby has begun providing less gas.

The report did not compare the severity of pollution on days when the wind blows from the mainland with the severity on days when the pollution is mainly local. Some of the clearest skies that Hong Kong residents had seen for months occurred in February when mainland factories closed for a week for Chinese New Year.

The Environmental Protection Department of Hong Kong responded by noting that the report said that 60 percent of the tonnage of air pollution in Hong Kong’s air over a year came from the mainland.

Christine Loh, the chief executive of Civic Exchange, is a longtime supporter of greater democracy in Hong Kong. But she said that she had not endorsed Mr. Leong’s candidacy and that the release of the report so close to the election was an accident resulting from a delay in preparation.

Arthur Bowring, the managing director of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association, said the trade group favored global regulations requiring refiners to produce much cleaner fuel for ships; refiners currently allocate the thickest, most polluted fuel to ships that mostly operate far from land. “The refiners are resisting it — they want us to continue burning their waste, they say they don’t have the capacity,” to produce enough higher-grade fuel, Mr. Bowring said.

But the ship owners group opposes local regulations on shipping, a step increasingly advocated by environmentalists here; the Civic Exchange report suggested several limited local measures. Hong Kong is the world’s most densely populated place, according to Demographia.com, and the port, the world’s second-busiest for container traffic after Singapore’s, is less than five miles across open water from the most heavily populated areas of all.

Jane Lau, a spokeswoman for CLP Group, a big electric utility here, said the company had chosen ultra-low sulfur coal to burn since 2005.
654 2007-03-22 “In the past, simple and useful gifts were given,” said Han Gyoung-hae, a professor of family studies at Seoul National University. “But now the price of the gifts has become more and more important, especially among the country’s new rich. If, traditionally, the gifts were meant to tie families together, now they are meant to show off how rich you are. The phenomenon is an expression of how materialistic South Korean society has become.”

Gifts started becoming lavish along with South Korea’s rising economy in the 1980s. Then in the 1990s, the families of the brides began giving sums of money outright, said Kim Joo-hee, a professor of family culture at Sungshin Women’s University in Seoul.

“But it’s become customary for the bridegroom’s family to return half of the money,” Ms. Kim said. “If they don’t, it could lead to confrontation.”

The anguish over choosing the right wedding gifts, though perhaps most intense among the wealthy, is shared by all social classes, she said.

“A woman from a poor family may have to work and save for her marriage, instead of relying on her family, but she will face similar problems over gifts,” Ms. Kim said.

Despite South Korea’s high-tech exterior, marriages here are still unions between families, and parents remain deeply involved in the final selection of their children’s spouses.

“Marriage is a whole family thing,” said Lee Hyo-yon, 28, an official at the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency, who married recently. “And gifts are such an important part of it that some couples even break up before they ever get married. The family of one friend of mine gave $30,000 to the bridegroom’s family, but they said that wasn’t enough.”

Ms. Lee said she was lucky because the parents of her husband, Kim Young-seok, an engineer at Hyundai Motors, were extremely easygoing.

The courtship followed a common course among members of their generation. They were introduced by a mutual friend who, by custom, will now be presented with a suit, or the equivalent, in gratitude. Their first date was at an Italian restaurant in Kangnam, a fashionable district in southern Seoul, and Mr. Kim later impressed Ms. Lee by going to pick her up at the airport at 2 a.m. As many men here do, he proposed on their 100th day together.

The young couple will live with the bridegroom’s parents for the time being. But his parents had already bought an apartment for their son and his wife.

“We’re three brothers in my family,” Mr. Kim said. “So my parents bought each son an apartment years ago for their future marriages.”

As for Ms. Lee, she is supplying a new king-size bed. Unlike many other mothers-in-law, hers was not interested in receiving any gifts.

“That in itself caused my mother and me to worry,” said Ms. Lee, who earned a master’s degree in management from New York University. “Maybe we really weren’t doing enough. One day we even took my future mother-in-law to a fur coat store and asked her to let us choose one for her. But she refused.”

Family-studies experts say that the rising status and income of professional women, like Ms. Lee, has also led to the recalibration of gifts. For instance, in the case of the television stars, the actress was doing better than her husband was.

“Women are more educated, sometimes more so than their husbands, and are working,” Ms. Han said. “That gives her side of the family a bigger voice in the marriage, and it complicates gift-giving.”

The current real estate bubble in Seoul has also increased the burden for today’s bridegroom. The selection of an apartment that is not up to the standards of what the bride or her family had expected — as was the case with the actress’s mother — can lead to recriminations.

“If the bridegroom’s family is affluent but does not buy an apartment for the newlyweds and just rents one instead, that can cause problems,” Ms. Kim said. “That means they chose not to buy one, and gifts from the bride’s family must be adjusted accordingly.”

Renting is not easy, either. In South Korea, instead of monthly rents, landlords usually demand a large lump sum of money that is returned at the end of a two-year lease.

In Sanbon, a suburb of Seoul popular among newlyweds, renting a typical apartment smaller than 700 square feet requires a $75,000 initial payment for a two-year lease, said Kim Won-jong, a real estate agent.

The apartment that Lee Chan, the actor, had picked for his wife was more than 1,000 square feet and in a more fashionable neighborhood. The actress’s mother, however, said her daughter was worth an 1,800-square-foot apartment.
655 2007-03-22 Has this happened to you? You’re getting ready to be shot out of a cannon under the Big Top but you forgot to set your Series 2 or Series 3 TiVo to record “Grey’s Anatomy.” What is a human projectile to do? Why, whip out your Verizon cellphone, of course.

TiVo Mobile is a new service offered by Verizon that lets you tell your TiVo what to record via mobile phone. The service, which is available now, costs $1.99 a month and requires that you have access to Verizon’s Get It Now service. It works with many Verizon phones, including the LG Chocolate and Samsung SCH-A950.

Although users can page through program listings, TiVo Mobile also offers lists of recommendations. The service also allows users to search for programs by name, add them to their TiVo recording queue and update or cancel current recordings.

The menus and interface for TiVo Mobile are reassuringly similar to those on the at-home units, and TiVo’s dancing TV mascot sits quietly in the corner of your phone’s screen, awaiting orders. JOHN BIGGS
656 2007-03-22 “The market is promising in the long run,” said Cao Zitao, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities in Shanghai. “Since the economy is doing well, there’s no doubt the stock market will continue to grow over the next year or two.”

With China’s economy booming and stock prices soaring, those left out of the boom now appear to be climbing into the market, buoying share prices.

Investors here have repeatedly ignored warnings from government officials and financial experts that share prices may be rising too fast or that a bubble may be emerging in shares.

China had the world’s best-performing stock market last year, with the benchmark Shanghai composite soaring 130 percent in 2006. Now, just two and a half months into 2007, share prices are already up 14 percent in Shanghai and more than 26 percent in Shenzhen.

The rise in many ways mirrors the blistering pace of economic growth in this country, which has forced the government to raise interest rates several times in recent months in the hope of cooling things off. With corporate profits strong, some analysts said they could see no economic factors that would deal a severe blow to the market here.

But some analysts see parallels with the sharp rise and subsequent collapse of technology stocks in the late 1990’s in the United States. In 1999 alone, the Nasdaq composite rose 85.6 percent. By March 2000, it reached a record that stands to this day. But that all came crashing down in spectacular fashion over the following few months. There were tentative signs of a rebound, but ultimately it never recovered. The Nasdaq closed at 2,455.92 on Wednesday, about half the value of its 2000 record.

Unreasonable expectations about stock prices, like those that characterized the technology boom, can wreak havoc on markets once those expectations go unfulfilled, said Todd Salamone, director of research for Schaffer’s Investment Research. Mr. Salamone said similar expectations seem to surround the Chinese markets Wednesday.

“In the ’90s when the Nasdaq went on that tear, investors began chasing the returns,” Mr. Salamone said. “Then your everyday investor catches wind of that, begins pouring money in, and the sector becomes vulnerable to major disappointment because expectations have risen so dramatically. The price action in China has created a stampede into that market, and it is in those instances where a sector or a region becomes extremely vulnerable.”

Some analysts also worry that a slowdown in the United States could pose problems since China’s economy is so heavily dependent on trade with the United States and Europe.

For now, though, share prices are rising so fast that the nation’s regulators are worried that heavy trading volumes could destabilize the brokerage system.

Along with investors, Chinese entrepreneurs and brokerage houses are reaping huge rewards from the market gains and from hot initial public stock offerings in Hong Kong and Shanghai.

Indeed, the market is so hot that regulators here recently barred companies from raising money on the stock market and then plowing those proceeds back into shares, including investing in initial public stock offerings.
657 2007-03-22 And so Apple TV has landed. How does it stack up?

In looks, it sits at the top of the heap. Apple TV is a gorgeous, one-inch-tall, round-cornered square slab, 7.7 inches on a side. It slips silently and almost invisibly into your entertainment setup. (You can’t say that for the Xbox, which in comparison is huge and too noisy for a bedroom.)

The heartbreaker for millions, however, is that Apple TV requires a widescreen TV — preferably an HDTV. It doesn’t work with the squarish, traditional TVs that many people still have.

Apple defends its audience-limiting decision by saying that the future is HDTV; Apple is just “skating to where the puck is going to be,” as a product manager put it.

Apple TV doesn’t come with any cables. You’re supposed to supply the one your TV requires (HDMI, component video or HDMI-to-DVI adapter). They cost $20 at Apple’s online store.

So what is Apple TV? Basically, it’s an iPod for your TV. That is, it copies the iTunes library (music, podcasts, TV shows, movies) from one Mac or Windows PC on your wired or wireless home network to its 40-gigabyte hard drive and keeps the copy updated.

The drive holds about 50 hours’ worth of video or 9,000 songs; if your iTunes library is bigger than that, you can specify what subset you want copied — only unwatched TV episodes, for example.

At this point, you can play back videos, music and photos even if the original computer is turned off or (if it’s a laptop) carried away. (Photo playback requires iPhoto on the Mac, or Photoshop Album or Photoshop Elements on Windows.)

A tiny white remote control operates Apple TV’s stunning high-definition white-on-black menus, which are enlivened by high-resolution album covers and photos. You can see the effect at apple.com/appletv.

The integration of iPod, iTunes and Apple TV offers frequent payoffs. For example, if you paused your iPod partway through a movie, TV show or song, Apple TV remembers your place when you resume playing it on your TV. Cool.

Although only one computer’s files are actually copied to Apple TV, you can still play back the iTunes libraries of five other computers by streaming — playing them through Apple TV without copying them. Starting playback, rewinding and fast-forwarding isn’t as smooth this way, and photo playback isn’t available. But it’s a handy option when, say, you want to watch a movie on your TV from a visitor’s laptop.

All of this works elegantly and effortlessly. But there are lots of unanswered questions that make onlookers wonder if Apple has bigger plans for the humble Apple TV.

For example, it has an Internet connection and a hard drive; why can’t it record TV shows like a TiVo?

Furthermore, it’s a little weird that menus and photos appear in spectacular high-definition, but not TV shows and movies. All iTunes videos are in standard definition, and don’t look so hot on an HDTV.

And then there’s the mysterious unused U.S.B. port.

Still, if you stay within the Apple ecosystem — use its online store, its jukebox software and so on — you get a seamless, trouble-free experience, with a greater selection of TV shows and movies than you can find from any other online store.

But in Netgear’s opinion, that approach is dictatorial and limiting. Its new EVA8000 box plays back many more video formats, including high-def video; can play the contents of any folders on your Mac or PC, not just what’s in iTunes; offers Internet radio and YouTube videos; and works with any kind of TV. It can even play copy-protected music — remarkably, even songs from the iTunes store (Windows only).

Unfortunately, this machine (2 by 17 by 10 inches) is as ugly as Apple’s is pretty. Its menus look as if they were typed in 12-point Helvetica. The software is geeky and unpolished; for example, during the setup process, it says “Failed to detect network” if no Ethernet cable is plugged in, rather than automatically looking for a wireless network.

The Netgear model is also filled with Version 1.0 bugs, including overprinted, blotchy menu screens and incompatibility with Windows Vista. Netgear promises to fix the glitches, but concedes that it timed the EVA8000’s release to ride the wave of Apple TV hype.

The two-year-old Xbox 360 is far more polished. Like Apple TV, it can either stream photos, music and videos (Windows PCs or, with a $20 shareware program, even Macs) or play them off its hard drive.

What’s different, though, is that you can’t copy files to this hard drive over the network; you can download shows and movies only straight to the Xbox from Microsoft’s own fledgling online store. You can buy TV shows for $2 each ($3 in high definition), or rent movies for $4 ($6 for high def). Microsoft movies self-destruct 24 hours after you start watching them. (Apple movies cost full DVD price, but at least you can keep them forever.)

Note, too, that the Xbox’s primary mission — playing games — doesn’t always suit music and movie playback. It can’t get onto a wireless network without an add-on transmitter ($100 — yikes). You can’t control the speed of a slide show or fast-forward through a song.

And in general, the included game controller makes a lousy remote control. There are no dedicated buttons for controlling playback; instead, you have to walk through the buttons on an on-screen control bar to reach, say, the pause function.

And alas, these products can require a journey through the hell of home networking. The Xbox couldn’t get online at first, thanks to an “MTU failure.” A Microsoft techie in India named “Mike” claimed that my cable-modem company would have to make a change in my service. (He was wrong; a router setting had to be changed instead.)

When the Netgear EVA8000 couldn’t get on the network, I waited 30 minutes to speak to a technician, who announced that I’d shortly get a call back from a senior tech. Five days later, I’m still waiting. (The solution was to uninstall — not just turn off — Microsoft’s OneCare security suite.)

In the end, these early attempts to bridge the gulf between computer and TV perfectly reinforce the conventional wisdom about Apple: Apple TV offers a gracious, delightful experience — but requires fidelity to Apple’s walled garden.

Its rivals, meanwhile, offer many more features, but they’re piled into bulkier boxes with much less concern for refinement, logic or simplicity.

Put another way, these machines aren’t direct competitors at all; they’re aimed at different kinds of people. Microsoft’s young male gamers probably couldn’t care less that they can’t change the slide-show speed, and Netgear’s box “is for people who are more experienced,” according to a representative. “This is not for the random person.”

Apple, on the other hand, is going for everybody else, random people included (at least those with HDTV sets). And that, perhaps, is Apple TV’s real significance. To paraphrase the old Macintosh advertisement, it’s a computer-to-TV bridge for the rest of us.
658 2007-03-22 MOTOROLA EXPECTS LESS EARNINGS Motorola sharply revised its earnings estimates for the first three months of the year, dropping its revenue projections by a billion dollars for the quarter. The company also announced a management shake-up. [Page C...
659 2007-03-23 With "green power" rising on the political and social agenda like never before, IHT correspondents James Kanter and Elisabeth Rosenthal sound off on the major environmental stories of the day....
660 2007-03-23 While the Yankees were losing here in Bradenton, 3-2 to the Pirates, Chien-Ming Wang felt some discomfort in his right hamstring while running at the Yankees' complex in Tampa. The Yankees shut him down for the rest of the workout and say they'll ...
661 2007-03-23 New information from the killing of Pakistan's cricket coach stands in sharp contrast to the initial autopsy's "inconclusive" nature....
662 2007-03-23 Mark Edelstone, a research analyst from Morgan Stanley, will join J.P. Morgan Chase as the firm's global head of semiconductor investment banking, J.P. Morgan said Friday in an internal memo. Mr. Edelstone had been global leader for semiconductor ...
663 2007-03-23 Q When my mother died, I became the tenant of record in her rent-controlled apartment. If I marry, would my wife be able to succeed me upon my death? What about a "significant other" who has lived with me for more than a year?

I have heard that the city's rent-control law states that an apartment can pass to the next generation only once.

A "The letter writer is mistaken that an apartment under rent control can pass to a succeeding tenant only once," said Erez Glambosky, a Manhattan landlord-tenant lawyer. "As long as the succession criteria are met, family members, as defined by the regulations and case law, will be protected from eviction."

Mr. Glambosky said that if the letter writer marries, his wife will be considered a family member and will be entitled to continue occupying the apartment if she lives there with him for two years before he dies or leaves and if she uses the apartment as her primary residence.

To qualify as a family member, he said, a "significant other" would have to prove an emotional and financial commitment and interdependence with the tenant.
664 2007-03-23 Sorry, Jesus, no bong hits for you: Jonathan Zimmerman, director of the history of education program at New York University, says "both sides are wrong" in the Supreme Court case over whether a high school student can display a banner that says "B...
665 2007-03-23 The insurance broker Hub International said Thursday that its recently announced agreement to be acquired has been amended to increase the purchase price for each share to $41.50, from $40. In February, Hub said it would be acquired by the private...
666 2007-03-23 India's drive to become a global economic powerhouse faces a huge roadblock in its inefficient, largely state-controlled financial system, The New York Times reports. Two-thirds of India's banking business is conducted through less than 5 percent ...
667 2007-03-23 Muscles bulge and heads explode in “Shooter,” a thoroughly reprehensible, satisfyingly violent entertainment about men and guns and things that go boom (heads, mostly). Did I mention the exploding heads? It is an admittedly primitive pleasure, but I do love watching stuff blow up in movies (heads, not so much). There is something unaccountably gratifying, at times reassuring about watching the screen — the bigger the better — become engulfed by surging waves of liquid orange, in the image of a car exploding into the air like a rocket, in a room, a building, a boat, a truck, you name it, shattering into confetti.

The late 1980s and 1990s were good times for big movie bangs and bulging movie muscle. It was the golden age of bad boys and Boy Scouts, wisecracks and careless, loving, hardcore American violence. Sept. 11 may have dampened our appetite for destruction, and I know that I squirmed uncomfortably while watching “Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever,” a cheap 2002 action film with too many falling bodies. But the violence returned with a vengeance soon after the attack and now signs of war are everywhere on the big screen, in the torture scenes that seem increasingly de rigueur whether it’s James Bond or a tourist strapped to a chair, in foreign affairs and exotic adventures and, yes, even inside the sightlines of “Shooter.”

The story has the simplicity of a fairy tale: A former military sniper, Bob Lee Swagger (Mark Wahlberg), having opted out of the Marines after an unfortunate escapade abroad, has retreated into the deep woods with his dog and his guns. An updated, upgraded Jeremiah Johnson, with a garden full of vegetables and a fridge stocked with beer, Swagger comes across as something of a Zen mountain man. He lives simply (but has a computer) and dresses plainly (but wears a trendsetter’s beard). He seems at peace in this world as he sits on a crest overlooking the forest. Yet the world is not at peace, as we know from the first few minutes of the film set someplace dusty and scary and far, far away.

Guns must be raised, and that beard really has to come off. And so they do and so it does, as Swagger comes down off his mountain and drops into an assassination intrigue stocked with villainy and weapons. There are black helicopters, a spunky redhead (Kate Mara) and a shootout boldly painted in red, white and blue. The redhead looks good in a miniskirt and twirls a rifle as lightly as a baton; mostly she ogles Mr. Wahlberg, who, once he shaves his beard, provides ample opportunity for eyeball strain. A natural screen presence, Mr. Wahlberg is charmingly sincere (he’s like a cruder, more street Matt Damon), though when he sheds his clothes the glint in his eyes is as knowing as that of an old Vegas stripper.

Directed by Antoine Fuqua and written by Jonathan Lemkin, “Shooter” is based on the novel “Point of Impact” by Stephen Hunter, who, when not turning out pulp fictions, works as a film critic for The Washington Post. Mr. Fuqua, the auteur of such rococo diversions as “Training Day” and “Tears of the Sun,” likes to keep the volume cranked and the action relentless. Like many contemporary action directors, he overshoots and overedits, cramming his films with inexplicable, unnecessary visual and aural noise. This maximalist approach can tax the nerves, though it has the benefit of keeping you on alert. It’s also pretty enjoyable. Mr. Fuqua, who happens to be surprisingly good with actors, does have a knack for chaos.

Here that disorder extends to the story, which combines a live-free-or-die vibe with some deep-fried gun-and-flag fetishism for the usual love-it-or-leave-it, lock-and-load, make-my-day Hollywood jumble. Bob Lee Swagger’s name is obviously meant to evoke Lee Harvey Oswald, much like the image of a rifle pointed in the direction of an American president. But it’s tough to figure out how these historically saturated allusions to the Kennedy assassination fit with the angry talk about Congress. In the end all we know about Bob Lee Swagger is that, like the adorable F.B.I. agent (Michael Peña) hot and cold on his trail, he is a good man. Which is perhaps all that we are ever meant to know when an American holds a gun.
668 2007-03-23 The insurance broker Hub International said yesterday that its recently announced agreement to be acquired has been amended to increase the purchase price for each share to $41.50, from $40.

In February, Hub said it would be acquired by the private equity firm Apax Partners, together with Morgan Stanley Principal Investments, for about $1.7 billion.

The increase in consideration followed “competing proposals,” the company said in a statement.

If the agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, Hub will be obligated to pay a breakup fee of 3 percent of the equity value of the transaction, or $53 million.

The company’s shares rose $2.28, to $41.55 on the New York Stock Exchange.
669 2007-03-23 Pfizer said Thursday that a court ruling upholding the company’s patent on the blood pressure medication Norvasc was reversed by a federal appeals court, possibly paving the way for a generic version of the drug six months ahead of schedule.

The ruling came on an appeal by a Canadian generic drug maker, Apotex, which lost a patent challenge in January 2006 when a federal court in the Northern District of Illinois ruled Pfizer’s patent was valid and enforceable.

That ruling was overturned by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington.

Apotex has tentative Food and Drug Administration approval to begin selling a generic version of the blood pressure drug and the company said it expects to introduce a product in ”the very near future” but was not more specific.

However, Mylan Laboratories has final approval to sell a generic version of Norvasc even though it lost an appeal to its patent challenge of the drug last month .

Prudential analyst Timothy Anderson said the ruling against Norvasc makes it likely that ”generics launch as soon as next week.”

He said the early introduction could cost Pfizer $1 billion in sales this year but that it would not have much of an affect on the company’s future because of its size and cash flow. Last year, Norvasc’s sales totaled $4.86 billion.
670 2007-03-23 The National Center for Space Research opened its files on U.F.O.’s, putting them on a Web site that was quickly jammed by heavy traffic. The archive, at www.cnes-geipan.fr/geipan/, spans 50 years.
671 2007-03-23 The New York Times Company, under pressure from investors because of its stagnant stock performance, announced yesterday that it would raise its quarterly dividend by 31 percent.

“This dividend increase, which is another important step in creating value for our shareholders, puts our dividend yield and payout ratio significantly above that of the S.& P. 500 and others in our industry,” the chairman of the company, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., said.

“The strong cash flow of the company and our current financial position, with the upcoming sale of our broadcast unit and radio station, give us the ability to return more capital to shareholders.”

In January, the company announced a deal to sell its television stations to Oak Hill Capital Partners for $575 million. It is selling WQEW, a New York radio station, to the Walt Disney Company for $40 million.

The new dividend — 23 cents a share a quarter, up from 17.5 cents — is payable on June 13 to shareholders of record on June 1.
672 2007-03-23 The central issue in the dispute in Mississippi is whether houses were destroyed by hurricane winds or floodwaters. Insurance companies say their policies do not cover flood damage, but many policyholders maintain that their homes were wrecked by wind and that the flooding that followed merely finished the job.

The proposed class-action suit had called for State Farm to pay the full amount of the insurance policies on the wrecked houses. In contrast, through the regulators, State Farm is offering to pay closer to 50 percent of the insured amount after originally refusing, in many cases, to pay anything.

State Farm said on Monday that it had decided to work with state regulators to reopen as many as 36,000 claims from Hurricane Katrina and to end its participation in a similar plan that it had negotiated with trial lawyers and presented to Judge Senter in January.

The judge had refused to approve the plan, saying it favored the insurance company, and this month, Richard F. Scruggs, the trial lawyer who negotiated the deal with State Farm, withdrew his support.

In his decision, Judge Senter said there were too many different reasons for the destruction of the houses to permit him to consider them collectively. Among those, he said, were the distance of a house from the Gulf of Mexico, the age of a building and how it was constructed.

The plaintiffs seeking the class action had argued that State Farm was unable to prove how much damage was done by flooding rather than wind and that it should be required to pay the full amounts of coverage.

But in issuing his denial, Judge Senter said that State Farm had recently demonstrated that it could differentiate between water and wind damage and that a jury had awarded a homeowner far less than full coverage.

State Farm said it was pleased by the decision.

“If the judge had granted this request, people would have been more likely to opt out of the regulatory process,” the insurers’ lawyer, Mr. Maniloff, said. “But this enables State Farm and the regulators to say to policyholders, ‘This is the solution on the table.’ ”
673 2007-03-23 Mr. Maliki made one more statement — about plans for a regional conference in April — then turned to Mr. Ban and asked quietly, “That is enough?”

“Yes,” Mr. Ban replied, and the two men disappeared through a door into another part of the house.

Iraqi leaders played down the incident. Asked later what the reaction had been among the officials gathered elsewhere in the house, Ahmad Chalabi, the Shiite politician and former exile, shrugged and said, “Nothing.”

While Iraq’s politicians may have become somewhat inured to the violence, the United Nations has not. The organization has been operating at low staffing levels since a truck bomb exploded next to its headquarters in Baghdad in August 2003, killing 22 staff members, including the chief United Nations representative in Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello.

After initially withdrawing most of its non-Iraqi staff, the United Nations has gradually rebuilt its presence here, though staffing levels dipped around the New Year because of growing security concerns.

The United Nations now operates from a well-protected compound inside the Green Zone — a Green Zone within a Green Zone, as it were — and its non-Iraqi staff members rarely travel in Baghdad or elsewhere in Iraq.

Mr. Ban’s one-day trip was the first here by a secretary general since Kofi Annan visited in November 2005. At the news conference, Mr. Ban praised Mr. Maliki’s “strong leadership” and urged the Iraqi government to “engage in an all-inclusive political process.”

In response to a reporter’s question about the continuing commitment of the United Nations to Iraq, Mr. Ban said he was considering expanding the organization’s role “as we see the improved situation on the ground.”

Seconds later the mortar round landed beside a small villa next to an artificial pond in front of Mr. Maliki’s residence, in a heavily guarded neighborhood of large houses where several of Iraq’s most prominent politicians live. The prime minister’s guards said the house was used as a storeroom and was unoccupied.

Mr. Ban then held a series of meetings with the Iraqi political leadership at which they discussed the reconciliation process, constitutional review, an international meeting of neighboring countries planned for next month and the International Compact with Iraq, a five-year reconstruction plan, according to Said Arikat, spokesman for the United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq.

Mr. Arikat said that in the organization’s view, the security situation had improved under the new security plan, encouraging the United Nations to expand its staffing and activities. But Mr. Ban made no firm commitment, officials said.

In the southern city of Basra, gunmen loyal to the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr fought against militia members affiliated with the Fadhila Party, a Shiite political organization, outside the Fadhila headquarters, officials said. The building was damaged during the fighting.

A provincial security official in Basra said the fighting arose from an argument the night before between a tribal sheik allied with Mr. Sadr and officials in the office of the Basra governor, a Fadhila Party member.

Though both organizations tried to minimize the incident, saying it was the result of a personal feud between two men, the clashes raised more questions about the political instability of southern Iraq just as the British are handing over security control there to the Iraqis and planning to cut back their own military presence.

Elsewhere in Basra, British troops fired plastic-coated bullets to quell a disturbance on Thursday involving visitors at a British-run prison. Five people were wounded, according to Hakim al-Mayahi, a top security official in Basra Province. The circumstances of the disturbance remained unclear, and efforts to reach the spokesman for the British military were unsuccessful. Last week, 10 detainees escaped from the prison after changing places with visitors.

The American military command said Thursday that it had captured a senior aide to Mr. Sadr, along with several other associates of his. The aide, Qais Khazali, and the other men are accused of involvement in the kidnapping and murder of five American soldiers in Karbala in January, the military said in a statement.

The military announced early Friday that four American service members were killed in combat operations on Wednesday and Thursday: two soldiers in Baghdad, and a soldier and a marine in Anbar Province.

At least three civilians and one soldier were killed Thursday, and several others were wounded, in an array of attacks in Baghdad that included shootings, a mortar shelling and a car bombing, according to an official at the Interior Ministry.

At least 25 bodies were found scattered around the capital on Thursday, the official said, and at least another four were found in Baquba, the capital of Diyala Province. In the Daquq district, south of Kirkuk, gunmen attacked a car and killed two civilians, according to Capt. Imad Jassim of the Iraqi police.
674 2007-03-23 BEAVERTON, Ore., March 22 (AP) — The athletic footwear and apparel maker Nike said Thursday that its quarterly profit grew 8 percent, helped by higher sales in Europe and a favorable rate of currency exchange.

Earnings for the quarter totaled $350.8 million, or $1.37 a share, up from $325.8 million, or $1.24 a share, a year earlier. Revenue in the period, which ended Feb. 28 and was the third quarter of Nike’s fiscal year, grew 9 percent, to $3.93 billion from $3.61 billion. Currency exchange rate changes helped revenue by 3 percent.

Future orders for athletic footwear and apparel grew 9 percent to $6 billion, including a 1 percent gain from currency exchange.

United States revenue grew 2 percent, to $1.5 billion. European revenue rose 15 percent, to $1.1 billion; Asia-Pacific revenue increased 11 percent, to $589.9 million; and sales from the Americas region improved 5 percent, to $212.5 million.

Nike, based in Beaverton, reported its results after the close of exchange trading. In the after-hours market, its stock gained $1.55, or 1.4 percent, to $110.15 a share.
675 2007-03-23 MIAMI, March 23 (AP) — The C.I.A. wants an agent to testify in disguise and use a fake name at a terrorism trial to protect his identity and secret agency sites in Afghanistan, papers filed on Thursday said.

The agent would wear “a wig, eyeglasses or minor facial hair” but would not block others in the courtroom from measuring his “demeanor and credibility,” prosecutors said in the filing.

If Judge Marcia G. Cooke of Federal District Court here grants the request, sketch artists would be barred from drawing the agent, and he would enter and leave the courthouse through a private entrance.

The trial is that of Jose Padilla, who is accused of belonging to a North American cell supporting Islamic terror groups around the world.

The agent is an instructor in the United States but could be assigned to field duty overseas, said a statement filed by Suzanne M. Fleischauer, information review officer for the clandestine service of the Central Intelligence Agency.

The agent would testify about how the agency acquired an application form for a training camp of Al Qaeda, a form that prosecutors say has Mr. Padilla’s fingerprints. The document was found along with dozens of others in a blue binder in Afghanistan shortly after the American invasion in 2001.
676 2007-03-23 SAN FRANCISCO, March 22 — Intel appears set to build a chip fabrication plant in northern China, a move that would mark a major milestone in the countries’ trade relations and could improve Intel’s competitiveness as it moves operations closer to its biggest customers.

Intel officials in Santa Clara, Calif., declined to comment Thursday on the possibility of such an agreement. The company confirmed only that it had scheduled a news conference Monday at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing with Paul S. Otellini, Intel’s chief executive officer, who will discuss “Intel’s commitment in China.”

“We have long said we’d be interested in building a fab in China,” said Chuck Mulloy, an Intel spokesman. “But we have nothing more to say about it at this time.”

China’s National Development and Reform Commission, the country’s top economic planning agency, said this month that it had approved Intel’s building of a $2.5 billion chip fabrication plant in the northeastern city of Dalian. That announcement, posted on the agency’s Web site, has since been removed.

Reports that Intel would open a fabrication plant, called a “fab” in chip industry parlance, have circulated for several years. But the Bush administration’s tightening of controls on technology exports to China in recent years has led many analysts to conclude that such a move might be challenged in Washington.
677 2007-03-23 The legacy of banks as tools for social reform, though, is colliding with India’s accelerating economic growth. An estimated 70 percent of Indian citizens are still not part of the banking system, while bureaucracy and inefficiencies are countering the benefits from faster growing parts of the economy, say political leaders and economists.

“We need a further deepening and widening through a reform of our banking and financial system,” Prime Minister Manmohan Singh recently told executives at a conference in Delhi, “so that the underlying potential of savings and resources can be mobilized and deployed efficiently.”

Making changes, though, is proving difficult and slow. Despite India’s big and rapidly growing middle class, and the global ambitions of its corporate sector, its banks remain tiny and their focus local.

Only one, the State Bank of India, is among the world’s top 250 banking companies ranked by assets; it comes in at No. 83, according to data from American Banker. In contrast, there are four Chinese banks in the top 35.

An attempt to lower the government’s stake in public banks to 33 percent, from 51 percent, and allow them to merge with one another has been met with staunch resistance from the 750,000 public bank employees, who have strong unions.

As the country’s fast-growing corporate sector takes off, the banks are being left behind. None of the multibillion cross-border deals Indian companies have undertaken in recent months have relied on a state bank. Instead, they are turning to Wall Street firms and global commercial banks.

Foreign private banks are also knocking on the door, hoping to lure high earners from the country, which just this year became Asia’s biggest home of billionaires, knocking Japan from the top spot.

Ultimately, state and local banks may not be able to compete, leaving the country with a two-tiered system, with the largest companies and richest individuals putting their money elsewhere, the gloomiest critics say.

Suggestions for fixing the system include lifting lending requirements so that assets flow from small businesses to the more profitable corporate sector, allowing more foreign ownership of Indian banks, and reducing state ownership in the banking system.

Right now, the largely state-dominated banking system funnels about 70 percent of the net savings of the economy into government and state-owned enterprises, and finances a huge budget deficit, about 9 percent of gross domestic product, McKinsey said. Reducing the government’s dependence on these funds would require huge changes in the way that India thinks about its banking system, away from a solution to social ills and toward an independent capitalist industry.

“If there ever was a time that India can afford to make some of those changes, it is now,” said Diana Farrell, director of the McKinsey Global Institute. The statement is “not a prediction, but a plea,” she added.

The government’s insistence on holding a controlling stake in the country’s biggest banks is “what’s holding up growth at the moment,” said Amit Tandon, managing director with Fitch Ratings in Mumbai, and a former head of investment banking operations at ICICI Bank, one of India’s largest private banks. Private banks make up less than a quarter of India’s financial system and consistently outperform their government peers.

Banking officials point to recent reforms, like an increase in the amount of bank branches that foreign companies can set up. There is little hope for agitators asking for the state to lessen its grip on public banks, though.

“A large part of the population is still dependent on the banking system for small requirements,” said Amitabh Verma, joint secretary of banking operations in the Ministry of Finance. Big companies are not the primary concern, he said. Corporations with international ratings “have an alternative,” he said, while these individuals do not.

The Ministry of Finance’s office building in central Delhi, which also houses customs and economic officials, could be an advertisement for the need for reform itself. The elevators are etched with graffiti, wires protrude from the ceiling and garbage piles up in corners of the hallway. Outside, a troop of monkeys threads through parked cars, stopping to eat discarded fruit.

Just next door, though, is one of the state banking system’s most obvious successes. The interior of the State Bank of India’s main New Delhi branch would not look amiss in any Western capital, perhaps minus the guards with rifles slung over their shoulders and the line for “Exchange of Soiled Notes.” In a faux-wood-paneled football field of a room, electronic displays advertise loan products and rows of bank employees sit behind computer screens.

But the Parliament Street branch is the exception, rather than the rule.

While all of the State Bank of India branches now have computers, less than half of these can communicate with one another. Customers who make a deposit at one branch wait 10 to 15 days before being able to receive it at another.

The State Bank of India has 9,000 branches, 1,000 more than the global financial giant Citigroup and its subsidiary CitI- Financial together, and some 205,500 employees.

Managers say they are not concerned about new competition from foreign banks.

“People have faith in the bank, and the service is there,” said Arun Kumar Sarin, a manager in the main Delhi branch.
678 2007-03-23 The New York Times Company, under pressure from investors because of its stagnant stock performance, announced today that it would raise its quarterly dividend by 31 percent.

“This dividend increase, which is another important step in creating value for our shareholders, puts our dividend yield and payout ratio significantly above that of the S.& P. 500 and others in our industry,” the chairman of the company, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., said.

“The strong cash flow of the company and our current financial position, with the upcoming sale of our broadcast unit and radio station, give us the ability to return more capital to shareholders.”

The move by the company’s board comes at a sensitive time for the company. The annual shareholder meeting is scheduled for April 24, and in a letter to the company, the manager of one large shareholder, Hassan Elmasry of Morgan Stanley Investment Management, raised the possibility of withholding the fund’s votes for the second consecutive year.

A portfolio manager at the Morgan Stanley fund, Hassan Elmasry, met recently with Times Company directors and criticized the company’s strategy, capital allocation and financial performance, according to The Times.

He has asked that the company end its dual share structure, arguing that maintaining two classes of shares, A and B, provides inappropriate protection for senior management from the pressures of the marketplace.

Since going public in 1969, the Times Company has had the two classes of shares. Morgan Stanley and the other outside investors own A shares and are able to elect four directors. The B shares — the majority of them owned by the Sulzberger family trust — can elect nine directors.
679 2007-03-23 ALBANY, March 22 — All recipients of the state grants known as “member items” will now be required to disclose any financial connections they have to the lawmakers who arranged them, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Thursday.

At a press conference with Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader of the Senate, and Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the Assembly, Mr. Cuomo hailed the new requirement as a major step in allowing the public to scrutinize the grants, long a source of controversy and criticism.

“We began this year promising the people of New York State real reform,” Mr. Cuomo said. “And today we take a significant step forward in delivering on that promise.”

Some lawmakers currently face charges that they illegally diverted such grants for personal use or skimmed money from organizations to which they had awarded grants.

Others have directed grants to groups at which friends or family members worked and, in one case, to help retire a nonprofit organization’s debt. Those practices are legal, but Mr. Silver said the Assembly would amend its own rules to prohibit such uses. He also said disclosure was preferable to requiring the grant recipients, which include many nonprofits and service providers, to bid competitively for the money.
680 2007-03-23 LILLY OFFER HAS STRING ATTACHED -- Eli Lilly offers to help state Medicaid drug programs offset the expense of Zyprexa, its anti-psychotic drug, by monitoring patients' prescriptions to make sure they are not taking any drugs needlessly. But this ...
681 2007-03-23 The New York Times Company, under pressure from investors because of its stagnant stock performance, announced today that it would raise its quarterly dividend by 31 percent.     ''This dividend increase, which is another important step in creatin...
682 2007-03-23 The National Center for Space Research opened its files on U.F.O.'s, putting them on a Web site that was quickly jammed by heavy traffic. The archive, at www.cnes-geipan.fr/geipan/, spans 50 years.   JOHN TAGLIABUE...
683 2007-03-24 Some stuff you couldn't make up if you tried. This is now a statement of fact: Carl Pavano is lined up to be the Yankees' opening-day starter. Carl Pavano may be the Yankees opening-day starter. (Gene J. Puskar/Associated Press) The same Pavano wh...
684 2007-03-24 Nature often looks better at a distance. “Planet Earth,” an 11-part mother of all nature series to be shown on the Discovery Channel for five consecutive Sundays, beginning tomorrow night, understands this truth. The BBC, which produced the series with Discovery, used helicopters, long lenses and all manner of cutting-edge film techniques to bring us the photographic spoils of a five-year global odyssey.

Often the filmmakers show Earth in the most flattering light. In Antarctica “the cliff tops are stained pink,” the narrator Sigourney Weaver says, “with the droppings of tens of thousands of nesting penguins.”

Seen from afar, the droppings look lovely. But “Planet Earth” does not always see waste matter through rose-tinted lenses. Close-ups can be equally dramatic.

In a cave in Borneo the camera ranges across what appears to be a moving mountain. This, Ms. Weaver explains, is a 300-foot-high mound of bat droppings, “its surface carpeted with hundreds of thousands of cockroaches.” One would have been enough.

The cockroaches eat the droppings. Occasionally something bigger drops — a bat, say — and the cockroaches eat that too. This brings us to the last element of the trinity of nature shows: beauty, repulsiveness and bloody slaughter.
685 2007-03-24 The Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating allegations of corruption against two Bronx lawmakers — State Senator Rubén Díaz Sr. and his son, Assemblyman Rubén Díaz Jr., according to an official familiar with the investigation who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

The investigation, first reported by The Daily News, came to light on Thursday, when F.B.I. agents visited the city’s Board of Elections office in the Bronx seeking voter petitions and other records for the elder Mr. Díaz and his son. The agents obtained copies of their personal voter registration and voter history records as well as candidate petitions signed by voters, a Board of Elections spokeswoman said.

James M. Margolin, a spokesman for the F.B.I.’s New York office, declined to comment.

The elder Mr. Díaz said in an interview yesterday that the authorities had not contacted him. He said he had no knowledge of anything wrong with his voter records or his petitions. “I don’t know what they’re talking about,” he said of the investigation.

Mr. Díaz is a Pentecostal minister who has been an outspoken opponent of same-sex marriage and abortion. In 2003, he sued the city over the expansion of a small public school for gay students. He called for the resignations of Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein and Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott last month after the city cut and consolidated school bus routes.

He said he wondered if his political stances played a role in the inquiry. “I’m aware that I’m making a lot of enemies,” he said, adding, “Somebody is pushing the F.B.I. to find something.”
686 2007-03-24 As it did earlier this month, Vonage quickly moved to assure its two million customers that their service would not be affected. It has said it is developing alternative technology that does not conflict with Verizon’s patents.

“We are confident that Vonage customers will not experience service interruptions or other changes,” the company’s chief executive, Mike Snyder, said in a statement. “Our fight is far from over. We remain confident that Vonage has not infringed on any of Verizon’s patents.”

Brooke Schulz, a spokeswoman for Vonage, said the company had not seen any effect on its ability to attract and retain customers because of the case.

“We believe this case has had not impact on churn to date, nor do we expect it to,” she said.

Judge Claude M. Hilton of Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia in Alexandria said yesterday that an injunction was necessary because fines and royalties will “not prevent continued erosion of the client base of the plaintiff,” The Associated Press reported from Alexandria.

Vonage has been the early leader in an attempt by several companies to shift traditional telephone company customers to Internet-based calling.

“We’re pleased the court has decided to issue a permanent injunction to protect Verizon’s patented innovations,” said John Thorne, a senior vice president and deputy general counsel at Verizon.

The three patents that a jury found Vonage to be infringing upon involve the way the company moves calls to and from the Internet from the conventional telephone system, methods for giving customers calling features like call waiting, and means for providing Internet calling through wireless networks.

If Vonage is forced to switch to other technologies, the cost and feasibility of such a change is not clear. It is believed that the company has the ability to make remote software updates in devices that its customers have installed at their homes and offices.

Many conventional telephone companies hold patents involving Internet calling. Vonage faces a separate patent lawsuit from Sprint Nextel that has yet to go to trial.
687 2007-03-24 From Geneva, a centuries-old fortress that has long protected the financial assets of the world’s wealthy, Pictet and other private banks have transformed this secretive Alpine cloister of “little” neighborhood banks into a more aggressive haven for the global elite.

For generations, Europe’s wealthy journeyed through mountains and valleys to quietly stash their money with Switzerland’s bankers, famed for taking their secrets to the grave. Now the Swiss can be found throughout the world, selling more sophisticated investment vehicles to attract high-net-worth individuals, mostly multimillionaires. They are even working with institutional clients.

This has helped Switzerland, with a population of 7.5 million people, amass global banking assets under management of 6.9 trillion francs ($5.5 trillion), in 2005, making the country the third-largest asset manager in the world, after the United States and Britain, according to the Swiss Bankers Association.

Switzerland also has become the third-largest commodities trading center, after New York and London.

The Swiss have been able to ride a global explosion in asset management, fueled by rapid growth in wealth around the world and more varied investing by both public and private pension systems.

Not surprisingly, many of the country’s detractors complain that Switzerland remains the world’s prime tax haven. The European Union and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development have pressured Switzerland to loosen its bank secrecy.

Several countries, including Italy and Belgium, have lured back untaxed assets held abroad by decreeing an amnesty for tax evasion.

But that is not the biggest challenge. As Swiss bankers penetrate markets abroad they are facing like-minded competitors from elsewhere in the world. Dubai and Singapore have cultivated sophisticated private banking hubs, offering discreet financial services and a tax haven aimed at luring away wealthy clients. And just as the Swiss have moved overseas, foreign banks like Citibank have flocked to Switzerland. Geneva, once a sleepy lakeshore town, now has branches of 100 foreign banks. The number of foreign banks in all of Switzerland has held steady at 150 over the last 10 years, though the number of their employees has soared, to more than 18,000 today, from 14,000 or so in 1995. The total of foreign-controlled assets under management by all banks in Switzerland has risen to 2.6 trillion Swiss francs ($2.1 trillion), from 2 trillion Swiss francs in 2000.

In contrast, only 350 Swiss banks survive today, down from 550 a decade ago. One of those who survived is Mirabaud & Cie., a bank that belongs to an elite group of 14 institutions whose owner-partners by law are allowed to call themselves Swiss private bankers.

Unlike regulations in the United States, Swiss law forbids bankers from divulging information about clients or their assets, under threat of penalty. Tax evasion is not considered a crime, though tax fraud — that is, falsified information or documentation to avoid taxes — is.

In a recent speech, Pierre Mirabaud, the bank’s senior partner, defended Swiss secrecy laws against criticisms by the European Union and the O.E.C.D., saying that those laws remained “the principal pillar of the Swiss financial place.”

Mirabaud, which was founded in 1819 by Mr. Mirabaud’s ancestors, has become far more adventurous over the years. It has grown to 360 employees, from 100 people a decade ago and is now in seven cities outside Switzerland, including Montreal, London, Hong Kong and Auckland, New Zealand.

With a third of its assets in hedge funds, according to one independent banker, Mirabaud — which does not publish such figures — is believed to lead Swiss banks in that category.

“The amount of change is often not visible from without,” said Felix Wenger, a principal at McKinsey & Company in Zurich. “Until 15 years ago, it was stocks and bonds.”

At Mirabaud’s crosstown rival, Mr. Pictet, 62, is not aiming to become a UBS or Credit Suisse, either. But the bank has 3.4 percent of its assets under management in private equity, with 5 percent in hedge funds. Total managed assets have tripled to 370 billion francs ($296 billion). Its staff has tripled, too, to 2,400.

Still, banking traditions die hard here, accounting for the abundance of family institutions among midsize private banks. Guy de Picciotto, 46, is managing partner in the relatively new bank, Union Bancaire Privée, that his father founded in 1969. Four other family members, including a sister, brother and cousin, hold crucial posts, including his father Edgar, the bank’s president.

After several acquisitions, it has grown to about 1,250 people, from 800 a decade ago.

A third of its clients are now institutions, like pension funds, compared with 10 percent a decade ago. And it is on the lookout for innovative investment instruments, working with American fund managers like the Lehman Global Value Fund and the Boston-based investment boutique Polaris Capital Management.

About 110 of its people are in New York. “The fund managers are all there, so we’re closer to the information,” Mr. Picciotto said.

The bank has pushed beyond New York, with branches in Latin America, Europe and Asia. Mr. Picciotto is now looking at China. “We cannot ignore a billion people,” he said, smiling. “Especially when some are rich.”

The Swiss are working hard to keep their edge. At Wegelin & Company, a boutique private bank set up in 1741, Konrad Hummler, a 53-year-old nattily dressed managing partner, has 15 to 25 students from the local university working for the bank, shaping a reservoir of future talent.

Since 1991, assets under management have grown 20 times, to 17 billion Swiss francs (about $14 billion). The number of branches went from one, in the eastern Swiss town of St. Gallen, to six, with two more to come this year. Yet Mr. Hummler refuses to open branches outside Switzerland, arguing that the legal technicalities and different regulations are too complex for a small bank to handle.

The idea of grooming students for private banking has caught on. In Geneva, bankers paid to create an institute at a university to train private bankers. The long-term goal foresees the banks helping finance as many as 50 chairs in finance at Swiss universities. Already, recruitment drives have taken them to the United States.

Not every attempt to branch out works well, however. Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch poured resources into its investment banking division, only to sell it last year. “We don’t have to be everything to everybody,” said Patrick Odier, 51, a managing partner, and the sixth generation of his family to run the bank.

Creating the bank in 2002 from two of Geneva’s oldest banks — Lombard Odier and Darier Hentsch — was a big break from the past. The changes at Lombard Odier, like those at many other Swiss banks, occurred because their clients changed, from mainly Swiss or Europeans from neighboring countries, with conservative investment habits, to a new generation comfortable with new types of investment instruments.

“It’s a very traditional business,” said Jean-Pierre Danthine, a professor of finance who runs the institute created by the banks at the Université de Lausanne.
688 2007-03-24 Another department official said that Mr. Gonzales did not recall the meeting and that his aides had been unable to determine whether he approved the dismissal plan then.

The meeting took place as Mr. Gonzales’s aides awaited final White House approval of a detailed dismissal plan that had been drafted by D. Kyle Sampson, Mr. Gonzales’s chief of staff. His plan was sent to the White House on Nov. 15, according to previously released e-mail. Harriet E. Miers, the White House counsel at the time, approved Mr. Sampson’s proposal on Dec. 4, and the dismissals were carried out three days later.

The calendar entry was among more than 280 pages of Justice Department documents released Friday night and immediately provoked further criticism of Mr. Gonzales in Congress, where the Senate and House Judiciary Committees have authorized subpoenas for sworn public testimony of presidential aides and senior department officials.

Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who has led the Congressional investigation into the dismissals, said, “If the facts bear out that the attorney general knew much more than he admitted, he simply cannot continue as the attorney general.”

Mr. Sampson, who played a central role in the dismissals, has agreed to testify next week before the Senate Judiciary Committee. He resigned this month because of what he later said was a failure to prepare Mr. Gonzales for questions about the ousters.

In another development, Brian Roehrkasse, a Justice Department spokesman, said Friday that the department would begin an internal review of the conduct of lawyers involved in the dismissals. The inquiry will be conducted jointly by the inspector general, Glenn Fine, and the Office of Professional Responsibility, a department watchdog unit.

The dismissals have created the gravest crisis of Mr. Gonzales’s time in office, with calls for his ouster from Republicans and Democrats, even as President Bush has offered the attorney general his firm public support. Mr. Gonzales has sent reassuring signals to the ranks of prosecutors, but the strength of his support within the Justice Department is difficult to gauge.

Department officials said there had not been an intentional effort to delay the release of the new material. Instead, they said, the e-mail messages were overlooked in past searches of office files and computers. Many, they said, were copies of e-mail that had already been disclosed. The latest batch of documents shows just how completely the department misjudged what the reaction would be to the dismissals.

“I think most of them will resign quietly,” said Ms. Scolinos, the department’s chief spokeswoman, in a Nov. 17 e-mail message, a few weeks before the dismissals. “It’s only six U.S. attorneys (there are 94) and they don’t get anything out of making it public they were asked to leave in terms of future job prospects. I don’t see it as being a national story — especially if it phases in over a few months.”

Speaking with reporters on Friday evening, Ms. Scolinos said that when she sent that message she had only a fragmentary understanding of the plan to dismiss the prosecutors.

At a news conference this month, Mr. Gonzales was repeatedly questioned about the extent of his participation in the ousters. He said he was aware that his staff had been evaluating the performance of different prosecutors, but on several occasions he said that it was not a matter that he had been following closely.

“So far as I knew, my chief of staff was involved in the process of determining who were the weak performers,” he said. “Where were the districts around the country where we could do better for the people in that district, and that’s what I knew.”

But describing himself like a chief executive of a major corporation, he said he was not involved in the details of the performance review effort.

“That is in essence what I knew about the process; was not involved in seeing any memos, was not involved in any discussions about what was going on,” he said. “That’s basically what I knew as the attorney general.”

Reporters expressed disbelief that as the department’s top official, he would not be closely monitoring such an important matter, and pressed Mr. Gonzales again to describe his involvement in the effort.

“Many decisions are delegated,” he said. “We have people who were confirmed by the Senate who, by statute, have been delegated authority to make decisions.”

Mr. Gonzales then repeated: “I never saw documents. We never had a discussion about where things stood. What I knew was that there was ongoing effort that was led by Mr. Sampson, vetted through the Department of Justice, to ascertain where we could make improvements in U.S. attorney performances around the country.”

The latest e-mail shows preparations for the Nov. 27 meeting at 9 a.m. to discuss “U.S. Attorney Appointments.”

Department officials said that the participants at the only formal meeting known to have been held to discuss the firings included Mr. Gonzales; Paul J. McNulty, the deputy attorney general; Mr. Sampson; Monica Goodling, the department liaison to the White House; William Moschella, the assistant attorney general for legislative affairs; and Michael A. Battle, then head of the Executive Office of U.S. Attorneys. Mr. Battle has since resigned, and Ms. Goodling has taken a temporary leave of absence.
689 2007-03-24 This week South Africa endangered a delicate compromise among nations often at odds — the United States, China, Russia, France, Britain and Germany — to rein in Iran’s nuclear program.

The major powers agreed on an arms embargo, freezing of assets and other sanctions against Iran, but South Africa proposed dropping the arms and financial sanctions and placing a 90-day “timeout” on other punishments, which critics said would have rendered the sanctions toothless.

“I’m not gutting the resolution,” Dumisani S. Kumalo, South Africa’s ambassador to the United Nations, told news agency reporters this week. “I’m improving it.”

Granted, none of these positions by themselves have been fatal to the efforts at hand. The Myanmar resolution was dead on arrival anyway, condemned by vetoes from China, which backs that nation’s dictatorship, and Russia. Nor could South Africa have single-handedly blocked a Zimbabwe briefing.

South Africa’s wrench in the Iran sanctions effort has complicated things, but mostly because the great powers would like Iran’s defiance to be met with unanimous disapproval.

Rather, what has left some of South Africa’s admirers slack-jawed is the apparent incongruity of its positions. It is not merely that South Africa’s current leaders are withholding the same sorts of international condemnations that sustained them when they were battling oppression.

When apartheid’s evils came to the fore in the Security Council in the early 1980s, it was newly independent Zimbabwe that occupied one of the Council’s nonpermanent seats and voted to condemn South African racism. Myanmar, then known as Burma, joined in denouncing apartheid from its seat in the General Assembly.

Moreover, South Africa may now oppose sanctions against Iran’s nuclear program, but the white apartheid government voluntarily renounced its own atomic bomb in the early 1990s, and the democratic government that followed has ardently continued along that same path. In fact, South Africa remains the only nation in history to have given up its nuclear program of its own accord.

Given that backdrop, a columnist in The Johannesburg Star fretted last week over what he called a “fundamental misunderstanding” of the role of human rights in a nation’s development.

The nation’s second-largest political party, the Democratic Alliance, was more brutal: “Instead of furthering an agenda based on the protection and promotion of human rights,” the party stated, “we are more concerned with using bureaucratic excuses to shield tyrants and despots from international scrutiny.”

South African officials have responded with wounded indignation. On Friday, Deputy Foreign Minister Aziz Pahad said that the government was committed to resolving the crisis in Zimbabwe through dialogue, but added that “it is not our intention to make militant statements to make us feel good, or to satisfy governments outside the African continent,” Reuters reported.

Apartheid, the South African government contends, was a crime against humanity. In contrast, it argues that human rights abuses in Myanmar do not fall within the mandate of the Security Council. Indeed, the South African government says, the Council’s encroachment on issues better left to lesser agencies like the Human Rights Council undermines the organization’s global nature.

Seasoned scholars may and do differ, but to many analysts here the real question is why, given its standing as a beacon of human rights, South Africa has taken such positions at all. Perhaps nobody outside Pretoria knows, but there are plenty of theories.

One, advanced by a committed advocate of Burmese freedom, is that South Africa is feathering its strategic relationship with China, which largely controls Myanmar, supports Zimbabwe’s authoritarian government and has assiduously courted President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa. China has big investments, a decent-size immigrant population and great ambitions in South Africa. South Africa has a similarly close relationship with Iran, an oil supplier.

But even during its struggle for liberation, the African National Congress, or A.N.C., now the governing party, maintained ties to supporters with questionable human rights records, like the Soviet Union, China and Libya.

Another explanation is that South Africa is playing the role of bad boy on the Security Council to underscore its demand that the Council be overhauled to reflect new global realities.

South Africa and many other developing nations deeply resent the great powers’ veto over major United Nations actions, often against developing countries like Zimbabwe and North Korea. They want the emerging Southern Hemisphere to have more sway in the body’s policies and actions.

“South Africa wants reform of the Security Council, come hell or high water,” said Thomas Wheeler, a longtime diplomat for South Africa who now is chief executive at the South Africa Institute of International Affairs, a research group. “And they’re using practically any means to do it. They’ve got almost a bee in their bonnet — that this is the way to go, to force the issue in this way.”

A third theory, a hybrid of those two, is that South Africa’s leaders have yet to decide whether they are democrats or the revolutionaries of two decades ago, railing against seemingly immovable establishments on behalf of seemingly lost causes. The powers in those days were the United States and Britain, powers inimical to the Communists who were the financiers of black liberation movements in the 1980s.

“What you have here is the continuing, ongoing tussle over whether the A.N.C. is still a protest movement or the governing party of a responsible member of the international community,” said a retired American diplomat with decades of Africa experience. “They’re reflexively against anything we’re for — we in the States, we and the British, we in the North. It’s more Chinese than the Chinese.”
690 2007-03-24 The Nissan Motor Company, the Japanese automaker, said yesterday that 12.5 percent of the 6,200 workers at its two Tennessee plants accepted early retirement and buyout offers.

A total of 775 workers agreed to leave the Smyrna assembly plant and Decherd engine and transmission factory, Nissan said. Last month, Nissan said it expected 300 to accept offers that included a $45,000 lump sum payment and $500 for each year worked.

Nissan turned to Detroit-style buyouts after sales in the United States, its most profitable market, fell 5.3 percent in 2006. Light trucks made at Smyrna are not doing as well as last year. Through February, Frontier pickup sales are down 13 percent; Xterra sport utility vehicles, down 15 percent; and Pathfinder SUVs, down 23 percent.

“We think this is going to help us become more efficient,” a company spokesman, Fred Standish, said. The higher-than-announced acceptance rate “isn’t too many.”

Nissan said last month that it would miss its full-year profit target because of lower revenue from the United States and Japan.
691 2007-03-24 Recently, several Sunni tribal leaders in Anbar Province who have taken a stand against Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia have been targets of Sunni extremists. The attacks included one on Feb. 23, when a truck bomb exploded near a mosque in Habbaniya, west of Baghdad, killing 36 people after the mosque’s imam denounced the group.

Mr. Zubaie was taken to an American-run hospital in Baghdad.

Dhafer al-Ani, an Iraqi lawmaker from the moderate Sunni bloc Tawafiq, said Mr. Zubaie’s condition was stable. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki visited Mr. Zubaie in the hospital and also looked in on other victims. The 15 people wounded in the attack included Mr. Zubaie’s close adviser and his secretary, the Interior Ministry said.

In the past year, the two other prominent Sunnis in the government, Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi and the Parliament speaker, Mahmoud Mashhadani, were attacked personally or lost family members. Last year Mr. Hashemi’s sister and brother were gunned down, and a bomb exploded in a car belonging to Mr. Mashhadani, who was not in it.

The assassination attempt on Friday was one in a series of attacks or attempted attacks on politicians that involved people who worked closely with them. To try to protect themselves, many politicians choose guards who are members of their family or tribe, but Mr. Mashhadani said even that did not ensure safety.

“All Iraqi officials are under huge threat because of their guards,” he said. “Zubaie is from Abu Ghraib, the stronghold for the Al Qaeda organization, and it’s very easy for them to infiltrate his guards, so for this reason we have to check the guards, with the help of the intelligence forces and the Americans.”

Mr. Zubaie, 48, was educated as an agricultural engineer and specialized in potato nutrition and fertilization, becoming a lecturer at Anbar University. He refused to join Saddam Hussein’s Baath Party.

The attempt on his life appears to have persuaded some Shiite leaders that those Sunnis who are in the government are under as much threat as Shiites are from violent Sunni militants. Many Shiite leaders had felt that most Sunnis in Parliament were wolves in sheep’s clothing.

“This attack against Mr. Salam al-Zubaie is kind of punishment because of his recent statement about terrorism and the Al Qaeda organization,” said Shiek Adel Ibrahim Subihawi, a Shiite and the leader of the Subihawi tribe. “These kinds of attacks are letting the Shiite people see that the Sunnis are more different from the terrorists than many of the Shiites thought, and these last attacks in Anbar showed that the Sunnis are also victims of the terrorism just as the Shiites are. That will be very useful to rebuild the national unity of Iraq.”

Jalal al-Din al-Sagheer, a member of Parliament who is also an influential hard-line Shiite cleric, made much the same point.

“The terrorists now are targeting Sunni and Shia,” he said shortly after hearing of the attack on Mr. Zubaie. “In Ramadi and Falluja there are no Shia. The chemical attacks there have been on Sunnis.” Three vehicles laden with toxic chlorine gas that exploded last week killed at least two people and wounded or sickened more than 350.

Elsewhere in Baghdad on Friday, violence continued. In Sadr City, an overwhelmingly Shiite neighborhood in the northeast, a midafternoon car bombing killed five people and wounded 19, according to a source at the Interior Ministry. Twenty-six bodies were also found throughout the city on Friday, according to an Interior Ministry source.
692 2007-03-24 WASHINGTON, March 23 — The United States military has opened a formal investigation into whether marines in eastern Afghanistan killed noncombatants after a suicide bomber detonated his explosive-laden car near their convoy on March 4, Marine officials said Friday.

As many as 10 Afghans were reported killed and dozens wounded after the bombing, in Nangarhar Province.

Army Maj. Gen. Francis H. Kearney III, the commander of Special Operations troops in the Middle East and Central Asia, opened the investigation and ordered the marines involved to remain in Afghanistan until it is complete, a spokesman, Lt. Col. Lou J. Leto, said. Marine officials would not say how many marines were under investigation or had been ordered to stay in Afghanistan.

The rest of the unit, a 120-marine Special Operations company on its first deployment, has been ordered out of Afghanistan, Colonel Leto said, because the episode had impaired its ability to operate. The company is part of the Second Marine Special Operations Battalion based at Camp Lejeune, N.C.

“The relationship you have with the local people while conducting counterinsurgency operations is very important,” Colonel Leto said, “and because the perceptions damaged that, it probably degraded the unit’s ability to fulfill those kinds of missions. So the general felt it was best to move them out of that area.”
693 2007-03-24 In 2002 Lisa Ling, who spent her young life as an international correspondent for the classroom news broadcast Channel One, put down her coffee cup and left her seat on “The View,” where, for three years, she had traded opinions with Barbara Walters. Ms. Ling felt the call to derring-do once more, so she joined National Geographic Television to cover the drug wars in South America, looting in Iraq, the horrors of the American prison system — stories that require bodyguards and durable shoes. Last year she sneaked into North Korea as a medical assistant.

Sisterhood retained a place in her heart, however. More recently, Ms. Ling, who has joined “The Oprah Winfrey Show” as a special correspondent and who is the co-author of a book titled “Mother, Daughter, Sister, Bride: Rituals of Womanhood,” has surfaced as a reporter on women’s issues, the kind intent on establishing that when bad things happen to women and children, the results are regrettable, families languish, and the world is the worse for it.

Ms. Ling, who has reported on bride burning in India, among other subjects, for Ms. Winfrey’s show, is the host of “Who Cares About Girls?” a series of documentaries for the Oxygen channel that gives full display to her indignation and severity of feeling.

The first installment, “Daughters Left Behind,” to be shown tomorrow night, examines the conditions of girls whose mothers have been sent to prison. In it Ms. Ling travels from Minnesota to Baltimore to Australia to interview women incarcerated for crimes like armed robbery and selling methamphetamines and to talk to the children left to be cared for. In only one instance does she manage to tell a story whose sole purpose is not simply to evoke our pity: in Australia she goes to a prison where women are permitted to keep their children with them in group apartments that function as co-ops.

In the United States, where there are approximately 100,000 mothers behind bars, Ms. Ling goes with a little girl named Jessica and her grandmother to visit Jessica’s mother in a rural Minnesota prison. She is the master of the question that invites no further discussion. “Is it too hard to talk about?” Ms. Ling asks Jessica of the visit. “Stay strong. Give a hug.”

Ms. Ling seems to believe that being a a journalist is just like being a cloying baby sitter or game show host. “Do you ever think about, like, what you’re going to wear?” she asks Jessica. And then, later, as Jessica is exiting the prison: “Is that enough time for her to really understand? You know you only have, like, a couple of hours once a month.”

What a shame that a portion of that time has been given over to someone who insists on doing the emoting for everyone.
694 2007-03-24 IN one of the most depressing pieces of news to come along in years, the organization that presides over high school sports in Washington State is considering a ban on booing at sporting events. That’s right, the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association is evaluating guidelines for fan behavior that would not only prohibit offensive chants but would also outlaw booing.

The organization is contemplating this measure not just because of concern that fan negativity is discouraging people from taking jobs as referees and coaches, but because, in the words of Mike Colbrese, the association’s executive director, the very concept of booing needs to be re-evaluated.

“I don’t know why people think it’s acceptable to boo in the first place,” Mr. Colbrese told The Seattle Post-Intelligencer earlier this month. “It’s a pretty novel concept to me.”

As a native of Philadelphia, a municipality whose passion for booing is unrivaled, I greet this news with a mixture of revulsion and dread. Philadelphia, coyly nicknamed the City of Brotherly Love, has a place in the national mythology as a city whose fans once booed Santa Claus at a Philadelphia Eagles game, a city where locals sometimes boo unsatisfactory airplane landings. Philly fans are famous not only for heaping abuse on visiting players, but for displaying even greater viciousness toward the pathetic home team. The idea that these fans might one day be denied the right to bear their fangs at gridiron Iscariots (former Eagles who now play for the despised Dallas Cowboys) or shriek at overpaid, underachieving Phillies (in other words, the team’s current left fielder) is too heartbreaking to contemplate.

But this is not merely a case of denying the fan his inalienable right to apprise officials of their woeful deficiencies as human beings. No, were booing ever banned at the professional sports level, it would sever modern man’s last tenuous connection with the enthusiastic fans who once packed the Colosseum, stripping away our last link with the Caesars. Is that really what the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association has in mind?

It’s all well and good to slough off the fledgling antibooing movement as typical West Coast nuttiness, to dismiss Mr. Colbrese’s comments as the ramblings of a New Age spoilsport. More level heads — a group sports fans loathe — may argue that the measures under review would apply to only amateur sports, so New York Jets fans need never fear that they will be barred from heaping contumely on mob-controlled linesmen or defensive backs who are clearly on the take.
695 2007-03-24 APPLE will not release the iPhone until June, but Leander Kahney, the writer of “The Cult of Mac” blog, posited this week on Wired News that the new phone is already partly responsible for a major change in how the company is perceived (wired.com). After nearly three decades, Apple is finally being taken seriously not just by the true believers, but by just about everybody.

According to Mr. Kahney, this shift has taken place in the last few weeks, as both the iPhone and, more recently, Apple TV, have quickly become “must have” products. “A lot of people thought Apple got lucky with the iPod,” Mr. Kahney wrote. “It was a one-hit wonder, a fluke not likely to be repeated.” But the iPhone is already thought of as an “industry-changing smash hit,” and Apple TV, which at first drew shrugs, now may even eclipse the iPhone, according to the predictions of some (though by no means many) people (ipodnn.com).

Apple TV, which began shipping this week, stores up to 50 hours of video, which can be wirelessly beamed from a computer to a television set. Like several other competing products from the likes of Sony, Microsoft and TiVo, it aims to capitalize on the increasing availability of downloadable movies and TV shows.

Apple’s decision to move to Intel processors is another big reason for what Mr. Kahney says is “a cultural shift that’s changing the way people think about the company.” The Mac’s ability to run both Apple’s operating system and Microsoft’s Windows (by using BootCamp software, which is still in beta), means some organizations are able to save money by using more-expensive Macs. Wilkes University in Pennsylvania, for example, recently dumped all its Windows-only machines in favor of Macs because the university now can do just as much with fewer computers (computerworld.com).

The “dual boot” functionality also means that it is far easier to find needed software. “The old argument against Macs is moot,” Mr. Kahney writes. “New Intel Macs can run Windows software as well as any PC.” And technology managers like the Mac’s relative protection against computer viruses and security breaches.

Perhaps most intriguingly, Mr. Kahney points to Apple’s steadfastness in keeping its products proprietary as a main reason for its success. Apple for decades has weathered criticism that the reason it was marginalized by the likes of Microsoft was its refusal to allow third parties to develop related products. But “Apple’s traditional closed system,” Mr. Kahney writes, “is now a selling point.”
696 2007-03-24 Those were simpler days indeed, before the endless waves of car bombings, before the thousands of Iraqi and American deaths, before the descent into chaos and sectarian violence that has driven liberal idealists like Mr. Makiya into bouts of hand-wringing over a single inescapable question: what went wrong?

Which brings us to Mr. Makiya’s next book.

“I want to look into myself, look at myself, delve into the assumptions I had going into the war,” he said. “Now it seems necessary to reflect on the society that has gotten itself into this mess. A question that looms more and more for me is: just what did 30 years of dictatorship do to 25 million people?”

“It’s not like I didn’t think about this,” he continued. “But nonetheless I allowed myself as an activist to put it aside in the hope that it could be worked through, or managed, or exorcised in a way that’s not as violent as is the case now. That did not work out.”

HERE in this two-story Victorian house on a quiet lane south of Porter Square, the thing that “did not work out” seemed very far away. Mr. Makiya was awaiting the arrival for dinner of a former student of his at Brandeis University, where Mr. Makiya is a professor of Islamic and Middle Eastern studies. While musing about Iraq, he admitted his inability to foresee the manifold shortcomings in the American project.

“There were failures at the level of leadership, and they’re overwhelmingly Iraqi failures,” he said. Chief among the culprits, he added, were the Iraqis picked by the Americans in 2003 to sit on the Iraqi Governing Council, many of them exiles who tried to create popular bases for themselves by emphasizing sectarian and ethnic differences.

Mr. Makiya said he preferred not to name names. But it is well known that he had a falling out with Mr. Chalabi after Mr. Chalabi began courting Moktada al-Sadr, the radical Shiite cleric, in order to win support in Iraq’s first national elections. For years before the war, Mr. Makiya had toiled with Mr. Chalabi to organize the Iraqi exiles who, despite disparate ideologies, stood united in their hatred of Mr. Hussein.

Then there is the small issue of American policy. “Everything they could do wrong, they did wrong,” Mr. Makiya said. “The first and the biggest American error was the idea of going for an occupation.”

At Brandeis, Mr. Makiya is exploring all these themes in a class this semester on — what else — post-invasion Iraq.

Because of the course, Mr. Makiya said he did not intend to work full time on the book until summer. For now, his days are consumed by his teaching duties and his obligations to the Iraq Memory Foundation, a nonprofit group he founded to record the brutalities of Mr. Hussein’s rule.

In the living room, eight hard drives contain scans of some of the 11 million pages of government documents collected by the foundation. Mr. Makiya stumbled across some of the documents himself, in abandoned offices in Baghdad after the invasion. They range from birth certificates of Baath Party members to school records to military paperwork.

The foundation has shared some documents with the Iraqi court set up by the Americans to try Mr. Hussein and his aides. Yet, Mr. Makiya refers to Dec. 30, 2006, the day Mr. Hussein was hanged, as “one of the worst days of my life.”

“It was a disaster, an unmitigated disaster,” Mr. Makiya said, his voice rising. “I was just so upset, even on the verge of tears. It was the antithesis of everything I had been working for and hoping for.”

The tribunal did little to expose the all-encompassing cruelty of the Baath Party, Mr. Makiya said. And in failing to control an execution chamber filled with seething Shiite officials and policemen, the Iraqi government “actually succeeded in making Saddam look good in the eyes of the Arab world.”

He added, “Just like everything about the war, it was an opportunity wasted.”

Mustafa Kadhimi, the Baghdad director of the Iraq Memory Foundation, said Mr. Makiya’s faith in his homeland was wavering.

“When Saddam fell, Kanan started to discover many things he didn’t have before in his mind,” Mr. Kadhimi said one afternoon in his office inside the Green Zone. “Kanan is really shocked about what’s going on the ground. He’s starting to lose his hope that we can build a new Iraq, a real Iraq.”

Last summer, Mr. Makiya, who studied architecture at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposed a sweeping urban renewal project to Iraqi officials on a trip to Baghdad. The idea was to create, in the heart of the city, a pedestrians-only green space of several miles.

“You’re talking about a massive rethinking of the city,” Mr. Makiya said, waving his hand across a satellite map of Baghdad hanging on one wall. “Someone has to keep dreaming.”

LIKE so many things in Iraq now, it would remain exactly that — a dream. Mr. Makiya had traveled to Baghdad intending to make his pitch to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. But he met with lower-level officials instead. “There was terrible stuff going on in Baghdad,” he said, “and one did not feel right making a full presentation.”

The doorbell rang. Yoni Morse, Mr. Makiya’s former Brandeis student, had arrived, stomping through the snow with a bottle of wine from Israel. The two sat down at the dinner table with Mr. Makiya’s 12-year-old daughter, Sara, and his third wife, Wallada al-Sarraf. Spread before them were aromatic Iraqi dishes that Ms. Sarraf had cooked — chicken, rice, eggplant with yogurt.

Talk turned to the presidential race. Mr. Morse mentioned the pressure that Hillary Rodham Clinton was facing to apologize for her Senate vote authorizing President Bush to go to war.

Mr. Makiya stared into his glass of red wine. “That’s so Maoist,” he said. “People shouldn’t feel the need to apologize. What is there to apologize for?”
697 2007-03-24 When the Saudi consulate in New York returned the passports of the 11 news reporters and broadcasters to United Nations headquarters on Friday afternoon, only Ms. Azoulay’s bore no Saudi visa. Ms. Montas said this occurred despite repeated appeals to the Saudis during the week from Vijay Nambiar, Mr. Ban’s chief of staff.

Mr. Azoulay joined the trip in London on Thursday, and Ms. Montas said that the United Nations had been told that the visa might come through while the United Nations group proceeded to Cairo and Jordan.

In recent days, though, she said, the Saudi mission did not return calls from United Nations officials, and they have now concluded that Ms. Azoulay will be not be allowed to accompany the United Nations group to Riyadh.

“The Saudis have a lot of countries coming which have no relations to Israel, and it appears they had more concern about that than they did about the United Nations,” said an organization official who asked not to be identified so as to speak frankly.

Mr. Ban will be in Israel on Sunday and then go to Riyadh with only a six-hour stopover in Jordan for a working lunch with King Abdullah II.

Israel granted visas to all 11 news people, including at least 3 who are Arab- or Iranian-born and traveling on European passports.

“When the secretary general decides that he will take under his auspices a group of journalists, then there is some kind of responsibility that he takes upon himself and we respect this and this is the reason Israel granted the visas without hesitation,” said Daniel Carmon, Israel’s deputy United Nations ambassador.

Asked the United Nations’ reaction, Ms. Montas said, “What she was trying to do was to report objectively, which would improve the political climate in the region and would have been an asset to the secretary general’s mission.”
698 2007-03-24 Private equity firms bidding for Qantas Airways scrambled to keep their proposal on track, extending the closing deadline by two weeks as a key shareholder rejected the terms of their offer of 11.1 billion Australian dollars ($8.9 billion).      B...
699 2007-03-25 Suddenly the Atlantic is looking like an even easier hop. 'Open skies' on routes between Europe and the United States would boost travel between many more cities. But environmentalists are crying foul, saying the likely boost in sales would wipe o...
700 2007-03-25 Despite having a higher seed than Rutgers, Arizona State is considered an underdog heading into its regional final matchup with the Scarlet Knights on Monday. The Sun devils say they don't mind....
701 2007-03-25 KINGSTON, Jamaica, March 25 — The Jamaican police said today that their investigation into the death of Bob Woolmer, the Pakistani cricket coach killed a week ago after his team lost a critical World Cup match, was complicated by the fact that many potential witnesses had already left Jamaica.

The police interviewed all members of the Pakistani squad, who were flying out of Jamaica on this evening for London, but others who were staying on the same floor of the hotel where Mr. Woolmer was strangled have left. They include members of the Irish and West Indies teams, who are still in the running for the championship cup and have traveled to matches on other Caribbean islands.

Investigators said they were hoping that closed-circuit videotape from the hotel would help them determine whether any strangers were on the floor between the time Mr. Woolmer went to his room on Saturday night and the next morning, when he was found dead by a hotel maid.

As the police struggled to crack the case, diplomatic tensions were bubbling up. The Pakistani authorities have expressed frustration to their Jamaican counterparts that undue suspicion seemed to be directed at their players, Jamaican officials said. To show that no assumptions were being made about Mr. Woolmer’s killer or killers, Mark Shields, the deputy police commissioner, took two Pakistani diplomats today to the scene of the crime.

“The purpose is to demonstrate to the Pakistani government that this is an open and transparent investigation,” he explained.
702 2007-03-25 TOKYO, March 24 (AP) — Miki Ando did not do the quadruple jump she had been practicing, but her seven triples earned her the women’s title Saturday at the world figure skating championships.

Japan took the top two places. Ando finished with 195.09 points, 0.64 ahead of Mao Asada, who won the free skate to jump to second from fifth.

Kim Yu-na of South Korea, the leader after a record score in the short program, fell twice and ended up with the bronze.

Kimmie Meissner, the defending champion, was the top American, taking fourth. Emily Hughes and Alissa Czisny finished 9th and 15th.
703 2007-03-25 The stock market surged last week in its best weekly performance in many months on optimism that the economy will continue to expand without setting off high inflation.

A statement issued by Federal Reserve policy makers on Wednesday at the end of their regular rate-setting meeting set off the stock market rally. At that meeting, the Fed left its benchmark short-term rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, but it altered the language it had used in previous statements, implying that it was now as likely to lower interest rates as to raise them. Wall Street greeted that change enthusiastically, and the Dow Jones industrial average jumped 159.42 points on Wednesday.

On Friday, an unexpectedly strong report on sales of previously owned homes also buoyed the market, particularly stocks of homebuilders.

For the week, the Dow rose 370.60 points, or 3.06 percent, to close at 12,481.01. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index jumped 49.16 points, or 3.54 percent, to close at 1,436.11. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 76.27 points, or 3.21 percent, to close at 2,448.93.

The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.61 percent from 4.54 percent the previous week.
704 2007-03-25 Rosenberg said he had received “stony silence” from the Yankees and most New York-area sportswriters about his findings. But Jason Zillo, the director of media relations for the Yankees, had a reply when told that Rosenberg was charging his club with an error.

“Combining our rich and storied history with a devoted and intelligent fan base lends itself to, on occasion, differing interpretations of records and facts,” Zillo said. “While we never dismiss input such as Mr. Rosenberg’s, we use a countless number of resources to provide the most complete and accurate statistical facts and figures that is humanly possible.”

Rosenberg found that Griffith was the captain of the New York Highlanders from 1903-5. (In the early years of the 20th century, the franchise that became the Yankees was officially called the New York Americans but was popularly known as the Highlanders.)

An article published in The New York Times on Dec. 10, 1902, reported that National and American League executives were securing grounds in Manhattan for the inaugural season of the Highlanders. Midway through the report, the article said, “Clark Griffith will be the Manager-Captain of the New York American League team.”

An article published on April 20, 1903, in a Washington newspaper, The Evening Star, trumpeted the arrival of opening day, saying, “The New York aggregation is made up of several stars, among whom are Keeler, Fultz and Pitchers Tannehill, Chesbro and Griffith, the latter acting as Captain-Manager.”

By the 1906 season, Griffith was managing the Highlanders. An article published in The Times on April 15, 1906, reported that Griffith and the umpire Tim Hurst were each suspended five days for fighting. That article, noting a three-day suspension that Elberfeld had received for fighting, strongly implied that Elberfeld was the Yankees’ captain. “Elberfeld has been Griffith’s first assistant in directing the team on the field,” the article said. “And now a temporary leader will have to be dug up.”

Hartzell, whose trade to Toledo was announced in a Times article on Dec. 27, 1916, was twice referred to as having served as a Yankees captain, including the phrase the “former Captain of the New York Americans.”

While Rosenberg has not found a specific reference to Chance as a Yankees captain, he has found numerous instances when Chance is called a “peerless leader.” News reports from 1913 said Chance — a longtime member of the Chicago Cubs who played only 12 games for the Yankees in 1913 — had been arguing with umpires on the coaching lines while wearing a Yankees uniform.

“Chance is arguing balls and strikes and other captainlike issues, including the legality of a pitcher’s motion,” Rosenberg said. “In those days, it was the responsibility of the team captain, and not the manager, to argue with umpires.”

The Boston Red Sox and many New England-area newspapers have embraced similar findings by Rosenberg. When the Red Sox announced in December 2004 that Jason Varitek would become the team’s 18th captain, they did so only after considering Rosenberg’s research. The Red Sox, established in 1901, had believed that Varitek was only the fourth captain in their history.

“We didn’t know that we had that many captains until Howard provided us with his information,” said Dick Bresciani, Boston’s vice president emeritus for public relations and archives. “Once we had Howard’s information, which looked very authentic, we were able to say that Varitek was our 18th captain.”

Rosenberg said it would be “a great thrill” if he could get Boston’s archrival to rewrite a page from its own storied history.

“This is a significant piece of research related to a notable player of today,” Rosenberg said. “If the Yankees wish for this to become historically accurate, they must correct this mistake.”
705 2007-03-25 Currently, only 48 percent of our tributaries are open for recreation. The administration’s goal for water quality is an ambitious one, and has always been to “open 90 percent of our waterways for recreation by reducing water pollution and preserving our natural areas.”

PlaNYC is an open process, and we are looking to all New Yorkers for ideas. The planning process has strengthened our commitment to look beyond “end of pipe” solutions, and we look forward to continuing our work with partners both in and out of government to improve public access to all of our waterways and tributaries.

Thomas Beller’s “cycle” of good lost-and-found karma proves to be typical for our honest, upright metropolis (“Lost, in Translation,” New York Observed, March 18).

Recently, the students in my urban studies seminar at Barnard College conducted an experiment, systematically dropping wallets all over the city to see whether or not New Yorkers would return them. The results surprised us all: in 132 drops from the Bronx to Brooklyn, the wallet was stolen only two times. The overwhelming majority of wallets were returned, with New Yorkers sometimes going to extreme lengths, like running down streets and missing subway trains, to help.

The other surprising result? The two stolen wallets were both taken during drops made on the tony Upper East Side, from blocks where median family income is $126,000 per year. Perhaps what goes around doesn’t come around.
706 2007-03-25 By day, lawmakers feud over the state budget with new-found intensity. But at dusk, Albany’s legislative routines revert to normal. Sundown is fund-raising hour in the state capital, the time when every restaurant or club or hotel has a room or two with an open bar and a few tough canapés and a lawmaker shaking hands in exchange for campaign checks.

To be fair, nobody much enjoys these evening routines — not the politicians and not even the lobbyists. But they all know that New York’s public servants have to party, party, party every night after work if they’re going to milk their share of the available special-interest money.

What worries us about Albany’s cocktail climate is not what it does to the legislators’ health or even their marriages. It is how these sad little events warp the way lawmakers do business. Campaign contributions come almost exclusively from lobbyists (there are now a stunning 24 lobbyists per legislator in Albany). And they are handed out for one reason — to open a lawmaker’s door so that a friendly bill can be shoved through it.

This is not about supporting a candidate you agree with. This is about supporting a candidate so that the candidate agrees with you.

So it is no wonder that despite improvements in ethics, budgeting and other welcome reforms, the campaign financing law for New York’s lawmakers remains “more loophole than law” as Rachel Leon of Common Cause puts it. To revamp this unfair system, New York should begin public financing of campaigns. Contribution limits need to be reduced and enforced. And the disclosure laws, which read like something written in the quill pen era, need to be modernized to give voters up-to-the-minute information about who is paying whom.
707 2007-03-25 A. It’s an extremely secretive industry, more secretive than the food industry, from our experience. A lot of that has to do with animal research, and pressure from animal rights groups not to do research on cats and dogs.

Q. What research is done by these companies? After reports last month that its food was making pets ill, Menu Foods tested its product on animals, nine of which died.

A. It’s usually taste preferences. A great deal of the industry’s effort is making cats, for example, go for Product A instead of Product B. You cook up flavor additives — a mixture of chemicals and food ingredients — line up hungry cats, and that’s basically the extent of the research. In addition to making sure the formulation supports growth of kittens and puppies.

Q. What’s in pet food then? Is it regulated?

A. Pet food is regulated by the F.D.A. through the same state agencies that regulate food for farm animals. But product excluded from animal feed can go into pet food — meat and bone meal, nervous system tissue — parts of animals not allowed for anything else. There were cases of mad-cow disease in cats in England. The opportunity for cheap byproducts is much greater in pet foods. The assumption is that better brands don’t do that, but it’s not verified.

Q. If a few companies are making many of the brands, are pet foods all the same then?

A. Nutritionally, they have to meet the same industry standards, though they’re priced very differently. You read the labels and they all look alike — corn is the first ingredient in a lot of dry food.

Q. Why are some brands more expensive?

A. The quality of the ingredients. Are you using human-grade food or food that humans wouldn’t care to eat? It doesn’t matter to animals but it matters to the people who own them.

A. When you see food claims on breakfast cereal — for instance, that it lowers cholesterol — there has to be some scientific substantiation behind them. Pet foods have claims on them, that they support a healthy immune system, reduce risk of whatever, but they don’t have to be supported by large amounts of science. They’re worded in such a way that doesn’t violate the F.D.A.’s labeling rules. I think the F.D.A. will have to take a much closer look at pet foods — this is the second recall in a short time.

Q. What do cats and dogs enjoy eating?

A. Cats don’t have a taste for sugar; they don’t taste sweet things. They have a particular taste for what is referred to in the industry as “animal extract” — God knows what’s in it. Dogs can taste sweet, but, dogs will eat anything. Cats are very fussy, as any cat owner will tell you. The one thing that’s never been studied is to find out how long it would take for a cat to eat something it doesn’t like — owners never wait it out. People are very attached to their pets, and it’s painful to watch a cat not eat.

Q. Should owners prepare their own food for pets or feed them table scraps?

A. There’s evidence that dogs can be fed table scraps and do quite well, provided they’re healthy table scraps — meat, dairy, vegetables, fruit. The problem is a lot of humans don’t eat that way.
708 2007-03-25 But now that Mel Karmazin, chief executive of the company, wants to merge with XM Satellite Radio Holdings, he is making it clear to members of Congress that subscribers who object to the talk show do not have to feel as if they are paying Mr. Stern’s $100-million-a-year salary.

Listeners could choose to pay only for the channels they want, Mr. Karmazin said in response to Senator Sam Brownback, the Kansas Republican and presidential candidate, who said that some people call Sirius’s programming “pornographic.” Such a plan is a major departure from the cable and satellite industry practice of forcing subscribers to buy a complete package of channels to get the ones they do want. Both satellite radio channels let listeners block channels they don’t want, but they still have to ante up the monthly subscriber fee. ELIZABETH OLSON

MORE THAN CAB FARE You could say that John Leahy, the top salesman at Airbus, has given his heart to the new double-decker, super-jumbo A380 that landed at Kennedy Airport last week. Mr. Leahy called it a “personal honor” to be on the inaugural flight because, in his youth, he was a cab driver who picked up fares at Kennedy and watched the planes fly overhead. (A video tour of the Airbus can be viewed at nytimes.com. )

This week, he was Airbus’s man of the hour, chatting up analysts, investors and the media, and being the master of ceremonies on Wednesday as the A380 took a V.I.P. swing over the skies of Manhattan — with all-important money managers and Wall Street analysts in first class and others back in economy. There was no executive more ubiquitous than Mr. Leahy and his rapid-patter promotion of the virtues of the eight-story-high, 1.2-million-pounds aerial behemoth on its maiden voyage to New York.

But these have not been easy days for the A380 — or Mr. Leahy. Doctors have told him to slow down, orders he has obviously ignored, after having emergency heart surgery in November. That health crisis came just as one big customer, FedEx, canceled a $3 billion order.

The A380 itself is two years late in delivery and has yet to find an American customer.

Yet the ever-ebullient Mr. Leahy was ready to pull out his order book at a press conference for the $300 million plane: “We have special discounts being offered today.” LESLIE WAYNE

SUPER PAY Super Mario is still able to leap over Wall Street’s highest-paid chief executives in a single bound.

Mario J. Gabelli, the chairman of his own mutual fund company, Gamco Investors, received $58.2 million in compensation in 2006. That was more than the pay of any senior executive of a major Wall Street firm, topping even the $54.7 million received by Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs.

To put that in perspective: Gamco has $28 billion in assets under management, while Goldman took in more than that just last quarter, $35 billion, and now has more than $700 billion.

Since he took his company public in 1999, Mr. Gabelli’s total compensation has surpassed $435 million.

AFTER THE STORM Here is one more possible reason for JetBlue Airways’s fiasco during the winter’s storms. It did not fill the position of vice president for its hub operations at Kennedy Airport in New York for half a year — the half that has the ice and snow.

Last week, though, it hired Alexander Battaglia, who has 24 years of experience with Delta Air Lines, most recently directing Delta’s operations at Kennedy. Delta presumably will not take as long to fill the vacancy. ELIZABETH OLSON
709 2007-03-25 I HAVE gotten a most unusual rush of mail since my last column — photographs of Katie the wheaten terrier, Olive the Jack Russell terrier, Harley the toy poodle, and Nukka and Brody, who appear to be border collies and who seem to be sharing an office cubicle with a python who looks to be in the midst of digesting what I can only hope is not a colleague’s pet.

I often write about children in this space, and no one has ever sent me a photo of their baby. I write about dogs at work once, and now I have a gallery.

There was another kind of mail last week, no photos attached. Few complete names either, because the writers were sharing thoughts that they feared could hurt them at work — namely, that they don’t think pets belong at the office. “You can’t use my name because then I’ll be known as the one who hates dogs,” one anonymous caller told my voice mail. “I don’t hate dogs. I love dogs; I grew up with a sheepdog. But it just seems unprofessional.”

Many who contacted me described their allergies.

“My husband and I adore dogs and have a wonderful poodle we would love to have with us all the time,” one e-mail message began. “But my husband has life-threatening asthma triggered by many breeds of dogs. For a while he worked in an office where the boss would bring his dog to work. Because he already had a rocky relationship with the boss, my husband felt he couldn’t say anything and just had to bring his inhaler and pray he wouldn’t wind up in the emergency room.”

Others objected to the smells, noise and mess that come with animals.

“On a recent Monday,” one reader wrote, “I began my workweek with the discovery that a dog had defecated under my desk. When I tracked down the pooch’s owner, she informed me that her pet had wandered off while she was working in the building over the weekend. I own a dog myself, love my furry friend, but wouldn’t dream of bringing her to the office. It’s highly inappropriate for a business setting.”
710 2007-03-25 Mr. Bezos figured that what had been useful to Amazon would be valuable to other businesses, too. The company opened Mechanical Turk as a public site in November 2005. Today, there are more than 100,000 “Turk Workers” in more than 100 countries who earn micropayments in exchange for completing a wide range of quick tasks called HITs, for human intelligence tasks, for various companies.

PriceGrabber.com, a comparison shopping site, uses Mechanical Turk to match images to the product pages. “Harnessing the power of this enormous, decentralized work force allows us to obtain images for a wide variety of items in a fraction of the time it would have taken to do it ourselves,” said Sagar M. Jethani, PriceGrabber’s director of content development and community.

Mechanical Turk’s customers are corporations. By contrast, ChaCha.com, a start-up in Carmel, Ind., uses artificial artificial intelligence — sometimes also called crowdsourcing — to help individual computer users find better results when they search the Web. ChaCha, which began last year, pays 30,000 flesh-and-blood “guides” working from home or the local coffee shop as much as $10 an hour to direct Web surfers to the most relevant resources.

Amazon makes money from Mechanical Turk by charging companies 10 percent of the price of a successfully completed HIT. For simple HITs that cost less than 1 cent, Amazon charges half a cent. ChaCha intends to make money the way most other search companies do: by charging advertisers for contextually relevant links and advertisements.

Harnessing the collective wisdom of crowds isn’t new. It is employed by many of the “Web 2.0” social networks like Digg and Del.icio.us, which rely on human readers to select the most worthwhile items on the Web to read. But creating marketplaces of mercenary intelligences is genuinely novel.

What is it like to be an individual component of these digital, collective minds?

To find out, I experimented. After registering at www.mturk.com, I was confronted with a table of HITs that I could perform, together with the price that I would be paid. I first accepted a job from ContentSpooling.net that asked me to write three titles for an article about annuities and their use in retirement planning. Then I viewed a series of images apparently captured from a vehicle moving through the gray suburbs of North London, and, at the request of Geospatial Vision, a division of the British technology company Oxford Metrics Group, identified objects like road signs and markings.

For all this, my Amazon account was credited the lordly sum of 12 cents. The entire experience lasted no more than 15 minutes, and from my point of view, as an occluded part of the hive-mind, it made no sense at all.

I was also interested in learning what it was like to be a consumer of crowdsourcing. So at 2:40 p.m. on March 14, I asked ChaCha, “Who was Evelyn Waugh’s commanding officer in the Commandos during World War II?” In an instant-messaging window, CandieSue22087 immediately welcomed me to ChaCha and asked me to be patient.

At 2:44, CandieSue threw up her virtual hands and transferred me to another guide, Tressie57635, who referred me to an academic paper on “suffixal sound symbolism in the novels of Evelyn Waugh.” When I protested, Tressie complained that it was a hard search, and at 2:49 she gave up, typing that I might do better with yet another guide. When I agreed, Tressie accidentally ended the search altogether — but not before serving me a page of 12 search results, not one of which was relevant.

A quick search on Google quickly provided the right answer.

THERE have been two common objections to artificial artificial intelligence. The first, confirmed by my own experiences searching on ChaCha, is that the networks are no more intelligent than their smartest members. Katharine Mieszkowski, writing last year on Salon.com, raised the second, more serious criticism. She saw Mechanical Turk as a kind of virtual sweatshop. “There is something a little disturbing about a billionaire like Bezos dreaming up new ways to get ordinary folk to do work for him for pennies,” she wrote.

The ever-genial Mr. Bezos dismisses the criticism. “MTurk is a marketplace where folks who have work meet up with folks who want to do work,” he said.

Why do people become Turk Workers and ChaCha Guides? In poor countries, the money earned could offer a significant contribution to a family’s wealth. But even Mr. Bezos concedes that Turk Workers from rich countries probably can’t live on the small sums involved. “The people I’ve seen commenting on blogs seem mostly to be using MTurk as a supplemental form of income,” he said.

Mitch Fernandez, 38, a disabled former United States Army linguist, said by e-mail that he became a Turk Worker for various reasons: “At first, I was just curious about the idea of crowdsourcing.” But he said he soon found that by working about two hours a day, he could often earn more than $100 a week. In the last nine months he made around $4,000, which he used to buy a high-definition television, a DVD player and a new subwoofer — all from Amazon.com.

“I do this primarily for the money, but I also view it as a form of therapy to get me used to working again.” he explained. “The experience has gotten me thinking about pursuing a library science degree.”

We probably have at least another 25 years before computers are more powerful than human brains, according to the most optimistic artificial intelligence experts. Until then, people will be able to sell their idle brains to the companies and people who need the special processing power that they alone possess through marketplaces like Mechanical Turk and ChaCha.
711 2007-03-25 True, the couple could buy carpet. But Ms. Funk thinks raw floorboards are “better looking and healthier.”

Besides, she said of her sons, “it’s good for them to learn to be respectful of the business.”

For Ms. Funk and Mr. Avsar, this is the latest in a series of living arrangements that have blurred the line between home and work. Before the children were born, they lived in a tiny room above their factory in Williamsburg, with no heat or air-conditioning. That lasted two years. “We’re both frugal,” Ms. Funk said.

They moved, they said, only when they decided to have a child. Mr. Avsar said he remembered telling Ms. Funk, who is in charge of finances, “If you can figure out a way to make the money, we can have a baby.” After their second child was born, they lived in a 700-square-foot apartment in Williamsburg, which they shared by day with their employees.

“The living room was the design studio, the kitchen was the conference room and there were three or four people working in the bedroom,” Ms. Funk recalled. In the meantime, they continued opening stores, including one in SoHo and two others, last year, in Chelsea and Greenwich Village.

All together, they have shared seven homes since meeting at Omi, an artists’ colony in Ghent, N.Y., in 1995. At the time, they were both working artists. Mr. Avsar, who was born in Turkey, was planning to move back to Ankara, where he had a teaching position. Ms. Funk, who was born to American parents but raised in England, was planning to depart for Paris.

But after falling in love, they decided to remain in the United States. (Mr. Avsar eventually became a United States citizen.) To support their art careers, they took day jobs — she in an advertising agency, he in a restaurant — but soon decided they would rather work for themselves. They set up a production company in Chelsea, making television commercials and documentaries.

In 1998, Mr. Avsar became fascinated by a Marlboro billboard outside his studio window. It had been up for six months, “so I knew it was a durable material,” he said. Eventually he dragged a discarded billboard — a vast sheet of plastic — up to his studio and began sewing it into messenger bags. “When Lexy came back from Australia, where she had been working on a documentary, I said, ‘I have a product.’ ”

Soon they were producing the bags in a small factory in Williamsburg. They opened their first store in that neighborhood in August 2001, while living in a railroad flat in Greenpoint. That year, after deciding to focus on selling, they began scaling back their manufacturing operation. For a time, Ms. Funk ran the company from a small house in Athens, N.Y., while Mr. Avsar oversaw the business in Brooklyn. (During that stage, he slept in the back of a store, visiting the family upstate on Wednesdays and Thursdays, then returning to the city for the weekend rush.)

When their second child was born, they decided the commuter relationship was too taxing and rented the apartment in Williamsburg that also housed their office.

They moved to their current home, in downtown Brooklyn, in 2005. Mr. Avsar said the building they now live in was the first he ever really noticed after arriving in New York from Turkey 10 years earlier. He was staying with friends across the street, and he was intrigued by a scuba store on the ground floor of the building. “With the scuba gear lit up at night,” he said, “it seemed surreal, like an art installation.”

Over the years, he kept an eye on the building, and when the retail space became available, he jumped. When the landlord offered the couple the chance to rent the upstairs, too, they signed a seven-year lease.

The apartment, which is a rectangle about 20 feet wide and 80 feet long, had been broken into smaller spaces by the previous tenants. The couple took down one big wall, leaving the entire space open. For the first six months, they lived in tents, they said. Eventually they built three small bedrooms at one end of the space, but left the rest undivided. “I like that I can be cooking, and Vahap can be working on the computer, and the boys can be playing, all in the same room,” Ms. Funk remarked.

Some of the furnishings are display pieces that did not quite work in the stores. The artwork hanging on the wall includes a print by Aslan, whose drawings have occasionally ended up on Brooklyn Industries T-shirts. But the couple aren’t all business; they have recently upgraded their kitchen, with cabinets from Ikea, and Ms. Funk likes to cook for friends as often as she can. Recently, they were host to 24 friends to celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary.

In February, after vacating a 22,000-square-foot warehouse in South Williamsburg in favor of a larger facility opposite the Brooklyn Navy Yard, they decided to retain the space, in part as a way of supporting a still-struggling neighborhood. So they turned it into a gallery, where they have begun showing the work of contemporary artists, including several of their friends.

“We had always dreamed of having a gallery,” Ms. Funk said, “but we didn’t know it would happen this soon.” The first show contained a video piece by Ms. Funk and Mr. Avsar in which they walk backward across the desert in Arizona on in-line skates.

They plan to open more stores — they are considering sites in Philadelphia, Boston and Chicago — but only one at a time. “We’re slow burners,” Mr. Avsar said.

As for their personal lives, Ms. Funk says she thinks about relocating, perhaps to a place near Prospect Park, where the boys would be able to run around outside. “We’re nomadic by nature,” she said. “Two years seems to be our limit.”

But, she added, “I’m trying to fight that desire to move.”
712 2007-03-25 IT’S finally business as usual for some businesses on Route 9A, more than nine months after the most powerful tornado in the county’s history tore through the area.

The July 12 twister, identified as a powerful F2 — on a scale of 0 to 5 — hit the hamlet hard, lifting a police car off the ground and damaging several businesses, including three restaurants on Route 9: Applebee’s, the Oriental Diner and Tramonto.

But it was a California Closets that fared the worst, sustaining what Laressa Gjonaj, a marketing director, described as millions of dollars in damage — including a collapsed roof and extensive water damage when the sprinkler system activated. Fortunately, no one was hurt.

California Closets moved from its two-story brick building to a temporary site several doors away. Employees were forced to share offices in the rental space, which was lacking in other departments as well. “There was no showroom, so we couldn’t actually show people our products,” Ms. Gjonaj said.

California Closets returned in January to its 55,000-square-foot building, which has a showroom, a warehouse and an office. Customer traffic is also back to pretornado levels. “Route 9A is pretty busy,” Ms. Gjonaj said, “so once people saw cars in our parking lot, they started coming in.”

While many fallen trees still line Route 9A, things are returning to normal across the street at Tramonto. The Italian restaurant closed for about 24 hours after the tornado destroyed its sign, smashed outdoor tables and chairs, ripped out dining room tiles and sent trees crashing across the parking lot.
713 2007-03-25 Growing up black in this racially mixed township between Trenton and Princeton, Rob and Bayshawn had heard the word mainly in rap videos and movies. No one had ever wielded it against them before.

“I didn’t know how my family would react to it,” said Bayshawn, 18, who had told nobody before that evening in Ms. Wilborn’s car. “I wanted the job, and I didn’t want them to take that away from me.”

Rob’s silence had similar roots. “That was my first job, and I was excited when I saw the paycheck,” he said. They made $6.50 an hour, working evenings until closing and all day on weekends. “The money wasn’t much,” Rob said, “but it was mine.”

Ms. Wilborn made the boys quit, then took them to the state attorney general’s office in Trenton, where the law, she told them, was on their side. In August 2005 they walked in and filed a complaint with the State Division on Civil Rights. For more than a year the case was stalled, awaiting a response, which never came, from either the owner or the manager of the Subway.

Two football seasons passed for Rob and Bayshawn, and two Colonial Valley Conference championships for the Lawrence Cardinals. Just as they had stood together behind the Subway counter, Rob and Bayshawn stood side by side on the field as the punt return team.

Rob was also the team’s star cornerback, assigned to cover each opponent’s best receiver; he had six interceptions in the Cardinals’ 9-1 season last fall. Bayshawn was the star running back, scoring 17 touchdowns. In 2005 he set a school record with a 92-yard punt return.

“This year not many people punted to him, but when they did, they paid the price,” said the Lawrence head coach, Rob Radice, who described Rob and Bayshawn as “the kind of kids you want your own kids to be like and be around.”

Subway was ordered to pay a price, too. After a hearing at which nobody from Subway appeared to testify, an administrative law judge recently found that Rob and Bayshawn had been subjected to “extremely egregious” harassment that was “designed to inflict lasting harm,” and awarded each of them $60,000, plus $2,433 in back wages.

At the Subway on March 14, a middle-aged man who said he was the owner, and who identified himself only as Mr. Patel, referred questions to a lawyer, George Psak, who declined to comment.

A spokesman for Subway, Les Winograd, said by e-mail that the Lawrence Township location, like all the chain’s restaurants, is individually owned and operated. “We are clearly upset by and do not condone the actions alleged to have taken place,” he said.

Rob and Bayshawn aren’t sure when, or even if, they will see the money the judge awarded them, but they have earmarked it for college. They were both recruited to play football at Hudson Valley Community College near Albany next fall, and they hope to continue from there to a four-year school.

“I told them I was proud of them,” said Mr. Radice, who teaches American Civilization II to juniors. “I teach a civil rights unit, and you talk about civil rights activists in our country who used passive ways to resist, and they certainly practiced that.”

He will have to replace Rob and Bayshawn on his roster, but their story may linger in his classroom. “It hasn’t come up yet, but I’m close,” he said. “I’m just in my second lesson.”
714 2007-03-25 Q A recent letter from our managing agent about our co-op’s insurance coverage suggested that residents’ homeowners’ policies include a loss-assessment rider to “cover certain types of losses incurred by the corporation, which would then be assessed on all shareholders in the form a loss assessment.” Is the suggested rider necessary, or is it simply a matter of cost shifting by the co-op?

A “Loss-assessment coverage is automatically included under a cooperative or condominium homeowners’ policy,” said Robert E. Mackoul, the president of Mackoul & Associates, an insurance brokerage in Long Beach, N.Y.

Mr. Mackoul said such coverage provides that in the event a co-op or condo does not have adequate insurance for a claim against the building and it then imposes an assessment to cover the shortfall, the individual homeowner’s policy provides coverage for that assessment.

“The amount of individual coverage can vary from company to company, but it is usually $1,000 to $10,000,” he said, adding that for an additional premium of anywhere from $25 to $50 a year, the coverage can be increased to $25,000 to $50,000.

Mr. Mackoul said that the managing agent’s suggestion was probably not a matter of cost shifting by the co-op, but was most likely intended to make shareholders aware that coverage was available and perhaps the limits of that coverage.
715 2007-03-25 The Nassau County Clerk, Maureen O’Connell, did not invent or install the alarmingly creaky administrative systems and procedures that her office uses to do its job. But she has run the place since 2006, long enough to assume the brunt of responsibility for the appalling weaknesses revealed in an audit of her office released last week by Howard Weitzman, the county comptroller.

The audit found that the County Clerk’s office is essentially a mom-and-pop shop lacking basic financial controls and oversight, with an approach to accounting that is less sophisticated than that of many small businesses and utterly ill-suited to a government department that handles $300 million a year in revenues.

Mr. Weitzman did not accuse Ms. O’Connell or anyone else in her office of committing or countenancing fraud. But he pointed out that fraud — not to mention honest mistakes — would be impossible to detect, given the office’s essential lack of a functioning accounting system.

His investigators found, among other things, that a lone deputy clerk had responsibility for almost all the office’s financial dealings, receiving and investing money, transferring funds and recording transactions without any oversight or backup staff. Cashiers were allowed to waive or reduce fees and taxes without getting a supervisor’s approval or recording the reason. As for written policies and procedural manuals to govern how the office handles cash and keeps its books — they aren’t used, Mr. Weitzman said, because they don’t exist.

Ms. O’Connell’s immediate response to the audit was defensive. She blamed the county for not giving her the money to hire enough staff and accused Mr. Weitzman, a Democrat, of waging a partisan attack against one of the few Republicans left in Nassau County government.

Her arguments do not hold up. For one thing, the audit was begun during her predecessor’s tenure and was kept confidential by Mr. Weitzman so that it would not influence the recent special-election campaign for a state Senate seat between Ms. O’Connell and the Democrat who won, Craig Johnson. Her complaints about staffing might have had more credibility had she initiated reforms — or plans for reforms — sooner and not resisted cooperating with Mr. Weitzman’s investigators, imposing what he called “strict” and “unjustified” limitations on their research.
716 2007-03-25 Re “Zoning Out the Future” (Op-Ed, March 17): Vince Polimeni and his fellow developers pitch their ideas in ways that try to convince the rest of us that their primary goal is altruistic — that the continued construction of amusement parks and strip malls is really in the public interest. Sorry, but we’re not buying it.

We “regular folks” would like to live in a peaceful, quiet environment where we can still enjoy the things that make Long Island a great place to live — open space, clean water and fresh air.

We’ve watched the gobbling up of more and more of our open space. Enough is enough. We’d like to see alternative proposals that preserve our open space.

Development that addresses the needs for affordable middle-class housing, appropriate commercial space and preserved open, public spaces is critical to Long Island. But Charles B. Wang’s plan for Plainview was clearly not that. Vince Polimeni bemoans that protesters “quashed it altogether.”

A cross-representation of the community came out to voice their concerns about a developer who was proposing high-end condominiums and rentals, a hotel, a conference center, retail spaces, office space and enclosed private land that would have benefited the few, not the many. The plan had just a handful of low-cost “next generation” housing and housing for the elderly.
717 2007-03-25 The headline of Anthony Tommasini’s March 18 article asks “Can what you know affect what you hear?” The answer is a resounding yes. Some years ago a friend, irritated by my comments about Alfred Brendel’s “cold, aloof” playing, made a tape of two performances of Mozart’s Piano Concerto in G (K. 453). I was told that one was by Mr. Brendel, and that I was to listen to both at least twice before deciding which one it was. After four sessions I chose unerringly — wrong. The other version, incidentally, was by Arthur Rubinstein.

Susan H. Llewellyn

Manhattan

In light of recent revelations that critically lauded piano recordings marketed under Joyce Hatto’s name were actually illegal copies of other artists’ discs, Mr. Tommasini is surely correct in noting that context influences how we hear music. Were it otherwise, concert attire and program notes would presumably be superfluous. But isn’t the underlying reason for this fiasco that today’s professional-level classical performances all sound pretty much alike? So long as performers continue to place much more emphasis on fidelity to a score than on interpretative individuality, context will be practically all that matters. 

Ben Givan

 Saratoga Springs, N.Y.

A. O. Scott imagines a moment when you “will be able to watch whatever you want whenever you want in the setting of your choice.” But the setting of my choice is a large, dark, quiet theater with excellent projection and an excellent print. For most movies this is not available. Similarly, Manohla Dargis “can’t relate” to critics who “wax nostalgic about the big-screen experience.” For her, movies are movies whether on a theater screen, a laptop or a plane. This is like saying that Vermeer is Vermeer, whether on the wall of the Frick or reproduced on a postcard.

 Michael Jorrin

Ridgefield, Conn.

Re “Unfurling the Hidden Work of a Lifetime” by Steven Henry Madoff [March 18]:

The revelation of Clyfford Still as an artist too prissy to share a wall with other painters might do his legacy more harm than good. I can’t wait for the inevitable Still biopic: a self-important iceberg doling out a single cup of coffee as he expounds on his own greatness. 

Stephen Conn

Las Cruces, N.M.
718 2007-03-25 The Language Mavenhood is becoming less pluralistically ignorant.

That is not a good lead sentence. In one swell foop, it raises the question: What is the Language Mavenhood? And poses another question: What is pluralistic ignorance? (It poses and raises but does not beg any question. Never use that to mean “plead for an answer”; the phrase, from petitio principi, means “to assume what needs to be proved,” and such circular reasoners offend every logician. Use “begs the question” only when you mean “ducks the question.”)

The above parenthetical diktat is brought to you courtesy of the Language Mavenhood, whose members know who they are. The term pluralistic ignorance, however, needs definition even to the Mavenhood. It means “a situation in which a group does not realize how large it is — not necessarily a majority, but larger than any other group making up a given population.” Thus, amid the elitist Language Snobs and the anarchic Language Slobs, among mediacrities and hip-hopocratic jargonauts shooting the Utubes and pretending to be Serius, there stands the fastest-growing crowd of all: un-self-aware writers and speakers, lovers of the language fascinated by its roots and user-judges of its flowering.

The reason for today’s uncharacteristic cri de cerveau is the cache of e-mail that has come in from all over the world in response to a hook placed in this column two weeks ago fishing for the origin and meaning of the vogue expression go figure. A sample:

From Linda Rosul of the U. of Illinois at Chicago: “I’m writing from Peru, and would note that in Spanish we say ‘Así es,’ which literally means ‘there it is’ and has much the same meaning as ‘it figures’ but perhaps lacks some of the puzzlement.”

From Myles Potters, location unknown: “I think go figure has less emphasis on figuring something out and is more of a revelation that something just is, peppered with a hint of disbelief that it can be so.”

From Michael Aaron, Perigord, France: “ ‘Who would have guessed?’ or “ ‘What are the chances?’ might be sufficient, if longer, substitutes for go figure, which imparts a sense of befuddlement; thus it can be interpreted as a type of statement-question.”
719 2007-03-25 Although Granta has just named him one of the best young American novelists under the age of 35, Daniel Alarcón makes me think not of a novelist but of the late Polish journalist Ryszard Kapuscinski. Alarcón shares Kapuscinski’s candor and eye for detail, and his ambitious book, “Lost City Radio” — about the vacuum war creates in the lives of those who survive it — almost feels like a response to an argument Kapuscinski once made: “There can be a thousand topics. But in the end there will only be one: reminiscences from the war.”

Alarcón’s first novel is set in an unnamed South American country 10 years after the end of a dirty civil war. Though the rebel faction has been disgraced and the debris cleared away, many people are still trying to locate the missing and confirm the identities of the dead. It’s no surprise, then, that the nation’s most popular radio show, “Lost City Radio,” tries to reunite families separated by the conflict. Everyone is looking for someone — even Norma, the program’s host, whose husband disappeared the year hostilities ended. Refugees in the barrio and villagers in the mountains tune in as she reads the names of the missing, but the show is a farce: if the “disappeared” can’t be found, the station hires actors and stages reunions. Nevertheless, when a boy from the town where her husband was last seen appears at the station, Norma decides to renew her search.

As she does, the novel also looks back at the lives of its four central characters: Norma; her husband, Rey; the young boy, Victor; and Victor’s teacher, Manau. Writing in tight, rhythmic prose, Alarcón describes the night Norma and Rey first met at a dance: “Rey was gliding through the crowd, in time with the song. Bam! A snare, a cymbal, a pulse within the music: the tight skin of the drum singing war! She was drunk, she realized, and her feet were moving without her.”

Alarcón’s writing is strengthened by reportorial detachment. Even the cruelty Rey endures when he’s arrested and tortured is depicted in matter-of-fact style: “They buried him in a pit and he stood there for seven days, unable even to bend his knees properly, unable to squat. The hole was covered with wooden boards, with tiny slats wide enough to see a sliver of the sky: just a sliver, but enough to pray on.”

This book has the same vigor that made Alarcón’s debut short-story collection, “War by Candlelight,” such a delight. But at the same time it lacks the dramatic punch of those stories — perhaps less a reflection on Alarcón’s abilities as a novelist than an indication of his willingness to take risks. Rather than play it safe and replicate work that has already earned applause, Alarcón (a Peruvian who was educated in the United States and now teaches in California) chose to try a complex novel with an omniscient narrator.

Yet he never establishes a solid relationship between the story and this narrator, who becomes increasingly intrusive. The first third of the book is evenhanded, allowing various characters to come forward. But the final parts capriciously switch point of view within chapters, sections, even paragraphs — jolts that sequester the rising action in flashback and permit the characters to confront their memories rather than one another. This tactic also diffuses the impact of the war, that “single, implacably violent entity” on which the plot hinges.
720 2007-03-25 At the state level, personal income taxes produce about 39 percent of revenues. But over all, state income taxes aren’t very progressive — because in many states, people pay the same tax rate regardless of their income. And several states, including populous ones like Florida and Texas, don’t have an income tax. Sales taxes, which closely track the behavior of the broad consuming public, account for about 37 percent of state revenues. Combine these two features, and it means that state tax receipts, like Wal-Mart’s sales, are more likely to depend on how much the average consumer is earning and spending.

In terms of recent revenue growth, at least, the federal government is more like Saks. Its taxes derive largely from payroll and income taxes, with a significant contribution from corporate income taxes. The federal income tax is progressive, with brackets from 10 percent to 35 percent. So an economy in which corporations and high-income workers are thriving, and in which median incomes are barely budging, would still produce a large increase in tax revenue.

That’s precisely what has happened in recent years. As corporate profits have increased sharply, corporate income taxes soared to $353.9 billion in fiscal 2006 from $131.8 billion in fiscal 2003. And as Emmanuel Saez, professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, has noted, the incomes of the top 1 percent rose dramatically from 2003 to 2005, from 14.9 percent of the total to 17.4 percent.

The combination of rising corporate profits and rising income for those in high tax brackets has produced a gusher of federal revenue. Federal tax receipts rose 12.7 percent in 2005 and 11.75 percent in 2006, according to the Office of Management and Budget, far outpacing the growth rate of the economy, and of state tax revenues.

“Because the income tax is so concentrated, a shift in income to those in the higher brackets will boost revenues more than the economy as a whole will grow,” said Max Sawicky, economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a research organization in Washington.

So which tax coffers are now providing a more accurate picture of the overall economy? Some analysts say the state data, which more closely mirrors the experience and habits of typical consumers, can be an important coincident indicator. “If you were to see a significant decline in the amount of state sales taxes, it would be a good indication that the economy is struggling,” said Bert Waisanen, fiscal analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver.

AT the federal level, however, growth in tax revenue is more likely to be a lagging indicator, especially when the economy is enjoying an investment boom, as it did in the 1990s and has done in recent years. Because they are rely so much on the profits and capital gains made by corporations and individuals, federal revenues tend to fall after investment bubbles pop, or when bull markets end. For example, federal revenues continued to fall in 2002 and 2003, long after the economy resumed growth in 2001. And while the housing sector peaked last year, many of the companies and investors that may lose money on housing and housing-related stocks won’t be recognizing the losses until this year or next.

In the meantime, the figures emanating from state treasuries, and from the federal Treasury, will likely echo the sense of confusion among analysts, who are unsure whether the recent slowdown in economic growth is temporary, or a harbinger of further declines. As the Federal Reserve Open Market Committee noted last week as it announced that it would leave interest rates unchanged: “recent indicators have been mixed.”
721 2007-03-25 As a downtown store clerk said, “No one’s burning cars, either way.”

As a Duke professor mentioned, “There is a ‘let it end’ sense to it because the case has been so screwed up.”

As the father of the accuser recently told The Herald-Sun, of Durham, he still believes in his daughter, but he described her as tired and isolated and “hates that she ever reported it.”

What happens if all the charges are dismissed? There is a tendency to conflate the alleged crime at the Duke lacrosse team kegger on March 13, 2006, with the irrefutable culture of misogyny, racial animus and athlete entitlement that went unrestrained that night.

Porn-style photos of two exotic dancers — one of whom was the accuser — emerged from cellphone camera downloads. Heated exchanges between players and dancers occurred. Racial slurs were heard. And in an “American Psycho” reference, a repulsive e-mail message depicting the skinning of strippers was sent by a player, Ryan McFadyen, who, to his credit, has since apologized.

To many, the alleged crime and culture are intertwined. No trial, all vindication. This microview has some passionate, respectful followers, but also a few loquacious bullies.

Some of them have expressed their anger with threatening e-mail messages to Duke staff members who had voiced opinions on the scandal.

And, certainly, several hostile lacrosse advocates have burned a hole in my in-box as well over the past year.

Other athletic programs at other universities have been entangled in far more lurid disgraces than Duke’s. The sex-for-recruits rape saga a few years ago at Colorado is unrivaled by any smut standard in its lewd details.

Don’t mess with Duke, though. To shine a light on its integrity has been treated by the irrational mighty as a threat to white privilege.

Feel free to excoriate the African-American basketball stars and football behemoths for the misdeeds of all athletes, but lay off the lacrosse pipeline to Wall Street, excuse the khaki-pants crowd of SAT wonder kids.

No one would want an innocent Duke player wronged or ruined by false charges — and that may have occurred on Nifong’s watch — but the alleged crime and the culture are mutually exclusive.

Some readers argue no one would have known about the lacrosse team’s misogyny bash last year if not for the initial rape charges by the hired dancer. True, but that’s how we often discover what goes on behind the curtains: by a botched break-in, through a door left ajar.

Duke officials didn’t ignore the unearthing. Even as the case changed before them, even as some news media jackknifed as they moved from victim’s advocate to angel-tinting the lacrosse team, they rightly underwent a self-inspection of their campus pathology and athletic society.

Among the findings: too much student drinking, too many cliques, too much athlete isolationism.

What’s new? Nothing really. But the opportunity to change this chronic campus dynamic is up to Duke. For now, administrators and faculty members seem earnest in giving it a college try.

That would be a welcomed development to citizens who had long complained about the raucous partying and misbehavior of athletes in their neighborhoods. There were red flags about the Duke lacrosse team, including a history of off-campus conduct problems.

Apparently, no player could hold his own beer because public urination was an issue.

By all accounts, the Duke team’s image is on the mend, not solely an ode to an unraveling case, but because the players have comported themselves with dignity on and off the field.

Good for them. Good for Duke.

What happened a year ago did not exist in a criminal vacuum. The illumination of the jock ethos — even among socialite athletes — has produced some positive results. In what is being called the Duke Rule on other college campuses, coaches and administrators are exhibiting more oversight of athletes from all sports.

Just last week, Syracuse suspended two lacrosse players after they were arrested outside a bar. A month earlier, the team suspended another player for two games after an assault charge.

No one has yet been known to wear an “Innocent” wristband at the Syracuse campus. Soon, that accessory may die as a trend at Duke. Soon, the case may be over.

This won’t end the race and class divides that existed within the radius of Duke long before a lacrosse party. But if you take on the athlete culture that was exposed, not the alleged crime, there can be one healthy legacy to a scandal.

A dismissal doesn’t mean forget everything. Amnesia would be a poor defense to the next act of athlete privilege.
722 2007-03-25 From Carter to Reagan to Clinton to Bush, we’ve favored Washington outsiders, people who seemed to offer freshness or authenticity, whose claim to leadership flowed from some inner light, rather than rugged expertise in the tough and nasty business of national politics.

But I wonder if this will be the election in which voters seek out a Themistocles, an election in which they put aside dreams of finding somebody pure and good, and select somebody they think will be wily and effective.

For over the past few years, America’s enemies have been more cunning than we have. Whether it was Mohamed Atta with the box cutters, bin Laden escaping at Tora Bora, the Baathists with their insurgency, Zarqawi inciting an Iraqi civil war, or Ahmadinejad maneuvering his way toward a nuclear bomb, America’s enemies seem to have been rendered clever by their relative weakness while we’ve been rendered stupid by our might.

And the tasks ahead require cleverness more than Gary Cooper simplicity and virtue. The next leader will have to build a coalition of autocrats against the extremists, not grow apoplectically rigid in the face of their barbarism. The next leader will have to manipulate the self-interest of other countries and factions, not bully them with ultimatums. The next leader will have to have an intimate knowledge of the apparatus of government and the limits and capacities of what it can do.

In other words, what the country seems to need is somebody who understands power, and the subtlety of its use, and who has had direct experience with friends and foes, foreign and domestic.

And this person must have all these world-weary qualities with a thick stripe of American idealism too. Or as Reinhold Niebuhr put it a few decades ago: “The preservation of a democratic civilization requires the wisdom of the serpent and the harmlessness of the dove. The children of light must be armed with the wisdom of the children of darkness but remain free from their malice. They must know the power of self-interest in human society without giving it moral justification. They must have this wisdom in order that they may beguile, deflect, harness and restrain self-interest, individual and collective, for the sake of the community.”

This is a unique set of qualities — more Themistocles than Leonidas, more Bismarck and Sharon than Gandhi, Havel and Mandela. People who have this mixture of idealism and wiliness are usually experienced and tainted by scandal.

But I suspect the voters will go to the polling places with a colder eye this time. In any case, before we get too lost in the tactics and personalities of the campaign, it might be a good idea to actually figure out what kind of leader we are seeking to hire, what qualities the times require. Is it those of Themistocles or those of Leonidas, or someone else?
723 2007-03-25 Christine Gatchalian, who started looking in Howard Beach last year, said she had been sensitive to that reputation because she is white and her husband, Eric, is Asian.

“Of course, they crossed my mind,” she said of the attacks. “But my friends who live here say those incidents were blown out of proportion, that we would be accepted.”

It also helped, she said, that home prices can be 40 percent lower than in other Queens neighborhoods like Bayside, where she lived in an apartment before her move.

In December, the Gatchalians bought a new semidetached home, with three bedrooms and two and a half baths, for $400,000. Each of their two children now has a bedroom.

“We hadn’t been looking for new construction,” said Ms. Gatchalian, who works in Long Island City for a company that designs air-conditioning systems, “but it ended up a big selling point.” And given that the same size house in Bayside would have cost $650,000, “the price was a definite plus,” she said.

Like the Gatchalians, many buyers have former Queens addresses but crave yards and water views, which Corona, Middle Village and Ozone Park have in short supply. At the same time, they’re not willing to trade proximity to New York — or relatively low property tax — to live on Long Island.

But the prices also draw buyers from down the street. In 2004, when he was still single, Robert Andresen paid $90,000 for a one-bedroom co-op in the neighborhood. Mr. Andresen, a custodial engineer for a school in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn, says he completely renovated the place, selling it two years later for $172,000.

Now Mr. Andresen is married; he and his wife, Tina, have a daughter. And he hopes to work similar magic with a detached raised ranch, with four bedrooms, three baths and 3,700 square feet, which cost $703,000 four months ago.

Upgrading the bathrooms and other elements could increase the home’s value to $1.2 million, he said.

Still, it is the area’s less quantifiable charms that really keep him there, like the wide streets on which he takes three-and-a-half-mile walks four evenings a week.

“I will throw a football back and forth with the neighborhood kids while I’m walking,” he said. “It’s like living in the country.”

With about two and a third square miles of land, Howard Beach is bounded by the airport, Jamaica Bay, the Brooklyn border and Conduit Avenue. It has four microneighborhoods: Hamilton Beach, Lindenwood, New Howard Beach and Old Howard Beach.

The apartment that Mr. Andresen recently sold was in Lindenwood, between the Belt Parkway and Conduit Avenue, filled with 1960s-era co-ops, condominiums and rentals.

His move took him to New Howard Beach, which stretches west from Cross Bay Boulevard, the neighborhood’s shopping strip, to 78th Street and East New York. Largely built on wetlands filled in the 1950’s, New Howard Beach has housing to match the era: raised ranches, some attached, and Capes.

Teardowns are increasingly common in New Howard Beach. The replacements are larger, with sandy-brick facades, tall arched entryways and Belgian block driveways in lieu of front lawns.

To the east is Old Howard Beach, laid out from 102nd to 95th Streets in an early-20th-century development wave and filled with colonials, some zoned for more than one family.

In the southeastern corner, and reached only by the 102nd Street Bridge, is quirky Hamilton Beach, where the Gatchalians live. Its single-story marshside bungalows began drawing middle-class Brooklynites about a century ago.

Some still exist, their faded wooden walls hung with lobster pots, though recently, Stellar Development of nearby Great Neck has built 24 homes here, with about 10 more planned by year’s end, in addition to new roads and sewers.

The construction in Hamilton Beach has helped Howard Beach outpace the borough. From 2004 to 2006, the issuing of permits went up 43 percent in Community Board 10, which also encompasses South Ozone Park and parts of Ozone Park, versus about 5 percent in Queens as a whole, the city Building Department said.

Local agents say it is not uncommon to pay $600,000 for a home just to raze it, especially if it borders on Hawtree or Shelbank Basin, two canals dug in the early 1900s to give Old Howard Beach a Venetian flavor.

After a sluggish 2006, new homes are selling for their million-dollar asking prices, especially in New Howard Beach, said Cecilia M. Calcagnile, an associate broker with Century 21 Amiable Realty Group II.

Lower prices are found in noisier, higher-traffic areas, one of them along Shore Parkway. But aircraft landing nearby at Kennedy Airport have less of an effect on prices since the retirement of the ear-splitting Concorde in 2003, brokers say.

Though it would tend to sell quickly, a buyer could pick up a single-family house with three bedrooms, one and a half baths and 1,300 square feet for $350,000, said Chad Michelini, an agent with Coldwell Banker Surf, who works in Oceanside, N.Y. “Demand is strong, and the supply is limited here,” he said, because the nearby Gateway National Recreation Area has protected status as a national park.

Brokers say that about 30 percent of all residential units are rented, some to pilots and flight attendants, who commute via the AirTrain. They might pay $1,200 a month for a one-bedroom, one-bath, 800-square-foot apartment on the ground floor, according to Mr. Michelini.

Houses can be cheaper in Nassau County, but taxes there are steep. The annual bill for a home in Merrick, for example, could be $13,000, brokers said; the same house in Howard Beach would probably be taxed at less than half that.

What to Do

Porgies, striped bass and blue crabs, not basic sustenance anymore, are still fished with passion; many residents own boats.

Marinas like Captain Mike’s, on Cross Bay Boulevard, are filled in the summer, and restaurants like Lenny’s Clam Bar, with its magenta tablecloths and autographed celebrity photos, overlook the action, serving dishes like calamari marinara ($14.95). Italian seems to be the cuisine of choice in Howard Beach, where 46 percent of the residents claim Italian ancestry, according to the 2000 census.

Along the Belt Parkway is a perhaps unexpected sight: people riding horses at Cedar Lane Stables (also home to the Federation of Black Cowboys, which teaches horsemanship to area youths).

Lessons are available from Debra Singleton, whose store, Debbie’s Reins & Things, sells leather boots out of an old shipping container.

“If you turn your back on the tall buildings,” said Ms. Singleton, referring to distant skyscrapers, “you would think you’re back in time.”

The neighborhood has three public grade schools: Nos. 146, 232 and 207. The last, also known as the Rockwood Park School, teaches through Grade 8. Two Catholic schools — Our Lady of Grace, on 101st Street, and Saint Helen School, on 157th Avenue — also offer kindergarten through Grade 8.

Public high school students attend John Adams High School in Ozone Park. French, Italian, Latin and Spanish are offered, as well as six Advanced Placement classes. In 2005, the graduation rate was 51 percent, versus 58 percent for the city. That year, the senior class scored 432 on the math part of the SAT and 408 on the verbal, compared with 511 math and 497 verbal statewide.

William Howard, who owned a leather factory in Brooklyn in the 1880s, made footballs of the goats he grazed on land here, then remade the property as a resort.

It once had a 2,000-foot-long pier and a Stanford White-designed clubhouse, according to Richard Ranft, neighborhood historian.

There also used to be small bungalow communities like South Aqueduct, which was razed in the 1940s to make way for airport terminals.

Yet the look of the past lives on in Ramblersville, a name used only by old-timers for the clutch of sagging homes between Coleman Square and Hamilton Beach. To reach them, head south by foot from Coleman Square’s war memorials along the shoulder-width walkway squeezed between the railroad tracks and a creek, which bubbles over an old bicycle and car seat.

In addition to the AirTrain, the transit hub includes a stop for the A train, which commuters can take to Lower Manhattan in 40 minutes.

Buses are another option. The Q11, Q21, Q41, and Q53 thread through the neighborhood; the QM15 provides express bus service to Midtown.

A number of residents, though, commute to Queens or Long Island by car, via Cross Bay Boulevard, which becomes Woodhaven Boulevard, or the Belt Parkway, across Howard Beach’s northern edge.

The 2000 census tallied Howard Beach’s population as 85 percent white, almost double that of Queens as a whole. But it has become more diverse in the past seven years, according to the area’s councilman, Joseph Addabbo Jr., a Democrat.

Howard Beach has had to overcome a “lot of stereotypes in the press and media,” he said, “but it’s still a great place to live.”
724 2007-03-25 The Arabic bath house Medina Mayrit is an oasis of candlelight, gurgling fountains, mellow music and Moorish décor. Coed bathers wade in near silence -- and bathing suits -- between hot, tepid and cold pools, then ease into a massage beneath the ...
725 2007-03-25 The Language Mavenhood is becoming less pluralistically ignorant.     That is not a good lead sentence. In one swell foop, it raises the question: What is the Language Mavenhood? And poses another question: What is pluralistic ignorance? (It poses...
726 2007-03-25 To the Editor:     Re ''Zoning Out the Future'' (Op-Ed, March 17): Vince Polimeni and his fellow developers pitch their ideas in ways that try to convince the rest of us that their primary goal is altruistic -- that the continued construction of a...
727 2007-03-25 James J. Cramer, CNBC's televangelist of trading with his manic ''Mad Money'' show, now says that those sins he was confessing were not his own.      In a video interview taped in December for TheStreet.com that quickly turned into a big hit on Yo...
728 2007-03-25 Dynamometers, the auto-emission testing systems that raised the ire of politicians and the blood pressure of drivers after they were introduced to state-run inspection stations seven years ago, are being dismantled and removed.      Dynamometers w...
729 2007-03-25 By day, lawmakers feud over the state budget with new-found intensity. But at dusk, Albany's legislative routines revert to normal. Sundown is fund-raising hour in the state capital, the time when every restaurant or club or hotel has a room or tw...
730 2007-03-25 Q. A recent letter from our managing agent about our co-op's insurance coverage suggested that residents' homeowners' policies include a loss-assessment rider to ''cover certain types of losses incurred by the corporation, which would then be asse...
731 2007-03-25 Pod hotels -- a new wave of budget accommodations offering a pint-size, though not unstylish, place to rest one's head -- are landing everywhere. How did it happen? Here, one plausible theory.   Aric Chen...
732 2007-03-25 Washington, D.C. is the new Washington, D.C.     Buzz is building inside the Beltway with new restaurants (Central Michel Richard and Il Mulino), a redone Park Hyatt and Kimpton's seventh D.C. boutique hotel, the Palomar -- not to mention Nancy Pe...
733 2007-03-25 When the Ritz-Carlton, Grand Cayman went shopping for a chef three years ago, it didn't go after a brand-name toque with an overcooked empire. It scored the critical darling Eric Ripert, who had yet to open a restaurant outside New York. Since the...
734 2007-03-25 By day, lawmakers feud over the state budget with new-found intensity. But at dusk, Albany's legislative routines revert to normal. Sundown is fund-raising hour in the state capital, the time when every restaurant or club or hotel has a room or tw...
735 2007-03-25 CAPUTO--Emily Stull, of Riverdale, NYC, and formerly of Bridgehampton, NY, died on March 22, 2007, at age 89. Devoted and loving wife of Dante S. Caputo, and mother of Patricia P. Anderson of Mystic, CT, Pengwynne P. Blevins, M.D. of Arlington, MA...
736 2007-03-25 Casino coolgoing greeknew gastropreneurs . . . pod Hotels . . . guiding lights . . . beijing's hippest block....
737 2007-03-25 To the Editor:     Re ''Living the Good Life, Off the Leash'' (March 4):...
738 2007-03-25 The average visit to Atlantic City used to last three hours, and it's not hard to remember why. If you weren't gambling, you weren't losing to the house, and this left casinos little incentive to wine and dine you. Today, of course, all that's cha...
739 2007-03-25 To the Editor:     Re ''Pipe Dreams,'' by Alex Matthiessen, Andy Willner and Terry Backer (Op-Ed, March 18):...
740 2007-03-25 The side effect of Chien-Ming Wang's hamstring injury, which will land him on the disabled list to start the season, is an idea so preposterous it seems hard to fathom: Carl Pavano could be the Yankees' opening day starter April 2.     Manager Joe...
741 2007-03-25 For decades it seems as if travel guides have stuck to the same old formula. But some new arrivals are out to reinvent the genre. In Taschen's Hotels and More series ($25; www.taschen.com), Angelika Taschen presents her edited version of top city ...
742 2007-03-26 Paul Krugman responds to readers' comments on his Mar. 26 column, "Emerging Republican Minority." Paul Dorell, Highland Park, Ill.: Besides growing concerns among the voting public about income inequality and health care availability, you might sa...
743 2007-03-26 For a stock analyst, writing a thoughtful, complete research note can be difficult when news changes by the minute. For instance, on Monday Merrill Lynch's Guy Moszkowski released a note examining the possibility that Citigroup might step into the...
744 2007-03-26 Goodyear Tire & Rubber has agreed to sell almost all of its Engineered Products business, which makes hoses and conveyor belts, to a unit of the Carlyle Group for $1.475 billion, the tire maker said. Carlyle will make the acquisition through a por...
745 2007-03-26 Switzerland is known for its banks, some of them now global giants like UBS and Credit Suisse. But it is the smaller, more discreet banks that are changing the most these days, says The New York Times. From Geneva, a centuries-old fortress that ha...
746 2007-03-26 In the merger talks between Barclays, the British bank, and ABN Amro, a Dutch rival, hedge fund The Children's Investment Fund is the proverbial the grease for the wheel. Its activism in several deals, including the scuppered merger between the De...
747 2007-03-26 The Internet age was supposed to mean that concentration of the media in just a few hands is yesterday's news because the barriers to entry in the online world are so low. But judging from the banter on a conference call for reporters last week by...
748 2007-03-26 Denying that Mr. Small had been pressured to leave, Roger W. Sant, chairman of the executive committee of the Smithsonian’s Board of Regents, said today that Mr. Small “was really concerned about the possibility of the institution being changed fundamentally” by the Senate’s vote to withhold money.

Mr. Small, who will not receive a severance package, was not present for the announcement, which Mr. Grassley praised.

“New leadership brings new opportunity for this American institution,” said Mr. Grassley, who also urged reforming the way the Smithsonian is governed, noting that “the board needs to continue to recognize its responsibility and take action.”

In addition to two statutorily mandated regents — Vice President Dick Cheney and John G. Roberts Jr., Chief Justice of the United States — the board includes six lawmakers, three of whom are chosen by the Senate and three by the House. The rest are selected by the existing regents.

Such a system, said Rick Cohen, former executive director of the Center for Responsive Philanthropy, can lead to inadequate oversight.

“What seemed to be the operating measure here is that Small was raising lots of money, so the board was prepared to turn a blind eye to questionable expenditures,” said Mr. Cohen, who now writes for a journal on nonprofit management.

Mr. Small alluded to his fund-raising in his resignation letter, noting that he had spent “countless days and evenings promoting the interests of the institution.” He also mentioned giving “a half million of my own money as well.”

Mr. Cohen noted that how much money Mr. Small gave or raised should not have been used to gauge how much he was reimbursed for expenditures. “Rather,” he said, “it should have been whether he was behaving in the proper way. Otherwise, it’s playing fast and loose with taxpayers’ money.”

During his seven-year tenure, Mr. Small more than doubled his initial salary of $330,000. In addition, he received reimbursement for first-class air fare and stays at exclusive hotels in Hawaii, among other places — perks that the regents regularly approved.

Mr. Sant had defended Mr. Small’s reimbursements, even in the face of revelations that $90,000 of them were unauthorized. And Chief Justice Roberts, replying to his resignation letter, said the board had “sincere appreciation for your lasting contributions over the past seven years.”

In response to criticism, the regents announced earlier this month that they were setting up a new committee on governance, to be led by Patty Stonesifer, the co-chairman and president of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, who has been on the board since December 2001 . The committee will compare the Smithsonian’s governance to other institutions and present a “best practices” plan to the full board.

Although it receives about 70 percent of its $1 billion budget from taxpayer funds, the Smithsonian’s museums charge no admission fee and rely on receipts from its retail shops and other commercial ventures for income — along with public donations. Its business ventures division has come under major criticism, in part because of a recent deal with Showtime Networks, where the Smithsonian agreed to restrict access to its archives and scientists — which critics said violated its publicly supported status.

The regents also announced a search for a new head of the Smithsonian. Mr. Sant said that both Mr. Samper, the Smithsonian’s acting secretary and a Harvard University-trained biologist, and Sheila Burke, the institution’s chief operating officer, were potential internal candidates to succeed Mr. Small.

The rival candidacies of Ms. Burke, once a top aide to former Senator Bob Dole, and Mr. Samper, a 41-year-old native of Costa Rica who also had served as deputy director of the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama, illustrate the dichotomy facing the Smithsonian.

Ms. Burke has been linked with Mr. Small’s efforts to put the Smithsonian on a more commercial footing, especially after the attendance plummeted following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001. Mr. Samper’s credentials would allay fears among the institution’s scientific staff that the Smithsonian has drifted away from its traditional science moorings.

Mr. Small was only the second nonscientist to head the prestigious 161-year-old institution, and his lack of scientific credentials created friction with many of the scientists at the 6,000-employee institution from the start. Soon after taking office, he drew their ire by announcing the closure of several facilities, including the Conservation and Research Center near Front Royal, Va., which won renown for training conservation scientists.

Further straining his credibility, Mr. Small was convicted in 2004 of violating the Migratory Bird Treaty with his collection of Amazonian artifacts that included feathers and other parts of endangered species. (He was sentenced to two years probation and 100 hours of community service.) Then last year, he was named in a government report as being one of the Fannie Mae executives who encouraged a system of meeting earnings targets that was directly tied to the amount of annual bonuses that he and other executives received.
749 2007-03-26 MELBOURNE, Australia, Monday, March 26 — Swimming has its problems: lingering concerns about doping and the early retirement of Ian Thorpe.

But developing a global pool of talent is not an issue.

The four gold medals awarded Sunday, the opening night at the world championships here, went to four different continents, with Asia surprisingly striking first as 17-year-old Park Tae-Hwan of South Korea sprung a final-lap ambush on his elders, including the defending champion Grant Hackett of Australia, to win the men’s 400-meter freestyle.

It was the first victory for a South Korean swimmer in a competition of this magnitude, and it set the tone for an evening of spreading the wealth.

The number of nations represented on the podium has climbed steadily at this biennial event, to 22 in 2005 in Montreal from 16 in 1994 in Rome. With seven nights of finals to go, nine countries have already won medals.

But the rich did sometimes get richer Sunday in the temporary pool that has been constructed inside Rod Laver Arena. Laure Manaudou of France won her latest gold medal in the women’s 400 freestyle, looking less than elated after she realized that she had failed to break her own world record.
750 2007-03-26 The crowds and the waiting could become more onerous if Long Island Bus does not solve its financial woes. Ridership is at record highs, yet the bus system is fighting for the money to keep up with demand. If its current $4 million deficit is not filled by July, service on some of the 54 lines that crisscross Long Island may be cut.

Finding $4 million is not easy because Long Island Bus, one of the largest suburban bus systems in the country, is something of a mass transit orphan. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority runs the system on behalf of Nassau County, and it is financed by the authority, the county and the state. Each year, they haggle over how to divide the costs, ever mindful of their own budgetary constraints.

While transportation advocates say the system is well run given its resources, fares cover only about one-third the cost of operating the buses. So the more ridership rises, the more money must be found to keep the current fleet running. Beholden to three agencies, Long Island Bus struggles to find the money to expand service.

“The problem is, I have no predictability with my resources and have to cobble together a budget without any ability to tackle long-term demands,” said Neil S. Yellin, president of Long Island Bus. “I buy buses on faith” that money will arrive to pay for them.

Officials at the authority and in Nassau County promise to find the money to plug the immediate financial hole and to avoid cutting service, something they and transportation advocates say would be a disaster given that Long Island Bus provided a record 32.2 million rides last year.

Cutting service “is not a good way to run a bus system,” said Kate Slevin, a director at the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, a nonprofit group that advocates reducing dependency on cars.

To end perennial budget battles, they are looking at larger solutions, too. One proposal is for the authority to take over Long Island Bus and combine it with other regional bus lines. The purchasing of buses, fuel and other items could be pooled to save money, and city and suburban buses, as well as buses and trains, could be better coordinated.

“Going forward, there shouldn’t be this funding dance every year,” said the Nassau County executive, Thomas R. Suozzi. “Long Island Bus should be taken over by the M.T.A. to make a more seamless system that would be part of the whole fabric of the region’s transportation.”

Though logical on paper, the plan faces many practical hurdles, including labor contracts, legal issues and political concerns, said Elliot G. Sander, chief executive of the authority. A financing equation needs to be worked out as well, he added.

In 2006, New York State provided $44.8 million to Long Island Bus, 120 percent more than in 1999. During that time, Nassau County’s contribution was cut by half to about $10 million as a result of its financial crisis. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority contributed $14 million last year.

A merger of the bus systems could erase some jurisdictional quirks. For example, to avoid competing with city buses, N6 drivers can pick up passengers at the line’s few stops in Queens, but cannot let them off until the buses reach Nassau. This “closed-door service” also is in effect in the opposite direction: Jamaica-bound buses cannot pick up passengers once they cross into Queens.

This is a minor annoyance compared with the larger challenge Long Island Bus faces trying to handle the increase in reverse commuters.

About one-third of the system’s riders travel between the city and Nassau, and four out of its five busiest lines make cross-border treks. In all, 14 of the 54 routes that Long Island Bus serves run between Queens and Nassau.

Ridership on the N6, which now serves 14,175 riders on an average weekday, has grown 29 percent in the past decade. It is also one of the few Long Island Bus routes that run 24 hours a day. Routes between Flushing and Nassau have also become more popular in part because train service along the North Shore is sporadic for reverse commuters.

New Jersey Transit and Metro-North have ramped up service to carry the reverse commuters. Since 1990, Metro-North has added 16 outbound departures from Grand Central Terminal between 6 a.m. and 9 a.m. to Westchester County and beyond. To help cover the extra cost, Metro-North did away with a discount for passengers going against the flow during the morning and evening rushes.

Long Island Rail Road has been slower to adapt because it has less available track space. There is only one track between Great Neck and Port Washington, so trains heading into the city during the morning rush far outnumber those heading east.

Between Hicksville and Queens Village, both tracks run westbound trains between 6:30 a.m. and 8 a.m. to handle trains from the Montauk, Oyster Bay, Port Jefferson and Ronkonkoma lines.

A proposal to add a third track between Jamaica and Hicksville would ease that bottleneck. But some local residents and businesses opposed to more train traffic and construction have criticized the plan. Even if an extra track was approved and financed, it would take years to build.

That means Long Island Bus would continue to play a crucial role for thousands of commuters, particularly the 3.6 percent of workers in Nassau who, according to the 2005 American Community Survey, live in households without a car.

The survey, however, does not include residents from New York City and beyond who travel to Long Island.

The ratio of carless workers has grown in the past decade as immigrants and others find more work on Long Island and companies leave Lower Manhattan.

Diana Coleman, a community activist from Roosevelt, used to ride the train from Freeport to the city to work. Four years ago, she took a job in Hempstead and now takes the bus to work. Most mornings, she can get a seat, but during the evening, it is not unusual for a full bus to pass her by, she said.

It is at those moments that she is most aware of how vulnerable mass transit riders are on Long Island.

“On Long Island, you really need a car, so if you have to take a bus, that means there are a lot of other things that are not available to you,” including easy access to shopping and entertainment, she said. “It really controls your life. It’s something that you carry with you.”

Ms. Coleman does not drive, so she is unlikely to abandon Long Island Bus, even if service deteriorates. But other commuters might find alternatives, including carpooling or even changing jobs. That has put more pressure on policymakers to solve the financial problem at Long Island Bus.

“We finally convinced people to take the bus, so if we don’t find more buses, people will go back to their cars and complain about congestion,” said Mitchell H. Pally, a board member at the authority who represents Suffolk County.
751 2007-03-26 Some of the authors are being promoted by their publishers as worthy successors to a wave of books that came out in the 1980s and defined the popular culture of Wall Street. Yet it is far from certain that these offerings will capture the broad imagination of the reading public, as the many others that have preceded them in the last two decades have also failed to do.

To be fair, it is no small trick to give life to or create characters whose thrusting ambitions and clawing desires form the story lines that have characterized the best books about money.

Largely, it has been a question of hunger for enrichment that has made these financiers leap from the printed page into the public mind. Eugene Henderson, the spiritually restless millionaire in Saul Bellow’s “Henderson The Rain King,” summed it up when he exclaimed: “I want, I want, I want.” Then there were the real-life characters Ivan F. Boesky and Dennis B. Levine in “Den of Thieves,” the buyout titan Henry R. Kravis in “Barbarians at the Gate,” by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar, and not least, the barely fictional Sherman McCoy, in Tom Wolfe’s “The Bonfire of the Vanities.”

“ ‘Barbarians at the Gate’ is the Everest of business books,” said Marion Maneker, the former publisher of HarperCollins business imprint. That book, which came out in 1990, has sold nearly 800,000 copies to date.

“If you sell above 30,000 you have an impact, and above 50,000 you are in the race,” he added.

But since that wave of Wall Street books, there have been few that have truly resonated.

“A lot of writers, because of their background and how people are schooled don’t realize how much romance there is in money,” Mr. Wolfe said in an interview.

One who does and makes no bones about it is Mr. Cohan, 47, who spent 18 years on Wall Street, including six at Lazard, before setting out to lay bare the secret and frequently sordid workings of his former employer.

“These men believed they were virtuous and moral but they weren’t,” Mr. Cohan said of former Lazard partners Felix G. Rohatyn, Michel David-Weill and Steven Rattner.

“They were just like everyone else. Power hungry, manipulative and ambitious.”

Of all the recent books, Mr. Cohan’s comes closest to following in the tradition of the books of the ’80s.

Along with the deals and intrigue, Mr. Cohan spends considerable time on human foibles, and recycling rumors of a sexual assignation involving Mr. Rohatyn in his office, Mr. Rattner’s real estate maneuverings in Martha’s Vineyard as well as the tax strategies of the current Lazard chief executive, Bruce Wasserstein. Mr. Rohatyn and Mr. Rattner declined to comment.

Judi Mackey, a spokeswoman for Lazard and Mr. Wasserstein, said, “ ‘The Last Tycoons’ is a sensationalized account written by a junior banker who left Lazard in 1995. The book is substantially inaccurate, was not fact-checked with the firm and has nothing to do with the present state of Lazard or its business.”

Mr. Cohan’s ambition is as large as the book itself, which clocks in at 742 pages: to set his book beside “the seminal” nonfiction narratives written in the 1980s.

And Doubleday, his publisher, has printed 75,000 copies in the hope that it would become the rare business narrative crossover best seller.

But while there may be enough to titillate close followers of Lazard, Mr. Wasserstein’s decision not to talk to Mr. Cohan keeps the book from being the type of vicious score settling that made Ken Auletta’s “Greed and Glory” such an authoritative account of the civil war at Lehman Brothers.

Mr. Vachon, who is 28, is making a play to leverage his three years as a junior investment banker at J. P. Morgan into a career as an observer and satirist of the mores and assorted vanities and disgraces on Wall Street.

He seems to be trying to follow in the footsteps of F. Scott Fitzgerald, but lacks the economy of language. In the short story “The Rich Boy,” Fitzgerald summed up Anson Hunter, his own version of a Wall Street rogue: “He was convivial, bawdy, robustly avid for pleasure.”

But Mr. Vachon takes page after page, indulging in long accounts of the dissipation of investment bankers gorging themselves on food, liquor and women to paint the same picture as the one presented so succinctly by Fitzgerald.

The hopes for Mr. Vachon at his publisher are as high as those of Mr. Cohan and Doubleday. Mr. Vachon received a $650,000, two-book contract from Riverhead after an agent discovered his banking blog, and the publisher is planning an aggressive publicity campaign, which includes the establishment of a separate Web site for his main character’s fictional bank, JS Spenser.

The ghost of Michael Lewis, the former Salomon Brothers bond salesman whose tale of antic doings on the trading floor established a benchmark for Wall Street satire, looms heavily over Mr. Vachon’s book, as it does over “Wall and Mean,” a financial thriller by Tom Bernard.

Mr. Bernard, a former bond salesman at Salomon, is already well established in Wall Street literature — as a character. He is the Human Piranha in Mr. Lewis’ “Liar’s Poker.”

Now a semiretired executive at Lehman Brothers, Mr. Bernard says he was inspired to write his book by Mr. Lewis.

What seems to be missing in the new sampling of books, however, is the sense of human loss and demise that made stories like John O’Hara’s “From the Terrace,” “The Embezzler” by Louis Auchincloss, “Den of Thieves” by James B. Stewart and Tom Wolfe’s “The Bonfire of the Vanities” so memorable.

It is the payoff that the reader expects in bearing witness to such flights of greed and ambition — that the main character will overstep and lose it all. The details of grand houses, women and wine are fine in and of themselves, but they can’t substitute for the pleasure a reader feels when a Wall Street executive flies too close to the sun.

“Blue Blood & Mutiny,” which is expected to come out in September, is essentially a triumphalist account of how a band of retired executives ousted Philip J. Purcell from his job as chief executive at Morgan Stanley. There is little sense of how Mr. Purcell, a complicated, brooding man, felt about such a bitter result. He chose not to speak to Patricia Beard, the author, and the book suffers accordingly.

Mr. Giacchetto’s cooperation makes Ms. White’s book a better read. Still, the story of Mr. Giacchetto, who pleaded guilty to fraud and has been out of jail since 2003, lacks a definitive sweep.

Perhaps Louis Auchincloss’s fictional rendering of a disgraced stock exchange chief said it best: “I am a symbol of financial iniquity, of betrayal of trust, of the rot in old Wall Street...”
752 2007-03-26 The idea for Webkinz, she said, came from Howard Ganz, the company’s chief executive. “He wanted to pay attention to what kids are doing these days, and what they’re doing is going online,” said Susan McVeigh, a Ganz spokeswoman. (Mr. Ganz declined an interview request.)

Ganz, which introduced Webkinz in April 2005, stopped publicly commenting on sales last year as the toys approached the 1 million mark. Since then, their popularity has spiked, with stores across the nation struggling to maintain inventory and eBay sellers demanding a steep premium for certain animals, like Sherbet the rabbit, which sold last week for about $40. Some discontinued Webkinz have been sold on eBay for well over $100, and an eBay auction for a dog and cat set that closed yesterday attracted a winning bid of $1,525.

Patrick Yap, manager of B Chemist, a department store and pharmacy in Manhattan that sells toys, said he has more than 700 back orders for Webkinz.

“I’m taking orders for July shipments right now,” he said. “This is bigger than Beanie Babies. With those you’re playing all by yourself. With these, you can do that, too, but you can also go on the site and chit-chat with your friends.”

That is precisely the point, Ms. McVeigh said. “They get to choose how they play,” she said. “This takes everything a child loves about a plush toy — the nurturing of it, the fantasy of raising your pet — and brings it to the next level, where in the interactive world you really do look after it.”

Since last April, the site has risen from 325,000 unique visitors to 2.8 million last month, according to Nielsen//NetRatings. Time spent per user has dropped off dramatically since April, when the average user logged nearly three hours per month on the site. Now the average is 11 minutes. Ms. McVeigh, of Ganz, speculates that the average may have dropped because parents may be limiting the time their children spend on the site.

Mr. Cassar, of Nielsen//NetRatings said the Webkinz craze underscores the fact that the nation’s roughly 160 million Internet users spend just 26.5 hours per month online, or 5 percent of their non-sleeping hours. “But Internet-based and Internet-enabled technologies are beginning to transform the way we live the other 95 percent of our lives,” he said. “That’s a trend that may ultimately be far more important than what we do within the narrow slice of our days that we actually spend on the Web.”

Online companies like Craigslist, Match.com, Meetup and Monster.com facilitate offline activity. Offline companies like Wal-Mart, Target and Gap have extended their sales online. Video game companies like Xbox now allow players to compete against others online.

These companies have effectively built bridges between the offline and online worlds, Mr. Cassar said, but Webkinz is unusual in that it began as a product that “existed equally prominently in the real world and the virtual world. Other companies need to challenge themselves to pursue new products and offerings without the burden of thinking as either an offline product or an online product first.”

Judging by Meetup’s recent growth, adult Internet users, too, are more actively integrating the Web with their offline lives. The company, which provides an online service that helps groups organize and meet offline, has seen a sharp upturn in business this quarter. Users are on pace to conduct more than three times the number of meetings they did in the first quarter of 2006, according to Scott Heiferman, Meetup’s chief executive, and company revenues have spiked by about 40 percent in the last three months alone.

Meetup, which is privately held and based in Manhattan, does not disclose actual revenue figures, but Mr. Heiferman said it is on pace to organize roughly 75,000 meetings this quarter. The business recently began exploring an advertising model to help capitalize on the fact that marketers are increasingly interested in small communities that are passionate about a particular subject or activity.

Mr. Heiferman said Webkinz is “a brilliant idea,” in that it melds the online and offline worlds. His own company’s approach, though, is different in that it appeals to people who may have had enough of exclusively online connections.

“We’re living our lives more and more in front of a screen,” Mr. Heiferman said. “You can easily go through a good part of life just looking at your iPod, your cellphone, the computer, the TV, and I think there’s a feeling of, ‘O.K., I need the real world and real people and real teddy bears and real community.’ ”
753 2007-03-26 The Internet age was supposed to mean that concentration of the media in just a few hands is yesterday’s news because the barriers to entry in the online world are so low.

But judging from the banter on a conference call for reporters last week by the News Corporation and NBC Universal, corporate control of the news media is still going strong. The companies were announcing a new joint venture for Internet video.

At one point, a reporter for MSNBC posed a question, prompting Peter A. Chernin, the president of the News Corporation, to rib his co-host, Jeffrey Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, that this was one of his employees. “Hi, boss,” the reporter joked.

Soon after that, a writer for TV Guide came on, and Mr. Zucker quickly pointed out that TV Guide was part of the News Corporation megalith. Laughter ensued from Los Angeles, where the executives were that day. The reporter, however, quickly pointed out that Mr. Chernin’s company owned “only 40 percent” of him.

Next, a reporter for The New York Post introduced herself. Again, laughs. Not only is the tabloid owned by the News Corporation, but the paper also has been particularly rough on Mr. Zucker and his company. “All yours,” Mr. Zucker said to Mr. Chernin, suggesting that he field the question. RICHARD SIKLOS
754 2007-03-26 A ghoulishness underlies the opening minutes of “Pilgrimage to Karbala,” an installment of the PBS series “Wide Angle” tonight that follows a busload of Iranians as they travel to the Shiite shrines in that Iraqi city. You briefly get the sense that the filmmaker, Kevin Sim, wouldn’t mind if the bus were blown up; that his goal is simply to catch news as it happens. Soon, though, this misimpression — the film is actually very thoughtful — gives way to an even more uncomfortable reality: The people hoping to have this bus blown up are the pilgrims on it.

If Mr. Sim’s film is a bit disjointed and too reverent for its own good, by the end of it you certainly understand just how fundamental martyrdom is in the Shiite Muslim worldview, or at least the one promulgated in Iran. The pilgrims are on their way to visit the site where Imam Hussein, grandson of the Prophet Muhammad, and many of his followers were killed in 680. Some passengers are old enough to have participated in the revolution that toppled the shah in 1979 or the draining war with Iraq in the 1980s; others are children. Everybody, though, seems to want nothing more than to emulate Hussein’s suffering. They dwell obsessively on the dangers of the 500-mile trip from Tehran; though Iraq is now Shiite-dominated, the journey, made last year, came as sectarian violence was rising. And of course everyone is uneasy about the American presence. When the trip passes without incident, you almost hear the pilgrims’ collective sigh of disappointment.

Mr. Sim mixes the travelogue with slices of recent and ancient history. He also cuts in comments from loved ones who did not make the trip, but not enough of them; there is a disconnect here that you’re left wanting to know more about. Some of the left-behinds sound as if they think their fundamentalist loved ones are nuts. One woman, recalling the pride expressed by relatives of those who died fighting Iraq in the 1980s, says bluntly: “I think that those who claimed to be happy were lying. No one wants their child to die.”
755 2007-03-26 Wilson gave Burdick “a full and unconditional pardon for all offenses against the United States” he might have committed in connection with the article and for any other matter the grand jury might ask him about. That would seem to have let Burdick off the hook, but he still didn’t want to testify. He refused to accept the pardon, and was locked up for contempt.

The case went to the Supreme Court, which held that Burdick was within his rights and ordered him discharged. In doing so, the court embraced Chief Justice John Marshall’s 1833 definition of a pardon as “a private, though official” act of grace whose validity depended on its acceptance: “It may then be rejected by the person to whom it is tendered; and if it be rejected, we have discovered no power in a court to force it on him.”

Marshall’s pronouncements, in United States v. Wilson, were pure dicta — nonbinding observations — but the courts treated them as gospel. In the Burdick case, the court likewise held that “a pardon, to be effective, must be accepted” because it “carries an imputation of guilt; acceptance a confession of it.” This made Marshall’s view the law of the land.

The problem is that both Marshall’s definition and the court’s 1915 reinforcement of it were bad history and tortured logic. Acceptance of a pardon should not be a confession of guilt, especially if there is documentation of innocence. The “imputation of guilt” would disappear if acceptance of a pardon were not required. If one has no choice but to take a pardon, it would become like a grant of immunity, and thus would be noncommittal.

There is nothing in the Constitution that gives a person the prerogative to turn down a pardon, and strong support in the Constitutional debates for the president’s having an unfettered power to grant one. “The benign prerogative of pardoning should be as little as possible fettered or embarrassed,” Alexander Hamilton wrote in The Federalist No. 74. Even more to the point, the framers turned down an effort to limit the power to pardons “after conviction” because they wanted to make it useful for law enforcement. That is, of course, exactly what President Wilson tried, and was told he couldn’t do, in the Burdick case.

That Marshall, the supreme judicial activist, wanted to fetter this presidential power makes his 1833 decision all the more questionable. It is worth noting that, years earlier in the Aaron Burr treason trial, Marshall had been left tongue-tied over the question of pardon acceptance after President Thomas Jefferson vainly tried to stuff one down the throat of an unwilling witness. Perhaps in the 1833 case, with Jefferson now dead, the chief justice was having the last word, even if it was at the expense of the Constitution.

Some jurists have pointed out the weakness of his logic, not to mention his history. In 1927, a Supreme Court ruling by Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. in a case involving a prisoner whose death sentence was commuted to life in prison noted that “a pardon in our days is not a private act of grace from an individual happening to possess power.”

“When granted it is the determination of the ultimate authority that the public welfare will be better served by inflicting less than what the judgment fixed,” he continued. “Just as the original punishment would be imposed without regard to the prisoner’s consent, and in the teeth of his will, whether he liked it or not, the public welfare, not his consent, determines what shall be done.”

This repudiation of Marshall did not, unfortunately, overturn the Burdick decision. At the urging of the Justice Department, Holmes limited the decision to apply only to commutations of sentences, not to pardons.

What all this means for Mr. Bush is that he can’t win. If he gives Mr. Libby a traditional pardon, one of his administration’s most powerful officials has to admit to wrongdoing — a remarkable event for an administration that seems pathologically averse to apologizing or even admitting mistakes.

The alternative is for Mr. Bush to not only pardon Mr. Libby but also officially proclaim his innocence. This, however, has not been done in decades: despite bold rhetoric, not even Ronald Reagan went that far in his pardon of W. Mark Felt, the man who turned out to have been Deep Throat, in a case involving illegal F.B.I. searches; nor did President Bush’s father in forgiving Caspar Weinberger or other Iran-contra defendants. Were Mr. Bush to declare Mr. Libby’s innocence, it would seem not only the height of hypocrisy, but also to back up the claim of Mr. Libby’s lawyers that he was a “fall guy” for other officials, just as his lawyers claimed.

No matter what one thinks of the folks in the White House, it seems clear that they have been put in a bind by the Supreme Court’s bad precedents. Still, there does appear to be some justice in the fact that, while Mr. Libby may not spend a day behind bars, the Bush administration is hardly going to get off scot-free.
756 2007-03-26 AN OPTIMISTIC VIEW ON NEWS -- ''I've always been intrigued by inefficient markets,'' says Sam Zell, the billionaire real estate investor, who is in the midst of negotiations with the Tribune Company, owner of The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tri...
757 2007-03-26 LISSER--Martha Schultz, On Friday, March 23, 2007, of Chevy Chase, MD, formerly of East Hampton and Riverdale, NY. Beloved wife of 60 years of Morton Lisser; cherished mother of Justine (Stephen Klitzman) and Amy (Matthew Frosch); adored grandmoth...
758 2007-03-26 CAPUTO--Emily. The Officers, Members and Staff of The Riverdale Yacht Club mourn the passing of Emmy Caputo, beloved wife of Bick Caputo, the backbone of our club. We extend our condolences and deepest sympathy to her entire family. Jennifer Klein...
759 2007-03-27 In what animal welfare advocates are describing as a "historic advance," Burger King has announced that it will begin buying eggs and pork from suppliers that do not confine their animals in cages and crates. It is the latest in a string of mainst...
760 2007-03-27 On March 27, 2007, Times Reader launched as a subscription service for $14.95 a month or $165 a year. Access to TimesSelect and Premium Crosswords are included in the price. If you are currently a TimesSelect or Premium Crossword subscriber you wi...
761 2007-03-27 Private equity firm TA Associates said Tuesday it acquired a minority stake in K2 Advisors, which runs a fund of hedge funds. Financial terms were not disclosed, but K2 said that $100 million of the deal proceeds would go toward its existing fund ...
762 2007-03-27 The estimated net assets of the global hedge fund industry rose by 6 percent in the final quarter of 2006 and by 24 percent over the year as a whole to reach $1.89 trillion, according to Hedge Fund Asset Flows & Trends Report 2006-2007, released b...
763 2007-03-27 HSBC Holdings will buy Swiss Life Holding's stake in two ventures for 228.8 million euros ($305 million), as it seeks to bolster profit from insurance in France. The bank, based in London, will buy the remaining 50.01 percent stake it does not alr...
764 2007-03-27 Credit Suisse Group said it paid its chairman, Walter Kielholz, 16 million Swiss francs ($13.2 million) last year, one-third more than a year earlier, after profit at the bank, the second-largest in Switzerland, rose to a record. Mr. Kielholz, who...
765 2007-03-27 Federal prosecutors on Monday accused the former chief financial officer of the military contractor Engineered Support Systems of backdating stock options without disclosing his actions and then making a false statement to investigators. The forme...
766 2007-03-27 Bertelsmann, the German media company that provided financial backing to Napster when it was an unauthorized file-sharing service, has agreed to settle with the last of the major record companies that sued it for copyright infringement. Under the ...
767 2007-03-27 It may look like chicken feed in this era of mammoth executive pay packages, but a combined $21 million in stock payouts to five top executives at American Airlines is looming large in labor talks with pilots still angry about pay concessions made...
768 2007-03-27 The weak performance of the initial public offering of the wireless carrier Clearwire has many in the telecom industry wondering how another wireless start-up, Aruba Networks, will fare in its market debut. Part of the answer came late Monday, whe...
769 2007-03-27 In this lesson, students share words and associations related to cancer. They then investigate and participate in dialogues about the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer. Learning is synthesized by writing and designing a booklet with talking...
770 2007-03-27 The retrial of William Hurwitz (the subject of my Findings column) began Monday looking like a rerun of the first trial as the prosecutor spouted familiar horror stories and waved the same red flags. But this is already looking like a tougher case...
771 2007-03-27 The deadline for Microsoft to reply to a new charge sheet brought by the European Commission has been extended to April 23 from April 3, a spokesman for the European Union said. The extension, granted at Microsoft’s request, was made by the hearing officer dealing with the case, the spokesman said. The commission has charged that Microsoft was unjustified in seeking payment from rivals for interoperability information so that their servers would work properly with its products.
772 2007-03-27 Speculation that Carrefour, the French retailer, was headed for a takeover were dashed late Friday, setting off a sharp decline in the company’s share price yesterday. Takeover speculation ended when Bernard Arnault, a French investor, and Colony Capital, an American investment firm, said they would not acquire more than 20 percent of Carrefour until June 30, 2008, unless Carrefour’s largest shareholder, the Halley family, decided to sell its 13 percent stake or a new shareholder bought more than 5 percent of the company. Speculation that a takeover was imminent had swirled around the company since last month when Colony Capital and Mr. Arnault, together with a hedge fund, bought a 9.8 percent stake. Stock in Carrefour, which is based in Paris, fell 1.19 euros, or 2 percent, to 54.22 euros a share.
773 2007-03-27 N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman said yesterday that fighting was part of hockey and he believed some people had been “running off a little too fast on this topic.”

“My view on fighting hasn’t changed,” Bettman told The Canadian Press. “We’ve never taken active steps or considered eliminating fighting from the game. I’ve always taken the view that it’s a part of the game and it rises and lowers based on what the game dictates.”

Bettman said he was concerned about the larger safety issues.

“The discussion that we’ve been having is about player safety and injuries,” Bettman said. “We’ve had a number of injuries resulting from fighting recently. The question is whether or not that’s an aberration.”

The recent debate started with the Philadelphia Flyers enforcer Todd Fedoruk being taken off the ice on a stretcher last Wednesday after a fight with the Rangers’ Colton Orr.

The next day, the league disciplinarian Colin Campbell said that it was time to examine fighting.

ELIAS SET TO RETURN Left wing Patrik Elias skated with the Devils yesterday and pronounced himself ready for tonight’s game at Nassau Coliseum against the Islanders.

It will be Elias’s first game since sustaining a groin injury March 15. The Devils are tied with the Pittsburgh Penguins for first place in the Atlantic Division. The Islanders are in a pack of six teams battling for the last three playoff spots.
774 2007-03-27 Prosecutors in Ankara are investigating whether Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan once referred to Abdullah Ocalan, the imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader, by the honorific “Sayin,” or esteemed, the Anatolian News Agency reported. Praising a criminal or criminal organization in Turkey is itself a crime. According to reports, Mr. Erdogan referred to Mr. Ocalan by the honorific in an Australian radio interview in 2000.
775 2007-03-27 All four defendants surrendered yesterday and all pleaded not guilty in Federal District Court in Manhattan. All were released on bond.

Four other former company employees have pleaded guilty to similar charges and are expected to cooperate with prosecutors. Collins & Aikman is cooperating with the government and will not be prosecuted.

In a news conference yesterday, Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, singled out Mr. Stockman as the leader behind the effort to mislead lenders, investors and auditors.

“They resorted to lies, tricks and fraud,” Mr. Garcia said. “In the end, Stockman and his co-conspirators were unable to hide the truth.”

Mr. Garcia depicted Mr. Stockman as unable to come to terms with the failure of a company he helped revive. He referred to a 2003 interview with The New York Times in which Mr. Stockman said: “This was my idea; I’m going to stick with it. I’m going to make it happen and make sure it becomes a great success.”

Mr. Garcia added, “Stockman stuck with it at the cost of the invested public, the financial integrity of the company and the truth.”

Mr. Stockman’s lawyer, Elkan Abramowitz, said that the charges were exaggerated. “This is not an Enron or a WorldCom,” he said. “He tried to save the company, and that’s the kind of thing you want a C.E.O. to do.”

In a statement posted on his lawyer’s Web site, Mr. Stockman said he and Heartland Industrial Partners, the buyout firm he founded that owned a large stake in Collins & Aikman, lost $360 million — more than any other investor. Mr. Stockman maintained that he went to great lengths to resuscitate the company.

“In this battle for survival,” he said on the Web site, “I moved into a motel next to the headquarters; worked long hours without any compensation; and personally absorbed millions in company expenses that C.& A. could not afford to cover — emptying my pockets to help save the company.”

Charles A. Ross, a criminal defense lawyer in New York, said that Mr. Stockman’s personal losses were critical to his defense strategy at a time when other accounting fraud cases have shaken public trust in executives at failed companies.

“He put his money where his mouth was in terms of trying to turn the company around,” Mr. Ross said. “That’s an important fact that differentiates this from other accounting frauds.”

In addition to the charges filed by the United States attorney’s office, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil complaint.

Mr. Garcia and the S.E.C. said they had agreed not to charge or penalize Collins & Aikman, which is seeking to emerge from bankruptcy by selling most or all of its assets.

The indictment accuses Mr. Stockman of orchestrating an effort that duped Collins & Aikman’s lenders, exaggerating how much money it was due in its accounts receivable so it could obtain more credit.

The indictment describes a company that went to great lengths to conceal its ballooning debt. When it got too far behind on its bills, it lied, telling one lender that a computer glitch was the reason it did not complete a financial report, court papers said. Mr. Stockman, himself, is accused of directing employees to create fraudulent invoices to show millions of dollars worth of receivables so the company could borrow more.

The indictment accuses Mr. Stockman and his top executives of persuading Elkin B. McCallum, the chief executive of Joan Fabrics and a member of the Collins & Aikman board at the time, to give it $3 million. Collins & Aikman booked the money as a rebate, when in fact it had agreed to repay the money. Mr. McCallum was not named in the criminal indictment, but is charged in the civil complaint.

The criminal complaint also accuses Mr. Stockman of overseeing a scheme with Mr. Cosgrove in which Collins & Aikman employees asked suppliers to report that certain rebates were related to past business transactions, when in fact the rebates were paid based on the promise of future business.

The indictment stated that Mr. Stockman then commandeered an internal investigation to conceal the accounting fraud. According to the indictment, Collins & Aikman used a computer system error as an excuse for not making a financial report to a lender.

The civil and criminal charges follow two years of investigations by the Justice Department, the Postal Service and the S.E.C.
776 2007-03-27 In response to news of Ms. Goodling’s decision, Mr. Sampson’s lawyer, Bradford Berenson, said in a statement Monday night, “Kyle plans to testify fully, truthfully and publicly.”

People briefed on Mr. Sampson’s view of events say he believes there were clear errors in communication about the dismissals, including some misstatements by Mr. Gonzales, but no deliberate effort to mislead Congress.

Several other Justice Department officials, including Mr. Gonzales and Paul J. McNulty, the deputy attorney general, will also appear voluntarily, although the panels have authorized subpoenas for their testimony.

In his letter to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and chairman of the Judiciary panel, Mr. Dowd, who specializes in white-collar criminal defense, wrote that some lawmakers on the panel “have already reached conclusions about the matter under investigation.”

“The hostile and questionable environment that has been created by members of the Judiciary Committee in the present proceedings,” Mr. Dowd said, “is at best ambiguous; more accurately the environment can be described as legally perilous for Ms. Goodling.”

Mr. Leahy expressed dismay. “It is disappointing that Ms. Goodling had decided to withhold her important testimony from the committee as it pursues its investigation into this matter,” he said in a statement.

In his letter, Mr. Dowd said he had learned about a conversation between an unidentified Justice Department official, who is said by officials to be Mr. McNulty, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who has led the Congressional inquiry into the dismissals.

Mr. Dowd said that Mr. Schumer was told privately by the official that the official’s report to the committee about the dismissals “was not entirely candid” because “others, including our client, did not inform him of certain pertinent facts.”

Mr. Dowd appeared to be referring to Mr. McNulty’s statements that before meeting with lawmakers, he attended briefings in which Ms. Goodling and Mr. Sampson did not fully describe what they knew about the White House role in the dismissals.

In an interview Monday night on NBC News, Mr. Gonzales sought to explain a calendar entry released by the Justice Department on Friday that showed he had attended an hourlong meeting about the dismissals on Nov. 27, 2006. The record seemed to contradict an earlier statement that he had not been involved in discussions about the firings.

The attorney general said Mr. Sampson was in charge of the process but periodically told him about his progress in identifying underperforming prosecutors. “I was never focused on specific concerns about United States attorneys as to whether or not they should be asked to resign,” Mr. Gonzales said.

“I was more focused on identifying, or making sure that the White House was appropriately advised of the progress of our review,” he said.

Mr. Gonzales also referred to a 2006 meeting with President Bush in which the president expressed concern about whether the Justice Department was aggressively pursuing accusations of voter fraud “in three jurisdictions around the country.”

Mr. Gonzales said he did not remember the meeting, “but what I’m saying is, is during the process there may have been other conversations about specifically about the performance of U.S. attorneys.”

“But I wasn’t involved in the deliberations as to whether or not a particular United States attorney should or should not be asked to resign,” he said.

At a White House briefing earlier Monday, Dana Perino, a spokeswoman, restated President Bush’s support for Mr. Gonzales, saying that he “does have confidence in the attorney general and the final decision that he made” in the dismissals.

The House voted Monday to close what Democrats said was a legal loophole that the Bush administration had tried to exploit in naming candidates to federal prosecutor positions without Senate confirmation.

The legislation, approved 329 to 78, would repeal a provision of the USA Patriot Act that allowed the attorney general to put a United States attorney in place indefinitely.
777 2007-03-27 SHANGHAI, March 26 — Intel has already labeled it “Fab 68,” the $2.5 billion chip-manufacturing plant that is set to become the company’s first major production site in Asia.

There are only seven other Intel wafer fabrication facilities like it in the world, mostly in the western United States.

But after negotiating with the Chinese government and also getting United States government approval to produce sophisticated equipment here, Intel said it was simply time to move some production of 300-millimeter wafers to China. “China is our fastest-growing major market, and we believe it’s critical that we invest in markets that will provide for future growth to better serve our customers,” Paul S. Otellini, the president and chief executive of Intel, said in a statement.

Intel’s plant, which is scheduled to open in 2010, probably will not involve exporting any big secrets: Fab 68 will produce only so-called chip sets, or chips that work to support microprocessors. Intel officials say they will not produce the company’s core technology here, the powerful microprocessing chips that are at the heart of modern PCs and servers.

But the move is seen as a milestone that could lead to even more advanced chip technology in China. The Chinese government is hoping that luring a big name like Intel gives it the best chance at doing that.
778 2007-03-27 Bertelsmann, the German media giant that provided financial backing to Napster when it was an unauthorized file-sharing service, has agreed to settle with the last of the major record companies that had sued it for copyright infringement.

Under the settlement with the EMI Group, the big British company that releases music by artists like Norah Jones and Joss Stone, Bertelsmann will pay an undisclosed sum but admit no liability. Bertelsmann provided Napster with $85 million in loans starting in late 2000.

In lawsuits filed in 2003, EMI, the Universal Music Group and several independent publishers accused Bertelsmann of contributing to copyright infringement by aiding Napster, which enabled millions of users to trade pirated songs. Napster has since been reborn as a legal subscription service.

Late last year, Bertelsmann agreed to pay the Universal Music Group, the world’s biggest music corporation, $60 million to settle that company’s portion of the lawsuit. The deal came as part of Universal’s pact to buy Bertelsmann’s music publishing unit for $2 billion.

Separately, a San Francisco venture capital firm that also invested in Napster negotiated a settlement with Universal and EMI in December.
779 2007-03-27 The Jewish Theological Seminary, the intellectual and spiritual center of Conservative Judaism, said yesterday that it would begin accepting openly gay and lesbian candidates into its rabbinical and cantorial schools.

The seminary’s announcement follows opinions in December by a panel of Conservative legal experts ending their movement’s ban on gay rabbis and on same-sex unions. Those opinions gave individual Conservative congregations and institutions, however, the theological latitude to stake out their own positions.

“The decision to ordain gay and lesbian clergy at J.T.S. is in keeping with the longstanding commitment of the Jewish tradition to pluralism,” Chancellor-elect Arnold M. Eisen said in a statement. “Pluralism means that we recognize more than one way to be a good Conservative Jew, more than one way of walking authentically in the path of our tradition and of carrying that tradition forward.”

Dr. Eisen said the seminary, in Upper Manhattan, would extend its application deadline for next fall from Dec. 31 to June 30 to allow for candidates who might seek admission given the new policy.

Advocates for gay men and lesbians were heartened by the announcement.

“We believe the decision will strengthen the Conservative movement,” said Eytan Hammerman, a heterosexual rabbinical student at the seminary who is a member of Keshet, a campus gay rights group. “It allows us to access a broader range of talent and passion amongst potential leaders of our seminary and ultimately our community.”
780 2007-03-27 Ms. Rice has been shuttling between Jerusalem and several Arab cities to try to get the Arab leaders to offer Mr. Olmert, whose popularity in Israel is low after the war with Hezbollah in Lebanon last July, enough political cover to enable him to make a deal.

“Some good things are there,” Ms. Rice told King Abdullah II of Jordan on Monday after her arrival at the king’s private residence for a meeting. “We just have to put them together.”

In the Saudi capital, Riyadh, Arab states agreed to restart a peace initiative with Israel at their summit meeting this week. The proposal, dormant for five years, would offer Israel normalized relations with Arab states, including Saudi Arabia, in return for Israel’s full withdrawal from land it has occupied since 1967.

Israel rejected the plan — which is ostensibly a take-it-or-leave-it approach that also stipulates that Palestinians have the right to return to Israel — when it was presented in 2002. But recently, Mr. Olmert and Tzipi Livni, the Israeli foreign minister, have sounded positive notes about the Arab plan, while still maintaining that the refugee question remains off the table.

The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, also in a third day of Middle East diplomacy, said in Jerusalem that representatives from Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates, along with Israeli and Palestinian officials, could be invited to attend the next meeting of the so-called quartet working on Middle East peace: Russia, the United States, the European Union and the United Nations.

Mr. Ban was quoted in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz as saying that the invitation had already been issued, which sent American officials into damage-control mode. Ms. Rice and her negotiating team have taken pains on this trip not to appear as if they are pressing Saudi Arabia to do anything it does not want to do, and they have repeated publicly several times that America is not dictating anything to the Arab League before its summit meeting.

A senior Bush administration official in Jerusalem cautioned that it remained unclear early on Monday whether Saudi Arabia would agree to a public meeting with Israel.

“The only decision that has been made by the quartet is that we will meet at some point in the region,” Ms. Rice said before meeting with Ms. Livni. “Precisely what geometry we might use has not really been decided or really fully considered by the quartet or by other parties.”

At a news conference with Mr. Olmert, Mr. Ban said officials were only considering the idea of a joint meeting. “I think it is a very interesting and useful idea to consider, but we need more presentation of the quartet and countries concerned,” he said. Mr. Olmert said, “If such an invitation arrived at my address, I would treat it in a very positive manner.”

Reuters reported that Arab officials in Riyadh said that only Arab states with ties to Israel — like Egypt and Jordan — would talk with Israel at first, but that if there was Israeli acceptance of the Arab peace plan, that could pave the way for other states, like Saudi Arabia, to join the talks.

Separately, the United Nations said Monday that a Washington-based Israeli journalist traveling with Mr. Ban who had been unable to obtain a visa to accompany him to Saudi Arabia on Tuesday for the Arab League summit meeting would now be admitted to the country.

Michèle Montas, Mr. Ban’s spokeswoman, said the United Nations received an e-mail message on Monday from the Saudi Foreign Ministry saying a visa had been approved for the journalist, Orly Azoulay, the Washington bureau chief of the Israeli newspaper Yediot Aharonot.

Last week, the Saudi mission in New York said the visa might come through in the early days of the group’s trip, but on Saturday Mr. Ban placed a phone call to Prince Saud al-Faisal, the Saudi foreign minister, asking him to intercede.
781 2007-03-27 OTTAWA, March 26 — Xstrata, the Swiss mining company, moved to extend its presence in the nickel market Monday with a friendly takeover of LionOre Mining International valued at 4.6 billion Canadian dollars ($3.96 billion).

Ted C. Mayers, chief financial officer of LionOre, said that the company accepted Xstrata’s bid of 18.50 Canadian dollars a share, a 5.8 percent premium over Friday’s closing price of 17.49 Canadian dollars, largely because nickel prices, which have roughly doubled over the last year, are now “unsustainable.”

Any further increases in nickel prices, added Colin H. Steyn, the president and chief executive, will “cause value destruction in the stainless steel industry, which will affect demand.” Nickel is a crucial ingredient of rust-resistant steel.

Although both companies played down the prospect of a third party’s upsetting their arrangement with another bid, some investors clearly thought otherwise. By midday, shares of LionOre, which is based in Toronto, had risen above the value of Xstrata’s all-cash offer.

While the Xstrata bid is modest in terms of current market prices, it is about 275 percent of the LionOre share price a year ago.
782 2007-03-27 ST. LOUIS, March 26 (AP) — Federal prosecutors on Monday accused the former chief financial officer for the military contractor Engineered Support Systems Inc. of backdating stock options without disclosing his actions and then making a false statement to investigators.

The former financial officer, Gary Gerhardt, 62, of St. Charles, Mo., faces a 10-count indictment that includes one count of falsifying books and records of a publicly traded company; 4 counts of making false statements in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; 2 counts of mail fraud; and 2 counts of wire fraud.

The indictment accuses Mr. Gerhardt and others of illegally backdating stock options on at least eight occasions from 1996 to 2002.

An assistant United States attorney, Michael Reap, said the practice diluted profits for shareholders and deprived the public of accurate information concerning the company’s earnings and compensation for its executives.

Engineered Support was sold last year to DRS Technologies Inc. of Parsippany, N.J. Calls to the company were not returned.

Backdating occurs when a stock option’s exercise price is set at a point lower than the prevailing market price on the date of the grant, a practice that can inflate the recipient’s award.

Although the practice itself is not necessarily illegal, securities laws require that companies properly disclose it.
783 2007-03-27 Now that American is profitable and its finances are improving, it does not have the threat of bankruptcy to use to push for concessions, as it did in 2003.

Across the industry, as airlines become profitable again, workers are agitating to recover some of the pay and benefits lost in recent years. Delta Air Lines has already promised its nonunion workers a raise when it exits bankruptcy this spring, hoping to buy some peace and avoid unionization beyond its pilots.

Pilots are seeking a big raise after a turnaround at US Airways. And United Airlines pilots, whose contract is not amendable until January 2010, are complaining about executive compensation there and preparing to demand raises.

American, a unit of the AMR Corporation and based in Fort Worth, is the only traditional major network airline never to have entered bankruptcy. Its employees’ pensions are intact, and their wages are generally higher than at other traditional airlines, though they lag those at Southwest Airlines.

At the same time, management pay in the airline industry generally is lower than compensation at other big companies — with good reason. Airlines mostly lose money. And their shares, over time, have been poor investments.

Still, it irks executives to be running a huge and well-known company and be paid far less than other executives. Another Dallas area service industry company with about $20 billion in sales, the Electronic Data Systems Corporation, paid its chief executive, Michael H. Jordan, cash, stock and other compensation valued at $13.6 million last year.

In 2005, the last year with full pay information available, Mr. Arpey was paid cash and stock then valued at about $1.5 million. (He declined his payout from the bonus program last year, but this year it will pay him about $7.5 million.)

While executives in general view their pay relative to that of other executives, workers view executive pay relative to rank-and-file wages, especially at companies where workers made sacrifices to keep the place in business.

“I’m so tired of management hiding behind ‘Everybody else does it,’ ” said Tommie Hutto-Blake, president of the flight attendants’ union at American.

“I really do feel American and its unions could be headed toward a collision,” Ms. Hutto-Blake said. “We’re sliding fast. It’s executive compensation — it sucks the energy out of you.”

“How do I keep my people pumped up” to offer good service, she asked, when flight attendants are angry about their reduced pay and management’s bonuses?

The executive stock bonuses are large because they are based on AMR’s stock price roughly from the start of 2004 to the end of 2006, when it rose to $30, from about $13. Also, the bonus program pays out more if AMR shares outperform those of other airlines. With Delta and Northwest Airlines in bankruptcy, and other airline stocks not rising as rapidly as AMR’s, the company ranked first during that period.

In all, about 1,000 managers will split roughly $170 million in AMR shares.

This Thursday, Mr. Arpey and other top executives will have their monthly meeting with American’s top union officials. As at other meetings, said Jeffrey J. Brundage, senior vice president for human relations at American, there will be “a very robust dialogue about how we should share the fruits of our labor.”

Of negotiations with the pilots’ union, Mr. Brundage said, “Quite frankly, it’s been slow going.”
784 2007-03-27 The Rebels (24-10) said they had chosen to write off the first meeting as an aberration, especially now that they are playing their best basketball of the season. At the same time, they know they cannot forget about Parker.

“We realize her greatness and we realize the impact she has on the Tennessee team,” Ole Miss Coach Carol Ross said. “If we play the way we’re supposed to play, then our defense should naturally take away some opportunities. We’re supposed to be crowding people all the time when they have the ball so when she’s got it, there should be a Rebel or two gathered.”

After finishing fifth in the SEC, five games behind the Lady Volunteers, Ole Miss has found its footing. It has used its wild, pressing, fast-breaking style to confuse, exhaust and frustrate its N.C.A.A. opponents.

“The fact that they’ve put up an average of 89 points in the last three games, I don’t care what you say, that’s impressive,” Summitt said. “They’ve done it with intensity on the defensive end.”

In Sunday’s 90-82 regional semifinal victory against Oklahoma, the Rebels forced 26 turnovers and had 16 steals. Now they want to unleash their sprinter speed on the Lady Volunteers.

“We’re a new team and we’ve been doing new things and better things and, hopefully, we can keep running and flying around and keep making plays,” said guard Ashley Awkward, who scored a career-high 25 points and led the Rebels’ full-court pressure against the Sooners.

Price made shots in transition, raced past everyone for layups and created havoc on defense while scoring 31 points.

Tennessee muscled its way past Marist, 65-46, in Sunday’s other semifinal. The Lady Volunteers did it the old-fashioned way, playing solid defense, making good decisions and running their offense through Parker, who had 16 points and 9 rebounds.

“The difference is going to be taking care of the ball and rebounding — that’s going to be key,” Parker said of the matchup with Ole Miss. “On the defensive end, just taking them out of the things that they like to do.”

A fast pace favors the Rebels. Tennessee wants to run plays and remain organized, staying above the fray and letting its deep and versatile roster come into play.

“They like that hectic pace,” Summitt said. “It’s going to be a battle of wills — which team controls the tempo, controls the boards, takes care of the basketball.”

Many teams wilt before the tradition-rich Lady Volunteers, who are 16-5 in regional championship games and have won six N.C.A.A. titles.

The Rebels insist that they are not intimidated, even though they have not beaten Tennessee in more than a decade — losing the past 14 meetings.

“We have heard about that and are aware of it,” Price said. “We’re excited that we do have another chance at Tennessee. We’ll try to be prepared tomorrow night and give them the best that we’ve got.”
785 2007-03-27 Some black ministers, like their white counterparts, said they had been moved to reconsider biblical passages about same-sex relations by personal events, like finding out that a friend or relative is gay. Some members of the clergy contend that because of the antipathy to gay men and lesbians, black churches have done little to address the high rate of H.I.V. infection among African-Americans.

“The church has to come to a point when it has to embrace all the people Jesus embraced, and that means the people in the margins,” Dr. Samuel said. “It really bothered my congregation when I said that as people of color who have been ostracized, marginalized, how can we turn around now and oppress other people?”

It is hard to know how many ministers who lead the country’s tens of thousands of African-American congregations are preaching acceptance of gay men and lesbians. Some leading African-American religious thinkers and leaders — like Cornel West, the Rev. Peter J. Gomes and the Rev. Michael Eric Dyson — have called for inclusion of gay men and lesbians. But other leaders are convinced that the Bible condemns homosexuality and that tolerance of gay men and lesbians is a yet another dangerous force buffeting the already fragile black family.

“It is one of several factors that are taking away the interest in traditional marriage in the African-American community,” said Bishop Harry R. Jackson Jr., the president of the High Impact Leadership Coalition, a black conservative Christian group. “I see the growing gay movement in the black community and our culture as almost evangelistic in nature, with what’s on television, with their legal agenda, all those things that have made homosexuality more acceptable.”

In the 13 years Mr. Meredith has led Tabernacle Baptist, he has presided over cycles of fraying and mending, this last time because of his preaching “love and acceptance,” he said. When he arrived in 1994, the congregation at Tabernacle had dwindled from several thousand members to about 110.

A compelling orator with the voice and showmanship of a stadium-rock star, Mr. Meredith quickly began to draw more new members. He preached against homosexuality. Then, five years ago, his middle son, Micah, told him that he is gay. Mr. Meredith and his wife began to read liberal theologians like Mr. Gomes and to look at Scripture again. What matters most in the Bible, Mr. Meredith said, was Jesus’ injunction to love God and to love your neighbor as yourself, and that includes gay men and lesbians.

As he preached greater acceptance of gay people, Mr. Meredith saw the face of his congregation change.

About three years ago, many older members, those who had hung on through the church’s waning, and who drove in from the suburbs because they had attended Tabernacle as young people, gradually began to leave. They took with them their generous, loyal tithing. The 90-year-old church had money to cover salaries and utilities but had a hard time paying for properties it had bought nearby. In September, Mr. Meredith held a commitment ceremony in the church for two lesbian couples. More people left after that.

As attendance dropped, the church cut back to one service on Sunday, from two. On a recent Sunday, the pews were filled with some older people like the deacons and deaconesses, though the head deacon had left recently after telling Mr. Meredith that he had turned Tabernacle into “a sissy church.”

Under banners that read “Kindness,” “Peace” and “Love,” there were young families with babies. And there were transgender people like Stacy Jackson and Nikki Brown. There were also lesbian couples like Angela Hutchins and Stephanie Champion, sitting together in the front rows.

Mr. Meredith preached about Moses, about the vision God gave him to do the right thing. He told congregants about holding on to that vision, regardless of who they were.

“Don’t let anyone tell you you can’t do it because of your lifestyle, because of your sexuality, because you don’t have an education, because you’ve done time,” he said. “Because God knew you before you were born, when you were still in your mother’s womb. If God loves everybody, who am I not to love everybody?”

Afterward, when the sanctuary was mostly empty, Ruth Jinks, a deaconess who has been at Tabernacle since 1969, sat in a pew, cane by her side, waiting for the church van to take her home. Gay men and lesbians do not make her uncomfortable, Ms. Jinks said. They have always been in black churches, under something of a “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. But she seems to have tired of Mr. Meredith’s mention of them. She hears from acquaintances that she goes to the “gay church.”

“I don’t think you need to be speaking about it from the pulpit all the time,” said Ms. Jinks, who is in her early 80s. “I joined this church; I support this church. I didn’t join a minister. I’m planning on staying here and will not let people run me away.”

One of the junior pastors is the Rev. Chris Brown, who grew up in a black Pentecostal church in Montgomery, Ala.

“My pastor in Alabama said gays had three rights: to redeem themselves, to repent or to die of AIDS,” said Mr. Brown, 32.

He added, “The African-American church thinks AIDS is a gay disease, and that everyone who got it deserved to.”

DeMarcus Hill, 32, said he admired Mr. Meredith’s “ability to embrace those people who everyone had rejected.” Mr. Hill once attended and worked at Tabernacle Baptist, and he is still friends with the Meredith family. But after reading the Bible closely, Mr. Hill, who is studying to be ordained as a Baptist minister, said he could not stay at Tabernacle because sex outside heterosexual marriage was not countenanced.

Mr. Hill said he agreed with Mr. Meredith that God loves everyone, including gay men and lesbians. “But God corrects you because he loves you,” he said, explaining that for gay Christians, such a correction would probably mean lifelong celibacy or eventually being with someone of the opposite sex.
786 2007-03-27 TRENTON, March 26 (AP) — Merck and Schering-Plough, partners trying to increase their share of the $32 billion global market for cholesterol drugs, will develop a medicine combining their Zetia with Pfizer’s blockbuster Lipitor.

The planned drug, meant to reduce levels of the harmful type of cholesterol in two ways, could hit the market when Lipitor’s patent expires in a few years, Merck and Schering-Plough said Monday.

Information on when human testing would begin was not disclosed.

“We’re not talking about the specifics at this point,” said Mary-Fran Faraji, a spokeswoman for Schering-Plough.

Merck, which is based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., and Schering-Plough, based in Kenilworth, N.J., have a seven-year-old joint venture that markets two cholesterol drugs: Schering-Plough’s Zetia and a combination pill introduced in mid-2004 called Vytorin. It combines Zetia and Zocor, Merck’s former blockbuster, which lost patent protection in June 2006.

Zetia is the only drug on sale that limits absorption of cholesterol in the digestive tract. Zocor, like other drugs in a popular class called statins, limits cholesterol production in the liver.

The Merck-Schering-Plough joint venture promotes Vytorin heavily, stressing that it fights cholesterol in two ways.
787 2007-03-27 Q. Is it true that needle biopsies leak lung cancer cells into the bloodstream, spreading cancer throughout the body?

A. “With any biopsy of any organ, you do loosen some cells, and some do get into the bloodstream, but very rarely do they stick and implant,” said Dr. David F. Yankelevitz, professor of radiology at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in New York. There is a very low incidence of tumors forming along the track of the needle, he said.

The rates differ among organs, Dr. Yankelevitz said, but for lung cancer, a study was done last year, based on several thousand cases followed over several years in a large cancer database, comparing cases of early-stage lung cancer in which there was a biopsy and cases with no biopsy.

“If you were causing Stage 1 tumors to spread by putting in a needle, you would expect the long-term survival rate would be lower,” he said, “but in fact we found no difference at all.”

He added: “The reason you do a biopsy in the first place is that you don’t want to do surgery, sometimes big surgery, for a benign condition. A biopsy can reduce the chance of an operation for someone who doesn’t need one, which is a much greater risk.”

Another large 1998 study, by researchers at the University of Alabama, Birmingham, found that in approximately 68,000 needle biopsies, there were eight metastases along the needle track. The review concluded, “This small risk is random and unavoidable.”
788 2007-03-27 “Eunuch” simply means a castrated man. Given the pervasive stereotype of eunuchs as ineffective wimps, it is no surprise that men dread this label. I became curious about whether the stereotype was true, and how eunuchs functioned in the past.

The first thing I discovered was that eunuchs were anything but mindless, cowardly automatons. There were philosophers (Abelard, Origen of Alexandria), saints (Ignatius of Constantinople), military leaders (Cheng Ho, Narses) and even assassins. They were the chamberlains, diplomats and senior government officials in the major long-lasting, dynastic governments across Asia for 3,000 years. Furthermore, descriptions of eunuchs’ physique and psychology mirrored many of the anatomical and emotional changes I experienced.

Then I discovered the classicists’ hypothesis that the eunuchs of antiquity were models for our depiction of angels. God is thought to surround himself with angels as advisers and emissaries, who are identical in appearance to males castrated before puberty: tall, beardless, nonsexual beings with voices like the legendary castrati.

It appears that from the Judeo-Christian standpoint, the occupants of heaven were exalted eunuchs. In turn, earthly rulers aspired to reach this divine ideal. In “The Perfect Servant” (University of Chicago, 2003), Kathryn M. Ringrose notes that by the 10th century the Byzantine court was “perceived to be an earthly replica of the court of heaven where the emperor functioned as Christ’s representative on earth and was attended by an ‘angelic’ corps of eunuchs.”

This eunuch-angel connection has helped me understand and adapt to the side effects of androgen deprivation. When I was stoked up on testosterone in the old days, for example, I would obsess about exacting revenge on those who offended me. Now I see the foolishness in such macho fury. Rather than trying to undo others, I can now willfully exercise restraint. It’s not that I’m never pugnacious anymore, for I’m no perfect angel, but I realize it’s better to maintain a higher mission than fight petty battles.

I don’t recall crying much as an adult, but since my castration I’ll weep while watching Mothers Against Drunk Driving commercials. At first, I feared that my tears would be perceived as maudlin self-pity. But the truth is that I’ve become more sensitive to the trials and tribulations of others. I am thus no longer embarrassed by my tears. I consider them humanizing, just as they are for angels. The link to my chemical castration is obvious; testosterone fuels aggression but suppresses empathy and the ability to cry.

Understanding angel (and eunuch) psychology has even helped me overcome the cognitive side effects of hormonal therapy. Angels may be omnipotent, but they undertake just one task at a time. According to the Talmud, they are not permitted to attempt more. Biblical angels blessed, cursed, relayed messages and even killed, but they were never on two missions at once. It seems that thousands of years ago it was already recognized that androgen deprivation makes multitasking difficult — but doesn’t prevent one from accomplishing a single task well. This realization has helped me maintain a busy, productive academic life.

I still have a beard and sing bass: androgen deprivation in adulthood doesn’t change those male features. Singing in a group never appealed to me before my castration, because it offered little opportunity for individual advancement. But recently I joined a choir, where I now enjoy the richness of the collective sound born of collaboration — and how much I’ve gained by accepting how much I’ve changed.

Angels cry. So do I. They also sing, and so do I.
789 2007-03-27 Each stifled outbreak robs the virus of the chance to carom wildly through dozens of human hosts as it does in a flock of chickens or ducks. That fends off what virologists most fear: gene-swapping in people infected with both human and avian flu.

But the Tamiflu blanket may not be able to smother every spark, especially if countries cannot get their poultry epidemics under control.

A human-bird hybrid strain has not yet been seen in nature. But if it did surface, that “would mean we might have a big problem on our hands,” said Dr. Nancy Cox, chief of the influenza branch of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Last year, Dr. Cox and colleagues created a hybrid in their lab between a human flu of the H3N2 strain and samples of the H5N1 virus collected from 1997 to 2004. They infected ferrets with it to see if it would spread to ferrets in the same cage or those in nearby cages. The hybrid strain proved less lethal and was transmitted only once after long contact.

But nature has a bigger laboratory than the C.D.C. does, and the agency’s director, Dr. Julie L. Gerberding, says the results do not mean that H5N1 cannot become more infectious. “They mean it’s probably not a simple process,” she said.

Dr. Anne Moscona, a flu expert at Weill Cornell Medical Center, was more emphatic in arguing that there is still reason to worry. “It would have been truly ominous if a monster virus had been created by these supersimple swaps,” she said. “But of three ferrets, one got the virus. Is 33 percent nothing?”

Geneticists at the University of California, Irvine, concluded that the H5N1 flu originated in Guangdong Province in Southern China, where millions of people and chickens live in close proximity. Guangdong is also believed to be the likely birthplace of previous flu strains — even if they later picked up names like “Hong Kong flu” — and to be where the SARS virus jumped from horseshoe bats to masked palm civets to humans.

But flus mutate incessantly wherever they move, and in viral samples from Asia, the Middle East and Africa, many individual changes that look potentially dangerous have been spotted.

In May 2005, for example, the virus in China escaped in migratory birds going north and traveled across Russia, Europe and Africa. It became known as the Qinghai strain after the lake in Northern China where thousands of ducks and geese were found dead. (The older strain in Southern China and Southeast Asia is sometimes called the Fujian strain.)

The Qinghai strain has a mutation known as PB2 E627K. (The abbreviation can be read this way: at position No. 627 on polymerase basic protein 2, the amino acid called glutamic acid, abbreviated by scientists as E, has been replaced by lysine, known as K.)

The change helps the virus grow at the temperatures found in human noses, which are cooler than the insides of birds’ intestines.

It is “characteristic of a gene that’s been in mammals,” said Dr. Robert G. Webster, a virologist at St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital in Memphis. “It says to me that it was in a mammalian species in China, and got back into ducks. But what species? We don’t know.”

The Qinghai strain has now reached about 50 countries.

To give a sense of how important such a tiny change can be: switching just one of the 1,255 amino acids in the SARS virus protein that attached to cells in the masked palm civet, a relative of the mongoose that is sold in wild-meat markets in Asia, allowed it to attach to human cells.

After that discovery, the Chinese government ordered that all the 10,000 civets in captivity in Guangdong be killed, thus probably wiping out the disease everywhere except in bats.

In avian flu, two mutations known to help viruses spread more easily — because they attach to the receptors in human noses and throats instead of those deep in the lungs — were found in outbreaks in Azerbaijan and Iraq in 2006. But those outbreaks were snuffed out.

Another mutation, increasingly common in Egypt, where the disease is still raging through poultry and occasionally infecting humans, is called M230I. Scientists do not know what it does, but its persistence is worrisome, says Henry L. Niman, a Pittsburgh biochemist who runs a Web site tracking the genetics of flu cases.

M230I is also found in typical annual flu strains like H1N1, H3N2 and influenza B; in H7 flus, which pass easily from birds to humans but usually cause nothing more serious than pinkeye; and in H3N8, the flu that has spread from dog to dog in many American kennels, often fatally.

All the human cases in Egypt with M230I have been fatal, Dr. Niman said, and those without it have not been, although that may be coincidence.

Mutations that confer resistance to Tamiflu have also been found in Egypt.

Any antiviral resistance is worrisome because the world still has very few weapons against the flu. H5N1 long ago became resistant to older “M2 inhibitors” like amantadine, possibly because farmers in China are suspected of feeding those drugs to their chickens in the late 1990s.

Tamiflu is in another class, known as neuraminidase inhibitors, including Relenza and peramivir.

After Tamiflu resistance was found in Egypt, the World Health Organization, moving to stave off panic, said the same change was seen in Vietnam years before. Still, the Vietnam cases led doctors to start doubling the typical Tamiflu dose, effectively halving the world’s stockpiles of it.

An American Navy research lab in Cairo found that two Egyptian cases had a dangerous mutation known as N294S even before they got Tamiflu. That implies that it exists in Egyptian poultry, though it has not been found yet.

Every flu virus is different, and it is impossible to predict exactly what constellation of changes will turn one into a pandemic strain.

Dr. Cox and Dr. Ruben Donis, the influenza branch’s chief virologist, said they would be most worried if they saw spontaneous human-avian crossovers like those they created, or if they saw multiple changes in the virus’s hemagglutinin gene, the attachment “spike” on the virus’s shell.

“We’re looking very, very carefully at the viruses that exhibit changes at the receptor binding pocket,” Dr. Cox said. “But it’s clear that these single changes don’t allow the virus to move from person to person efficiently.”

And even if H5N1 fails to become a plague, Dr. Webster of St. Jude in Memphis has what he styles his “hit list” of others waiting their turn.

They include H7N7, which infected 89 chicken industry workers in the Netherlands in 2003 but killed only one veterinarian; H9N2, which he says is in “every poultry house in Eurasia” and causes no symptoms but every once in a while jumps into immuno-suppressed people; and H2N2, which is in the wild bird population in the United States.
790 2007-03-27 Myositis (my-uh-SIGH-tis) is an autoimmune disease, in which the immune system attacks normal healthy tissue. It causes persistent muscle swelling, inflammation and weakness, as well as other complications like lung disease. One form, dermatomyositis, is often accompanied by a skin rash.

The disease is diagnosed in just 1 in 100,000 people a year, though some experts suspect that many cases may go unidentified because it is so often mistaken for the symptoms of aging or, in women, depression. One survey found that the average patient sees seven doctors before getting the right diagnosis.

This month, in an effort both to improve diagnosis and treatment and to advance research, the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center in Baltimore opened a new multispecialty myositis center. Researchers there are especially intrigued by the high rate of cancer associated with dermatomyositis. (Mrs. Parcover had a treatable form called polymyositis, also sometimes linked to cancer; she is cancer-free, she said.)

This close association is seen as a tantalizing clue by many scientists, who say myositis could hold important insights not just about autoimmune disease but about the role the immune system plays in tumor development, and possibly the development of cancer itself.

Doctors have known since 1916 that patients with myositis were at high risk of cancer. Recent studies have quantified the risk, finding that dermatomyositis patients face a threefold risk of cancer, while patients with polymyositis face a 40 percent increase in risk, said Dr. Stuart M. Levine, co-director of the Hopkins vasculitis center and an author of a recent paper on the subject.

What is intriguing is that cancer and myositis often appear around the same time. The cancer is usually diagnosed within a year of the muscle disease; while both may go into remission after treatment, the recurrence of one often augurs the recurrence of the other.

“Sometimes I tell my patients the myositis saved their life, because it’s an outward sign of an internal tumor,” said Dr. Lisa Christopher-Stine, co-director of the new center at Hopkins, who rigorously screens her patients for cancer, especially adenocarcinomas of the lung, breast, ovary and colon.

“The big question we have is: why are autoimmunity and cancer linked, as occurs in myositis?” she said. “We think it’s telling us something.”

The immune system’s role is to recognize and attack foreign infectious agents like bacteria and viruses, and it is also believed to take part in tumor surveillance. But what if the immune system becomes overzealous or misfires — or if a tumor starts producing proteins that the system recognizes as threatening and foreign, but that are also found in other normal cells?

Dr. Antony Rosen, director of the division of rheumatology at Hopkins, says myositis patients in their 40s, 50s and 60s — the time of life when cancer rates increase — may actually be cancer survivors.

“I believe the autoimmune rheumatic diseases that occur in people over age 40 may reflect an anticancer immune response in a large number of people,” he said. “These people may be effective cancer survivors.”

Dr. Levine, of the vasculitis center, said the muscle cells might be like “innocent bystanders,” accidentally harmed during the immune system’s assault on the tumor.

In a study published two years ago in The Journal of Experimental Medicine, Dr. Livia Casciola-Rosen, together with Dr. Rosen, Dr. Levine and others, reported that the antigens that produce the immune response are present in normal muscle tissue, but at low levels. They are much more prevalent in myositis patients’ cells and in muscle cells that are regenerating, as after an injury.

Dr. Rosen believes a vicious cycle occurs when damaged muscle cells start to repair themselves. These cells express higher amounts of the antigens, causing the immune system to respond; the immune response causes further damage to the muscle, which in turn repairs itself, its regenerating cells expressing even more antigens, and continuing the cycle.

Even more intriguing, Dr. Rosen said, was the study’s finding that the antigens associated with myositis are expressed at increased levels in tumors of the breast and lung. The signature of the antigens expressed by tumors is the same as the signature of antigens expressed by regenerating muscle cells.

“The immune response that’s potentially directed against the cancer may also be directed against regenerating tissue in some circumstances,” he added.

In fact, Dr. Rosen said, anticancer immunity and autoimmunity may be closely related and may simply be “two sides of the same coin.” Dr. Rosen’s laboratory now hopes to develop a mouse model in which to test this hypothesis.

So far, however, the hypothesis is just that, said Dr. Paul H. Plotz, one of the authors and chief of the arthritis and rheumatism branch at the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases. “It is a speculation. It’s a very good idea, but it isn’t really proven in the world yet.”

There is no question about the association with cancer, however, and experts say patients must be closely monitored. Melissa Leonard, 25, of Easton, Md., suffered her first symptoms of dermatomyositis at 19. (When she passed out and suffered a head injury, doctors told her the cause was depression.)

She has responded to medication and is able to work and take care of her child, but she is closely monitored for signs of cervical cancer: she has had a series of abnormal Pap tests and must go in for the screening test every three months instead of the usual once a year.

Other studies of myositis are pursuing other avenues of research. A study of twins and siblings at the National Institutes of Health is exploring why one child develops an autoimmune disease while another does not, said Dr. Fred Miller, chief of the environmental and autoimmunity group at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences; the study is examining environmental exposures, including toxins and certain medications, as well as genetic factors.

A study sponsored by Scripps Health is trying to determine whether muscle diseases, including myositis, are linked to the cholesterol-lowering drugs called statins. (This trial is called Imposter-16, which stands for “Is Myopathy Part of Statin Therapy?”)

Other clinical trials are testing new drugs to add to the arsenal of corticosteroids, immunosuppressants and intravenous immunoglobulin, a plasma product. Scientists are conducting trials of rituximab, an artificial antibody used to treat certain types of cancer; infliximab, which blocks the effect of a protein called tumor necrosis factor that is associated with inflammation; and etanercept, which blocks tumor necrosis factor-alpha, also involved in inflammation.

For patients with polymyositis and dermatomyositis, existing medications often do wonders, though many of the drugs have serious side effects and may cease being effective over time.

Once Mrs. Parcover received the correct diagnosis, she was treated with a combination of prednisone, a corticosteroid, and Imuran, a medication that suppresses the immune system. When she started the drug regimen, “I was so bad I could not walk,” she recalled.

“Within a week, I woke up one morning and my eyes popped open and I said, ‘I feel wonderful.’ My legs were walking. It was bizarre. The years in between disappeared, as if none of that had happened.”
791 2007-03-27 SHANGHAI, March 26 — The Intel Corporation has already labeled it “Fab 68,” the $2.5 billion chip-manufacturing facility that is set to become the company’s first major production site in Asia.

There are only seven other Intel wafer fabrication facilities like it in the world, mostly in the western United States.

But after negotiating with the Chinese government and also getting United States government approval to produce sophisticated equipment here, Intel said it was simply time to move some production of 300-millimeter wafers to China. “China is our fastest-growing major market, and we believe it’s critical that we invest in markets that will provide for future growth to better serve our customers,” Paul S. Otellini, the president and chief executive of Intel, said in a statement.

Of course, Intel’s facility, which is scheduled to open in 2010, probably will not give away any big secrets: Fab 68 will produce only so-called chip sets, or chips that work to support microprocessors. Intel officials say they will not produce the company’s core technology here, the powerful microprocessing chips.

But the move is seen as a milestone that could lead to even more advanced chip technology in China. The Chinese government is hoping that luring a big name like Intel gives them the best chance at doing that.
792 2007-03-27 The most common cause of death among firefighters at work is not burns or smoke inhalation, but heart attacks, and a new study reports that those attacks are 10 to 100 times as likely to occur when firefighters are suppressing a fire as when performing nonemergency duties. Cardiovascular events account for 45 percent of deaths of firefighters on duty.

Researchers reviewed 449 coronary heart deaths of on-duty firefighters from 1994 through 2004. One-third happened while firefighters were actually putting out fires, but that represented only 1 percent to 5 percent of their time on duty. The study appears in the March 22 issue of The New England Journal of Medicine.

While all risks increased with age, there was no significant increase in risk during emergency medical responses or nonfire emergencies.

The authors acknowledge that the data on time spent in various duties are estimates, and that there is wide variation among fire departments. They also point out that their information on cause of death depended on brief narratives that often lacked autopsy information.

Part of the problem, said Dr. Stefanos N. Kales, the medical director for employee health at the Cambridge Health Alliance and the study’s lead author, is that firefighting involves extremely heavy exertion and then long stretches of sedentary activity. The job itself does not keep firefighters in shape.

“We hope that this would reinforce efforts in the fire community to promote fitness training and wellness activities,” Dr. Kales said. “We’re also hoping it’s going to make physicians who care for firefighters more cognizant of the risks, and more aggressive with treating firefighters’ other risk factors.”
793 2007-03-27 Over the five years covered by the study, 1.4 percent of the births were by optional Caesarean section, but rates varied widely among subgroups. The highest was 3.1 percent among women over 40. African-Americans and first-time mothers, with rates of 2.3 percent and 2.1 percent, respectively, were also substantially more likely than average to have a Caesarean without a medical reason.

The authors point out that these operations were not necessarily done at the request of the mother. The study produced no data revealing which optional procedures were done at the mother’s inclination, a health professional’s suggestion or by mutual agreement, and it recorded no information about the outcome for the baby.

Dr. Edmund F. Funai, an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Yale who was not involved in the study, said that it helped quantify the risks. “We already knew that these moms were at risk of things like infection and embolism, but we didn’t have such precise data to peg a number to it,” he said. “This allows me to counsel these moms a little more precisely.”

One rationale for optional Caesareans is the convenience for the mother, but the finding that Caesareans lead to longer hospital stays does not support that reasoning, and the increased cost of the procedure raises the question of who should pay for it. If the surgery is truly without a medical reason and only the result of a patient’s request, the researchers write, should the patient be required to pay the additional cost?

Although optional Caesareans are safer than they were in the past, the authors write, there are significant risks, and it is not clear that they are as safe as planned vaginal births.

“In a very general sense,” Dr. Funai said, “Caesarean delivery tends to be modestly more safe for the baby, while more risky for the mother.”

The researchers acknowledge weaknesses in the study. There may have been unrecorded medical reasons for what appeared to be optional Caesareans, and this could have contributed to the increased number of rehospitalizations. In addition, the study examined outcomes only up to one year after birth, and those advocating for planned Caesareans contend that problems with vaginal birth can show up years later.

The researchers say that although Massachusetts differs demographically from the United States as a whole, the growth in elective Caesareans in the state is parallel to the national trend.
794 2007-03-27 Q. Is it true that needle biopsies leak lung cancer cells into the bloodstream, spreading cancer throughout the body?    A. ''With any biopsy of any organ, you do loosen some cells, and some do get into the bloodstream, but very rarely do they sti...
795 2007-03-27 BIENSTOCK--Sara. (February 14, 1910 -March 25, 2007). Daughter of Mayer and Rose Roth; sister of the late Charles; beloved wife of the late William; loving mother of Errol and Paula, David and Carol, and Michael and Sophie; proud grandmother of th...
796 2007-03-27 THE COLES GROUP, a large Australian retail conglomerate, has put itself up for sale, but it has put limitations on the size and composition of the private equity consortiums it will allow to bid.    TIM JOHNSTON...
797 2007-03-27 Prosecutors in Ankara are investigating whether Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan once referred to Abdullah Ocalan, the imprisoned Kurdish rebel leader, by the honorific ''Sayin,'' or esteemed, the Anatolian News Agency reported. Praising a crim...
798 2007-03-27 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice pressed Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel on Monday to agree to peace talks that would include three issues that have bedeviled Middle East negotiations since 1979.     But late into the evening, Mr. Olmert s...
799 2007-03-27 DRUGS WORK AS WELL AS STENTS Researchers say many heart patients receiving stents to open arteries get no lasting benefit compared to patients treated with drugs alone. [A1.]    DOUBT ABOUT TREATMENT New studies cast further doubt on the effective...
800 2007-03-27 Speculation that Carrefour, the French retailer, was headed for a takeover were dashed late Friday, setting off a sharp decline in the company's share price yesterday. Takeover speculation ended when Bernard Arnault, a French investor, and Colony ...
801 2007-03-28 Wow - I was blown away by the response on the Tuesday colum about Kiva (so were the people at Kiva!). Thanks to all who became newly-minted financiers, and let me try to address some of your questions. Several people asked about terms and interest...
802 2007-03-28 HSBC has hired a Credit Suisse banker, David Simons, as head of leveraged and acquisition finance in the Asia-Pacific region. Simons previously headed leveraged finance for non-Japan Asia at Credit Suisse. Mr. Simons will take up his new functions...
803 2007-03-28 A Web-based software provider, Vocus, has announced a secondary public offering of up to 3.3 million shares that could generate a total of more than $67 million. By selling about 1.2 million shares of common stock at just over $20 a share, Vocus e...
804 2007-03-28 New Century Financial, the troubled subprime mortgage company, could file for bankruptcy protection as early as the end of this week, people briefed on the company's plans said Tuesday. The company stopped making loans this month after federal pro...
805 2007-03-28 The law firm Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman may lose $4 million in fees after a United States Bankruptcy Court judge on Tuesday dismissed it from a case, citing a conflict of interest. Pillsbury represented SonicBlue, an electronics maker that de...
806 2007-03-28 The Staten Island race in the 61st Assembly District drew a great deal of attention because of Mr. Titone and his two rivals. The Independence Party candidate, Kelvin Alexander, would have been the borough’s first black assemblyman had he prevailed. And Rose Margarella, the Republican candidate, would have been the first of her party to be elected from this heavily Democratic district in recent history.

With 100 percent of the votes counted, Mr. Titone received 2,888 votes, Ms. Margarella 1,846 and Mr. Alexander 1,122, according to unofficial figures from the New York City Board of Elections.

The three special elections came on the same day that Citizens Union, a watchdog group that promotes transparency in government, issued a report that was critical of the system of special elections for the Legislature.

The report said that about a third of the legislators in Albany were first selected in special elections, with the candidates chosen by party officials. The report also pointed out that after the resignation of the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, in January, it was the Legislature that decided on a successor, Mr. DiNapoli.

“Filling offices that are left vacant often disenfranchises voters, as they are afforded little real choice — as is the case in special elections — or no participation at all,” said Dick Dadey, the executive director of Citizens Union.

Mr. Titone, 46, a lawyer, and the son of Vito J. Titone, a former judge on the State Court of Appeals, ran unsuccessfully for a State Senate seat last year. This year he had a geographic advantage, because unlike other parts of Staten Island, which is New York City’s most conservative and Republican-voting borough, Democrats in the north shore district have a 3-to-1 registration advantage over Republicans.

Though he was supported by several of the city’s openly gay officials and prominent Democratic leaders, Mr. Titone said that while his election would indeed be historic, he was most concerned about finding ways to increase health care financing in the borough, reducing class sizes in the Assembly district’s schools and making prekindergarten programs available for all 4-year-olds.

In the 62nd Assembly District, Mr. Tobacco, a businessman, was strongly supported by the island’s leading Republicans, including United States Congressman Vito J. Fossella and State Senator Andrew Lanza. Mr. Tobacco defeated the Democratic candidate, John S. Mulia, who also ran on the Independence and Conservative ballot lines.

With all the votes counted, unofficial results by the board had Mr. Tobacco with 2,237 votes and Mr. Mulia with 989.
807 2007-03-28 Maureen J. Reidy, who runs major events for the convention and visitors bureau, said, “It’s not a discount for millionaire baseball players.” Ms. Reidy, who made the presentation to the Javits board, said baseball’s bidding process required competing cities to cover the cost of renting convention centers for the FanFest. But the rent will be raised privately by the Sports Corporation and will not involve any taxpayer money.

Given the thousands of people who will attend the baseball events, shop, attend Broadway shows and book hotel rooms, Ms. Reidy said, “It was a smart investment.”

Mr. Goldstock ultimately voted to approve the discount, although he suggested that the board develop a guide for future events. Still, the Javits Center will charge $400,000 in rent for FanFest; the normal rate at Javits for such an event would be $600,000.

The discount for FanFest might be viewed as another example of politicians’ love affair with sports. There are now three sports projects — two baseball stadiums and a basketball arena — under construction in New York City with more than $600 million in direct public assistance, not to mention the tens of millions in tax breaks. Yet the city comptroller’s office once estimated that the sports industry accounted for less than 2.5 percent of the city’s multibillion-dollar economy.

“There’s often some economic bounce associated with sports events, but quantifying that is often quite speculative,” said Doug Turetsky, chief of staff at the city’s Independent Budget Office. “Typically, stadiums and arenas are not great economic development generators.”

The Bloomberg administration said in January that the All-Star Game festivities would attract 175,000 visitors to New York and generate $148 million in economic activity, including 15,000 hotel room nights.

But these numbers can be hard to pin down. Joe McGrath, president of the convention and visitors bureau in Pittsburgh, estimated that the 2006 All-Star Game festivities in that city attracted 250,000 visitors, 43 percent more than New York anticipates, but generated only $52 million in economic activity. “Each community has a different way of counting,” Mr. McGrath said. “We take the most conservative approach.”

Like the Javits Center, Pittsburgh’s convention center cut its normal fee by a third, to $100,000, and the city covered the cost.

The FanFest, Pittsburgh officials said, attracted 106,000 visitors from the surrounding area who could not get tickets to the All-Star Game itself. There were about 40 attractions, including batting cages, clinics and a Hall of Fame exhibit.

Economists said that local visitors did not have the same economic impact as the thousands of fans who flew into town for the game at PNC Park, booked hotel rooms and went to local restaurants. But Pittsburgh has one of the smallest stadiums in major league baseball, with 38,496 seats, so it is unclear whether that city attracted all 250,000 people it expected. (Yankee Stadium can accommodate 56,000 people.)

Mr. McGrath said that the city’s hotels “got a real shot in the arm during the summer,” when the convention business is slack.

The average occupancy rate for Pittsburgh’s 22,000 hotel rooms is about 61 percent, according to PKF Consulting. But it remains to be seen how many more people can be crammed into Manhattan’s 66,000 hotel rooms. Last July, during the week the All-Star Game was played in Pittsburgh, New York had a hotel occupancy rate of 86.4 percent.
808 2007-03-28 Gildan Activewear, one of the largest makers of T-shirts in North America, said it would close five plants in Canada, the United States and Mexico and eliminate 1,830 jobs to move production to lower-cost operations in Central America. The company will shut two textile plants in Montreal, two sewing plants in Mexico and a cutting factory in Bombay, N.Y., it said. Gildan will record a restructuring charge of $21.5 million, or 35 cents a share, in fiscal 2007, which ends in September. Gildan, based in Montreal, is shifting production from older plants in North America to newer factories in Central America. It expects to save $45 million a year starting in fiscal 2008 from lower expenses for production, shipping and duties.
809 2007-03-28 With the grinding war in Iraq and American lawmakers pushing for troop withdrawals, there is uncertainty over the future American military role in the region. That uncertainty has coincided with Iran’s growing influence throughout the Middle East, including a nuclear program that American officials assert is intended to develop weapons.

“Iran has been trying to send a message for some time that we are on the way out, that they are the natural great power of the region and that everybody should circle around Iran,” said the senior American official, who declined to be identified because he does not customarily speak to the news media.

The American naval maneuvers are one element of a broader strategy to counter the Iranians and reassure nervous allies. It also involves the deployment of Patriot antimissile systems to Qatar and Kuwait and the dispatch of minesweeping equipment to the region.

The appointment of Adm. William Fallon as the head of the United States Central Command, which has responsibility for the Middle East, is another signal that the Bush administration intends to emphasize the use of naval power to counter the notion that it is too bogged down in Iraq and Afghanistan to respond to other threats. Admiral Fallon is the first naval officer to head the command.

“This whole thing is designed to send a message to the region,” the official said, referring to the naval exercise. “We are sending a message that we are here to stay.”

Toward that end, the American military made an effort to facilitate news coverage of its two-day carrier exercise by Middle East news organizations. Arab as well as Western media were offered an opportunity to board ships participating in the exercise.

The goal, according to military officials, was to reassure “regional audiences” of the capability of American naval forces and Washington’s determination to keep forces in the region.

American relations with Iran have involved recent diplomatic talks in Baghdad as well as strenuous efforts at the United Nations to build support for economic sanctions against Iran because of its determination to move ahead with its uranium enrichment program. The American military has also conducted raids in recent months against suspected members of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iraq and still have five Iranians in detention.

Defense Secretary Robert Gates said Tuesday that the recent talks with Syria and Iran in Baghdad represented a “good start” and added that the Bush administration “is open to higher level exchanges.”

But Mr. Gates also cautioned, “We should have no illusions about the nature of this regime or about their designs for their nuclear program, their intentions for Iraq or their ambitions in the gulf region.”

Before venturing into the gulf, the Stennis had been providing aircraft for the NATO military operation in Afghanistan from the Arabian Sea. It headed to the Persian Gulf after the Charles de Gaulle, a French aircraft carrier, took up the Afghanistan mission.

With American carrier aircraft flying simulated attack missions in the Persian Gulf, some administration officials sought to emphasize that the exercise was not a cover for an impending air strike against Iran’s nuclear facilities. Nor would the United States enter Iranian territorial waters, the officials said.

“It is not a precursor to war,” said one official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to the press. “It is not a sign that we are building up capability in the region to attack. Sending two aircraft carriers should be seen as a demonstration of our capability.”
810 2007-03-28 Williams was delighted to win as emphatically as she did. With every stroke, she seemed to be issuing a rebuttal to those who openly wondered if her 6-1, 6-2 victory against Sharapova in the Australian Open final had been a fluke.

“I think a lot of people might have thought it was a one-off,” said Williams, who played in only four tournaments in 2006 because of injuries. “I don’t know anyone who’s won eight Grand Slams and had so many doubters in their lives. I guess just me.” She laughed ruefully. “It’s O.K.”

Williams can play the media as if they were another opponent, showing humility, hostility, humor, warmth, eloquence and indifference all in one 15-minute interview. The chip on her shoulder is not an affectation but another accessory, along with the heavy hoop earrings and gaudy gold jewelry and designer handbags, that she seldom leaves home without.

She uses every slight — real and perceived — to her advantage, channeling her feelings of hurt and rage into her tennis.

Williams’s sense of being a perpetual outsider despite everything she has achieved in tennis was driven home to her Monday afternoon in her match against Lucie Safarova when a heckler in the stands peppered his diatribe with a racially derogatory term.

The fan was escorted from the grounds, but not before everybody within earshot got a sense of how discomfiting it can be to walk in Williams’s sneakers. Her sense of alienation bubbled to the surface Tuesday when she was asked about a trip she took last year to Africa.

Williams, who was born in Michigan and raised in California and Florida, toured Senegal’s Goree Island on the west coast and visited impoverished villages in Ghana as part of a Unicef delegation.

“When we first landed, we had a layover in Nigeria, and I couldn’t wait,” Williams said. “I wanted to get out of the plane and just take off my shoes and start running and never come back because I just felt at home and at ease.

“I mean, I’ve never felt so comfortable physically and just like mentally,” she added. “I can’t even explain it. It’s like this whole aura that just surrounds you. That’s just how I felt. I’ve never been in a place where I felt happier ever.”

Williams’s voice, which had been a monotone when she was talking about tennis, grew more animated as she talked about opening a school in Senegal on land donated by the nation’s president, Abdoulaye Wade, whom she met.

“If I can provide one kid with hope,” Williams said, “even if it’s just one person, it makes a whole big difference in life.”

In the hallway outside the interview room, Williams’s father and coach, Richard, talked about how sad it was that his daughter should feel more at home abroad, but he said he was not surprised. “Americans here don’t think we are Americans,” he said.

“If we are Americans, we sure aren’t treated like it,” he added. “Rats, roaches, even rabbits are treated better than we are here.”

When he was done speaking, Richard Williams walked out to the players’ valet parking area and, surrounded by luxury sedans and expensive sports cars, he lighted a cigarillo and smoked it.
811 2007-03-28 “I think the whole area of social responsibility, social consciousness, is becoming much more important to the consumer,” said Bob Goldin, executive vice president of Technomic, a food industry research and consulting firm. “I think that the industry is going to see that it’s an increasing imperative to get on that bandwagon.”

Wayne Pacelle, president and chief executive of the Humane Society of the United States, said Burger King’s initiatives put it ahead of its competitors in terms of animal welfare.

“That’s an important trigger for reform throughout the entire industry,” Mr. Pacelle said.

Burger King’s announcement is the latest success for animal welfare advocates, who were once dismissed as fringe groups, but are increasingly gaining mainstream victories.

Last week, the celebrity chef Wolfgang Puck announced that the meat and eggs he used would come from animals raised under strict animal welfare codes.

And in January, the world’s largest pork processor, Smithfield Foods, said it would phase out confinement of pigs in metal crates over the next decade.

Some city and state governments have banned restaurants from serving foie gras and have prohibited farmers from confining veal calves and pigs in crates.

Temple Grandin, an animal science professor at Colorado State University, said Smithfield’s decision to abandon crates for pregnant sows had roiled the pork industry. That decision was brought about in part by questions from big customers like McDonald’s, the world’s largest hamburger chain, about its confinement practices.

“When the big boys move, it makes the entire industry move,” said Ms. Grandin, who serves on the animal welfare task forces for several food companies, including McDonald’s and Burger King.

Burger King’s decision is somewhat at odds with the rebellious, politically incorrect image it has cultivated in recent years.

Its commercials deride “chick food” and encourage a more-is-more approach to eating with its turbo-strength coffee, its enormous omelet sandwich, and a triple Whopper with cheese.

Burger King executives said the move was driven by their desire to stay ahead of consumer trends and to encourage farmers to move into more humane egg and meat production.

“We want to be doing things long before they become a concern for consumers,” Mr. Grover said. “Like a hockey player, we want to be there before the puck gets there.”

He said the company would not use the animal welfare initiatives in its marketing. “I don’t think it’s something that goes to our core business,” Mr. Grover said.

Beef cows were not included in the new animal welfare guidelines because, unlike most laying hens and pigs, they continue to be raised outdoors. Burger King already has animal welfare standards for cow slaughter, he said.

The changes were made after discussions with the Humane Society and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, known as PETA.

PETA, in particular, has started a series of high-profile campaigns to pressure fast-food companies to change their animal welfare practices, including a “Murder King” campaign that ended in 2001 when Burger King agreed to improve its animal welfare standards to include, among other things, periodic animal welfare audits.

Since that time, PETA officials said they had met periodically with Burger King officials to encourage them to adopt tougher standards. About a year ago, the Humane Society began its own efforts to encourage Burger King to improve its farm animal standards.

Mr. Grover said his company listened to suggestions from both groups, but ultimately relied on the advice of its animal welfare advisory board, which was created about six years ago and includes academics, an animal welfare advocate, an executive of Tyson Foods and Burger King officials.

“Where we think we can support what our animal advisers think is right, we do it,” Mr. Grover said.

The changes apply to Burger King suppliers in America and Canada, where the chain purchases more than 40 million pounds of eggs a year and 35 million pounds of pork, he said.

A reason that such a small percentage of purchases will meet the new guidelines is a lack of supply, Mr. Grover said.

Burger King plans to more than double its cage-free purchases by the end of this year, to 5 percent of the total, and will also double its purchases of pork from producers who do not use crates, to 20 percent.

Most laying hens in the United States are raised in “battery cages,” which are usually stacked on top of each other three to four cages high. Sows, during their pregnancies, are often kept in gestation crates, which are 24 inches across and 7 feet long.

Matt Prescott, PETA’s manager for factory farm campaigns, argued that both confinement systems were filthy and cruel because the animals could barely move and were prone to injury and psychological stress.

Under Burger King’s initiative, laying hens would be raised in buildings where they would be able to wander around. Similarly, sows would be raised indoors, most likely in pens where they would be able to move freely.

“This is not free range, but simply having some room to move around inside a controlled environment,” Mr. Grover said.

While converting barns for crate-free sows is relatively simple, Ms. Grandin said it was much more difficult and expensive to raise cage-free hens because not nearly as many birds fit in one building.

Burger King officials say they hope that by promoting controlled-atmosphere stunning, more slaughterhouses will adopt the technology. Currently, there are only a few in the United States using the technique, and most of them process turkeys.
812 2007-03-28 Estimates from doctors and analysts of the number of stent patients whose conditions resembled those in the trial ranged from 20 percent to as much as 80 percent.

Marshall Gordon, who follows device makers for Credit Suisse Securities in New York, said that in conversations with cardiologists, 30 percent to 40 percent of them said they would recommend less angioplasty. But, he cautioned, it was too soon to know how the practice would unfold.

Dr. Salim Yusuf, a Canadian cardiologist who has argued that stents are overused, questioned how much impact the study would have.

“We’re going to have a hell of a time putting the genie back in the bottle,” Dr. Yusuf said to the researchers gathered Tuesday. “It’s a $15 billion to $20 billion industry. You have huge vested interests that are going to push you back.”

Dr. Yusuf was referring not just to device makers but also to interventional cardiologists, the specialists who do angioplasty and stenting. The technology was born 30 years ago when Dr. Andreas Gruentzig first used a catheter threaded into a coronary artery to inflate a tiny balloon inside a developing blockage.

The arrival of a minimally invasive alternative to bypass surgery for restoring blood flow to ailing hearts led to a rush of investment in device companies. Small fortunes were made in the mid-1990s when stents were invented in response to angioplasty’s biggest shortcoming — the tendency of arteries to quickly reclose.

Those fortunes became giant ones when drug-coated stents were introduced in the United States in 2003, sending the number of patients returning for repeat procedures below 10 percent. The Taxus stent from Boston Scientific, which arrived in 2004, achieved more sales in its first year than any health care product in history.

By last year, more than 60 percent of the patients getting stents had more complex blockages than those the drug-coated stents had been tested on in clinical trials, according to federal regulatory officials. Then reports began emerging that deadly clots could form in the drug-coated stents long after implantation.

Sales began dropping on uncertainty about the stents’ safety even though the data showed that the problem affected only a handful of patients out of every thousand. The available data, which some doctors say is inadequate, suggests that the clotting is not frequent enough to make the new stents less safe than the older bare-metal devices they have largely supplanted.

A decline in sales last year reflected some switching to the cheaper bare-metal stents, but by the end of the year, the total number of procedures was falling for the first time.

Now the question is whether the new trial data will accelerate the decline and make it harder for the companies to reverse with new products that might be safer.

Medical therapy — which to cardiologists means a combination of modern drugs, exercise, healthy diets and almost anything else that does not break the patient’s skin — was so successful at relieving angina that Dr. Weintraub and others said angioplasty should be used as a fallback, after the drug treatments failed in patients like those in the trial.

In common practice, many such patients get angioplasty and stents because they are sent to interventional cardiologists for angiograms — X-rays of the blood vessels sustaining the heart muscle. The angiogram requires inserting a thin catheter to deliver a dye to the arteries being pictured. Because the same system is used to deploy the tiny angioplasty balloons that create channels through blockages and then to implant stents to prop the vessel open, interventional cardiologists often do such procedures immediately after a major blockage is identified.

“It’s very difficult to turn your back on the angiogram and not fix what’s there,” Dr. William Boden, a lead investigator in the trial, said.

Yet that is exactly what the trial results suggest that doctors could safely do in patients like those studied. Two-thirds ended up not needing angioplasty and stents. The one-third whose symptoms worsened to the point that they underwent stenting or bypass surgery did not suffer higher rates of death, heart attacks or hospitalization if stenting was delayed to try aggressive medical therapy first, the trial found.

In the trial, patients who received angioplasty and stents got quicker and more complete relief initially. By the end of five years, 74 percent of that group and 72 percent of the patients assigned to the medical therapy group had no symptoms of the chest pains — in essence, statistically speaking, an identical outcome.

Dr. Weintraub said on Monday that the trial data suggested that the cost of gaining an additional year of improved quality of life from stenting came out to $217,000 a patient, because so many patients gained nothing. That data, however, covered such a broad range of individual outcomes that he cautioned against relying too much on it. More notably, he said, the data suggested that 1 percent of stenting patients gained an additional year of improved quality of life for less than $50,000, a commonly used standard for whether medical resources were being used wisely.

But all of the researchers stressed that angioplasty with stenting was still the preferred therapy for many less-stable patients. Some doctors said they were worried that patients reading about Courage, as the new study is called, might get the wrong impression.

“If someone comes in with a heart attack, you could lose vital time having to convince a patient or family member it’s appropriate,” Dr. Ralph Brindis, a cardiologist in San Francisco, said.
813 2007-03-28 Raising the ante in the video game wars, Microsoft is bringing out a new version of the Xbox 360 game machine that has a bigger hard drive, better high-definition video support and a stylish black finish, not an insignificant feature in a world where looking cool ranks high.

The idea is to appeal to an elite class of hardcore game players who would like a little more of everything.

“Today’s games-and-entertainment enthusiast has an insatiable appetite for digital high-definition content,” said Peter Moore, corporate vice president for Microsoft’s interactive entertainment business, in Redmond, Wash.

The Xbox 360 Elite, which is to be announced today and will be in stores in late April, will have a list price of $479, or $80 more than the Xbox 360 Pro and $180 more than the basic Xbox 360. The new model has a 120-gigabyte hard drive, in contrast to the standard model’s 20-gigabyte drive. It also has a high-definition multimedia interface port and cable and a wireless controller and headset. Current Xbox 360 owners can buy the new 120-gigabyte hard drive as a separate accessory for $179.

Microsoft is clearly hoping to fill what it sees as a hole at the top end of the market. The Nintendo Wii has been outselling the PlayStation 3 from Sony and the Xbox 360 in recent months, but that system is largely positioned as a family-friendly game machine that can be purchased for $50 less than the lowest-priced Xbox. The Sony system is priced higher than both the Nintendo and the Microsoft systems, with the cheapest model priced at $499.
814 2007-03-28 EDWARDSVILLE, Ill., March 27 (AP) — Jurors in a state court sided with Merck & Company, the maker of Vioxx, on Tuesday over claims that its painkiller, once a blockbuster, was responsible for the death in 2003 of a 52-year-old woman.

A Madison County jury found that while Merck knew or should have known about the dangers of Vioxx, the company had adequately warned doctors and consumers about possible complications of the drug.

After deliberating for about six hours over two days, jurors ruled that the painkiller was not a “proximate cause” of the death of the woman, Patty Schwaller, who had taken Vioxx for about 20 months.

During the trial, which lasted a month, Merck’s lawyers insisted that Mrs. Schwaller, who was 5 feet 2 inches tall and weighed between 250 and 300 pounds, had several risk factors for heart disease, including obesity, diabetes, high blood pressure and a sedentary lifestyle.

The company argued that Mrs. Schwaller’s obesity and the other health issues better explain her collapse and sudden death.
815 2007-03-28 None of the other Republican presidential campaigns would say publicly that they planned to skip the New York primary. But privately, operatives working for two rival candidates said it was highly unlikely that they would mount real campaigns in New York unless the Giuliani campaign stumbles or other factors change dramatically.

“It would be cost-prohibitive for anyone to go in and campaign against Rudy in that particular state,” said an operative on a rival Republican campaign who was granted anonymity to discuss campaign tactics.

A Republican operative at another rival campaign said it would be much more economical to devote resources to the other contests that day. “Is anyone going to spend money there they could spend elsewhere?” he said.

William G. Mayer, a political science professor at Northeastern University who has written about the move to earlier primaries, said that the winner-take-all system would be a strong disincentive for other Republicans to campaign in New York. “As long as Giuliani is a Republican candidate, there is remarkably little reason for any of the other Republican candidates to campaign there,” he said in a telephone interview.

While the earlier primary would also benefit Mrs. Clinton, who would have an enormous advantage as New York’s junior senator, it might not scare all the other candidates away, since the Democratic primary awards delegates proportionately by Congressional district.

So Senator Barack Obama could decide to challenge Mrs. Clinton in New York in the hope of winning districts with many black voters, or where antiwar sentiments runs strong, political analysts said.

The bill to move New York’s primary to the first Tuesday in February — which even some lawmakers are calling “Rudy’s and Hillary’s law” — sailed through the Legislature, with the Democratic-led State Assembly hoping to help Mrs. Clinton and the Republican-led Senate hoping to help Mr. Giuliani.

Several Republicans state senators, who have seen their majority dwindle in recent years, say privately that they would like to see Mr. Giuliani at the top of the ticket in 2008. Their hope is that he would draw New York Republicans to the polls, and that those voters would support Republican candidates for the Senate.

Mr. Bruno said recently that he had not endorsed anyone but that “Rudy Giuliani is certainly the front-runner here in New York State. and is highly accomplished.”

He acknowledged that the other candidates would most likely consult poll numbers before deciding whether to invest in a New York campaign.

Of course, with New Jersey and Connecticut taking steps to move their primaries to Feb. 5 — New Jersey’s had traditionally been held in June; Connecticut’s is March 4 — the political calculus could change again. Since parts of all three states get the same television channels, candidates may decide to buy ad time to blanket the region.

Connecticut officials said on Tuesday that they planned to move the primary up because having to wait until March could “disenfranchise” voters in the state.

Secretary of State Susan Bysiewicz, a Democrat, said she did not consider seeking legislation to move the state’s primary until after larger states, including California and New York, made it clear they would do so.

“Connecticut didn’t start this tidal wave, but we’re going to ride it — for now,” she said. “We really wanted to be sure that Connecticut voters had their say before the presidential primary was over on Feb. 6.”

Connecticut has its own native son in the race — Senator Christopher J. Dodd, a Democrat — and Senator John McCain of Arizona won the Republican presidential primary there in 2000. But a recent poll by Quinnipiac University showed both Mr. Giuliani and Mrs. Clinton with double-digit leads over their nearest rivals.

In New Jersey, the Legislature passed a bill moving the primary to Feb. 5 last month in the hopes of gaining more influence, only to watch as several other states followed. Gov. Jon S. Corzine has yet to sign the measure, but has said publicly that he supports the change and will sign it.

Bill Pascoe, a national Republican consultant based in Chicago who has worked in New Jersey campaigns, said that because New York’s Republican primary is winner take all and the Democratic primary doles out delegates in proportion to a candidate’s votes, Democrats are likely to be more active in the state heading into the Feb. 5 primary.

“Barack Obama can’t afford to concede any of these areas where Hillary Clinton is considered strong,” he said. “But John McCain could reason that Rudy Giuliani will do well in New York and New Jersey and decide that it is just too expensive to risk it. In that case he would just double down on Florida and Texas.”

Mr. Mayer, the professor at Northeastern, said that the more states that jump on the Feb. 5 bandwagon, the less individual attention each state will receive.

“But if they were to schedule their primary two weeks or a month or two months later, they’d get even less,” he said. “That’s the kind of devil’s bargain that they are buying into.”
816 2007-03-28 Pavano felt so strong that he finished his workday by throwing 12 more pitches in the bullpen. He threw 82 in the game, allowing six hits and a walk with no strikeouts. “I’m ready,” he said.

In 18 1/3 innings in spring training, Pavano has only five strikeouts. But as his fastball regains its late action, he is inducing ground balls, which he never did in his half-season with the Yankees in 2005.

“The way the ball is coming out of his hand — especially his fastball — it’s got some movement, it’s got some life on it,” catcher Jorge Posada said. “Those guys were not taking good hacks at it. They’ve got a very good lineup. Guys were swinging over the pitches, topping some pitches. The swing just tells you.”

Pavano allowed no extra-base hits Tuesday, giving up the runs on four second-inning singles, including one that never left the infield. The Twins hit into four double plays, three on grounders.

“Competing is what you miss,” Pavano said. “I’m still fighting myself a little bit for consistency, but I’m not trying to be overanalytical about anything. I definitely want to improve, but I’m not expecting too much too soon. I’ve had other spring trainings when I didn’t think I was as far ahead as I am right now.”

Pavano said he had not thought about the fan reaction when he takes the mound at Yankee Stadium, whether cheering would boost him or heckling would discourage him. He seems to have proven himself to his teammates, who had questioned his competitiveness.

“He’s starting on the right page,” Posada said. “He has worked hard. He wants to be out there, that’s the biggest thing, and we want him to be out there. So it’s a lot of fun to see the way he’s moving around and doing things right.”

Torre has no other options to make the opening day start. Chien-Ming Wang will start the season on the disabled list with a hamstring strain. Mike Mussina, Andy Pettitte and Kei Igawa will not have enough days off.

Using the fifth starter, Jeff Karstens or Darrell Rasner, is not realistic. That leaves Pavano, who is answering Torre’s questions about his toughness.

“His personality seems to be fine,” Torre said. “There doesn’t seem to be anything in his mind that’s going to keep him from being able to do this, and the only reason we even question that is because of what’s happened the last two years.”

Torre has other decisions before the Yankees’ last exhibition game on Saturday. By Friday, Torre said, he would like to decide on the backups at catcher and first base. Todd Pratt and Wil Nieves are the catching candidates, with Josh Phelps and Andy Phillips competing at first.

If spring training performance makes the most difference, Phelps will beat out Phillips. Phelps went 2 for 4 with a homer off the center-field backdrop Tuesday, lifting his average to .438. Phillips went 0 for 4 with four strikeouts and is hitting .190.

“I had the question a week ago, ‘What’s enough?’ ” Phelps said. “At this point, you never know, and you never want to leave anything on the table. You can always go out there and do more.”

Phelps, 28, is a year younger than Phillips and has much more major league experience, though none with the Yankees. Phillips had to greet him after the homer for what could have been an awkward fist-bump. But Phillips said he did not root against Phelps.

“That’s not who I am,” he said. “I want guys to do well, and I want guys to have success. That’s the farthest thing from my mind.”

Phillips missed a week early in camp to be with his mother, Linda, who is out of the hospital after being seriously injured in a car accident in Alabama.

The Yankees gave Phillips all the time he needed, and he is popular in the clubhouse. But the time off has made it hard to regain his rhythm.

“It’s like starting all over,” Phillips said.

Pavano is starting over, too, but in a much more encouraging way.

Chien-Ming Wang (hamstring) made 45 throws in the outfield Tuesday and said he hoped to return sooner than the Yankees’ late-April projection. ... Andy Pettitte (back spasms) said he would throw a more intense bullpen session Wednesday and could start by Friday.
817 2007-03-28 New Century, which is being advised by Lazard, is trying to avoid the fate of other lenders like Ownit Mortgage Solutions, which was forced to file bankruptcy late last year after losing the support of its financial backers.

“The one reason they haven’t filed for bankruptcy yet is that they believe they can still pull off a transaction with someone coming in and acquiring them,” said Jeffrey K. Garfinkle, a partner with Buchalter Nemer, a law firm in Irvine, Calif., that has represented the company in the past but no longer does so. “But it is really late in the game.”

New Century’s most valuable asset is the software platform it uses to make loans. Recently, investors have bought other distressed mortgage companies like ResMae, which is being purchased by the hedge fund firm Citadel Investment Group, to get into the mortgage business.

But banks, hedge funds and private equity firms may be more reluctant to buy New Century because it has substantial liabilities. The Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States attorney’s office in Santa Ana, Calif., are investigating trading in the company’s shares and accounting errors.

Furthermore, regulators in several states including California, New York and Ohio have restricted the company from making new mortgages because it was unable to fund loans after closing. Those sanctions will limit the number of potential bidders for the company’s assets. Potential buyers who are not licensed to make mortgages in those states will have to seek a new license before they can start making loans, a process that can take several months.

“If that does not get resolved, it could be crippling,” said Zach Gast, an analyst with the Center for Financial Research and Analysis.

Last year, New Century was the second-largest lender of mortgages, after HSBC, to people with weak, or subprime, credit, making a total of $51.6 billion in loans, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. It made most of its loans through mortgage brokers, but its Home123 subsidiary also issued mortgages through retail branches.

If the company does file for bankruptcy protection, owners of New Century stock will probably recover little of their investment, Mr. Gast said. The company’s shares, which are traded over the counter, fell 15 cents yesterday, to $1.41. At the end of last year, the shares were trading at $31.59.

Much of New Century’s most valuable assets — its mortgage loans — have already been committed as collateral to its banks. The company will also have to pledge assets to secure the debtor-in-possession financing it will need to stay in business if it files for bankruptcy protection.

New Century’s slide began in February, when it disclosed it would have to restate financial reports for the first nine months of the year. The company improperly accounted for loans it was being forced to buy back from Wall Street investors because too many borrowers were defaulting on the mortgages too quickly. The company quickly lost the confidence of its banks when it was disclosed that it did not make a profit in the last six months of 2006 as a result of the rising buybacks.
818 2007-03-28 Enter hand-held technologies and the personal audio tour. A classic audio tour does not compete with the art. “You look with your eyes and listen with your ears,” Mr. Samis said. Audio tours slow down museum visitors, encouraging them to spend more time with the art as they learn about it, he added.

But audio tours have evolved. The popularity of smart, hand-held technologies that assist museum visitors is “gathering pace very, very quickly,” said David Wynne, a London-based expert on museum guide technologies.

“There have been so many more developments in the last five years than in the last 15,” said Mr. Wynne, who is vice president for marketing and business for Espro Acoustiguide Group, which makes audio and multimedia systems for museums. And museums are feeling the pressure of rising expectations from visitors who are, in many cases, walking in with mobile phones, portable game consoles, video iPods and MP3 players.

As Chris Tellis, the chief executive of Antenna Audio/Arts Communications Technologies, a developer of electronic museum tours, noted, “There is so much access to digital information right now.”

With more than 200 million cellphones in use on the planet, museum guide companies like Antenna Audio are creating new ways for museum visitors to access information at a point of interest. In a museum, cellphone content is generally accessed with a telephone number posted at a specific artwork. Visitors can access information about it by tapping in a code, like *278 (ART), on the keypad.

Then there is the iPod. Apple has sold 90 million iPod media players since their introduction in 2001, said Greg Joswiak, vice president for product marketing at iPod. The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, among others, offers a number of online “artcast” tours that iPod users can download before going to the museum. The museum also provides visitors with iPods preloaded with digital tours.

It has been a good fit, Mr. Samis said. “In a sense, when iPods came out, museums were doing independent multimedia in their galleries and online, some very deep and wide,” he said. In 2001, he said, his museum became the first to offer devices with video screens showing artists talking about their work.

In Paris, Espro is testing a new system at the Musée d’Orsay that is designed not only to provide information about the museum’s art, but also to guide users wirelessly through the museum itself, in the same way that global positioning systems guide hikers.

Curators have learned over the years that visitors, especially in large, complex museums like the Louvre, often get disoriented even when they know what they want to see. The new system, developed with lesswire AG, a technology company based in Frankfurt, uses a proprietary system that directs museum visitors to specific galleries and artwork.

“It is very cutting edge,” Mr. Wynne of Espro said of the system, which is expected to be fully operational late this year or in early 2008. “Someone can say, ‘I want to see the highlights,’ and with the device in hand, museum visitors can do just that.”

Espro is also retooling hand-held gaming consoles as touch-screen audio-video guides. Some have been adapted to provide tours in sign language in museums including the Guggenheim in Bilbao, Spain, and the Victoria & Albert in London.

And the Galata Maritime Museum in Genoa, Italy, has wireless infrared headphones that guide visitors with audio tours in eight languages. The technology was developed by Unwired Technology, a Plainview, N.Y., company.

“Technology in a museum is successful to the extent that it recedes into the background and does not interfere with that special interaction” between a visitor and a work of art, said Mr. Tellis of Antenna Audio.
819 2007-03-28 NOT WORTH THE EFFORT -- Wal-Mart may be scaling back its efforts to open its first store in New York City. The chief executive of Wal-Mart, H. Lee Scott Jr., said that trying to conduct business in New York was so expensive -- and exasperating -- ...
820 2007-03-28 MISROCK--Barbara G., on March 27, 2007, of Chappaqua, NY. Wife of the late S. Leslie Misrock. Mother of Kathryn Misrock Goldstein, Victoria Misrock Stein, and the late David Misrock. Sister of Arline Gilbert. Grandmother of Ben, Sam and Stella Gol...
821 2007-03-29 Honda, a company well known for the fuel efficiency of its cars, now wants safety to be part of its identity too.
822 2007-03-29 Last year's implosion at Amaranth Advisors was so huge it caused many people to conclude that the hedge-fund business was in meltdown mode. But a new study paints a different picture, finding that there were fewer hedge fund liquidations in 2006 t...
823 2007-03-29 Going private is a "long-term option" for McClatchy, according to Gary Pruitt, the newspaper chain's chief executive. But first, he told a crowd at Syracuse University's Newhouse School, he must put the company, which is the United States' third-l...
824 2007-03-29 Edward F. Cox, a lawyer and a son-in-law of President Richard M. Nixon who briefly ran against Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton for Senate in 2005, will be the New York State chairman of Senator John McCain's presidential campaign. Mr. Cox, who is p...
825 2007-03-29 So the big thing officials here in Albany point to when questioned about the lack of transparency in budget negotiations is the conference committee system, where the Senate and the Assembly are supposed to hash out the nitty-gritty details of the...
826 2007-03-29 If hedge fund managers want to dispel their air of secrecy, this is probably not the way to do it. The folks at Solengo Capital, the firm being opened by former traders of the collapsed hedge fund Amaranth Advisors, have apparently told at least t...
827 2007-03-29 The world's hedge funds managed more than $2 trillion at the end of 2006, 30 percent more than a year earlier, even as returns trailed, according to a survey. More than 350 hedge fund managers look after more than $1 billion each, according to Hed...
828 2007-03-29 An error occurred while trying to rate the website using the webfiltering service. 



Web filter service error: all Fortiguard servers failed to respond 

Client IP: 172.30.0.12 

Server IP: 151.101.9.164 

User name: 

Group name: