1 2012-12-01 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
2 2012-12-01 Insights and analysis on all of Saturday’s big college football games, including Alabama’s 32-28 win over Georgia for the SEC Championship and a shot at Notre Dame in the B.C.S. title game....
3 2012-12-01 Pictures from the Week in Business, Nov. 30
4 2012-12-01 Graeme McDowell opened with three straight birdies and finished strong for a six-under 66 to take a three-shot lead in the World Challenge in Thousand Oaks, Calif.
5 2012-12-01 “There was definitely some gamesmanship going on,” said Diana Schulz, chief executive of Dynamite Data, which tracks online retail pricing, stock status, ratings and other information for clients like Samsung and Abt Electronics.

While Amazon has long tinkered with prices, its competitors are now fighting back. In the last year, Walmart invested heavily in pricing tools, a Walmart eCommerce spokesman, Dan Toporek, said. Dynamite Data said there had been a marked increase in how much Walmart played with prices, and smaller retailers, including GameStop, Best Buy and Toys “R” Us, were now also adjusting some prices at least daily.

The goal is to attract shoppers with competitively priced products that show up on Web searches, but there is risk, too: some consumers tire of price whiplash.

“People are starting to realize, ‘I can’t trust the price I’m getting, because it might change,’ ” a pricing consultant, Rafi Mohammed, said. Shoppers have few ways to gain an advantage — ordering the same product at different prices requires expensive return shipments — but Mr. Mohammed said retailers had an opportunity to soothe consumers by offering refunds for price adjustments.

The parrying could be seen with a Nintendo game, Mario Kart DS.

A week before Thanksgiving, the retailers’ prices varied, with Amazon selling it at $29.17, Walmart at $40.88, and Target at $33.99, according to Dynamite Data. Through Thanksgiving, as Target kept the price stable, Walmart changed prices six times, and Amazon five. On Thanksgiving itself, Walmart marked down the price to its advertised $29.96, which Amazon matched.

Ms. Schulz said sophisticated retailers set algorithms to change prices in response to competitors. “Retailers pipe a bunch of information in electronically, like internal information — cost, availability of inventory, sales goals,” along with competitors’ prices, she said.

The software also lets retailers establish rules on the pricing of certain products: always price Furbys 5 percent below Kmart, for example, or make sure some goods are priced at an average of Amazon’s and Walmart’s prices. Generally, pricing managers also manually adjust prices.

Mr. Toporek said Walmart.com used a combination of computer tools and human adjustments. On popular items, like Walmart’s best sellers, the site tries to “maintain low prices on the items people want the most,” meaning it usually responds to competitors’ price changes.

Mr. Toporek said, however, that the site also tried not to jostle shoppers.

“Clearly we are making changes, but it’s not the kind of constant change you’re seeing on some other sites,” he said. An Amazon spokeswoman, Pia Arthur, declined to offer details on Amazon’s pricing strategy, and said in an e-mail that the company was “working hard to meet or beat the lowest prices out there.” Target declined to comment.

A retailer can increase its sales volume when it has the lowest prices, especially because it will appear prominently in price comparison tools. For the children’s tablet LeapPad1 Explorer, for instance, Walmart appeared to be purposely undercutting Amazon, even if by a matter of pennies. When Amazon offered the tablet for $59.99 on the Monday before Thanksgiving, Walmart priced it at $59.97. On the Sunday after Thanksgiving, Amazon raised the price to $69.99, and Walmart followed, going to $69.97.

Sometimes a retailer cuts prices to tempt a competitor into offering a money-losing price and depleting its inventory. “They’ll wait until their competitor has sold out, and jump back into the game when the prices rise a little bit,” said Ms. Schulz of Dynamite Data.

While Target did not appear to shift prices nearly as frequently as Walmart and Amazon, it offered specials that spurred competitors into action. For a game called Telestrations, Walmart kept its price at $24.99 for the week. Amazon tried different prices, from $23.24 to $26.39, in the week before Thanksgiving, while Target held steady at $24.99. But when Target lowered the price to $18 on Black Friday, Amazon matched it.

Decide.com, which offers consumers a tool suggesting when to buy, said that the retailers with the most volatile pricing included Buy.com, Amazon, Walmart, Best Buy and Sears. The most volatile product categories include games and consoles, printers, headphones, cameras, TVs and refrigerators.

Dynamite Data also found that while many Amazon promotions over the weekend were at or near the lowest prices of the year, some were not that great — even compared to Amazon itself.

A Bodum wok, for instance, was priced at $119.95 before Thanksgiving, and Amazon offered a so-called lightning deal on Black Friday for $94.99. That seemed like a huge discount — except that the same wok sold on Amazon for $59.99 just a few months ago.

Some promoted discounts at Amazon, moreover, appeared steeper because the base price was increased before the Thanksgiving week markdown, Dynamite Data said. A Hewlett-Packard Envy notebook that cost $1,099.99 on Nov. 10, for example, was marked up to $1,179.97 by Nov. 20. That day, Amazon offered a limited-time deal at $849.99, a 28 percent discount from the marked-up price, but only 23 percent less than the Nov. 10 price.

Consumers seemed good at evaluating deals, though. Later that week, Amazon offered another deal on that Envy computer, at $1,049.99. According to Dynamite Data, the sell-through rate was much slower than at $849.99. “Consumers are becoming more savvy shoppers,” Ms. Schulz said.
6 2012-12-01 Consumer advocates, insurers and some state officials had expressed concern about delays in publication of the rules proposed on Friday.

Starting in October, consumers are supposed to be able to enroll in new health plans, for coverage beginning on Jan. 1, 2014, when most Americans will be required to have insurance. At least two nationwide health plans chosen by the federal government will compete with private health plans in the insurance exchanges being established in every state.

The exchanges are supposed to be financially self-sustaining after 2014. States, like the federal government, can charge fees to insurers. Or they can try to raise money in other ways — for example, by charging consumers or employers for using the exchange.

In proposing the new rule, Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, said that fees charged by the federal government would be “sufficient to cover the majority of costs related to the operation of federally facilitated exchanges.” She did not say how the remainder of the money would be raised.

Ms. Sebelius said she could not estimate the total amount of federal user fees because she did not know exactly how many states would have federal exchanges. She said the federal fees should generally be “commensurate with fees” charged by state-run exchanges.

The federal government will run the exchange in any state that is unable or unwilling to do so. Indeed, it now appears that federal officials could be running the exchanges — alone or in partnership with local officials — in more than half the states.

Fees charged for use of the federal exchange come on top of a separate annual fee to be imposed on health insurance companies to help offset the cost of expanding coverage under the new law. The annual fees, to be apportioned among insurers according to their shares of the nation’s health insurance market, are expected to total $6 billion in 2014 and more than $100 billion over 10 years.

“Any new fees to pay for the administration of exchanges will add to the cost of coverage,” said Robert E. Zirkelbach, a spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group.

Erin Shields Britt, a spokeswoman for Ms. Sebelius, predicted that insurers would not raise prices. “Exchanges will provide already profitable insurance companies with access to 30 million new customers while cutting down insurers’ marketing and advertising expenses,” Ms. Shields Britt said. “Exchanges force insurance companies to compete and drive down costs for consumers. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated consumers will save up to 20 percent on their premiums.”

The Office of Personnel Management said its nationwide plans would follow state insurance laws and standards, except in unusual circumstances.

The administration said it “retains authority to make the final decision” on rates if it finds that a state acted in an arbitrary or capricious way in denying a rate increase sought by a nationwide health plan.
7 2012-12-01 The new Greek bailout deal agreed to Tuesday by euro zone finance ministers and the International Monetary Fund is a clear improvement over earlier deals. It recognizes that Greece’s current and projected ratios of debt to output are unsustainable. It prescribes useful steps to lower that ratio, including lower interest rates on loans from Greece’s European partners, longer bond maturities and a plan for Athens to buy back and retire some of its heavily discounted bonds.

Regrettably, it excludes more effective tools, like actual debt write-downs, which Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, finds politically unpalatable. And in deference to Ms. Merkel, the deal postpones some of the promised relief until after German elections next September.

But its biggest mistake is conditioning relief on maintaining fiscal austerity. Greece’s only hope for long-term solvency is through aggressive measures to revive economic growth. These could include public investment in modernizing ports and infrastructure, tax cuts to encourage export industries, and better public education. Done right, such measures would more than pay for themselves by improving Greece’s competitiveness in global and European markets. The bailout deal should keep Greece financially solvent for the next few months, but the price could prove too much for Greece’s economy and society to bear. Beginning in 2016, Greece will be committed to extracting a budgetary surplus (excluding interest payments) from a shrinking economy. And it is expected to reduce debt-to-output ratios while output continues to fall.

Greece’s output is now almost 25 percent lower than it was in 2008. This year alone it will be down 6.4 percent.

Next year, factoring in the new package of tax increases and spending cuts approved by the Greek Parliament last month at European insistence, it is expected to fall even further. That means less business and less personal income to pay taxes. Unemployment is now over 25 percent. Health benefits for the long-term unemployed have already been cut. So have pensions for the elderly and wages for those still working.

Greece’s prime minister, Antonis Samaras, hailed this week’s debt agreement as the transformation of “endless austerity” into a program that “will lead to growth.” Unfortunately, it promises nothing of the kind, and Mr. Samaras’s fragile coalition shows signs of fracturing under the economic strain. It might not even be able to stagger on until the German election next year. If it falls, Greece could be headed for default and exit from the euro. That catastrophe can still be avoided — but only if Ms. Merkel decides to put the survival of Greece and the future of the European Union ahead of her own electoral calculations.
8 2012-12-01 In recent years, the Palestinian Authority has tried to have its accusations of Israeli war crimes investigated by the International Criminal Court, only to see its request go nowhere because the Palestinian territories were not recognized as a state.

But now the court says it will take a fresh look at the issue after the United Nations General Assembly voted to enhance the standing of the Palestinians, conferring on them the word “state” as part of their new status as nonmember observers. On Friday, a spokeswoman for the prosecutors office said it “will consider the implications of this resolution.”

Less than a day after the United Nations vote, which many Palestinians cheered as a historical turning point and its opponents derided as an obstacle to peace and statehood, Palestinian officials said they hoped the distinction gave them enough momentum to be able to return to the international court at some time in the future — if that is what they decide to do.

“Of course it is enough,” Rabii al-Hantouli, a spokesman for the Palestinian Mission at the United Nations, said Friday. “There are some technicalities and procedures. In 2009, we approached the I.C.C., and the only thing pending was they wanted a legal document saying Palestine was a state. And now they have it.”

But as history has so often shown in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, a lot happens, but very little may change. Judging by some of the expectations after the vote, this could be one of those cases.

In his speech to the General Assembly, Israel’s ambassador to the United Nations, Ron Prosor, said that the new status would not enable the Palestinian Authority to join international treaties, organizations or conferences as a state and does “not confer statehood on the Palestinian Authority, which clearly fails to meet the criteria for statehood.”
9 2012-12-01 As a result, more students need financial aid than did a few years ago, they need much more of it on average, and colleges have fewer resources with which to provide it, though a major expansion of the federal Pell Grant program has made up some of the difference.

“We’re still seeing a tightening of the budgets, and colleges trying to find ways that they’re still accessible but still stay afloat,” said Gigi Jones, research director at the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators.

There is no sign of aid retrenchment at the handful of wealthiest colleges — which are also among the most generous with aid — like Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Stanford. But among the selective colleges that are not as well endowed but try to compete at the highest level in offering aid and attracting students, some have been forced to reassess.

Wesleyan, with about 3,000 students, has had the most heated recent debate over the issue, with protests by students who said a change in admissions policy would hurt campus diversity, and there have even been some confrontations between students and the university’s president, Michael S. Roth. Financial aid consumes about one-third of Wesleyan’s operating budget, more than double its share 15 years ago.

“I applaud the students’ commitment to our values,” Dr. Roth said. But, he added, “I did not think that the economic model we were using would be sustainable in even the midterm, over the next decade.”

In the past, Wesleyan has decided which students to admit without considering their financial resources. But for the class that will enter next September, whose early applications the school is already weighing, that will not be entirely true. Wesleyan will take a majority of that class — administrators estimate about 90 percent — need-blind, and will take the rest with an eye on ability to pay, among other factors.

Almost half of Wesleyan’s students receive financial aid, and college officials say that number will decline by only a few percentage points under the new policy. Wesleyan’s endowment of about $600 million makes it wealthier than the vast majority of American colleges, but does not crack the top 100; it has about $200,000 per student, while some of its peers have two, three or four times as much.

While public colleges are often need-blind, few private colleges are, though experts say they know of no definitive list. A larger number of selective private colleges follow Wesleyan’s new practice, filling most slots on a need-blind basis.

Colleges with need-blind admissions vary widely in how actively they recruit disadvantaged students. And need-blind admissions can become a hollow promise, because most colleges with that policy do not meet every enrolling student’s full financial need — a phenomenon known as gapping.

Only a few dozen wealthy colleges practice need-blind admissions and promise to meet full need, though they define need in different ways, and may not extend the policy to transfer students. Most colleges include loans as well as grants in their aid packages; since the late 1990s, a small number of colleges have adopted a no-loan policy, or placed caps on the amount they would ask students to borrow, but a few have since retreated from that stance.

At Wesleyan and Grinnell, administrators say that what matters most is preserving assistance to students who need it, even if that means accepting fewer of them. “We could easily have remained need-blind, kept the label, by simply being less aggressive about pursuing diversity, or admitting people and not meeting their full need, or increasing loan levels,” Dr. Roth said.

Dr. Kington said Grinnell would probably raise its limit on how much it asks students to borrow, and it might freeze the size of some aid grants.

Grinnell is in an unusual position. With fewer than 1,700 students, it has one of the largest endowments — about $1.5 billion, or around $900,000 per student. But it is also unusually intent on enrolling disadvantaged students, so almost 90 percent of its students receive financial aid, an extremely high figure for an elite college.

It is considering taking the same path as Wesleyan, trimming need-blind admissions, but Dr. Kington said that was unlikely. But he said Grinnell might do more to recruit the students most sought after by top colleges, who also tend to be able to pay — a change that if pursued aggressively could have a similar effect on the college’s demographic mix.

“We want to be an access institution,” he said. “But we can’t be only an access institution.”
10 2012-12-01 Ben Roethlisberger will not play Sunday in Baltimore for the Pittsburgh Steelers, who have lost the two games he has missed. Charlie Batch gets the start in place of Roethlisberger, who sustained a sprained right shoulder and a dislocated rib against Kansas City on Nov. 12.

¶ Twenty-seven semifinalists for the Pro Football Hall of Fame’s 2013 class were named, including the first-time candidates John Lynch, Michael Strahan, Jonathan Ogden, Morten Andersen, Larry Allen and Warren Sapp.
11 2012-12-01 Perhaps most important, Beckham brought increased recognition to M.L.S. Galaxy highlights suddenly popped up on television screens around the country and the world.

Don Garber, the M.L.S. commissioner, said no player in the world could have done as much to transform soccer in the United States as Beckham.

“He will forever be looked at as the player who helped set the league on a new, higher trajectory,” Garber said. “He is one of those generational figures who can transcend sport and provide a level of awareness and exposure that’s unprecedented.”

A former captain of the England national team with a gilded right foot, a smile to match and a pop star wife, Beckham was no longer one of the world’s premier players when he crossed the Atlantic at 32 hoping to conquer America. But he offered unmatched international recognition.

His effect on the league, which was in the middle of its 12th season when he arrived, was immediate. Attendance shot up more than 40 percent for the Galaxy’s away games in his first season. Television rights were sold to more than 100 countries.

His $6.5 million annual salary dwarfed what any of the league’s other players made: the M.L.S. adopted a provision, now known as the Beckham rule, to allow teams to sign big contracts that exceeded the league salary cap. Dozens more have since signed as a result, including others, like Thierry Henry of the Red Bulls, who have reached soccer’s highest echelons.

Beckham expressed pride in his role helping the league expand its fan base.

“We’re in a position now where we travel to most places around the U.S. and we sell out stadiums, and that is something that we’re very proud of,” he said at a news conference this week. “We’ve got support and interest from all different kinds of people — and people that wouldn’t usually come to a soccer game.”

But Beckham struggled through difficult seasons on the field, troubled by injuries and poor results for the Galaxy. Landon Donovan publicly challenged his commitment to the team. After Beckham left the team temporarily to play in Italy with A.C. Milan, in hopes of winning a spot on England’s 2010 World Cup squad, the Galaxy’s own fans jeered him on his return.

He won them back with his best season for the club in 2011, which culminated in a championship run. Beckham re-signed with the team for the current season, taking a pay cut, and this weekend will try to finish his Galaxy career with back-to-back titles.

Jurgen Klinsmann, a former German star who now coaches the American national team, said that in addition to drawing more attention to the sport in the United States, Beckham had added credibility to the league on the field, showing other top international stars that M.L.S. was a respectable level of competition.

“He was a pioneer,” Klinsmann said. “He came at a time when the league was still unstable, and it’s very stable now, and getting stronger every year.”

At 37, Beckham does not plan to retire. He said he wanted “one more challenge” before the end of his career, though he has not publicly announced his plans for next season.

But he expects to stay involved with the league as a part owner of one of the teams — an option stipulated in his contract.

The league still lags behind the top divisions in Europe, and it still does not enjoy the cultural relevance of the four major American professional sports leagues. But Garber said Beckham had offered M.L.S. a platform that ensured the league would not need another David Beckham to thrive.

Still, Beckham has continued to pitch M.L.S. to players in Europe.

“There’s interest there now,” he said. “If that’s what I brought to this league, then great. Hopefully it’s in a great position to continue to grow.”
12 2012-12-01 A divided House of Representatives voted Friday to ease visa restrictions for a limited pool of foreign workers, previewing a fight over how far Congress should go in changing the country’s laws.

Leaders of both parties believe the issue will be one of the biggest they will face after the new Congress convenes in January, pitting lawmakers who want a more sweeping immigration overhaul against those who think an incremental approach stands the best chance of passing both houses.

The bill the House approved by a vote of 245 to 139 — with just 27 Democrats supporting it — stands little chance of advancing in the Senate, where Democrats have control. And the White House has come out in opposition to the bill, calling it too “narrowly tailored” and incompatible with ’s vision for a more comprehensive approach.

Looming over the House vote was a stark political reality: Republicans received just a sliver of the Hispanic vote in the elections last month, and the party is divided over how best to improve its standing with such a large and growing demographic.

Some Republicans are eager to move forward with legislation that would tighten border controls but also start paving a path to citizenship for some of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants now in the , a move that could help reverse impressions among Hispanics that the party is hostile to immigrants. But many are also wary of the furor that could arise among conservative voters over any perceived softness on those who are here illegally.
13 2012-12-01 Your Nov. 19 editorial “Class-Based vs. Race-Based Admissions” responds to the Century Foundation’s report “A Better Affirmative Action,” but does not grapple with its central arguments.

The editorial flatly asserts, “It is not possible to maintain the same level of racial diversity in higher education while applying a race-blind admissions policy.” But our analysis finds that in 7 of 10 leading universities where racial preferences were dropped from admissions, the proportion of black and Hispanic students stayed the same or increased when race-neutral alternatives such as class-based affirmative action were used instead.

The editorial cites studies suggesting that income is a poor proxy for race, which is true. But that’s not what our proposals recommend. We advocate looking at a variety of socioeconomic factors that reflect differences, in the aggregate, among black, Latino and white poverty: consideration of wealth (which is accumulated over generations and reflects our history of slavery and segregation) and neighborhood poverty levels (which reflect discrimination in the housing market).

Finally, the editorial suggests that race and class should be simultaneously considered in admissions but ignores extensive evidence that, in practice, universities provide large preferences based on race and virtually no consideration to economic disadvantage. In general, only when universities are barred from using racial preferences do they actively pursue class-based affirmative action as an indirect way of attaining racial diversity.

Properly structured economic affirmative action programs can enhance diversity far beyond current programs that merely assemble college classes that may be racially diverse but are also almost uniformly wealthy.
14 2012-12-01 “Election Spurred a Move to Codify U.S. Drone Policy” (front page, Nov. 25) raises the issue of the legality of the United States’ ever-changing drone policy.

As his first term in office draws to a close, and with a vacancy to fill at the top of the Central Intelligence Agency, President Obama has an opportunity to press the reset button on American drone policy.

Over the last four years the use of drones has become ever more permissive. Lethal strikes are no longer restricted to “high-value targets,” Guilt, not innocence, is the apparent presumption.

Administration sources have told the media that in the tribal areas of Pakistan, men of fighting age are assumed to be combatant targets in the absence of intelligence to the contrary. If true, this is both unconscionable and a violation of the laws of war.

This can’t go on. American drones have taken lives in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia and the Philippines. Meaningful public review of this most secretive of government programs is long overdue. We don’t need a new rule book; we just need the existing rules — international human rights and humanitarian law — to be applied.

You report that President Obama is finally expressing some “wariness of the powerful temptation drones pose to policy makers. ‘There’s a remoteness to it that makes it tempting to think that somehow we can, without any mess on our hands, solve vexing security problems,’ he said.”

What an understatement of the “mess on our hands” given how 76 countries now possess drones, having discovered how cheap and easy they are to develop and use! Whose hands will they fall into? More and more people in foreign countries living under American drone strikes have understandably become radicalized. Didn’t anyone consider how they would make the perfect weapon of asymmetrical warfare?

Pandora’s box has opened wide, adding to our “vexing security problems.” We should never have forgotten what Sir Peter Ustinov is credited as saying: Terrorism is the poor man’s war, and war is terrorism of the rich.
15 2012-12-01 WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court announced on Friday that it would decide whether human genes may be patented. The justices considered but took no action on requests that the court hear one or more cases concerning same-sex marriage.

The case the court added to its docket concerns patents held by Myriad Genetics, a Utah company, on genes that correlate with increased risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer.

The patents were challenged by scientists and doctors who said that their research and ability to help patients had been frustrated. “Myriad and other gene patent holders have gained the right to exclude the rest of the scientific community from examining the naturally occurring genes of every person in the United States,” the plaintiffs told the Supreme Court in their petition seeking review. They added that the patents “prevent patients from examining their own genetic information” and “made it impossible to obtain second opinions.”

The legal question for the justices is whether isolated genes are “products of nature” that may not be patented or “human-made inventions” eligible for patent protection.

A divided three-judge panel of a federal appeals court in Washington ruled for the company. Each judge issued an opinion, and a central dispute was whether isolated genes are sufficiently different from ones in the body to allow them to be patented.

“The isolated DNA molecules before us are not found in nature,” wrote Judge Alan D. Lourie, who was in the majority. “They are obtained in the laboratory and are man-made, the product of human ingenuity.”
16 2012-12-01 SÃO PAULO, Brazil — Brazil’s economy registered anemic growth in the third quarter as investment levels remained disappointingly low, according to figures released on Friday. The results cast doubt on policies meant to prevent Brazil from turning into a laggard among Latin America’s economies.

Gross domestic product grew just 0.6 percent from the previous quarter, stunning economists who had forecast double that rate. Brazil’s economy is now expected to grow only about 1 percent in 2012, delivering a challenge to President Dilma Rousseff, who has tried to increase growth through an array of huge stimulus projects.

Even economists with favorable views of Ms. Rousseff’s policies of assertively directing large government banks and other state-controlled enterprises to promote growth expressed surprise. The figures reflect a sharp departure from 2010, the last year of Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva’s presidency, when Brazil’s economy grew 7.5 percent.

Antônio Delfim Netto, an influential former economic policy chief, called the G.D.P. figures “a tragedy” in comments to reporters here on Friday. Under Ms. Rousseff, who has been president since 2011, Brazil is on track to deliver its weakest two-year period of growth since the early 1990s, before a stabilization program that radically restructured the economy. Finance Minister Guido Mantega contends that Brazil is on the cusp of a recovery, forecasting 4 percent growth next year.

While growth has declined considerably from the boom years, the slowdown has been blunted by state-supported projects aimed at creating jobs, like a shipbuilding sector conceived to support the oil industry. Brazil’s unemployment rate, 5.3 percent, is still hovering near historical lows.

Authorities are also financing broadly popular antipoverty programs. Federal spending surged 9 percent in October compared with October 2011, partly a result of outlays for an moderate-income housing program called Minha Casa Minha Vida (My House My Life). As millions of poor Brazilians are shielded from the slowdown, Ms. Rousseff’s approval ratings remain high.
17 2012-12-01 A Democratic lawmaker on Friday urged the Federal Trade Commission to investigate advertising claims made by producers of highly caffeinated energy drinks.

In a letter, that lawmaker, Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, told the F.T.C. that he found claims made by the sellers of products like 5-Hour Energy, Monster Energy and Rockstar Energy particularly disturbing because they were often made to appeal to younger people.

In marketing promotions and advertisements, producers of energy drinks typically claim that the products can make users more alert, energized and less fatigued. The request by Mr. Markey follows disclosures that the Food and Drug Administration received reports of 18 deaths in recent years in which energy drinks may have played a role; producers deny any link.

“The advertising claims made by energy drink manufacturers are particularly alarming in light of the increase in advertisements targeted primarily to children and teenagers,” he wrote.

A spokeswoman for the F.T.C., Betsy Lordan, said the agency would consider Mr. Markey’s request. She declined to say whether the F.T.C. was already examining energy drink promotions.

Energy drink makers have said that the claims they have made for their products are supported. They have added that they do not market the beverages to children, a group defined by the industry as those under 12.
18 2012-12-01 William C. Weldon, the chairman of Johnson & Johnson, is stepping down at the end of this year and will be succeeded by Alex Gorsky, the current chief executive, the company announced Friday.

Mr. Gorsky’s election as chairman of the board had been expected after he took Mr. Weldon’s place as chief executive in April. In a statement, Mr. Gorsky said he was honored to succeed Mr. Weldon as chairman. “Our financial strength, global reach and innovations that help people live longer, healthier lives are a proud legacy for Bill and a strong foundation for the future of Johnson & Johnson,” Mr. Gorsky said.

Mr. Weldon plans to retire in the first quarter of 2013, after a brief transitional period. He will then be eligible for $95.1 million in deferred and long-term compensation, as well as $48 million in pension payments, the company said.

His departure ends a 41-year career at Johnson & Johnson, one that began in 1971 as a pharmaceutical sales representative for the company’s McNeil unit. He became chief executive in 2002 and presided over one of the most tumultuous periods in the company’s history, including recalls of iconic products, manufacturing lapses and government inquiries that threatened to tarnish the name of one of the country’s most trusted companies.

The selection of Mr. Gorsky continued Johnson & Johnson’s tradition of hiring executives from within: like Mr. Weldon, he got his start as a sales representative and, at the time he was named chief executive, was head of the company’s medical devices division.

Since assuming Mr. Weldon’s role, he has said that he intends to expand Johnson & Johnson’s reach into global markets, rethink the way it brings new drugs to the market and return recalled brands to pharmacy shelves.
19 2012-12-01 From the perspective of an Airbnb customer who needs someplace to stay — and I count myself among the growing numbers of satisfied Airbnb customers — its service pushes every possible consumer pleasure button.

You beat the system by avoiding high hotel rates, get to stay in neighborhoods where there aren’t hotels at all and can connect with plugged-in local hosts, too.

But all airy talk in tech start-up circles of “collaborative consumption” and “the sharing economy” aside, five-figure fines and the possibility of eviction are no joke for those hosts.

In fact, local laws may prohibit most or all short-term rentals under many circumstances, though enforcement can be sporadic and you have no way of knowing how tough your local authorities will be. Your landlord may not allow such rentals in your lease or your condominium board may not look kindly on it.

Mr. Warren, 30, acknowledges that he broke the city rules and did not read his lease to see if this sort of subletting was kosher. Ignorance of the law is no excuse, even if Airbnb avoids educating the people who provide its inventory.

But one enduring mystery for him was why the city came after him in the first place. He was not renting out his bedroom all that often, after all.

Still, he was breaking the law. And that law says you cannot rent out single-family homes or apartments, or rooms in them, for less than 30 days unless you are living in the home at the same time.

Popular Airbnb markets like San Francisco and New Orleans have even more restrictive rules, and London and Paris have their own ordinances. People who want to go through the official licensing process for inns or bed-and-breakfasts have that option if they so choose.

That said, New York City officials don’t come looking for you unless your neighbor, doorman or janitor has complained to the authorities about the strangers traipsing around.

“It’s not the bargain that somebody who bought or rented an apartment struck, that their neighbors could change by the day,” said John Feinblatt, the chief adviser to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg for policy and strategic planning and the criminal justice coordinator. The city is also concerned with fire safety and maintaining at least some availability of rental inventory for people who live there.

Since the mayor’s office of special enforcement began looking at the short-term rental issue in earnest in 2006, it has received more than 3,000 complaints, conducted nearly 2,000 inspections and issued nearly 6,000 notices of violation.

On Thursday, Mr. Warren became one of the lucky violators. He arrived on the 10th floor of a city building in Lower Manhattan expecting to take his lumps during a hearing and write a large check. Instead, he discovered that the buildings department never filed the proper paperwork with the Environmental Control Board, which runs the hearings. A clerk there dismissed all violations against him with no fines, and I could see the color coming back into Mr. Warren’s face.

His complaint with Airbnb remains, though. “They need to start being a little more responsible and acknowledging what happened and providing a warning to users,” he said. “They’re in some kind of fight with the cities, and the users are paying the price.”

Mr. Warren happens to make his living by making Web sites easier to use, and he and I kicked around the idea of a box that would appear when you register as a host on Airbnb in certain cities where the laws are clear.

Perhaps it isn’t reasonable to expect the company, which believes it’s worth at least $2 billion according to a TechCrunch report on its latest fund-raising efforts, to track down every zoning law in tiny vacation hamlets. But it can certainly make the rules clear in urban areas where it knows that people like Mr. Warren could easily end up in hot water.

“I believe that any company that claims that sort of worth should have the social responsibility to disclose what the laws are in the jurisdiction that they’re in,” said Janan New, executive director of the San Francisco Apartment Association, a membership group for landlords that has repeatedly tangled with Airbnb. “And if they’re not capable of that, then their worth isn’t that high.”

I asked Airbnb two questions. Why not put the warning in place that I described above? And given how many listings on the site come from hosts who are breaking the law or the terms of their lease or their condominium board rules, does it want every one of those people to take down those listings today?

Airbnb’s spokeswoman, Kim Rubey, did not answer either question on the phone and e-mailed a statement several hours later that didn’t really answer them either. I’ve reprinted it in full (and dissected it in detail) on our Bucks blog. The company is “constantly re-evaluating how to do its job better,” the statement said.

Or is it? Many people believe that living on the Web grants them membership in an exalted class to which old laws cannot possibly apply. This sort of arrogance takes your breath away, until you realize just how brilliant a corporate strategy it is. If you stopped to reckon with every 80-year-old zoning law or tried to change the ones that you knew your customers would violate, you’d never even open for business.

But if you can create facts on the ground — and 200,000 listings worldwide — then you have a constituency that is willing to lobby on your behalf. Better then, to march forward with earplugs in, blindfolds on and fingers crossed. If you hear no evil and see no evil, then you’ve got a fighting chance at a billion-dollar valuation as long as the regulators don’t have enough firepower to slow you down.

This is all well and good for venture capitalists and start-up executives and Airbnb guests who aren’t worried about underinsured hosts. But if you’re a host, you need to consider a couple of things. Could you afford the kinds of fines that Mr. Warren was facing? If not, take your listing down.

Even if your guests are considerate, as Mr. Warren’s supposedly were, that won’t protect you. Nosy neighbors are everywhere, and if they don’t like you or your music or your dog or the smells of your cooking, they will not hesitate to anonymously report you to the proper authorities the moment they spot strangers in or near your home.

Then, consider the tactics like the ones that Ms. New and her members in San Francisco are now deploying.

Their solution, in a city that has many restrictions on what sort of rent landlords can charge, is to simply evict people.

“If my building owners’ goal is to make their buildings profitable, and you have rents that are capped, and you can get rid of the tenants, well, there you have it,” she said. This seems rather harsh, I told her. No second chances at all? “We’re not in the parenting business,” she responded. “We’re in the real estate business.”

There is no joy for someone like me, a fairly regular Airbnb customer, in pointing all this out. But when I called up Arthur S. Levine, the sergeant in the mayor’s office of special enforcement who came to Mr. Warren’s apartment back in September, he seemed glad to hear from me.

“If you go after Airbnb, God bless you,” he said. “It would make my life a lot easier.”
20 2012-12-01 Document Sent to U.N. on Rwandan Involvement with Congo Rebels

A document written by a United Nations investigative panel and sent to a Security Council committee argues that the Rwandan army had entered Congo and had helped the rebels capture Goma in the first place.
21 2012-12-01 BEIJING — A nephew of the dissident Chen Guangcheng was sentenced to more than three years in prison on Friday for assaulting and injuring a government official who broke into the family’s home in April during a frenzied search for Mr. Chen, according to relatives.

The nephew, Chen Kegui, 33, was convicted after a brief closed-door trial in Shandong Province, not far from the farmhouse where paid thugs kept his uncle, a self-taught human rights lawyer who is blind, illegally confined for 18 months along with his wife, and at times, their young daughter.

Details of their detention, which included round-the-clock surveillance and violence, drew international condemnation and ultimately proved embarrassing to China after Mr. Chen eluded his captors and found sanctuary inside the United States Embassy in Beijing. After a tense diplomatic standoff in May, Chinese officials allowed Mr. Chen and his family to move to the United States.

Rights advocates criticized the prosecution of Mr. Chen’s nephew, saying it was rife with irregularities and little more than a thinly concealed act of revenge. The younger Mr. Chen has been held incommunicado since his arrest in early May, and the authorities repeatedly rejected his family’s legal defense team. Even his court-appointed lawyer said he was not informed of the trial’s start date until shortly before it began, according to Mr. Chen’s father, who was barred from entering the courtroom along with his wife. Prosecutors did not allow any defense witnesses.

The verdict, three years and three months in prison, was rendered with uncharacteristic speed.

“What an incredible farce,” said Jerome A. Cohen, a law professor at New York University who helped arrange a fellowship at the university for Chen Guangcheng.

The police in Yinan County arrested the nephew after he reportedly stabbed an official who was among several men who burst into the family’s home in their search for the escaped Mr. Chen. Family members say the men, who were wearing street clothes, did not identify themselves. “Of course Kegui is innocent,” his father, Chen Guangfu, said by telephone outside the courthouse. “He was only defending himself and his mother against thugs who broke into the house at midnight.”

In its departure from established legal norms, the trial was similar to the one Yinan officials held in 2006 for Chen Guangcheng after he infuriated them by drawing attention to local coercive family-planning practices. At the time, neither Mr. Chen’s lawyers nor his wife were allowed into the courtroom; his conviction came after a breezy two-hour hearing. His sentence of four years and three months stemmed from charges of “damaging property and organizing a mob to disturb traffic,” even though he was under house arrest when a crowd of supporters staged a protest against his detention.
22 2012-12-01 “It’s not too good to be true,” said Lisa C. Germano, president and general counsel at Actuarial Benefits and Design Company in Midlothian, Va. “But you need to be able to fund the plan and fund it for an indefinite period. It’s a commitment. That’s one of the reasons you get the reward.”

Some advisers like Ms. Germano were worried that, like other generous deductions, this one could be threatened in the current tax and budget negotiations. But regardless of how the talks in Washington turn out, this is still the time of year when many small-business owners need to decide whether to set up a defined-benefit plan or stick with more traditional forms of retirement savings, like SEP I.R.A.’s for the self-employed or a profit-sharing plan.

Here is some of what I learned.

UPSIDE Defined-benefit plans are mainly a way for small-business owners who neglected to save for retirement to catch up. The ideal candidates can put away $100,000 to $150,000 a year for at least 10 years, said Leigh Goldblatt, vice president and chief compliance officer at Glazer Financial Network.

This was the case with John Rogers, a Denver businessman. “I was in my late 50s and I didn’t have a penny saved for retirement,” he said.

He lost his life savings in his 40s, he said, in a recycling company he started with friends. He also raised six children, four of whom he said he put through college.

But by 2006, he was six years into being an independent contractor for Univera, a company that makes nutritional supplements. (The company’s sales model is similar to Amway’s, where people like Mr. Rogers sell to individuals or find other people to sell for them.)

With his business providing steady, predictable income — he and his wife are ranked as top sellers for the company — he wanted to start saving. He said a defined-benefit plan was attractive for both deferring taxes and for saving for retirement.

“Our adviser tells us at the beginning of the year what we have to contribute,” said Mr. Rogers, 63. “We’re very disciplined. We pay our defined-benefit plan first and then our business expenses.”

But even though the I.R.S. assumes the plan will make monthly payments in retirement, which is why it allows people to save so much over a short period of time, owners shut down most of these plans and roll the money in them to a regular retirement account, said Mr. Goldblatt, whose firm advised Mr. Rogers. This reduces expenses and gives the owner control over how to withdraw the money.

DOWNSIDES Such a chance for a retirement savings do-over, as it were, does not come without catches. And skeptics say these plans lure people with the prospect of quick and large retirement savings without discussing the risks.

“The primary problem with defined-benefit plans is you have to fund at least to a minimum level each year,” said Jerry Love, a certified public accountant in Abilene, Tex. “You also have to have an actuary do your actuarial analysis each year. And you have to fund the minimum amount, or your plan’s in violation and you have all kinds of problems.”

Since the retirement benefit is set, it is the responsibility of the person who created the plan to make sure it is financed to that level. This means regular annual contributions. It also means the owner must be prepared to put in extra money if the plan dips enough in value to be considered in default.

“The No. 1 thing that happens to people is their company or industry takes a dip and they don’t have the cash flow to fund the plan,” Mr. Love said. “There is no option. You have to fund this.”

For a company with only one or two employees, that problem is somewhat easier to manage. The plan could be reworked to lower the ultimate benefit if the owner cannot make the minimum payment or an additional payment, said Greg Stevens, senior financial counselor at Cabot Money Management.

But reworking a plan comes at a cost, which is another criticism of defined-benefit plans. Even if everything runs smoothly, the owner still has to pay someone $6,000 to $7,000 a year to do the actuarial calculations and handle the necessary filings, Mr. Stevens said. That is on top of fees to manage the investments in the plan.

“As soon as you get to the point where you’re not making contributions, you should dissolve it,” he said. But he cautioned people against thinking they could put a lot of money in one year and then dissolve the plan. To be compliant with the I.R.S., he said, the plan needs to be in place for at least five years.

Sharyn E. Cerniglia, who owns American Recycling Systems, which sells heavy equipment to the military, said her contract with the Defense Department had expired after 15 years. If it is not renewed, she said, she might retire.

However bittersweet that might be, she and her husband, who helps run the company, have been able to save a lot of money through a defined-benefit plan they set up in 2006. “We have a couple of million put away that we wouldn’t have put away otherwise,” she said.

PERFECT CANDIDATES Despite the caveats, most advisers saw a value in defined-benefit plans for certain people. Dr. Timothy Georgelas, a radiologist in Dallas, credited his plan with giving him financial security after 32 years as a doctor in the Army and Air Force.

Dr. Georgelas, 61, said that when he retired from the military in 2001, he went into private practice and within three years was making nearly triple what he had made in the Air Force. With that and his military pension, he said, he was earning more than he and his wife needed to live on, so he wanted to find a way to save some of it for retirement.

“It was really appealing to set aside a good chunk of money every year,” he said. “It was mind-boggling.”

Dr. Georgelas said that since 2004 he had put about $100,000 into his defined-benefit plan each year. He now has just under $1 million.

Yet he admitted that he had not had much luck persuading other doctors to open their own plans. “I think they’re scared to take the plunge,” he said. “I mention it to others and they say, ‘You’re kidding.’ ”
23 2012-12-01 Despite Popovich’s claim that his player perseveration plan was hatched after surveying the season’s schedule, it could also be seen as a challenge to Stern that was more than a decade in the making. Though he kept his big three home for a game in Utah last spring — even as he battled Oklahoma City for the top playoff seeding in the Western Conference — Popovich is too smart not to have anticipated Stern’s reaction this time.

He knows that no assets are more precious to Stern than his negotiated television deals, which he views as the N.B.A.’s lifeblood. Back in the 1990s, Stern and the Chicago Bulls owner Jerry Reinsdorf wound up in a litigious row over Reinsdorf’s refusal to remove his team’s games from free national cable television in what Stern saw as unhealthy competition with the league’s network deals.

TNT has an exclusive window on Thursday nights with the N.B.A., which schedules that night lightly and typically tries to provide the network with an attractive game. In this case, it was Miami-San Antonio in a matchup of contrasting championship cultures.

The defending champion Heat were constructed in one sensational free-agent swoop that added LeBron James and Chris Bosh to Dwyane Wade. The Spurs have been built and rebuilt through the draft without wild spending binges.

Since the no-drama Duncan arrived in San Antonio in 1997 to team with the acerbic and independent-thinking Popovich, the Spurs have not only won four championships and had the best winning percentage among all teams in the four major North American team sports; they have also been a model franchise, operating without conflict or controversy.

“No character issues, professionalism, preparation — everything people always say they want, it’s all happening right here,” Brent Barry, now a broadcaster, said in 2007, when he played for the Spurs and they last won the N.B.A. title.

While deeply respected for the way they conduct their business, the Spurs have never generated much national acclaim or substantial television ratings, and they have developed some resentment over a perception of their not being sexy enough to be one of the league’s poster teams.

“I think maybe there’s a little smirk on the coach’s face and on the organization’s face that it’s not exciting to people outside of San Antonio,” Barry said in 2007.

With Duncan’s continued support, Popovich’s tenets have argued — against league trends — that the 21st-century N.B.A. can still be all about the team, without catering to egos and outside distractions. Players signing with San Antonio must agree to adhere to that philosophy, and in return, Popovich has rewarded and earned the loyalty of those who assimilated.

Guard Gary Neal, who led the Spurs with 20 points off the bench on Thursday night, said, “Coach Pop is the coach of the San Antonio Spurs, and he did what’s best for us.”

It can be argued that Coach Pop overdid the father figure role this time. He might have sat or reduced minutes for players on different nights, given the Spurs’ deep roster. Even with the injuries to Leonard and Jackson, it’s not as if the Spurs were in a scheduling minefield in recent games against Toronto, Orlando and the then-winless Washington Wizards.

While Duncan is 36 and Ginobili 35, Parker is in his prime, only 30. Green is 25. Was Popovich in effect telling Stern: no one’s ever wanted to watch us on national television, so why should it matter who we put out there now?

Popovich would argue that the league didn’t after the Utah game last spring and, in fact, the deputy commissioner Adam Silver said he would not question as credentialed a coach as Popovich. Days later, Popovich sat in his office and said: “I’m not concerned with finishing first. I’m trying to win a championship, and that’s all.”

That remained his public rationale, though he conceded Thursday night, “If I was taking my 6-year-old son or daughter to the game, I’d want him or her to see everybody.”

The basis of the fine, Stern countered, was that Thursday night was the Spurs’ “only regular-season visit to Miami,” and they failed to inform “the Heat, the media or the league office in any timely way.”

A $250,000 fine did not rise to Stern’s vow of “substantial sanctions,” an indication that he had second thoughts or was talked out of further punishment after Popovich received much support in the news media. On top of that, the Spurs have unfailingly represented Stern’s league well, even without its stars and down to nine men.

It took a late 3-point jumper by the Heat’s Ray Allen to subdue the San Antonio junior varsity in what turned out to be a compelling underdog drama, “Hoosiers” at South Beach. Marketing savant that he is, Stern might even had some grudging respect for how Popovich turned a rather pedestrian N.B.A. night in November into a national debate on competitive ethics.

A smirking Popovich will no doubt consider the $250,000 well spent.
24 2012-12-01 TOKYO — Japan’s space agency said on Friday that information on one of its newest rockets was stolen from a desktop computer by someone using a computer virus.

The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency said that the virus in a computer at its Tsukuba Space Center northeast of Tokyo was found to be secretly collecting data and sending it outside the agency. The agency said that after the virus was detected by antivirus software on Nov. 21, it conducted an emergency sweep for viruses that showed no other computers at the center had been infected.

The agency said it was unclear if the virus was a cyberattack. Japanese defense companies, however, have been recent targets of similar information-stealing viruses, some previously traced to China.

The data stolen from the space agency included information about the Epsilon, a solid-fuel rocket still under development. While the Epsilon is intended to launch satellite and space probes, solid-fuel rockets of that size can also have a military use as intercontinental ballistic missiles.

The Epsilon, whose first launching is scheduled for next autumn, will also feature new technology that will allow it to be remotely controlled by a personal computer.
25 2012-12-02 Ponty Chadha had a virtual monopoly on liquor trade in the state....
26 2012-12-02 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
27 2012-12-02 Still pathetic....
28 2012-12-02 Rupa Mahendra Patel, a daughter of Nalini Patel and Mahendra Patel of Monroe Township, N.J., was married Saturday to Hemil Nitin Khandwala, the son of Renu Khandwala and Nitin Khandwala of Livingston, N.J. Pandit Harendra R. Dave, a Hindu priest, officiated at the Venetian, a banquet hall in Garfield, N.J.

Mrs. Khandwala, 29, is a physician assistant in the department of medicine at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She graduated from Rutgers University and received a master’s degree in physician assistant studies from the Manchester, N.H., campus of the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences.

Her father owns the Red Roof Inn in Monmouth Junction, N.J., the Kings Inn in Rahway, N.J., and other hotels and convenience stores in New Jersey and the Bronx.

Mr. Khandwala, also 29, is the vice president for pharmacy operations of Prescription Corporation of America, a Denville, N.J., manager of pharmacy benefits. He is also a partner in PharmaRx, a Union City, N.J., manager of pharmacy services at health clinics. He graduated from and received a doctorate in pharmacy from Northeastern University.

His father, a pharmacist, owns Health Center Pharmacy in West New York, N.J., and eight other drugstores in New Jersey.
29 2012-12-02 Megan Elizabeth Barshop, a daughter of Leslie Barshop and Ronald Barshop of Great Neck, N.Y., was married Saturday evening to Benjamin Morris Laitman, the son of Dr. Leila B. Laitman and Jeffrey T. Laitman of Great Neck. Rabbi Jerome K. Davidson officiated at Water’s Edge, an event space in Long Island City, Queens.

Mrs. Laitman, 24, is a student in the postbaccalaureate prehealth-studies program at New York University. She graduated from the University of Michigan.

Her father is an owner of Greenvale Electric Supply, a retailer of electrical supplies in Greenvale, N.Y. Her mother is an occupational therapist at Long Beach Medical Center in Long Beach, N.Y.

Mr. Laitman, also 24, is studying for a medical degree and a Ph.D. in neuroscience at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. He graduated summa cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania, from which he also received a master’s degree in physical anthropology.

His mother is a psychiatrist in private practice in Great Neck. His father is the director and a professor of anatomy and functional morphology at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
30 2012-12-02 The Nets were undone by 19 turnovers, 12 in the second half, many of them leading to fast-break chances for Wade (34 points) and James (21 points). They also missed 10 free throws, 8 in the second half.

“We just got to be more disciplined,” said Deron Williams, who had 10 points, 12 assists and 4 turnovers. “When we get up 12, 14 points, we can’t relax. That’s when we have to hunker down and get more stops.”

Wade scorched the Nets’ defense, going 14 for 20 from the field and adding 7 assists as the Heat extended their overall winning streak to 6 games and their streak against the Nets to 12. Williams and Joe Johnson, the Nets’ All-Star backcourt, combined for only 22 points and 8-for-25 shooting from the field. As a team, the Nets were 6 for 28 from 3-point range.

The Nets controlled the first half and held a lead deep into the third quarter, using the same sturdy defense and patient offense that has carried them the last two weeks. Then they collapsed, quickly and spectacularly, as the Heat turned up their defense and attacked Williams on the pick-and-roll.

Miami used a 10-0 run late in the third to take the lead and closed the period on a 17-5 run, mostly fueled by James and Wade. The troubles continued early in the fourth, with Johnson, Williams and Andray Blatche all throwing the ball away as the Heat extended the lead.

“We just seem to have worn down a little bit,” Coach Avery Johnson said. “We made some mistakes there that’s not really our team. That’s kind of uncharacteristic of us.”

Blatche (20 points, 8 rebounds) again proved a worthy substitute for the injured Lopez, whose sprained foot will keep him out for at least another game, and perhaps longer.

The Nets repelled the Heat’s first charge, in the second quarter, with a 7-point burst from Johnson and a rousing 3-point play from Jerry Stackhouse. The 38-year-old Stackhouse rose high for a dunk but he was fouled in midair by Joel Anthony and instead flipped in a layup. His teammates were practically giddy at the attempt.

The Nets arrived here with recent victories over the Boston Celtics, the Knicks and the Los Angeles Clippers, and with a suddenly imposing defensive edge.

The streak is over now, but the Nets had to consider it an accomplishment just to be fighting for first place in the East after a month of games. They have come a long way in a very short time.

“Are they legitimate?” James asked rhetorically. “They have a good team. Yeah, they will be.”

He added, “They’re going to continue to get better, but they have a good team and they were missing a big piece tonight. They’re really good, yeah.”

Brook Lopez is a long shot to play Tuesday, when the Nets host the Oklahoma City Thunder. Avery Johnson said it would take a miracle. Lopez will be re-evaluated by doctors Monday, which means hypothetically he could practice that day and play Tuesday. But Johnson quickly dismissed that scenario with a series of “nos.” We’ll see,” Johnson said. “That would be a miracle. And I believe in miracles.” Johnson said Lopez will have to practice at least once before he put him back in the lineup. The Nets are exercising extreme caution after losing Lopez for nearly all of last season to a broken foot. “I think the conservative approach is the way to go with Lopez,” Johnson said. “We just don’t want any setbacks.”
31 2012-12-02 Dallas, Austin, Fort Worth and El Paso have toll lane projects in development, and San Antonio is considering adding toll lanes to two highway projects, according to officials in those cities.

Many of the projects are being designed to allow for what is known as dynamic tolling, in which a toll rises or falls with traffic to ensure that vehicles using the lanes can always travel above a certain speed.

“We have the goal of keeping traffic moving at 50 miles per hour,” said Tony Hartzel, a Texas Department of Transportation spokesman, who is familiar with projects in the Dallas-Fort Worth region. “The tolls on managed lanes will change every five or six minutes.”

In each metropolitan region, transportation officials are using their own interpretation of the toll lane concept.

Some are developing the projects as high-occupancy toll, or HOT, lanes, which encourage car-pooling by allowing vehicles with multiple occupants to use them free or at a discount.

In Houston, HOT lanes that opened this year on Interstate 45 and United States Highway 59 were originally high-occupancy-vehicle, or H.O.V., lanes that saw light traffic outside of rush hour, said Vince Obregon, associate vice president of capital projects with the Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County. Car-poolers can access the lanes free, and their vehicles are the only ones allowed to use the lanes during the morning and evening peak periods.

“It was our challenge to get more capacity out of the infrastructure we already had,” Mr. Obregon said.

The initial response has been positive, though the lanes are not producing enough revenue to cover their costs, Mr. Obregon said.

Two more Houston highways will have HOT lanes next year. Separate toll lanes on the Katy Freeway are operated by the Harris County Toll Road Authority, and allow only H.O.V. riders free access during peak hours.

“I think when you look at the nature of these projects, the vast majority of them are conversions of H.O.V. lanes to HOT lanes,” said Ginger Goodin, a researcher with the Texas A&M Transportation Institute, which studies toll lane projects.

That is not the case in Austin, where toll lanes are planned for the busy MoPac Expressway. The new lanes will not treat car-poolers differently because such policies are difficult to enforce and could hurt the project’s financial security, said Steve Pustelnyk, a spokesman for the Central Texas Regional Mobility Authority.

“The more people that can use the lanes for free, then the less reliable they become financially and you need greater public subsidies to make the project work,” Mr. Pustelnyk said. He added that the MoPac toll lanes would allow transit buses, registered van pools, emergency vehicles and military vehicles to ride free.

The Houston HOT lanes have two entrance ramps. Single-occupant vehicles take a ramp where an electronic reader charges the account linked to each car’s toll tag. Vehicles with multiple passengers are directed to the H.O.V. ramp, where a toll worker counts the passengers in a car as it passes and notifies a police officer if any vehicles are trying to skirt the system.

Planners in North Texas hope to follow Houston’s lead and incentivize car-poolers to use the toll lanes being built as part of three highway projects, though they expect to enforce their policies differently.

They are developing a system similar to one used in Atlanta, where drivers, either online or by phone, update their toll tag accounts in advance when they expect to have enough passengers in the vehicle to qualify for discounted tolls.

It remains to be seen which vehicles will be eligible for the discount, says Michael Morris, the transportation director for the North Central Texas Council of Governments.

Initially, it is likely that all vehicles with two or more passengers will qualify for the discounts at peak periods. Eventually, Mr. Morris said, the discount would have to be limited to vehicles with three or more occupants.

The motivation behind the switch is both financial and practical, Mr. Morris said. To finance large projects like the LBJ Express in Dallas and the North Tarrant Express near Fort Worth, the expected revenue from toll lanes is critical.

Both projects would have had to be scaled back or delayed if all of the cars with two passengers that are expected to use the lanes had to be subsidized into the foreseeable future, he said. Also, encouraging vehicles with two passengers to use the toll lanes would have little effect on reducing congestion or improving air quality.

“Fifty percent of our two-plus users don’t actually reduce their miles traveled,” Mr. Morris said. “You were going in the same car anyway.”
32 2012-12-02 Anna Ushenina of Ukraine, the No. 32 seed, won the women’s world championship on Saturday, renewing questions about a tournament format for determining a champion....
33 2012-12-02 The host Brazil will play Japan in next year’s Confederations Cup opener, and the world champion Spain will begin against Uruguay. The draw for the eight-team tournament of continental champions was held in São Paulo. The event will help Brazil prepare for the 2014 World Cup. The Confederations Cup is June 15-30 in six Brazilian cities. The opener is in Brasília and the final at Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro.

¶ Rafa Benítez’s winless start as Chelsea manager worsened as West Ham came from behind to beat its London rival, 3-1, in England’s Premier League. Benítez has drawn twice and lost once in his three matches since he replaced Roberto Di Matteo. Chelsea’s winless run in the league stands at seven matches.
34 2012-12-02 The laws appear to have little to do with Mr. Xi directly, but they reinforce fears that China, now the owner of an aircraft carrier and a growing navy, is plowing ahead with plans to enforce its claims that it has sovereign rights over much of the sea, which includes dozens of islands that other countries say are theirs. And top Chinese officials have not yet clarified their intent, leaving room for speculation.

If China were to enforce these new rules fully beyond the 12-nautical-mile zones, naval experts say, at stake would be freedom of navigation, a principle that benefits not only the United States and other Western powers but also China, a big importer of Middle East oil.

An incomplete list of the laws passed in Hainan was announced by the state-run news agency, Xinhua, last week.

In an interview here on Saturday, Mr. Wu said the new regulations applied to all of the hundreds of islands scattered across the sea, and their surrounding waters. That includes islands claimed by several other countries, including Vietnam and the Philippines.

“It covers all the land features inside the nine-dash line and adjacent waters,” Mr. Wu said. The nine-dash line refers to a map that China drew up in the late 1940s that demarcates its territorial claims — about 80 percent of the South China Sea, whose seabed is believed to be rich in oil and natural gas.

That map forms the basis for China’s current claims. Some neighboring countries were outraged when China recently placed the nine-dash map on its new passports. Vietnam has refused to place its visa stamps in the passports as they are, insisting a separate piece of paper be added for the stamp.

Mr. Wu, who also heads a government-sponsored institute devoted to the study of the South China Sea, said the immediate intention of the new laws was to deal with what he called illegal Vietnamese fishing vessels that operate in the waters around Yongxing Island, where China recently established an expanded army garrison.

The island, which has a long airstrip, is part of a group known internationally as the Paracels that is also claimed by Vietnam. China is using Yongxing Island as a kind of forward presence in a bid for more control of the South China Sea, neighboring countries say.

The Chinese Foreign Ministry said last week that China was within its rights to allow the coast guard to board vessels in the South China Sea.

The new rules go into effect on Jan. 1. According to a report in an English-language state-run newspaper, China Daily, the police and coast guard will be allowed to board and seize control of foreign ships that “illegally enter” Chinese waters and order them to change course.

Mr. Wu acknowledged that the new rules had aroused alarm in Asia, and the United States, because they could be interpreted as a power grab by China.

“A big worry for neighboring countries and countries outside the region is that China is growing so rapidly, and they see it is possible China taking over the islands by force,” he said. “I think China needs to convince neighboring countries that this is not the case.”  Essentially, he said, countries had to trust that China would not use force in the sea.

The Philippines, an ally of the United States and one of the most vociferous critics of China’s claims in the South China Sea, reacted strongly to the new rules.

In a statement, the Foreign Ministry in Manila said Saturday, “This planned action by China is illegal and will validate the continuous and repeated pronouncements by the Philippines that China’s claim of indisputable sovereignty over virtually the entire South China Sea is not only an excessive claim, but a threat to all countries.”

In order to dispel the dismay about the new rules, China needs to explain more, an American expert on the South China Sea, M. Taylor Fravel, said.

Mr. Fravel, an associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the United States and Asian nations might be overreacting to the legislation. “It was not passed down by Beijing as far as I can tell,” he said.

“The U.S. should seek to clarify with China the intent of the regulations and whether they will be used in and around disputed islands, a move that would clearly escalate tensions,” Mr. Fravel said.

On Saturday the Obama administration, in an effort not to escalate the situation, only obliquely criticized the Chinese action. “All concerned parties should avoid provocative unilateral actions that raise tensions and undermine the prospects for a diplomatic or other peaceful resolution,” said Peter P. Velasco, a State Department spokesman.

At a summit meeting of Asian leaders last month in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, President Obama raised the issue of the South China Sea with Premier Wen Jiabao of China, senior administration officials said. Mr. Obama asked the Chinese to resolve disputes peacefully, and to allow freedom of navigation, they said.

But this quiet approach, encouraged by smaller Asian nations that are friendly with the United States but economically dependent on China, will no longer work, said Bonnie Glaser of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

“I don’t see a strategy on the U.S. side,” Ms. Glaser said.

She said China was confident that it could outmaneuver the 10 countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, which has unsuccessfully tried to find ways to resolve territorial disputes with China. “In Asean, there is an unwillingness to confront China; they are hopelessly divided,” she said.

Until now, some Asian countries had believed that China did not want to have simultaneous conflicts on two maritime fronts: in the East China Sea with Japan and the South China Sea with other countries. With the passage of the new laws in Hainan, that assumption has now proved incorrect, Ms. Glaser said.
35 2012-12-02 This was exactly what happened in the towns of Greenville, Greenwood and Indianola. All three were falling apart, devastated by unemployment and decades of political neglect. And all three, each at least 65 percent black, overwhelmingly elected mayors who ran against the entrenched political system — and who just happened to be white.

What’s noteworthy is not so much that blacks elected whites — though that’s surely significant — but that race wasn’t an issue in the first place. To understand how, one needs to understand the personalities of these three officials.

All had deep Delta roots. Born in Yazoo City, Mayor Chuck Jordan of Greenville, population 34,000, was one of 11 students at the local Catholic parochial school. From there he went to Mississippi State University. A retired bank president and political independent, he knew the local businesses and was appreciated by both black and white citizens. As one black woman in Greenville said, “He knows people.”

His zeal for the community was new and infectious, and he won over two-thirds of the vote in his 2011 mayoral race against a black candidate.

Mr. Jordan — who died of pancreatic cancer in November, having learned about it just a few months earlier — proved immensely popular and effective in office. After being ignored by the previous mayor, a black woman in Greenville was surprised when Mr. Jordan telephoned her to respond to her concern about a derelict vacant lot. He was succeeded by a well-respected white lawyer named John Cox.

A similar story unfolded in Indianola, population just 10,600. Mayor Steve Rosenthal’s family came to the Delta from Eastern Europe at the turn of the last century. He attended the Indianola schools and graduated from the University of Memphis. Like most Delta Jews, his ancestors established a dry goods store, which Mr. Rosenthal owned and operated for years.

A store in a Delta town means daily interaction with both white and black residents; decades of relationships and civility engendered trust among Indianola’s black population. Mr. Rosenthal, a Democrat, has run his administration the same way he ran his store: business-minded and community-focused.

Meanwhile, Mayor Carolyn McAdams was raised in Greenwood, population 15,000, and attended Mississippi State College for Women. Before her election, she worked for the housing agency in Greenwood and as an accountant for a private company. Her frequent professional contact with African-Americans made her transition to politics natural.

Interestingly, “The Help,” the popular movie that pilloried Southern white women, was filmed in Greenwood. But Ms. McAdams, like Mr. Jordan a political independent, hardly fits the caricatures presented in the film. While she was campaigning, an African-American woman picked her up and said, “Honey, we’ve been waiting for you.” Mayor McAdams has balanced the city’s budget for the first time in years.

How could this happen in an area so identified with racial turmoil? It’s easy: beneath the easy assumptions about racial animosity in the South, a different ethos prevails. The races interact daily in these small towns. Despite the oppressive Jim Crow system of the past, people know one another intimately. Trust, it turns out, trumps race. That doesn’t mean racial tension doesn’t exist. But there’s a capacity to look beyond it, born of lifelong intimate contact, that’s rarely found in larger cities.

Each of these towns experienced the civil rights movement. They also experienced mechanization, which displaced the black labor force. When the promise of the civil rights revolution was challenged by the realities of deindustrialization, hope was replaced by disappointment and disillusionment. The moral clarity of the struggle against legal segregation was replaced by de facto segregation and self-segregation — a problem hardly unique to the South.

These problems still exist. The new mayors face the well-chronicled Delta debacle: unemployment, crime and poor education and health outcomes. No one has exaggerated expectations about solutions. Despite their new leaders’ early promise, there is no guarantee that any of the towns will look different when the mayors leave office.

That, however, shouldn’t detract from the importance of the moment. These elections illustrate that personal relationships can supersede race in a highly partisan time, when black and white too often become proxies for left and right. Of course, it took near-crisis situations to break the political status quo, and it may not happen again. But for once, race mattered less than community, in the least-expected place.
36 2012-12-02 I couldn’t believe I’d never see his face again either, even if the blank and gaunt one that I witnessed at the end bore almost no resemblance to the quietly beaming Dad I’d known in the family, or the quietly intense one I’d see practicing, teaching or onstage. (He was a cellist.) The loss of my father and the resulting disorientation made me crave paper photos in a way I hadn’t in years, especially ones of him before Parkinson’s disease stole his last facial expression. They were no substitute for the man, but at least they could be touched and held — and beheld — unlike my father, who was now unreachable and unable to be seen.

I found I wanted hard copies of my still-living family members, too — concrete facts to counteract the sensation of sloshing sea beneath my feet. My mother must have felt the same way. The morning after my father died, she got out her old albums from the 1970s and early ’80s — fat, crepitating affairs with gilded vinyl covers in turquoise and maroon, featuring page after page of fading Kodak snapshots of the family that she and my dad had raised together.

Here, undeniably, was our family’s past, dated by year, and laid out for all the world to see: our holidays in Cape Cod, Canada and Vermont; our house exchanges to Twickenham, England, and Lausanne, Switzerland; our circuitous drives to Wisconsin to see my dad’s cousin who owned a dairy farm; our Thanksgiving dinners and concerts, birthdays and graduations. The setbacks and sadness, anger and boredom that mark any human existence were nowhere in evidence, but that was O.K. It was still a record of my dad’s and our lives: my sisters learning how to horseback-ride; my hideous Dorothy Hamill haircut; my dad chasing down a ball on a tennis court. I’d never been so thankful for the diligent organizer that my mother has always been.

A FEW days later, I decided it was time to take on the photo nightmare on my computer, and I uploaded hundreds of shots onto Snapfish.com and ordered prints. A week later, as I leafed through the mountain of glossy 3-by-5’s, I came upon one of my father from our last vacation together, this past July. In the picture, he’s sitting next to my mother on the porch of our rental beach house, looking frail, but still very much part of a long-married couple. (They were together 50 years.) It’s not a particularly flattering photo of either one of them. Even so, the image electrified me. My father looked so shockingly alive. I wondered if he knew it was all about to end.

Going through the pile, I got to thinking that digital photography’s chief selling points — the abilities to see the finished product instantly and to take countless pictures without incurring any additional charge — have turned out to be mixed blessings. With effort and cost excised from the equation, photos have become too plentiful. And at the same time — as more and more pictures are taken on smartphones, “shared” on social media if at all, then lost to the cacophony of the digital universe — meaningful images have become too scarce. Many of my friends, forever switching among their laptops, tablets and smartphones, can no longer even say where their photo files are located.

Ultimately, the loss is maybe less about numbers than about quality and permanence. Printed images are crisper than pixelated ones. They are also tangible: material objects that can be grasped, pasted, or leaned against a dresser mirror. Digital images have a distant, once-removed quality — kind of like dead fathers, come to think of it. In any case, many of us no longer look to print photos to safekeep our memories. In some respects, maybe it’s for the best. When you gaze at the same snapshots over and over again during the course of a lifetime, the images become part of the recollection itself until the two are interchangeable, and it’s hard to say what you remember at all.

Do I really remember standing in front of Big Ben as a child, or do I just remember the photo of me doing so? I can no longer say for sure, but I do know that that photograph became part of my sense of self. I can’t help wondering whether — with every digital image we casually take and delete from our iPhones or Androids — we’re stripping photography of its awesome powers to keep the past in our sights.
37 2012-12-02 After an exhausting re-election victory that drained supporters of hundreds of millions of dollars, some of President Obama’s advisers are reportedly urging that the second inaugural scrap a praiseworthy innovation of his first: the banning of corporate donations to pay for the day’s many expensive galas.

The first inaugural was a memorable day of exuberant history for the nation as Mr. Obama took the oath. The ban on corporate money was among many encouraging signs that the capital’s addiction to insiders and their money might be one of his targets.

To turn back from the ban at the moment of renewed hopes for the president’s second term would send the wrong signal to a nation wary of Washington’s business as usual. Four years ago, the president-elect asked private donors to pay for the expensive parties that mark the day of celebration. He was able to raise more than $50 million from individuals while saying no thank you to corporations, labor unions, political action committees and registered lobbyists.

This time, planners fear that private donors are so wrung dry from the record billion-dollar re-election campaign that it will be hard to tap them for the inaugural balls, concerts and parties, The Wall Street Journal has reported. Taxpayers pay for the security and logistics, but the big galas to take place on Jan. 21 are privately financed. (Chief Justice John Roberts will administer the oath of office to President Obama privately at the White House on Jan. 20, which is a Sunday.)

Some fund-raising advisers contend the inaugural is a civic event that should be open to corporate support, just like museum exhibitions. But do the celebrants really want to be caught dancing to the tune of corporate donors?

The president’s inaugural team might consider more modest options appropriate for the nation’s continuing hard times and Washington’s budget wrangling — cutting back on the festivities to save some money. No need for political sackcloth and ashes, just some restraint amid a hard-won day for honoring democracy’s renewal.
38 2012-12-02 States, cities and counties are giving up more than $80 billion a year to attract or keep companies and the jobs they provide. But officials and governments rarely track how many jobs follow, and many do not know the value of all their awards....
39 2012-12-02 The Toute Petite Voiture, or very small car, development program was conceived in 1934 with its original design brief calling for “four wheels under an umbrella.” It was to be a minimalist car that could equally haul four adults wearing proper hats to church on Sunday or 50 kilos of potatoes to market on Monday.

The mission of the 2CV’s lanky yet compliant suspension was to assure that it could be driven across a plowed farm field with a basket of eggs on the seat, not breaking a single one. Being easy on eggs meant it would be comfortable for humans, too.

The car was equipped with an air-cooled 2-cylinder engine that powered, more or less, the front wheels; output peaked at about 30 horsepower by the time production ended.

To Citroën enthusiasts, however, traditional measures of performance are not the point. They say a 2CV can accelerate from 0 to 60 “in a day,” but it produces more smiles-per-mile than any car.

On subsequent trips to France, Mr. Perzel looked into buying a 2CV that he could ship home to West Jefferson, N.C. He even considered a 2CV restoration project from a junkyard in Provence before deciding that project would be too complicated.

An Internet search eventually led Mr. Perzel to Noel Slade, owner of Eurocar Imports, a Citroën specialist in Toms River, on the Jersey Shore.

Mr. Slade, a native of Essex, England, inherited a love of 2CVs from his father, who operated a Citroën repair shop. The younger Mr. Slade brought his skills to the United States after marrying an American working in England who yearned to return to the New York area.

Mr. Slade, 38, refurbishes 2CVs, importing derelict hulks by the container load from France, Germany, Spain and Belgium. When they arrive in New Jersey, the cars are disassembled and sandblasted to remove corrosion. The rust-prone original frame is replaced with a new galvanized-steel unit.

“We’re not just doing paint jobs; we’re completely remanufacturing the whole car from the ground up,” Mr. Slade said.

“It’s like a giant Lego set, just parts, nuts and bolts,” he added. “We’ve shipped finished cars all over the United States, Canada, South America, across Europe and Australia. California is our most popular state.”

Typically, 2CVs that are at least 25 years old face no licensing problems with regard to emissions or safety equipment, Mr. Slade said. Cars destined for California need to be 1975 or earlier models.

Each 2CV gets new body panels and upholstery — reproduction parts are readily available — and the engine and suspension are rebuilt. Mr. Slade sells most of his remade cars for $20,000 to $25,000, depending on the paint configuration and optional equipment, which may include higher-grade interior trim and engine modifications.

The Perzels ordered a 1964 2CV in classic burgundy and black, a color combination with an Art Deco riff that Citroën used on the Charleston models.

“The reality is that I bought a 2CV before I ever drove one,” Mr. Perzel said. “I made one quick trip to Toms River to check out his operation. I ordered the car in June 2009, and it was delivered the following February.”

Mr. Perzel has been driving his 2CV around the North Carolina mountains ever since.

“It’s a fun car to go out and play in,” he said. “Everyone who sees it does a double-take.”

Mr. Slade said he’s had a customer waiting list for the cars since he opened for business in 2003. Even though it takes only about eight weeks to completely rebuild a 2CV, customers ordering a car today will wait six to eight months for delivery. He and his staff restore some 25 to 30 2CVs a year, and the shop works on the delivery truck version as well as other Citroën models.

Those waiting times may be extended as a result of recent events. The shop suffered severe damage in October from Hurricane Sandy.

“Water flooded the building,” Mr. Slade said. “I lost or sustained damage on 40 2CVs, and I lost most of my tools and equipment.”

The pressure to get the shop back in operation may not be as dire as it would be for conventional repair businesses because Mr. Slade’s 2CVs are often bought as hobby vehicles. But customers soon discover the cars are competent as daily drivers, he said.

“A 2CV can get 45 to 48 miles per gallon and can travel at highway speeds,” he said.

One customer, Sam Scribner, bought a yellow and black 1975 2CV from Mr. Slade last spring. Mr. Scribner, the American owner of a furniture business in Panama, decided to treat himself to a car he had admired for years after retiring to Maitland, Fla.

“I bought it to keep company for my 1970 VW Beetle convertible,” said Mr. Scribner, 64, whose 2CV has its steering wheel on the right. “Most people have no idea what kind of car it is. People take pictures of me at traffic lights.”

Mr. Scribner says he regularly reaches 60 miles per hour when taking his wife to work at Disney World in Orlando, 32 miles from home. “It’s designed to be driven hard,” he said.

Mr. Slade also services 2CVs bought elsewhere. Ben Boyle, a high school English teacher from Kingston, Mich., bought his red 1986 2CV nine years ago from a private owner in Atlanta. Mr. Slade has not only replaced the car’s frame, he also made a house call to rebuild its engine.

“As long as it’s not snowing, I’m driving that car,” said Mr. Boyle, 32, whose collection includes such disparate vehicles as a 1980 Chevy Chevette and a Russian S.U.V. called the Lada Niva.

“I’ve driven 90,000 miles in my 2CV since I bought it,” he said. “It’s a car full of quirky features, like windows that flip up, a quirky suspension and a quirky shifter that comes out of the dashboard. It’s a collection of simple parts that are put together in an unorthodox manner.

“I can understand how the new versions of the Mini Cooper and Fiat 500 drive up the value of older models, but thankfully there is nothing culturally I can identify that will drive up the prices of 2CVs,” Mr. Boyle said.

Whatever happens with 2CV values, there are orders waiting to be filled, so for the near term, Mr. Slade said, he will rebuild the business at his current location. But he hopes to sign a lease soon for a new shop five miles farther inland, in Manchester, N.J.

“I’ll be up and running 100 percent within four weeks,” he said.
40 2012-12-02 The mayor, Bernard D. Ryba, characterized it “as one of the more exclusive communities on Long Island if not in the entire country.” Residences are zoned for one, two and three acres, though there are many larger estates.

At the end of Ms. Krasnoff’s road is a horse farm. She buys sunflowers and fresh vegetables in season at Rottkamp’s farm and loves the fresh pies at Youngs Farm; the two sites are among the last few working produce farms in Nassau County.

The hurricane a few weeks ago toppled hundreds of trees, which Mr. Ryba says will be replaced with fast-growing species. But Old Brookville still has plenty of giant old trees left; their majestic canopy shades winding country lanes leading to supersized houses on cul-de-sacs and down long estate driveways. A few three-acre-plus subdivisions have been built on the site of horse farms and divided estates over the last decade, but with restrictions on development, the village is aiming to preserve its Gold Coast-era atmosphere.

“There is not much more land likely to be developed,” said Rick Shaper, a former village planning board chief. He said that “preservation of the village character” was a priority, and that a 2005 site plan was adopted to that end, permitting the grander homes that residents desired, but “in proportion to land areas and setbacks, to minimize the impact on neighbors and the village.”

The area has only two remaining horse farms offering stalls, paddocks and riding lessons in indoor and outdoor arenas. An equestrian center on Glen Cove Road was recently converted into a landscaping design firm. But growth has topped out, Mr. Shaper said. The increasingly diverse population of 2,134 — including immigrants from China, India and Latin America — “is now approaching its limits.”

Last year, Nassau County bought and preserved about 60 acres that Banfi Vintners once used to grow grapes for an Old Brookville Chardonnay. The fields are now leased to Youngs and Rottkamp’s to grow vegetables.

East of Greenvale, Sea Cliff and Glen Head in the Town of Oyster Bay on the North Shore of Nassau, the village covers four square miles. Incorporated in 1929, it was long known for “horses and paddocks,” said Ludmilla Stanco, a 25-year resident and an associate broker with Douglas Elliman Real Estate.

Farms have been subdivided and trails have vanished, but mansions still rule. At the Estates at Green Fields, a new subdivision of 15 homes replacing 56 acres of horse farms, Ms. Stanco recently sold an 8,800-square-foot “French chateau” on three acres for $4.5 million, as well as a 10,000-square-foot Georgian-style colonial with an indoor pool on six acres for $6.6 million. Seven custom home lots in the subdivision remain to be sold.

A “new wave of Asian buyers,” attracted to high ceilings and open floor plans, are snapping up cavernous 1980s contemporaries, Ms. Stanco said. Hamptons-style shingle residences, traditional colonials and sprawling ranches are set back along country roads leading to the neighboring villages of Matinecock, Muttontown and Upper Brookville to the east and north, and Old Westbury and Brookville to the south.

Many of the newer homes are gated, their fences anchored by chunky brick piers. Backyards often have pools, cabanas, putting greens and sports courts. Knockdowns of smaller, older homes are common. According to census data, mean annual income in 2010 for Old Brookville’s more than 700 households was $245,726.

Excessive speed has been a problem on local roads, and in the last few years curbing efforts have been ramped up with electronic speed indicator lights and “enhanced signage,” particularly on “cut through” streets like Cedar Swamp Road, which goes north and south, and McCoun’s and Valentine’s Lanes, which go east and west and see a fair amount of truck traffic. Students from the nearby campuses of Long Island University and the New York Institute of Technology also travel through town.

Though Old Brookville lacks a town center, a strip mall on Glen Cove Road provides a Waldbaum’s supermarket, a nail salon, a bank, a pizzeria, a bagel cafe, a stationery store and a dance studio. A bank recently replaced the Old Brookville diner.

The low end of the market typically runs from $1.2 million to $1.5 million, with only one listing, a 1770 colonial at $949,000, priced below $1 million. At the high end, a 14,000-square-foot colonial is closing this month at about $6.2 million, Ms. Boucos said.

Of the 25 other homes for sale, a renovated 1933 brick manor on five acres is asking $5.4 million. The average asking price is $2,698,731, according to Dee Dee Brix, an associate broker with Laffey Fine Homes International. She says buyers are attracted to Old Brookville “for the countrified elegance provided by the meandering lanes with lush plantings and mature trees, gated historic homes as well as new construction.” Proximity to Manhattan, the “desirable North Shore School District and prestigious private schools,” the Tilles Center for the Performing Arts in neighboring Brookville and the Nassau County Museum of Art in Roslyn Harbor help draw young professionals from Long Island, the city and abroad, she said.

Sales and prices are up. From January through November 2011, 21 homes took an average 244 days to sell for an average price of $2,235,012. During the same time frame this year, 24 homes sold, after an average 176 days on the market, for an of $2,658,750.

“The Brookvilles dropped approximately 25 to 30 percent from the height of the market,” but “seemed to turn the corner in July,” Ms. Brix said.

Mayor Ryba also notes that the village doesn’t collect much from its mortgage recording tax. “Most of the people here do not have mortgages,” he said. “When they purchase a home, if it is $3 million, they will have the $3 million.”

Old Brookville belongs to the North Shore School District, along with Sea Cliff, Glenwood Landing, Glen Head, and parts of Roslyn Harbor and Greenvale. The district’s 3,000 students attend Glen Head, Glenwood Landing or Sea Cliff elementary school; these feed into North Shore Middle School and North Shore High School. SAT averages for the class of 2012 were 547 in reading, 557 in math and 554 in writing, versus 483, 500 and 475 statewide.

The Green Vale School, an independent school on a 40-acre campus, has 448 students. Tuition ranges from $6,700, for a thrice-weekly “young threes” program, to $27,500 for ninth graders.

WHAT TO DO

The winding roads are a favorite among bicyclists, who ride in packs on weekends. For equestrians, Rice Farms, a full-service boarding, training and show barn on 18 acres, has 60 horse stalls, 30 turnout paddocks, private tack rooms, indoor and outdoor arenas, dressage rings, pony-riding rings, and a grass hunt field. For golfers, there are 18-hole courses at two private country clubs, Cedar Brook and Brookville.

Boutiques, salons, restaurants and gyms abound along Glen Cove Road and at Wheatley Plaza in Greenvale.

Close to Northern Boulevard, Glen Cove Road and the Long Island Expressway, Old Brookville is 25 miles from Manhattan; the trip takes about 40 minutes in light traffic. Residents can buy an Oyster Bay Town sticker to park at the Glen Head station on the Oyster Bay line of the Long Island Rail Road. The 6:12 a.m. direct train to Penn Station takes 54 minutes. The 7:30 a.m. double-decker train takes 67 minutes, with a change in Jamaica. A ride is $11.50; a monthly pass costs $254.

Youngs Farm on Hegeman’s Lane was known as “Hegeman farm” until Ida Hegeman married John Youngs in the early 1890s, said Paula Youngs Weir, a granddaughter. The Youngses took over the 85-acre farm and settled into the white clapboard colonial that still stands next door.
41 2012-12-02 GEORGIA O’KEEFFE was an artistic pioneer in Hana. Today there are entire communities of poets, musicians and organic farmers thriving deep in the rain forest. In recent years, a new wave of these gastronomy-loving young farmers have congregated in the fertile area called Kipahulu, south of Hana, living an off-the-grid life on their own delicious tropical produce. Some operate humble fruit and vegetable stands along the road, or blend smoothies for tourists. On Whispering Winds Bamboo farm, I was strolling the crops with a farmer named Ryan, when a group of people sped past us, clinging onto an all-terrain vehicle. “That’s Woody Harrelson and his family,” Ryan said with a shrug. “He has a place next door.”

Then I got wind of something called the Cafe Attitude, held every Sunday night in a remote farmhouse about 10 miles south of Hana on the main road. Groups of friends take turns preparing feasts from their farms, while Kipahulu’s more creative types sing, read poetry or dance, an island version of a Greenwich Village salon in the 1920s. The problem for me was finding it. I had some obscure driving instructions. (“If you see the mailbox shaped as a cow, you’ve gone too far.”) Unfortunately, on a moonless night, the road was as impenetrably dark as Waianapanapa Cave. I drove back and forth four times before flagging down a passing van, whose driver led me to the club. About 50 people were gathered by candlelight in a courtyard, listening with rapt attention to a poet recite an ancient Hawaiian prayer.

“Aloha!” beamed a woman working in the kitchen, handing me a plate piled high with raw salads and macadamia nut pesto. I saw people nursing what I hoped were bottles of beer. “Oh, that’s kombucha!” she said with a laugh, handing me a fruit juice popsicle. As I perched near an open fire pit, another poet bounded on stage to recite a work by Edna St. Vincent Millay, followed by his own offering, “Rainbow Mantra.” The audience joined in with singing “We are the Earth, the Fire, the Water,” their children flitting about among them. A young woman at my table had hitched rides all day to participate in the artistic evening, and like many of the guests, she planned to camp overnight at one of the rain forest farms. I didn’t have that luxury. As a new series of haikus was about to begin, I slipped back into the night. This was as far off the grid as I needed to get.
42 2012-12-02 THE HAZARDS OF GROWING UP PAINLESSLY

When I read about Ashlyn Blocker describing her dream of a camp for kids who don’t feel pain, my eyes welled up. This past year, within six months of each other, my mother and my sister died of cancer. Had my sister not been able to feel pain, she would have died untreated much sooner. Though pain saved her initially, it later became a challenge. Managing my mother’s end-of-life pain was emotionally painful for me. My strong connection to the implications of pain — both its presence and absence — is no doubt why the Blockers’ story touched me so deeply. REBECCA KALB, New York

As someone who has lived his whole life in near-constant pain — I have a congenital skin disorder known as epidermolysis bullosa — I was a little jealous of Ashlyn at first. I realized, however, that I would most likely be dead if I couldn’t feel pain. Pain taught me how to be careful and helped me overcome the disorder and live a normal life. EDWARD ALLEN, Spokane Valley, Wash., posted on nytimes.com

When I was around 11 and at Boy Scout camp, I met a kid who couldn’t feel pain. Our conversation went like this: “That’s awesome; what if I pinch you?” I said. “I’d punch you in the face,” he replied. JIMMY LARKINS, Minnesota, posted on nytimes.com

IN THE BUNKER WITH AMERICAN DIPLOMACY

I have worked in the embassy fortresses discussed in Robert F. Worth’s article, and I admit to being torn. I appreciate the security afforded to me and, especially, my family. Yet on a professional level, I find that the desire to eliminate risk, rather than limit or manage it, interferes with the work done by our Foreign Service and local staff. Frequent, open and equal interactions with communities can’t happen behind high walls and bulletproof glass. In a rare trip in my city recently, I found myself trying to see into the shadows and assess the potential risk posed by every passer-by — a measure of how much the culture of fear had penetrated my consciousness despite my best efforts to remain open to the country and its people. B.P., Kenya, posted on nytimes.com

Americans don’t understand that there is no such thing as perfect security; you make yourself more a target when you build a fortress and take a defensive posture. What I discovered as a Peace Corps volunteer in a predominantly Muslim country was that the best security often was simply having good, collegial relations with your neighbors. Ambassadors and Foreign Service workers understand this, and while following Washington’s directives to build higher walls and employ more guards, they often find these measures a hindrance. Most Americans would rather buy a gun or get stronger locks than introduce themselves to their neighbors. But diplomacy is more effective than military might, and fear makes for terrible decision-making. M. MASAYA SELTZER, New York, posted on nytimes.com

I have yet to see data that support the broad claims that more security equates to less diplomacy. While there may be anecdotal cases of inconveniences, I have seen effective diplomacy routinely take place at new facilities. Those claiming they can be effective only if working out of an old building with little regard to security need to start looking at newer ways of doing business. There are many diplomats out there doing a fine job, despite the presence of security. Prudent risk management between the needs of an ambassador and security is all that is needed in any given country to accomplish foreign-policy objectives. SY, Idaho, posted on nytimes.com
43 2012-12-02 Need to find a gift for the discerning traveler in your life? Here are seven ideas, from a colorful clutch to paper soap....
44 2012-12-03 The photo-sharing Web site Instagram hasn’t figured out a way to make money, but its users have....
45 2012-12-03 Sundance unveils its Premieres section, which includes "Before Midnight," the final film in Richard Linklater's trilogy....
46 2012-12-03 A new book, "Picture Your Life After Cancer," focuses on the living that goes on after a cancer diagnosis. It is a dramatic photo essay of the varied lives people live in the years after diagnosis....
47 2012-12-03 Interfaith Medical Center lists the federal and state governments and several malpractice plaintiffs among its largest creditors....
48 2012-12-03 Ms. Price, whose work splices together images, sounds and texts dealing with subjects as disparate as 1960s girl bands and a tragic chain-store fire in the late 1970s, won this year's coveted Turner Prize....
49 2012-12-03 Alison Smale, executive editor of the International Herald Tribune, introduces a panel of activists from around the world who explore what happens to women's rights "When Culture Clashes With Law."...
50 2012-12-03 The "Les Miz" campaign rolls on, this time with a dinner where Hugh Jackman serenaded Amanda Seyfried....
51 2012-12-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
52 2012-12-03 A follow-up after 10 years of men and women who reported using aspirin and other nonsteroidal pain relievers found a 37 percent reduced risk of liver cancer....
53 2012-12-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
54 2012-12-03 David Cooper joined Veria Living, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for sales and head of advertising. He had been chief revenue officer at Format Dynamics.

Scott Crystal joined the New York office of Zumobi in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had most recently been president and chief revenue officer at The Daily Meal.

Amy Cypres and Nigel Downer joined the Cadient Group, King of Prussia, Pa., in new posts. Ms. Cypres becomes senior account manager, focused on life science and medical device accounts; she had been at KHJ, Boston, working on accounts like Abbott Molecular. Mr. Downer becomes senior manager, responsible for new business development in the life science market; he had most recently been vice president for strategic accounts at ProtonMedia, Lansdale, Pa.

Peter DeNunzio joined Experian Marketing Services, New York, part of Experian Information Solutions, as general manager for Experian CheetahMail. He succeeds Rachel Bergman, who is now chief executive at a sibling unit, Experian Alchemy Social. Mr. DeNunzio had been president for the United States customer loyalty business at Aimia, formerly Carlson Marketing, and before that was president of the New York office of DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Alan Feldenkris joined the Washington office of SapientNitro, part of Sapient, as group account director. He had been managing director at Anthem Worldwide, New York.

FingerPaint Marketing, Saratoga Springs, N.Y., hired six employees. They are Shanin Dockrey, who joins the editorial team; Danette Kadlic, who joins the account service team; Erica Karras, who joins as a writer on the creative team; Dave Lindberg, who also joins the creative team; Lindsay Montesano, who also joins the account service team; and Bryan O’Malley, who joins the interactive team.

Peach Gibson joined Telemundo Media, Miami, as senior vice president for creative services, handling duties that include managing the network’s brand image and corporate identity as well as providing creative leadership for the annual Telemundo upfront presentation. Ms. Gibson succeeds Karen Barroeta, who is now senior vice president for marketing at Telemundo Internacional. Ms. Gibson had been head of creative at Fox Channels, São Paulo, Brazil, part of News Corporation. Telemundo is part of the NBCUniversal division of Comcast.

GrubHub, Chicago, the online and mobile food-ordering service, chose Deutsch, New York, as media agency of record. Spending was not disclosed. GrubHub had previously worked with Blitz Media, Waltham, Mass., which did not take part in a review for the account.

Greg Kahn and Justin Prough joined Meredith Xcelerated Marketing, New York, part of the Meredith Corporation. Mr. Kahn becomes chief business development officer of the division; he had been executive vice president and business development director at Optimedia, New York, part of the ZenithOptimedia unit of the Publicis Groupe. Mr. Prough becomes executive creative director at the Genex unit of the division; he had most recently run his own consultancy and before that was creative director at the TBWA/Chiat/Day Los Angeles, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

Grant McDougall joined Rosetta, Princeton, N.J., part of the Publicis Groupe, in a new post, managing partner of the technology and telecommunications practice. He had been a consultant, working with GroupM and its parent, WPP, and before that was managing director at another Publicis Groupe unit, Publicis Modem.

McCain Foods, Toronto, expanded its relationship with MediaCom, part of the GroupM division of WPP, by awarding the agency its media duties in six additional countries: Belgium, France, Italy, Poland, Russia and Spain. MediaCom had already been handling the media duties for McCain, the maker of frozen foods, in Germany. The accounts in the six additional countries had been handled by various agencies that included Carat, part of the Aegis Group, which is being acquired by Dentsu, and PHD, part of the Omnicom Group.

Tara McNally joined Robin Leedy & Associates, Mount Kisco, N.Y., as managing director, leading a new office that the agency plans to open in New York this month. She had most recently been vice president and group manager in the consumer and lifestyle practice at the Chicago office of Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc.

Ari Merkin joined AgencyNet as partner and chief brand officer as the agency is being renamed Ten. He will be based in the Fort Lauderdale, Fla., office. Mr. Merkin had most recently been executive creative director at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, based in the Miami office.

REVshare, New York, and its parent, Media Properties Holdings, promoted three executives to new posts. They are Preston Haglin, managing director for lead generation technologies, who becomes chief operating officer at Media Properties Holdings and president at another Media Properties Holdings unit, Lead Generation Technologies; Sean King, vice president for television affiliate sales, who becomes senior vice president for network sales, media operations and distribution at REVshare; and Shannon Nelson, vice president for client services, who becomes senior vice president for ad sales and sales development at REVshare.

Abe Romano joined Big Foote Music and Sound, New York, in a new post, vice president for marketing and business development. He had most recently been a management supervisor at TBWA/Chiat/Day, New York, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group.

Saucony, Lexington, Mass., part of Collective Brands, selected Olson, Minneapolis, as agency of record, handling tasks that include advertising, digital, social media, connection planning and strategy. Those tasks had previously been handled by several agencies that include Mechanica, Boston, which was responsible for the creative advertising duties. Saucony spent about $5.5 million last year to advertise in major media.

Evin Shutt, director for brand operations at 72andSunny, Los Angeles, part of MDC Partners, was promoted to partner. Ms. Shutt, who was the first full-time employee of the agency apart from its founders, becomes the first female partner of 72andSunny.

Solaire Resort and Casino Manila, which is to open in March in the new Entertainment City complex in Manila Bay, chose SK&G Advertising, Las Vegas, to provide consultation on advertising and design along with creative development for the Solaire brand. Spending has not been determined.

Lauren Taylor joined the Charlotte, N.C., office of Eric Mower & Associates as a senior project manager. She had been working in production and project management at Catalyst, Rochester.

WilkinsonShein, Baltimore, opened an office in Athens to be led by Leah Wilkinson, partner.
55 2012-12-03 After winning re-election last month, Representative Jo Ann Emerson, the Republican dean of Missouri's Congressional delegation, has decided to leave Congress to head up a utilities lobbying firm....
56 2012-12-03 When you get any kind of big financial windfall, managing money ceases to be a problem. But managing your behavior becomes the bigger financial threat....
57 2012-12-03 Don't discount! Consumer confidence rises. Small-business confidence falls. And the Onion takes on social media marketing....
58 2012-12-03 In Internet Explorer, you can make Web links open in a new browser tab instead of a new browser window....
59 2012-12-03 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
60 2012-12-03 Tell us if you think "meaningful images have become scarce" in an age when everyone takes photos all the time. What images from your present or past are most meaningful to you? Why?...
61 2012-12-03 Numerology is always a factor in assessing military-political events of import in North Korea, and an upcoming rocket launching could well be set for Dec. 17, a date that would mark the first anniversary of the death of the longtime dictator Kim J...
62 2012-12-03 Christiana Figueres, the executive secretary of the climate convention, said the global negotiations were necessary, but were not sufficient.

“We won’t get an international agreement until enough domestic legislation and action are in place to begin to have an effect,” she said in an interview. “Governments have to find ways in which action on the ground can be accelerated and taken to a higher level, because that is absolutely needed.”

The new figures show that emissions are falling, slowly, in some of the most advanced countries, including the United States. That apparently reflects a combination of economic weakness, the transfer of some manufacturing to developing countries and conscious efforts to limit emissions, like the renewable power targets that many American states have set. The boom in the natural gas supply from hydraulic fracturing is also a factor, since natural gas is supplanting coal at many power stations, leading to lower emissions.

But the decline of emissions in the developed countries is more than matched by continued growth in developing countries like China and India, the new figures show. Coal, the dirtiest and most carbon-intensive fossil fuel, is growing fastest, with coal-related emissions leaping more than 5 percent in 2011, compared with the previous year.

“If we’re going to run the world on coal, we’re in deep trouble,” said Gregg H. Marland, a scientist at Appalachian State University who has tracked emissions for decades.

Over all, global emissions jumped 3 percent in 2011 and are expected to jump 2.6 percent in 2012, researchers reported in two papers released by scientific journals on Sunday. It has become routine to set new emissions records each year, although the global economic crisis led to a brief decline in 2009.

The level of carbon dioxide, the most important heat-trapping gas in the atmosphere, has increased about 41 percent since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, and scientists fear it could double or triple before emissions are brought under control. The temperature of the planet has already increased about 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit since 1850.

Further increases in carbon dioxide are likely to have a profound effect on climate, scientists say, leading to higher seas and greater coastal flooding, more intense weather disasters like droughts and heat waves, and an extreme acidification of the ocean. Many experts believe the effects are already being seen, but they are projected to worsen.
63 2012-12-03 But at a news conference in August, Mr. Obama told reporters that any evidence that Mr. Assad was moving the weapons in a threatening way or making use of them is “a red line for us” that could prompt direct American intervention. “That would change my calculus,” he added. “That would change my equation.”

American officials would not say over the weekend whether the activity they were now seeing edged toward the limit set by Mr. Obama. “These are desperate times for Assad, and this may simply be another sign of desperation,” one senior American diplomat, who has been deeply involved in the effort to try to dissuade Mr. Assad’s forces from using the chemical weapons, said Sunday.

A senior Israeli official said the movement of the chemical weapons, and the apparent preparations to use them, could be a bluff, intended as a warning to the West at a moment when and the United States were debating greater support to opposition groups.

“It’s very hard to read Assad,” one senior Israeli official said. “But we are seeing a kind of action that we’ve never seen before,” he said, declining to elaborate.

The White House refused to comment on the intelligence reports, which have been shared with senior members of Congress. But a senior administration official, asked about the concerns, issued a new warning to the Syrians.

“The president has made it clear that the use of chemical weapons in Syria would cross a red line for the United States,” the official said. “We consistently monitor developments related to Syria’s stockpiles of chemical weapons, and are in regular contact with international partners who share our concern.

“The Assad regime must know that the world is watching, and that they will be held accountable by the United States and the international community if they use chemical weapons or fail to meet their obligations to secure them.”

Representative Mike Rogers, a Republican who heads the House Intelligence Committee, declined to comment on the new intelligence reports but said in a statement late Sunday: “We are not doing enough to prepare for the collapse of the Assad regime, and the dangerous vacuum it will create. Use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime would be an extremely serious escalation that would demand decisive action from the rest of the world."

Several months ago, the United States military quietly sent a task force of more than 150 planners and other specialists to to help the armed forces there to, among other things, prepare for the possibility that Syria would lose control of its chemical weapons. Turkey has asked NATO for two batteries of the Patriot antimissile system, in part as protection against Syrian missiles that might come into Turkish territory. In making their case, the Turks have raised the possibilities that chemical weapons could be used in the warheads.

This is not the first time activity at stockpile sites has been detected. Defense Secretary said on Sept. 28 that there had been “some movement” of Syria’s chemical weapons stockpiles to put them in more secure locations. “While there’s been some limited movement, again, the major sites still remain in place, still remain secure,” he said at the time.

But the new activity appears to be of a different nature, and officials are no longer willing to say that all the sites remain secure. “We’re worried about what the military is doing,” one official said, “but we’re also worried about some of the opposition groups,” including some linked to , which has set up camps near some of the chemical weapons depots.

Since the crisis began in Syria and concern has been focused on the country’s vast stockpile, the United States and its allies have increased electronic eavesdropping and other surveillance activities of the sites. A senior defense official said that no United States troops had been put on heightened alert in response to the activity, although the Pentagon was prepared to do so, if necessary.
64 2012-12-03 In October, a special agrarian judge gave Ms. López and her husband, Carlos Arturo Maza, and 13 other Mampuján families title to the land they lost, the first such decision under a new land restitution law that is the centerpiece of the government’s effort to address the effects of years of violence and longstanding inequalities in rural areas.

The effort is unfolding as the government starts peace talks with the country’s largest guerrilla group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC.

The unequal distribution of land in Colombia’s impoverished countryside, where poor farmers were pushed aside or exploited by wealthy landowners, was a major factor in the creation of the FARC nearly 50 years ago, and it has continued to fuel the conflict.

Now, the government sees the land restitution law as a crucial lever at the bargaining table.

“This is something that takes away one of their banner issues,” President Juan Manuel Santos said in October.

But for that to be true, Mr. Santos has to deliver on the program’s promise, an enormous and intensely complex task.

The government has received more than 27,000 claims for close to five million acres of land, and more are pouring in. Each claim must be investigated, and then considered by a judge. Many are dauntingly complex, involving ownership disputes with little or no documentation.

“Of course it’s complicated, and it’s difficult, but what was the alternative?” said Juan Camilo Restrepo, the agriculture minister. “To do nothing? Which is what some people wanted to happen, to do nothing and validate with silence and inaction 25 years of land takeovers.”

Critics say the process has been too slow and unwieldy, and they question the government’s commitment to face down powerful landowners and their political allies.

“It would be very sad if this ends up where you have 10 cases that will go down in history where, yes, we were able to do this, and thousands of cases in which it couldn’t be done,” said Iván Cepeda, an opposition lawmaker.

Mr. Restrepo said that about 300 people have reported being threatened in relation to land claims under the new program and that the government has taken measures to protect 159 of them, in many cases providing bodyguards.

Mayerlis Angarita, 32, an activist who visits remote villages encouraging people to make land claims in the region of low mountains around Mampuján, called Montes de María, travels with a government-assigned bodyguard because of repeated threats.

On Aug. 28, a gunman shot at her on the streets of her hometown, San Juan Nepomuceno. She was not hit but was injured while running to take cover.

“Peace is built here on the back roads,” she said, as her bodyguard drove a bulletproof S.U.V. in an area where former paramilitary fighters still enforce a nighttime curfew to keep local roads clear for drug trafficking. “They cannot force us out of here.”

But many activists have fled. In recent weeks, menacing fliers have been circulated, signed by a group called the Anti-Restitution Army. Activists believe the fliers are linked to landowners and their allies among the paramilitaries and drug traffickers.

“The armed groups and criminal mafias that were involved in the displacement in the first place continue to operate,” said Max Schoening, the Colombia researcher for Human Rights Watch. “Unless you dismantle those groups and hold them accountable, you’re not going to eradicate the underlying source of threats and intimidation.”

Mampuján was a likely starting place for the restitution program because much of the farmland remains unoccupied and there is no one to dispute the residents’ ownership. But many other land claims involve parcels currently in the hands of owners who will fight to keep them, including guerrillas and former paramilitary chieftains.

In many cases, farmers sold their land under pressure, often at fire sale prices.

Fanny Martelo and her husband, Ismael Montes, fled a 113-acre farm in a hamlet called Palmito in 1992. Ms. Martelo explained that her husband and other farmers were summoned to a meeting in 2008 by a company that had bought a portfolio of delinquent government land loans. She said the farmers were pressured to sell to pay off the debt.

Ms. Martelo’s husband agreed to sell to a Medellín businessman, Rubén Darío Vélez. As part of the deal, in which Ms. Martelo and her husband received about $5,500 in cash, Mr. Vélez agreed to pay off the loan and associated legal fees, Ms. Martelo said.

She said that Mr. Velez then contacted the family in October after she and her husband filed a claim under the land restitution law. He threatened to have them put in jail and vowed to hold on to the property, she said.

Lawyers with the government restitution unit in Carmen de Bolívar, where Ms. Martelo and her husband now live, said they were investigating several claims involving Mr. Vélez and other buyers to see if they represented coerced land sales.

Those who have recovered their land still face challenges.

In Mampuján, there is no electricity and no schools or health clinic. Even if residents return, they will face the same problem holding back small farmers across Colombia: lack of capital, machinery and modern farming methods.

The government has promised help, but doubts remain.

“If we have the land but we don’t have help, with empty hands what are we going to do?” said Joaquín Mata, 67, a former resident who is still waiting for a ruling on his land claim.
65 2012-12-03 ¶Olivier Francois, chief marketing officer at the Chrysler Group, was honored last week by two advertising trade publications. He was chosen as the Grand Brand Genius from among the 10 winners of the 2012 Adweek Brand Genius awards bestowed by Adweek, part of Prometheus Global Media. And Mr. Francois was the focus of an article in Advertising Age, part of Crain Communications, that described why Ad Age chose the Chrysler Group as its 2012 Marketer of the Year.

¶Three leading media forecasters are reducing their estimates for growth in worldwide advertising spending in 2013 compared with this year because of the continued sluggishness of economies in major ad markets like Europe and the United States. Still, they are all forecasting growth; none is predicting a decline. GroupM, part of WPP, said ad spending next year would grow 4.5 percent; its previous forecast, in June, was for a gain of 5.3 percent. Magna Global, part of the IPG Mediabrands unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, said ad spending next year would increase 3.1 percent; its previous forecast, also in June, predicted growth of 4.5 percent. And ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, said ad spending next year would grow 4.1 percent; its previous forecast, in October, projected growth of 4.6 percent. Their predictions for growth in ad spending next year in the United States are: GroupM, up 0.6 percent; Magna Global, up 2.7 percent; and ZenithOptimedia, up 3.5 percent. The forecasters are to elaborate on their predictions at the opening session on Monday of the 40th annual UBS Global Media and Communications Conference in New York.

¶Total spending by marketers on paid product placements in media like television, movies, online and mobile platforms and video games increased 9.8 percent last year to $7.39 billion, according to an annual report by PQ Media, Stamford, Conn. In the United States, the largest market for product placement, spending rose 10.2 percent last year to $4.26 billion, the report said. The report predicted there would be strong growth in both realms this year compared with last, projecting a global total of $8.25 billion, up 11.7 percent, and a United States total of $4.75 billion, up 11.4 percent.

¶M&C Saatchi, London, opened an office in Stockholm, to be led by Bjarte Eide, chief executive; Klara Eide, executive strategy director; and Martin Cedergen and Patrick Dry as co-executive creative directors. The office is the third that M&C Saatchi has opened this year, joining new offices in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and New York.

¶Promise Corporation, London and New York, was acquired by the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group. Financial terms were not disclosed. Promise will become part of Communispace, which the division acquired last year; both Communispace and Promise specialize in consumer insights.

¶Advertising revenue for out-of-home media rose 4.4 percent in the third quarter compared with the same period of 2011, according to a report by the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, Washington. For the first nine months, ad revenue is also up 4.4 percent compared with the same period a year ago, the association said.

¶Robert Shullman, who retired in January as president at Ipsos Mendelsohn, part of Ipsos MediaCT, where he oversaw the annual Mendelsohn Affluent Survey of the shopping and media habits of the wealthy, opened the Shullman Research Center. He plans to issue reports on the habits of the well-to-do, called the Shullman Luxury and Affluence Monthly Pulse.

¶D&AD, London, presented its first D&AD White Pencil award to Leo Burnett Chicago, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe, for a campaign called “Recipeace,” which is intended to be a social movement that brings people together over a shared meal. The award, modeled after the other honors bestowed by D&AD, which are known as Pencils, is meant to recognize ideas that promote social change. The White Pencil is sponsored by Unilever.

¶McDonald’s has become the official restaurant sponsor of the National Football League under a multiyear agreement between the company and league. Financial terms were not disclosed. There has been no official restaurant sponsor since 2007, when Burger King ended a two-year sponsorship. The McDonald’s sponsorship will begin with a promotion, centered on the annual Pro Bowl, that is to begin on Tuesday.
66 2012-12-03 It’s a race to be the best of the second best. On Monday, Univision, the dominant Spanish-language network in the United States, will announce a new name and look for its second-largest network, TeleFutura. The move is a direct shot at Telemundo, a rival for second place among domestic Spanish-speaking viewers.

The new name for the network will be UniMás. The network will offer new content and a consumer marketing campaign aimed at a younger, male Latino demographic. The rebranding of TeleFutura is also the latest effort from Univision to connect all of its properties under the Univision brand. The moves will be announced at an industry event in New York City on Monday, and the revamped network will make its debut on Jan. 7.

“We have been focused on making TeleFutura the undisputed No. 2 Spanish-language network in the U.S. behind Univision,” César Conde, the president of Univision Networks, said in an interview. “This new brand positioning is going to really identify and connect UniMás with the main mother ship brand of Univision.”

The rebranding of TeleFutura is just one of many Spanish-language television changes this year.

Many of the efforts may appear to be geared toward consumers, but they are also an attempt by the networks to attract dollars from advertisers wanting to cater to the growing Hispanic marketplace.

“Media companies are being forced to change because audience behavior is changing pretty radically,” said Karl Heiselman, the chief executive at Wolff Olins, the advertising agency that worked with Univision on a redesigh of its tulip logo, unveiled in October. “The Hispanic market is not the old stereotype of the past at all. It’s incredibly young and tech savvy.”
67 2012-12-03 A financially troubled hospital serving a largely African-American and Caribbean niche of central Brooklyn is planning to declare bankruptcy this week, hospital officials said on Sunday, raising concerns that New York State may force it to close or merge with another institution.

The hospital, Interfaith Medical Center, serving Bedford-Stuyvesant and Crown Heights, has been in and out of financial trouble for decades, with its survival dependent on infusions of state aid. In difficult economic times, however, the Cuomo administration has not indicated a willingness to continue bailing out failing hospitals.

James Introne, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s deputy secretary for health, when asked on Friday about the possibility of an Interfaith bankruptcy filing, said he was not aware of it, but he said, “That’s their decision, not ours.”

A year ago, a Brooklyn work group of the governor’s Medicaid Redesign Team, which was created to find savings in the hospital and health industry, recommended that Interfaith merge with two other Brooklyn hospitals, Wyckoff Heights Medical Center and Brooklyn Hospital. It suggested that Brooklyn Hospital, judged to be the most financially stable of the three, should take the lead.

Interfaith officials said on Sunday that they had no choice but to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, given the hospital’s precarious financial situation.

But they said the hospital had a better chance of surviving in the long term if the state would guarantee it about $20 million in what is known as debtor-in-possession financing to underwrite its operating costs during the reorganization.
68 2012-12-03 But the bishop also has a strong base of supporters who contend that the critical priests do not appreciate Bishop Finn’s doctrinally conservative approach. He belongs to Opus Dei, a conservative Roman Catholic organization.

“Yes, there is a divide in the presbyterate, but in my opinion it’s the same old tired divide that has existed from the day he arrived,” the Rev. Vince Rogers, the pastor at St. Andrew the Apostle in Gladstone, Mo., and a 20-year veteran of the diocese, wrote in an e-mail. “In a word, some of the priests wish that we had a more liberal bishop, and they are willing to use any means to achieve that end.”

Bishop Finn’s conviction stemmed from his failure to report the Rev. Shawn Ratigan to the authorities after hundreds of pornographic pictures that Father Ratigan had taken of young girls were discovered on his laptop in December 2010.

The bishop sent Father Ratigan to live in a convent when the photos were discovered. But the information about the nature and extent of the priest’s photographs was not reported until May 2011, when a church official went to the authorities without the approval of Bishop Finn, who declined to comment for this article. The diocese also declined to answer a series of questions.

Debate over the bishop’s next steps seems to have split the clergy of 70 active priests and 32 retired ones along generational lines. Older priests generally urge the bishop to step aside, and younger ones tend to back him.

The divisions date to seven years ago, when Bishop Finn took over the diocese and implemented broad changes in a variety of areas, from the tone of the diocesan newspaper to the way priests celebrate Mass. Supporters praised him, saying that he brought the diocese more in line with church teaching. But detractors accused him of wielding power unilaterally, and described him as aloof and defensive.

Critics are troubled by the silence of church leaders in the and Rome.

Bishop Finn attended the most recent meeting of the American bishops, in in November — the first since his conviction — but no bishop addressed the matter publicly. Asked to comment on Friday on Bishop Finn’s situation, the chairman of the bishops’ child protection committee, Bishop R. Daniel Conlon, of Joliet, Ill., declined.

Only the pope can remove a bishop from office. Several priests in Kansas City have written to ’s representative in the United States, Archbishop Carlo Maria Viganò, calling for Bishop Finn to resign. The archbishop did not respond to an e-mail requesting his comments.

Regardless of where the diocese’s priests stand on the bishop, most find themselves stuck between a bishop they want to see succeed and angry parishioners.

Weekly giving at parishes is down slightly across the diocese, and priests said some of their members were reluctant to donate because they did not want their contributions going toward the bishop or the diocese’s central administration. Parishioners have been turned off, priests said, not only by the bishop’s actions but also by the fiscal obligations of the diocese. These include the almost $1.4 million spent on the bishop’s and the diocese’s legal fees and the potential payouts that will result from the dozens of pending civil suits.

The survey sought to determine whether the priests believed the new fund-raising drive to build a high school could be successful. About 65 percent of them recommended delaying the drive. Seven priests suggested a new bishop was necessary to be successful.

Church Development has lowered its estimate of how much the capital campaign could raise to $15 million from the $40 million it estimated before the abuse scandal broke last year.

Festering anger and mistrust throughout the diocese present huge challenges in persuading parishioners to open their wallets. Priests critical of Bishop Finn said that for that to happen, he needed to admit wrongdoing and ask for forgiveness.

“Some say he has made that apology, he has said he’s sorry, but he hasn’t told us what he’s sorry for,” said the Rev. Matthew Brumleve, pastor at Holy Family in Kansas City and another 20-year veteran of the diocese. “Is he sorry he got caught? Is he sorry we don’t see things the way he sees them? Or is he truly sorry for letting down the children of this diocese?”

But Father Brumleve said he believed that Bishop Finn did not see the necessity of offering a more robust apology.

“That’s going to be the millstone around our neck until that happens,” he said.

During the priests’ annual retreat at a resort in the Lake of the Ozarks in November, one priest told an anecdote about when he had been caught speeding in . As the bishop stood before them in a windowless room, the priest explained that he had not realized he had been driving too fast until he had gotten pulled over and received a ticket. Even though he did not mean to break the law, he still did, the priest said, likening his situation to the bishop’s.

But during the meeting, Bishop Finn denied that he had done anything wrong, according to two priests there.

The bishop’s supporters raise their brows at the demands of their brother priests for further apologies. “I believe he’s accepted responsibility for what happened and he’s paying the price for it,” said the Rev. Angelo Bartulica of St. Columban in Chillicothe, Mo. “I don’t understand what more people want.”
69 2012-12-03 Christiana Figueres, the executive secretary of the climate convention, said the global negotiations were necessary, but were not sufficient.

“We won’t get an international agreement until enough domestic legislation and action are in place to begin to have an effect,” she said in an interview. “Governments have to find ways in which action on the ground can be accelerated and taken to a higher level, because that is absolutely needed.”

The new figures show that emissions are falling, slowly, in some of the most advanced countries, including the United States. That apparently reflects a combination of economic weakness, the transfer of some manufacturing to developing countries and conscious efforts to limit emissions, like the renewable power targets that many American states have set. The boom in the natural gas supply from hydraulic fracturing is also a factor, since natural gas is supplanting coal at many power stations, leading to lower emissions.

But the decline of emissions in the developed countries is more than matched by continued growth in developing countries like China and India, the new figures show. Coal, the dirtiest and most carbon-intensive fossil fuel, is growing fastest, with coal-related emissions leaping more than 5 percent in 2011, compared with the previous year.

“If we’re going to run the world on coal, we’re in deep trouble,” said Gregg H. Marland, a scientist at Appalachian State University who has tracked emissions for decades.

Over all, global emissions jumped 3 percent in 2011 and are expected to jump 2.6 percent in 2012, researchers reported in two papers released by scientific journals on Sunday. It has become routine to set new emissions records each year, although the global economic crisis led to a brief decline in 2009.

The level of carbon dioxide, the most important heat-trapping gas in the atmosphere, has increased about 41 percent since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, and scientists fear it could double or triple before emissions are brought under control. The temperature of the planet has already increased about 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit since 1850.

Further increases in carbon dioxide are likely to have a profound effect on climate, scientists say, leading to higher seas and greater coastal flooding, more intense weather disasters like droughts and heat waves, and an extreme acidification of the ocean. Many experts believe the effects are already being seen, but they are projected to worsen.
70 2012-12-03 Figures released Friday showed euro zone unemployment rising to a new high in October, with nearly 19 million people — 11.7 percent of the 17-nation currency bloc’s work force — without jobs.

Greece’s international lenders froze aid in June because they perceived the government in Athens to be dragging its heels on fulfilling the terms of its bailout program. Since then, the country has accelerated the economic revamping and budget cuts that creditors have demanded.

But the economic outlook for Greece has worsened significantly in the interim — some critics blame the austerity program, in part — prompting the International Monetary Fund to pressure lenders, including Germany, to relieve some of its burden.

A centerpiece of those efforts, agreed upon last week, is the debt buyback. The plan is for authorities in Athens to borrow European funds to buy Greek bonds that are already trading at a deep discount from their face value.

The buyback plan may have allayed fears of an imminent Greek default, but how well it will work remains to be seen. Some in the financial sector have complained about the prospect of being forced to sell bonds at fire-sale prices.

The Market Monitoring Group of the Institute of International Finance, a global association of banks and other financial institutions, said last week that it was “critical that any buyback be conducted on a purely voluntary basis,” even as Yannis Stournaras, the Greek finance minister, warned Greek banks holding many of the bonds that participation was a “patriotic duty.”

But unless Greece reduces its debt, the I.M.F. could still refuse to approve aid. That would probably mean another flurry of emergency meetings to draw up yet another plan.

In a sign that at least some investors are eager to sell back their Greek bonds, if the price is right, some big hedge funds have been accumulating the bonds on the open market.

Those funds, including Third Point and Brevan Howard, are betting that to make the buyback succeed, the Greek government will have to meet their price demands. On the open market, the bonds in question are trading at around 30 cents on the euro — in other words, about 30 percent of their face value. The most aggressive hedge funds are insisting that they will not sell for any price below 35 cents on the euro.

That raises a risk that investors will push up the price to a point at which it does not make economic sense for Greece to complete the buyback.

“There is a limited amount of money to do this,” Mr. Stournaras said in an interview on Saturday. “But in the end I do think it will be successful.”

To seal the debt overhaul deal last week, after three late-night, marathon meetings in three weeks, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the I.M.F., had to battle to persuade reluctant finance ministers like Wolfgang Schäuble of Germany. She argued that Greece was sinking so deeply that, without immediate relief, it might never repay its loans.

Mr. Schäuble declined to go along with a relief plan until a way was found to avoid the politically unpalatable step of forgiving Greece’s loans. Besides the debt buyback, the revamped plan included extending the payback dates for some of the debt held by other euro zone governments. Central banks in countries that use the euro also agreed to return to Greece any profits made on Greek bonds purchased by the European Central Bank.

On Friday, the German Parliament approved the new relief plan by a wide margin, a sign of continuing fears about the fate of the euro zone if Greece defaults. But the approval carried a political cost for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, as nearly two dozen legislators in her own Christian Democrat party voted against the measure.

Greek debt stands at around 175 percent of the country’s G.D.P. and is expected to rise to 190 percent next year. In 2014, it could climb as high as 200 percent. The deal struck last week, including the buyback, is aimed at reducing debt to 124 percent of G.D.P. by the end of the decade.

Much of the attention at Monday’s meeting will focus on Mr. Stournaras, the Greek finance minister, who is expected to make a detailed presentation to the group after announcing plans for the buyback earlier in the day in Athens.

Officials have not said how much debt must be retired for the buyback to be considered successful. But Greece could “help bolster the takeup of the scheme” by offering investors prices that depend on the bond being sold, BNP Paribas wrote in a briefing note on Friday. The buyback could end up reducing Greek debt by around 20 billion euros, or $26 billion, the bank added.

Because Monday’s session is the finance ministers’ regular monthly meeting, Greece is not the only topic on the agenda. The group will also discuss plans to recapitalize Cypriot banks, possibly within weeks. That would make Cyprus the fourth euro zone country to be bailed out, after Greece, Ireland and Portugal.

Ministers are still waiting for an assessment from a consultant, the investment company Pimco, to determine Cyprus’s overall financing needs.

If the bailout target turns out to be around 17.5 billion euros, as is widely expected, it would be about equivalent to the entire gross domestic product of Cyprus, raising serious concerns about how the country would ever be able to pay the money back. The uncertainty could leave ministers wrangling with the I.M.F. over the bailout package for several more weeks.

On Tuesday, finance ministers from the European Union’s 10 states that do not use the euro will join the meeting. The goal will be to overcome sharp disagreements among members over the mission of the single banking regulator for the European Union that is supposed to be set up under the aegis of the central bank.

Establishing the new regulator is intended to be the first step in the creation of a European banking union to improve financial oversight and reduce the financial risks of banks across Europe, rather than continuing to let individual nations and their taxpayers shoulder the burden of propping up troubled institutions.

Most of the emergency aid under discussion for Greece and Cyprus would be used to bolster their banks’ capital.

But governments are still at loggerheads over how many banks the more unified system would cover, when it should go into effect and how to balance the interests of banks inside and outside the euro zone.

The European Union should start phasing in the new system by Jan. 1 so the central bank can gradually assume its new responsibilities over the course of the year and make the system fully operational by the beginning of 2014.

But Anders Borg, finance minister of Sweden, which does not use the euro and whose officials are concerned about interference from a new central regulator, said Friday that the gulf between member states remained “very wide” and that more meetings would be needed beyond Tuesday.
71 2012-12-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
72 2012-12-04 Republican extremists make John Boehner look fiscally courageous....
73 2012-12-04 In his first TV interview after putting himself into the gun control debate, Mr. Costas will appear on "The Last Word" with Lawrence O'Donnell....
74 2012-12-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
75 2012-12-04 Walt Disney Studios said that it would show films from its Disney, Pixar, Marvel and Lucasfilm banners on Netflix, the first time that one of Hollywood’s Big Six studios has chosen Web streaming over pay television....
76 2012-12-04 President François Hollande inaugurated the first regional branch of the Louvre on Tuesday in the city of Lens....
77 2012-12-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
78 2012-12-04 The co-chief film critic A.O. Scott will take part in a symposium of sorts on the film "Lincoln."...
79 2012-12-04 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
80 2012-12-04 A summary of what's on today's editorial page....
81 2012-12-04 Two analysts at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission accuse the agency of failing to fully address a well-understood flood threat....
82 2012-12-04 Facebook’s traffic continues to grow at a healthy clip, and the company hopes to grab more users by allowing people to sign up to its Messenger mobile app with just a phone number....
83 2012-12-04 The SodaStream home soda maker system, which bills itself as an alternative to bottled soft drinks, is joining the expensive ranks of advertisers during Super Bowl XLVII....
84 2012-12-04 Google’s venture capital arm is investing in a start-up founded by Apple alumni seeking to make mobile users a little less anonymous to advertisers....
85 2012-12-04 In an interview, Larissa’s mayor, Konstantinos Tzanakoulis, pointedly ignored questions about the matter. And the Larissa soccer league recently informed Voukefalas that team equipment bearing the name of Madam Soula’s brothels — Villa Erotica and House of the Era — would not be tolerated, though brothels are legal in Greece. The league warned that any infraction, not only in games but also during “training, warm-ups, interviews and friendly matches,” would land the team in disciplinary hearings for “defamation of the sport.”

The team’s president, Ioannis Batziolas, 29, a backup goalie, calls the league’s decision hypocritical, and points out that Greece’s professional soccer championship is sponsored by the state-owned lottery and betting company OPAP, which is soon to be privatized. “What is the better idea to promote?” he asks. “Gambling or sex?”

For a time, this city of 200,000 at the foot of Mount Olympus seemed to be weathering the Greek crisis better than most. But the years of recession are piling up and most businesses are suffering. Unemployment is over 20 percent, higher among young people.

Madam Soula said her business had been hurt, too. But not that much. Customers sometimes even fly in from Britain, she said, drawn by Internet ads.

Mr. Batziolas said he looked everywhere for team sponsors, but found nothing until Madam Soula came forward. His own travel agency, L.A. Travel, provided most of the money last year. But it just could not afford to any longer, he said. On top of that, he has not seen the government’s share of support in several years. “They owe me thousands,” he said.

Mr. Tzanakoulis, who has been mayor here for more than a decade, says that the municipality is continuing to support sports, but that the central government has not been delivering, which leaves a great need.

“Sports are important for young men,” he said. “It is a good activity that keeps them out of trouble.” But that is all he will say on the subject of Voukefalas (the team is named after Alexander the Great’s horse) and the team’s new sponsor.

Voukefalas is not the only team to have been creative in looking for sponsors. Another soccer team got a funeral home to act as a sponsor and for a while wore black T-shirts with white crosses. But league officials did not like that either.

Madam Soula tries to shrug off the hullabaloo over her sponsorship. “Do they have anyone else to give them the money?” she asks.

In these needy times, she is simply trying to help, she said. She is clearly proud that as “a village girl” who grew up in extreme poverty in the aftermath of the Greek civil war, she is now in a position to help. She has a handful of homes, she said, including a small, tidy house beside one of her brothels. There she grows a vegetable garden and tends to a small dog and nine cats.

But it is clear, too, that the public condemnation it has brought her is taking a toll. On a recent evening, she seemed crushed at times that her generosity should engender such hostility. She defends prostitution as a means of survival that allowed her to support much of her family over the years. Her son and two nephews work for her now.

Last month, she tried to help an elementary school in the western port city of Patras, but was publicly rebuffed. The school had sent out an S O S asking for contributions for textbooks and a copy machine. She said that she quickly sent about $3,600, but that the school returned her check. At the mention of the copier, tears well up in Madam Soula’s eyes and she looks weary. “They should think about the children,” she said. “How would they know that it was me who sent it? I will be dead by the time they know.”

The players on Voukefalas, which lost 6 of its first 10 games, are only too grateful to have a new benefactor. They defend Madam Soula as a generous woman running a legal business who often gives to charity without asking for any credit.

“She has a character that does not compare to her job,” Mr. Batziolas said.

The players have to put up with a lot of teasing. But mostly it amuses them, they said. “Her money was a very welcome thing,” said one of the players, Dimitris Pikoulis, 24, who is a driving instructor. “These are difficult times. “

“Now, we just have to concentrate on playing well,” he added, “because it was a very rocky beginning for us.”

As unlikely as it seemed at the start, the day brought a victory for Voukefalas. And the president of the opposing team, Nikos Daglis, asked Madam Soula to pose for a picture with him. “I have no problem with her help,” he said.
86 2012-12-04 The United States is a global leader in defending the rights of people with disabilities, thanks largely to the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, one of President George H.W. Bush’s crowning accomplishments. Now the Senate has a chance to extend the spirit of that law — and with it, real protections for the disabled — beyond our borders. It can vote on Tuesday to ratify the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons With Disabilities, which declares that all citizens, regardless of ability, deserve to live in dignity, safety and equality under the law.

Signed by President Obama in 2009, the treaty has been ratified by 125 countries. The Senate Foreign Relations Committee approved it last July in a bipartisan vote, 13-6, while also passing a resolution to clarify, in case anybody was worried, that the United States would surrender none of its sovereign authority by joining the convention. The the treaty would have no power to alter or overrule United States law, and any recommendations that emerge from it would not be binding on state or federal governments or in any state or federal court.

But it would encourage other countries to bring their treatment of the disabled up to America’s gold standard, the A.D.A. That is more than enough reason to support it. A broad array of disability-rights groups say also that the treaty’s benefits for disabled Americans traveling abroad, particularly veterans, will be considerable.

Its list of defenders is long and bipartisan, including veterans- and disability-rights groups; the first President Bush; former Attorney General Richard Thornburgh; Senator John McCain; and former Senator Bob Dole, who will be attending a ceremony in Washington before the vote celebrating his advocacy for the disabled. The Senate could do him no greater honor than to ratify this treaty.

The vote is expected to be close, because of an eruption from the right-wing fringe, led by people like Rick Santorum, the former senator, who says the treaty “crushes” American sovereignty and opens the door to bureaucrats taking disabled children from their parents’ arms.

The Senate should ignore such nonsense. America is already ahead of the world on disability rights; it is time for the purveyors of paranoid politics to get out of the way, so it can continue to lead.
87 2012-12-04 SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) — Oracle said on Monday that it would pay more than $800 million in next year’s dividends to shareholders later this month, joining a growing number of companies accelerating such payments or declaring special dividends because of the possibility that income tax rates will rise in 2013.

Dividend payments are taxed at a preferential rate of 15 percent, but taxes could rise as high as 39.6 percent, depending on a taxpayer’s income bracket, if the Bush-era tax cuts expire as scheduled on Dec. 31. Higher income taxpayers will also be subject to a 3.8 percent surcharge on most investment income like dividends to help pay for President Obama’s health care law. That could bring the total possible tax rate on dividends to as much as 43.4 percent.

The Obama administration, which is pushing for higher dividend tax rates, is negotiating with Republicans in Congress over about $600 billion in automatic tax increases and government spending cuts that are scheduled to take effect in January, but no agreement is in sight.

Oracle accelerated second-, third- and fourth-quarter cash dividends totaling 18 cents a share of common stock, equivalent to $867 million, according to Thomson Reuters data.

In some cases, insiders are among the biggest beneficiaries of the special payouts, as well as shifts of regular dividends into 2012 from 2013. Oracle’s chief executive, Larry Ellison, the technology company’s largest shareholder, is entitled to dividends worth $198.9 million, according to Thomson Reuters data. Mr. Ellison did not participate in discussions or vote on the matter, Oracle said in a statement on Monday.

The accelerated dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on Dec. 14, with a payment date of Dec. 21, 2012.
88 2012-12-04 “Aid Changes Raise Issue of Diversity at Colleges” (news article, Dec. 1) missed one key point: Elite selective schools receive significant government support (from grants to special tax treatment) because of our country’s commitment to equal opportunity and social mobility, and the role that education plays in supporting these goals. These schools spend the most per student and offer their students the largest subsidies, supported by these government policies.

When need-based aid is cut, we should be asking whether the savings are being used to hold down tuition or to increase merit aid. In both cases, this is just a transfer of resources from low-income students to high-income students.

There is no reason to think that an extra dollar spent on a high-income talented student will be more valuable to society than an extra dollar on a low-income, equally talented student. In fact, the government support is justified by helping those low-income students. Perhaps it should be tied to doing so.
89 2012-12-04 “ ‘The Sopranos’ comes across as deeply cynical about humanity,” he writes, “while ‘The Wire’ believes that any innate goodness within people eventually gets ground down by the institutions that they serve. They are shows about the end of the American dream.” In contrast, he goes on, David Milch’s period western “Deadwood” — set in a lawless mining camp in the Dakota Territory in the 1870s — is about the birth of that dream, “about selfish loners existing on society’s fringes finding ways to come together in service of something greater than themselves.”

Readers may quibble with Mr. Sepinwall’s selection of shows: No “West Wing”? No “Freaks and Geeks”? Was it really too early in the show’s run to include a chapter on “Homeland”? And they will doubtless contest some of his interpretations. Regarding the endlessly debated cut-to-black ending of “The Sopranos,” for instance, he concludes that “Tony’s life goes on (and, as Journey’s Steve Perry sang, on and on and on),” that “the idea that Tony dies flies too much in the face of everything the show had previously done in terms of narrative and theme” and that besides, at that moment, “there’s no one we know of who had murder in his heart for the guy.”

He amiably concedes, however, that he doesn’t think there is a concrete answer, and that “there are very persuasive arguments to be made for the idea” that Tony has, in fact, been shot dead in the final scene (one such argument is put forth, at great length, in an online essay titled “The Sopranos: Definitive Explanation of ‘The END’ ”).

Whether the reader agrees with Mr. Sepinwall, however, is beside the point. As he does with his blog, he is throwing out smart, fair-minded assessments meant to provoke discussion. He deconstructs the underlying mythology of shows like “Lost” and “Battlestar Galactica” and assesses the crucial role that casting — of, say, Michael Chiklis as Vic Mackey in “The Shield,” Kiefer Sutherland as Jack Bauer in “24” or Bryan Cranston as Walter White in “Breaking Bad” — played in defining characters.

Mr. Sepinwall also uses interviews with the writers, directors, producers and executives involved with such series to tell the story of their genesis and evolution. In the case of “The Sopranos,” he writes, David Chase “didn’t set out to write a mob drama” but “a show about his troubled relationship with his late mother,” who would eventually be embodied by “the marvelously passive-aggressive Livia Soprano.” He made Tony a mobster, Mr. Sepinwall writes, because he wanted “to find a way to make the stakes high enough that viewers would care,” much the way David Milch used salacious material in “NYPD Blue” as “a come-on to get people to watch the subject matter he really wanted to deal with” — namely, the psychological toll of police work and “the moral depths” people can find themselves sinking to.

Before becoming a critic at the Web site Hitfix (and before that, The Star-Ledger in New Jersey) Mr. Sepinwall was writing about television as an informed fan — in college he started a blog about “NYPD Blue” — but his fan-boy history hasn’t clouded his critical eye. He writes astutely here about, say, the flaws of Season 4 of “The Sopranos” and the confusing, unfocused pilot of “The Wire.” But he is probably most compelling in this volume explaining the magnetic pull of certain shows and their emotional power, articulating just why we fell in love with the characters in “Friday Night Lights,” or why ordinary viewers can find stone-cold killers like Tony Soprano or Walt White so “relatable.”

At the same time Mr. Sepinwall’s reporting opens a breezy window on the creative process behind these shows — and the combination of talent, luck, timing and obsessive work that go into their making. He tells us about the long, winding road that “Mad Men” took to get to the screen and how the one significant (and, it turns out, invaluable) note that an AMC executive reportedly gave the show’s creator Matt Weiner was this: “Don Draper needs to have a secret.”

In another chapter Mr. Sepinwall conveys the demands on writers working on breakneck series like “24,” which “consumed plot ideas like Pringles.” As Howard Gordon, an executive producer of that show, observed, “It’s like driving at 65 miles per hour on the highway and you’re building the highway as you’re driving.”

As Mr. Sepinwall sees it, shifts in the television business and changes in the ways in which people watched TV helped pave the way for the millennial golden age in drama. The proliferation of cable channels and the fracturing of network television’s big-tent audience, he writes, made smart executives realize that “they could do very well making shows those smaller audiences would care passionately about.”

As “the middle-class movie” — which couldn’t “be made on the cheap or guarantee an opening weekend of $50 million or more” — became increasingly difficult to get made, artists who might once have gravitated to the big screen moved to the little one. And all this happened, Mr. Sepinwall notes, at “the perfect technological time,” as DVRs, video on demand, DVD boxed sets and video streaming made it easier for people to catch up on “that great-but-complicated new show they’d heard so much about.”

Fans could pass DVDs around the way they used to share record albums or mixtapes, and most of all, he says, they could turn to the Internet to share their enthusiasms, and to “discuss and make sense of shows that might have seemed too challenging back in the day, whether you were trying to solve the mysteries of ‘Lost’ or understand what Tony Soprano’s dreams meant.”

The Internet, in Mr. Sepinwall’s opinion, wasn’t a rival to TV, but a kind of partner. And for Mr. Sepinwall himself, the Internet has been the launching pad for an increasingly high-profile career — and now, a terrific book.
90 2012-12-04 The sharpening language came as NATO was preparing to buttress its member Turkey against a potential attack from Syria. A plan expected to be endorsed by the alliance’s foreign ministers during two-days of meetings that begin Tuesday in Brussels calls for deploying American, German and Dutch Patriot missile-defense batteries under the operational control of the NATO military command, Western officials said Monday.

Such a move would be the most direct action in the Syrian conflict by the alliance, which has remained cautious about intervention there. But for months, Turkey has expressed concerns about the potential of missile attacks from Syria as relations between the two countries have worsened, and last month Turkey asked for Patriot batteries.

As the United States and its allies tried to forestall the conflict from escalating, the Syrian Foreign Ministry said the government “would not use chemical weapons, if it had them, against its own people under any circumstances.” The statement was reported on Syrian state television and the Lebanese channel LBC.

Mr. Obama has called for Mr. Assad to step down but has shied away from taking direct action sought by Syrian rebels. With the election over, advisers are considering a more robust response, including possibly providing arms to the rebels and recognizing the opposition as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people.

But Mr. Obama avoided any mention of such actions in his speech. “We will work to support the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people, engaging with the opposition, providing them with the humanitarian aid and working for a transition to a Syria that’s free of the Assad regime,” he said.

Jay Carney, the president’s press secretary, hinted at possible military action in response to any use of chemical weapons but declined to specify options. “We think it is important to prepare for all scenarios,” he said. “Contingency planning is the responsible thing to do.”

Mrs. Clinton flew from Prague to Brussels for the NATO meeting. A senior NATO official said the alliance would declare its support for Turkey’s request for help and welcome the intention of three allied nations to deploy Patriot missile batteries there. It would then be up to the United States, Germany and the Netherlands to decide how many batteries to deploy and for how long.

Surveys are being conducted of 10 potential sites, mainly in southeastern Turkey, but a senior American official traveling with Mrs. Clinton said it would probably take several weeks to deploy the batteries. Once deployed, they would be under the operational control of NATO’s top military commander, Adm. James. G. Stavridis.

The pending move has prompted speculation that it might be an indirect way of extending protection to forces opposing Mr. Assad in northern Syria by targeting Syrian warplanes operating there. But NATO and American officials were adamant that was not the purpose.

“There is no safe haven,” the American official with Mrs. Clinton said. “There is no de facto cross-border aspect to this.”

Instead, officials said the idea was to discourage Syria from threatening Turkey for supporting Syrian insurgents — and to discourage Turkey from feeling pressured to intervene to head off attacks against it. The Turkish military issued a statement Monday calling the deployment “a measure entirely aimed at defense.”
91 2012-12-04 “What they say to me when I meet them is this would be disastrous for British business,” said Glenis Willmott, leader of the British Labour Party’s members of the European Parliament.

Last month, Roger Carr, chairman of the main business lobbying organization, the Confederation of British Industry, appealed to his colleagues to break their silence or risk a possibility that now goes by the shorthand “Brixit”: British exit.

On Europe it was “essential that the voice of British business is loud and clear in extolling the virtues of future engagement,” he said.

A poll of business leaders by Ipsos MORI, commissioned in 2011 by Business for New Europe, a lobbying group campaigning for continued British membership, showed that 33 percent said they strongly agreed that a British exit from the European Union would damage business.

So why the silence when the stakes are so high?

“I ask myself, Why are these people not willing to be more outspoken?” said Phillip Souta, director of Business for New Europe. Its advisory council includes Mr. Gibson-Smith, Mr. North and Mr. Dunstone — all of whom declined to be interviewed.

“But I understand why they are not willing to be more outspoken is because it is so politically divisive,” he added. “Boards are divided on all of these issues. If you don’t have consensus they will agree not to talk.”

Some business leaders who supported earlier pro-European initiatives have been compromised by having advocated British membership in the now struggling euro.

Martin Sorrell, chief executive of the advertising group WPP and one of a handful of business figures happy to go on television to make a pro-European case, says many colleagues find the European Union too politically charged.

“Business leaders don’t want to speak out on these controversial issues,” he said. “They’ve got enough to do trying to run their own businesses and focusing on their own businesses and challenges.”

And even pro-European company bosses tend to have some reservations about the way the European Union is run, including the level of bureaucracy, the “more extreme” pieces of European legislation and the increases demanded by some in the bloc’s budget, he said.

Nevertheless, Mr. Sorrell says he believes that Europe’s internal market is “a major economic opportunity that we would live to regret passing up” and Britain has a better chance of resolving its problems with the union if it argues from within.

With the debate moving so swiftly in a euro-skeptic direction, pro-union campaigners are beginning to organize a counteroffensive.

If there is a referendum on Britain’s relations with the union, Mr. Sorrell says he believes that his business colleagues will stir.

Ms. Willmott thinks there’s no time like the present. “They say this to us privately, why not say it publicly?” she said. “It’s about time we heard these arguments.”
92 2012-12-04 According to government data, these types of searches are rare: about 36,000 people are referred to secondary screening by United States Customs and Border Protection daily, and roughly a dozen of those travelers are subject to a search of their electronic devices.

Courts have long held that Fourth Amendment protections against unreasonable searches do not apply at the border, based on the government’s interest in combating crime and terrorism. But Mr. Pascal’s lawsuit and similar cases question whether confiscating a laptop for days or weeks and analyzing its data at another site goes beyond the typical border searches. They also depart from the justification used in other digital searches, possession of child pornography.

“We’re getting more into whether this is targeting political speech,” Ms. Crump said.

In another case the A.C.L.U. is arguing, House v. Napolitano, border officials at Chicago O’Hare Airport confiscated a laptop, camera and USB drive belonging to David House, a computer programmer, and kept his devices for seven weeks.

The lawsuit charges that Mr. House was singled out because of his association with the Bradley Manning Support Network. Pfc. Bradley Manning is a former military intelligence analyst accused of leaking thousands of military and diplomatic documents to the antisecrecy group WikiLeaks.

In March, Judge Denise J. Casper of Federal District Court in Massachusetts denied the government’s motion to dismiss the suit, saying that although the government did not need reasonable suspicion to search someone’s laptop at the border, that power did not strip Mr. House of his First Amendment rights. Legal scholars say this ruling could set the stage for the courts to place some limits on how the government conducts digital searches.

“The District Court basically said you don’t need individualized suspicion to search an electronic device at the border,” said Patrick E. Corbett, a professor of criminal law and procedure at Thomas M. Cooley Law School in Lansing, Mich. “What they were troubled with was the fact that the government held these devices for 49 days.”

Customs and Border Protection, part of the Department of Homeland Security, declined to discuss the policy in an interview, but a spokeswoman for the agency said in an e-mail: “Keeping Americans safe and enforcing our nation’s laws in an increasingly digital world depends on our ability to lawfully screen all materials — electronic or otherwise — entering the United States. We are committed to ensuring the rights and privacies of all people while making certain that D.H.S. can take the lawful actions necessary to secure our borders.”

The statement also referred to the agency’s policy on border searches of electronic devices, which says that officers can keep these devices for a “reasonable period of time,” including at an off-site location, and seek help from other government agencies to decrypt, translate or interpret the information they contain. If travelers choose not to share a password for a device, the government may hold it to find a way to gain access to the data.

The agency did provide recent statistics on how many travelers this policy affects. From Oct. 1, 2011, through Aug. 31, 2012, 11.9 million travelers were referred to secondary screening after entering the United States. Of those searches, 4,898 included an electronic device. In the previous year, 12.1 million people underwent additional screening, with 4,782 searches of electronic devices.

While there is little public information about who is pulled aside for extra scrutiny, some people whose laptops have been searched say they feel they were selected based on their academic, journalistic or political pursuits.

Laura Poitras, a documentary filmmaker and the recipient of a 2012 MacArthur Fellowship, estimates that she has been detained more than 40 times upon returning to the United States. She has been questioned for hours about her meetings abroad, her credit cards and notes have been copied, and after one trip her laptop, camera and cellphone were seized for 41 days.

Ms. Poitras said these interrogations largely subsided after a Salon article describing her experiences was published in April, but she is editing her latest film in Europe to avoid crossing the border with her research and interviews. (The film, the third in a series about the war on terror, focuses on domestic surveillance.)

“I’m taking more and more extreme measures, to the point where I’m actually editing outside the country,” she said. “They use the border as a way to get around the law.”

Mr. Abidor said he had also changed his travel patterns: because he is regularly detained at the border, he keeps little data on his laptop and rents a car when driving back to the United States from Canada, so he is not stranded waiting for the next train. Still, he said he experienced “a near panic attack” every time he returned to the United States.

“I have not done anything illegal, nor have I tried to hide anything I’ve done,” he said. “I’ve told them where I’ve traveled. I’m studying something that’s legal. I learned a language millions of people speak. I don’t understand how a variety of legal acts can lead to suspicion.”

Even when suspicion of illegal activity exists, it can be based on old records that do not display the nuances of a case when an individual’s passport is scanned. One traveler suspects his laptop was searched at the border because of a juvenile conviction — dating a 15-year-old when he was 17 landed him on the sex offender registry.

“I’m guessing they probably saw my record on their computer system,” he said, speaking on the condition that his name not be used. “It’s very unpleasant to know that people can pull it up, take it out of context and turn it into something horrible.”

In other cases, travelers say they have no idea why they were singled out. A laptop belonging to Lisa M. Wayne, a criminal defense lawyer, was searched after she returned from a trip to Mexico.

Ms. Wayne said her main concern was the information about clients’ cases stored on her laptop: she is a past president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, which is a co-plaintiff in the Abidor suit, along with the National Press Photographers Association. But at the time of the search, she was unaware of her rights and felt pressured to hand over her computer.

“It was very clear to me that the longer I objected or interrogated them, the longer I was going to be detained, and I had a connecting flight,” she said. “It’s an intimidating experience. It was not consensual other than, you comply with the rules.”
93 2012-12-04 The sharpening language came as NATO was preparing to buttress its member Turkey against a potential attack from Syria. A plan expected to be endorsed by the alliance’s foreign ministers during two-days of meetings that begin Tuesday in Brussels calls for deploying American, German and Dutch Patriot missile-defense batteries under the operational control of the NATO military command, Western officials said Monday.

Such a move would be the most direct action in the Syrian conflict by the alliance, which has remained cautious about intervention there. But for months, Turkey has expressed concerns about the potential of missile attacks from Syria as relations between the two countries have worsened, and last month Turkey asked for Patriot batteries.

As the United States and its allies tried to forestall the conflict from escalating, the Syrian Foreign Ministry said the government “would not use chemical weapons, if it had them, against its own people under any circumstances.” The statement was reported on Syrian state television and the Lebanese channel LBC.

Mr. Obama has called for Mr. Assad to step down but has shied away from taking direct action sought by Syrian rebels. With the election over, advisers are considering a more robust response, including possibly providing arms to the rebels and recognizing the opposition as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people.

But Mr. Obama avoided any mention of such actions in his speech. “We will work to support the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people, engaging with the opposition, providing them with the humanitarian aid and working for a transition to a Syria that’s free of the Assad regime,” he said.

Jay Carney, the president’s press secretary, hinted at possible military action in response to any use of chemical weapons but declined to specify options. “We think it is important to prepare for all scenarios,” he said. “Contingency planning is the responsible thing to do.”

Mrs. Clinton flew from Prague to Brussels for the NATO meeting. A senior NATO official said the alliance would declare its support for Turkey’s request for help and welcome the intention of three allied nations to deploy Patriot missile batteries there. It would then be up to the United States, Germany and the Netherlands to decide how many batteries to deploy and for how long.

Surveys are being conducted of 10 potential sites, mainly in southeastern Turkey, but a senior American official traveling with Mrs. Clinton said it would probably take several weeks to deploy the batteries. Once deployed, they would be under the operational control of NATO’s top military commander, Adm. James. G. Stavridis.

The pending move has prompted speculation that it might be an indirect way of extending protection to forces opposing Mr. Assad in northern Syria by targeting Syrian warplanes operating there. But NATO and American officials were adamant that was not the purpose.

“There is no safe haven,” the American official with Mrs. Clinton said. “There is no de facto cross-border aspect to this.”

Instead, officials said the idea was to discourage Syria from threatening Turkey for supporting Syrian insurgents — and to discourage Turkey from feeling pressured to intervene to head off attacks against it. The Turkish military issued a statement Monday calling the deployment “a measure entirely aimed at defense.”
94 2012-12-05 Federal investigators have charged many former employees of SAC Capital Advisors, the hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen, with trading on insider information....
95 2012-12-05 Noah Freeman received insider tips about a chip maker and gave them to an SAC colleague, Donald Longueuil, who turned the tips into a $1 million profit.

Richard Choo-Beng Lee received inside information while he ran his own hedge fund. He has implicated several others at SAC and continues to cooperate with investigators.

Jon Horvath gave confidential financial data about Dell computer and the chip maker Nvidia to a colleague, Michael Steinberg, who is not charged. But he has been named an unindicted co-conspirator.

Wiretap of a tech expert at a company known to traffic in illegal information.

Suspicious trading reports; e-mails with secret data from an industry expert.

SAC’s billionaire founder has not been charged with any crimes. One other former employee has been implicated in insider trading while at SAC, and at least six others have been tied to insider trading cases after leaving SAC.

Mathew Martoma, who denies the charges, is accused of having SAC sell shares of Elan and Wyeth after getting insider tips that clinical trials were not going well.

TIED TO INSIDER TRADING WHILE AT SAC
96 2012-12-05 The Securities and Exchange Commission has accused a Wells Fargo investment banker and 9 others of insider trading, saying that they made more than $11 million in illegal profits after the banker passed along nonpublic information he obtained abou...
97 2012-12-05 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Wednesday's selection includes a mobile first advocate addressing some of the difficulties of growth in the mobile sphere, a list of the yea...
98 2012-12-05 On Tuesday night, before the fair opened for big collectors and VIPs at the Miami Beach Convention Center on Wednesday morning, the big event was the opening of the exhibition "Bill Viola: Liber Insularum" at the Museum of Contemporary Art, North ...
99 2012-12-05 Credit: Patrick Andrade for The New York Times
100 2012-12-05 Tours will be limited to 10 people at a time and will cost $25 on top of the regular museum admission fee....
101 2012-12-05 The restaurateur plans to open a Battery Park City version of his Mexican place in Philadelphia....
102 2012-12-05 What happens when mom and pop divorce and neither wants to leave the business?...
103 2012-12-05 The world's biggest chip maker sometimes learns from the giants of the cloud computing world....
104 2012-12-05 We has it....
105 2012-12-05 Proposition to allow retailers like Wal-Mart into India gets backing of Parliament's lower house....
106 2012-12-05 Metropolitan Diary: A postal clerk tells a customer about Owney, a famous postal mascot in the 19th century. The story doesn't end happily....
107 2012-12-05 Ryan Seacrest signs a deal with Civic Entertainment Group, Pandora reports its third quarter earnings, Netflix makes a deal to stream Disney movies, and news photographers defend one of their own....
108 2012-12-05 Smartphone apps that use the Internet, rather than cell networks, to send text messages among users, often free of charge, are pushing wireless providers to change their pricing models....
109 2012-12-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
110 2012-12-05 Rice crops and farm animals make India the world's second-largest producer of methane....
111 2012-12-05 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
112 2012-12-05 Many athletes take pre-emptive ibuprofen in hopes of preventing pain and soreness from exercise. New research shows the practice likely does more harm than good....
113 2012-12-05 However, the region’s gender equality ratings by the World Economic Forum have increased in the past two years by 1.2 percent, despite a 5.3 percent drop in Syria. That demonstrates, she said, that the greatest threat to women’s rights might be war, not religious conservatism.

“Even as some groups attempt to turn back the clock on Arab women’s rights using religious justification, Islam should not be considered the source of misogyny and women’s oppression in the region,” Queen Noor said, adding that setbacks “do not mean that the revolution has failed, it means it is not finished.”

Queen Noor is the widow of King Hussein of Jordan. The conference, Trust Women, was organized by the Thomson Reuters Foundation and The International Herald Tribune, which is published by The New York Times.

Egypt was a central focus of concern at the conference.

“The situation in Egypt is really alarming,” said Dina Wahba, an Egyptian women’s rights activist, who said the draft constitution endangered the rights of women and children.

“We are in a very pessimistic situation,” she added. “It looks very grim. It looks very scary.”

Julia Lalla-Maharajh, the founder of the Orchid Project, which is based in London and campaigns to end female genital cutting, said Egypt had “one of the highest prevalences in the world of female genital cutting: according to Unicef statistics, more than 9 out of 10 women are affected.”

“There are worrying reports that have suggested that female genital cutting is on the rise, with one call in Parliament for a ban on it to be overturned,” she said.

Ala’a Shehabi, a British-born Bahraini writer and activist, said the uprising in her country had been led by women and was not motivated by the economic discontent that drove some of the other revolutions in the region.

“In the gulf, it’s about inequality,” she said, with issues like corruption also proving important.

Manal al-Sharif, a women’s rights activist from Saudi Arabia, said that there, too, it was women who were pushing for change.

Alaa Murabit, an activist from Libya, argued that the overthrow of the government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi had changed the political dynamic. “Women are getting involved,” Ms. Murabit said. “Women are taking the initiative.” Ayaan Hirsi Ali, the founder of the AHA Foundation, which works to protect the rights of Muslim women, called for an end to placing women under the control of male guardians.

There were warnings about women’s rights in Western nations, as well. Nazir Afzal, chief crown prosecutor for the northwest of England, said he had dealt with more than 50 so-called honor killings.

“One after another,” he said, “I was seeing these stories of people who were being killed because they had a boyfriend, they kissed somebody in public, they wanted to learn to drive, they wanted to go to school.”
114 2012-12-05 These families skimp on food and medical care to make the rent and tend to move often, making it difficult for their children to be successful at school. They are also more prone to homelessness, which is traumatic for them and extremely costly for the municipalities that run shelters.

Yet even as the need for affordable housing has grown, such units have disappeared. Over the last two decades, for example, private landlords have removed more than 200,000 apartments from subsidy programs so that they could raise rents. And, faced with weak federal support and no money for repairs, the local housing authorities that manage federally supported developments have boarded up or torn down more than 150,000 units.

According to an analysis by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, it would take about $26 billion to repair the public housing developments that shelter more than two million of the nation’s most vulnerable people. The department is currently engaged in a pilot project under which a small subset of public housing authorities will be allowed to leverage private capital to make the needed repairs on their properties.

Meanwhile, Congress could help reduce costs for affordable housing units by passing the Affordable Housing and Self Sufficiency Improvement Act, a sound proposal in which core provisions have bipartisan support. The act would save money by streamlining a whole range of rules that are now redundant or excessively complicated — allowing agencies to more efficiently screen applicants, cutting the frequency with which housing authorities are required to inspect units, and simplifying the setting of rental rates.

But Congress would still have to find major new sources of revenue to sustain the current programs and meet increasingly pressing housing needs. It took an important first step in 2008, when it created The National Housing Trust Fund. Modeled on successful state programs, the fund would provide subsidies and incentives to preserve, rehabilitate and build housing for low-income families in stable middle-class communities.

It would also stimulate construction and create jobs. The money to underwrite the fund was supposed to come from the federally backed companies and , which imploded at the start of the recession. Now that those companies have turned the corner, the time may have come to divert some of their profits to affordable housing.

Other ideas are circulating that go beyond simply beefing up programs with more appropriations. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, for instance, has suggested revising the code — which now provides some $100 billion in tax breaks to homeowners — to give low-income renters a benefit as well. The benefits would take the form of a to be distributed by the states according to income and other criteria.

The center estimates that eligible families would end up paying about only 30 percent of incomes on housing, and that even a modest renters’ credit capped at $5 billion would lift 250,000 renters out of poverty, help 1.2 million of the lowest income renters and cut the number of poor households that spend more than half their incomes on rent by 700,000. That proposal deserves a serious reading.
115 2012-12-05 A monk in a Tibetan region of western China killed himself by setting himself on fire Monday evening to protest Chinese rule, Free Tibet, an advocacy group based in London, said Tuesday. The group identified the monk as Lobsang Gedun, 29, from Penak Monastery, in Qinghai Province. More than 90 Tibetans have set themselves on fire since 2009. The acts have accelerated in the last month; in November, at least 28 Tibetans set themselves on fire. Mr. Lobsang Gedun committed self-immolation at a busy intersection, and local residents prevented the police from taking his body away, Free Tibet said. The residents returned the body to the monastery, the group added.
116 2012-12-05 The report this week that UBS, the Swiss bank, may be close to a deal with American and British authorities to settle charges that its employees manipulated interest rates to increase the bank’s trading profits signals incremental progress in the global investigation into rate rigging at more than a dozen big banks, including Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Deutsche Bank. What it does not signal — at least not yet — is that regulators, prosecutors and political leaders are using the investigation to hold banks and bankers truly accountable for the magnitude of the wrongdoing. The rates in question, including Libor, the London interbank offered rate, are used to determine interest rates on trillions of dollars of loans and are linked to other transactions estimated at hundreds of trillions of dollars worldwide. By rigging the rates, the banks rigged the system against borrowers, consumers and investors everywhere.

UBS is expected to pay more than $450 million, following on the $450 million settlement agreed to earlier this year by Barclays, the British bank, to resolve similar charges. At this stage, the UBS settlement — like the Barclays deal — appears to be focused on civil, not criminal charges. Barclays escaped criminal prosecution in part because it was the first to cooperate in the investigation. The Justice Department left open the possibility of criminally prosecuting officers or employees of Barclays, but it has not yet done so.

UBS has reached a conditional immunity deal with the antitrust arm of the Justice Department, though the department’s criminal unit could still take action against the bank. Unless civil penalties are paired with high profile criminal prosecutions, they will not add up to meaningful punishment or effective deterrence.

There is little indication that the authorities will learn the right lesson from the rate-rigging scandal. Most of the discussion has centered on reforming the system for setting Libor and other rates. That is obviously needed. But these cases also show, once again, how big banks are driven to recklessness and even illegal conduct by the pursuit of trading profits, to the detriment of bank soundness and the public interest. So far, there have been only fledgling attempts by American and European politicians and regulators to curb and isolate excessive speculation, which means that even if Libor is made less susceptible to manipulation, behemoth banks still pose a danger to the broader economy.
117 2012-12-05 “Kids do have a different kind of connection when they see a character that looks like them or they experience a plot or a theme that relates to something they’ve experienced in their lives,” said Jane Fleming, an assistant professor at the Erikson Institute, a graduate school in early childhood development in .

She and Sandy Ruvalcaba Carrillo, an elementary school teacher in Chicago who works with students who speak languages other than English at home, reviewed 250 book series aimed at second to fourth graders and found just two that featured a Latino main character.

The Cooperative Children’s Book Center at the University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Education, which compiles statistics about the race of authors and characters in children’s books published each year, found that in 2011, just over 3 percent of the 3,400 books reviewed were written by or about Latinos, a proportion that has not changed much in a decade.

As schools across the country implement the Common Core — national standards for what students should learn in English and math — many teachers are questioning whether nonwhite students are seeing themselves reflected in their reading.

For the early elementary grades, lists of suggested books contain some written by African-American authors about black characters, but few by Latino writers or featuring Hispanic characters. Now, in response to concerns registered by the Southern Poverty Law Center and others, the architects of the Common Core are developing a more diverse supplemental list. “We have really taken a careful look, and really think there is a problem,” said Susan Pimentel, one of the lead writers of the standards for English language and literacy. “We are determined to make this right.”

Black, Asian and American Indian children similarly must dig deep into bookshelves to find characters who look like them. Latino children who speak Spanish at home and arrive at school with little exposure to books in English face particular challenges. A new study being released next week by pediatricians and sociologists at the shows that Latino children start school seven months behind their white peers, on average, in oral language and preliteracy skills.

“Their oral language use is going to be quite different from what they encounter in their books,” said Catherine E. Snow, a professor at the Graduate School of Education. “So what might seem like simple and accessible text for a standard English speaker might be puzzling for such kids.”

Hispanic children have historically underperformed non-Hispanic whites in American schools. According to 2011 data from the , a set of exams administered by the Department of Education, 18 percent of Hispanic fourth graders were proficient in reading, compared with 44 percent of white fourth graders.

Research on a direct link between cultural relevance in books and reading achievement at young ages is so far scant. And few academics or classroom teachers would argue that Latino children should read books only about Hispanic characters or families. But their relative absence troubles some education advocates.

“If all they read is or characters in the “Magic Treehouse” series who are white and go on adventures,” said Mariana Souto-Manning, an associate professor at ’s Teachers College, “they start thinking of their language or practices or familiar places and values as not belonging in school.”

At Bayard Taylor Elementary in Philadelphia, a school where three-quarters of the students are Latino, Kimberly Blake, a third-grade bilingual teacher, said she struggles to find books about Latino children that are “about normal, everyday people.” The few that are available tend to focus on stereotypes of migrant workers or on special holidays. “Our students look the way they look every single day of the year,” Ms. Blake said, “not just on Cinco de Mayo or Puerto Rican Day.”

On a recent morning, Ms. Blake read from “Amelia’s Road” by Linda Jacobs Altman, about a daughter of migrant workers. Of all the children sitting cross-legged on the rug, only Mario said that his mother had worked on farms.

Publishers say they want to find more works by Hispanic authors, and in some cases they insert Latino characters in new titles. When Simon & Schuster commissioned writers to develop a new series, “The Cupcake Diaries,” it cast one character, Mia, as a Latino girl. “We were conscious of making one of the characters Hispanic,” said Valerie Garfield, a vice president in the children’s division, “and doing it in a way that girls could identify with, but not in a way that calls it out.”

In some respects, publishers like and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt are ahead of trade publishers. Houghton Mifflin, which publishes reading textbooks, allocates exactly 18.6 percent of its content to works featuring Latino characters. The company says that percentage reflects student demographics.

Students should be able “to see themselves in a high-quality text,” said Jeff Byrd, senior product manager for reading at Houghton Mifflin.

But Latino education advocates and authors say they do not want schools to resort to tokenism. “My skin crawls a little when this literature is introduced because people are being righteous,” said Ms. Alvarez, the author of the “Tia Lola” series, as well as “It should be as natural reading about these characters as white characters,” she said.

At Bayard Taylor, another third-grade teacher, Kate , said that she would love to explore more options featuring Hispanic characters. “It would be more helpful as a teacher,” she said, “to have these go-to books where I can say ‘I think you are going to like this book. This book reminds me of you.’ ”
118 2012-12-05 A disappointment was that at two junctures — in one part of the Snow scene, for example — he, uncharacteristically, slowed his tempo to suit the demands of the choreography, though never for long. This is a bad old tendency, one among many features that led to this great ballet troupe’s becoming notorious as the world’s least musical company when it was known as the Kirov; even now it retains a number of awkward musical habits.

Nonetheless, the sonorous beauty of the orchestral playing — its marvelous dynamic contrasts and the fresh molding of many phrases — made this a compelling performance in the pit.

The camerawork, however, was hopeless. This score is, after all, one of the all-time classics of instrumental color, but during the several passages played without action onstage, there were almost never close-ups of the particular instruments involved. Instead, under the direction of Andreas Morell, we often saw Mr. Gergiev’s face and upper body; I admire that — unlike some conductors today — he never hams it up for the camera, but he is neither so handsome nor so expressive as to justify repeated viewing.

Worse, the cameras repeatedly gave us close-ups of ballet dancers that showed us only part of the dancing. When a woman is doing a diagonal line of pirouettes, we absolutely need to see her more than just from the tutu up — but that’s what we were often given. In ensemble dances — the Snow scene above all — we seldom saw the whole geometric pattern of the choreography.

As in the 2011 Mariinsky broadcast of “Giselle,” the 3-D format itself remains a serious problem, detracting from the experience far more than it adds. Even in an orchestra pit, it makes space look artificial; the violins sometimes looked as if a film of them were being superimposed onto another film of the harp and other instruments behind them. You can imagine how much worse this made the stage picture look: not like a record of a live stage performance (which it was) but instead like an awkwardly contrived studio construct.

The production is a revival of the 1934 version choreographed for this company by Vasily Vainonen, telling the ballet as if it were the psychological fantasy of the child heroine, Masha, about growing up to discover love (or at least become a prima ballerina). In this version the Nutcracker also grows up to partner her: in this climactic pas de deux four other men assist him in a vast and tiresome array of showy lifts, throws and catches.

The Christmas party at the heart of Act I is clumsily told. Adults and children make several collective exits and entrances, as if the bourgeois household were a palace of many large chambers. Adults, intensely formal, wear white-powdered wigs; it’s a post-Revolutionary view of an unloved past.

The performance showed both the merits and exaggerations of the ballerina Alina Somova as the adult Masha: she has become a mature beauty with no loss of youthfulness, but in a showy role like this, her acrobatic style doesn’t sustain interest. As the child Masha, Alexandra Korshunova had far more spontaneity, and the blend of sweetness and valor exemplified by Vladimir Shklyarov — so enchanting as the hero of the Alexei Ratmansky work “The Little Hump-Backed Horse,” seen when the Mariinsky Ballet was in New York in 2011 — was highly engaging.

The Joffrey Ballet School production, choreographed by Davis Robertson, was far more naïve, far less polished and altogether more appealing. Drosselmeyer led Clara and his nephew on a journey through a snow scene, which was led by Snow royalty (Queen, King and Prince), and so to the realm of Sweets, where the Sugar Plum Fairy and her cavalier presided. On paper this sounds thin, but it took the mind on a larger journey than the Kirov’s. No fewer than 171 performers appeared, few of them adult and all well drilled. The youngest was 2 ½.

In my recent review of City Ballet’s revival of “The Nutcracker,” I failed to mention its three different conductors: Clotilde Otranto leading with characteristic brio, Andrews Sill with both intimacy and grandeur, Daniel Capps with racing zest. It was fascinating to hear how Arturo Delmoni, playing the solo violin in the Act I interlude (interpolated by Balanchine from “The Sleeping Beauty”), responded with slight differences on each occasion.
119 2012-12-05 New York Republicans joined forces with a group of dissident Democrats on Tuesday to form what they called a “bipartisan governing coalition” to run the State Senate, preventing the Democratic Party from taking control even after it appeared to have won a majority of Senate seats in elections last month.

The announcement was the latest twist in a state capital that has had more than its share in recent years, with a string of leadership squabbles, corruption investigations and sex scandals that at times crippled the government and made Albany a laughingstock.

The power-sharing deal announced Tuesday was a victory for New York Republicans, who are outnumbered 2-to-1 in the state’s electorate and who fared unexpectedly poorly in a series of Senate races last month. The exact outcome of the election remains unclear, because ballots in two close races are still being counted, but the consensus in Albany is that the Democrats won more seats than the Republicans.

But shortly after the elections, one Democrat said he would align himself with the Republicans, and on Tuesday five others said they would join with the Republicans to control the Senate. Many of the remaining Senate Democrats were furious, accusing the Republicans and the breakaway Democrats of orchestrating a coup to steal control.

As part of the deal, the Senate majority leader, Dean G. Skelos, a Long Island Republican, agreed to share authority over the chamber with Senator Jeffrey D. Klein, a Bronx Democrat who was the No. 2 official in his caucus before defecting nearly two years ago to form the Independent Democratic Conference.

With the new coalition, the leaders of the Republican and the Independent Democratic conferences would have “joint and equal authority” over bills that the Senate takes up, committee assignments, appointments and state budget negotiations. Albany’s famous “three men in a room” — the governor, the Assembly speaker and the Senate majority leader, who negotiate the state budget and major legislation — would become a quartet.
120 2012-12-05 Stocks closed little changed Tuesday on Wall Street as budget talks continued in Washington.

The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 13.82 points, or 0.11 percent, at 12,951.78 after trading in a range of 82 points. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was down 2.41 points, or 0.17 percent, at 1,407.05. The Nasdaq composite index was down 5.51 points, or 0.18 percent, at 2,996.69.

Investors are waiting for developments on the budget talks, which are aimed at avoiding the government spending cuts and tax increases that would begin to arrive Jan. 1 and could eventually cause a recession.

President Obama said Tuesday that a proposal released on Monday by the House speaker, John Boehner, was “still out of balance.” Mr. Obama, in an interview with Bloomberg Television, insisted on higher taxes for wealthy Americans.

Republicans, led by Mr. Boehner, have balked at Mr. Obama’s proposal of $1.6 trillion in additional taxes over a decade, and called on Monday for increasing the Medicare eligibility age and lowering cost-of-living increases for Social Security benefits.

Among stocks making big moves, Darden Restaurants, owner of the Olive Garden, Red Lobster and LongHorn Steakhouse restaurant chains, fell $5.02, or 9.6 percent, to $47.40 after cutting its profit forecast for fiscal 2013.
121 2012-12-05 If ministers fail to reach agreement at that meeting, the E.U. leaders will arrive at their summit meeting the following day without a cornerstone in place for the banking union. One of the goals for the union could eventually be to issue debt jointly backed by euro zone countries, as a way to buffer the sort of interest rate spikes that have often bedeviled weaker countries, including Spain.

Some ministers warned on Tuesday that further delays in designing the banking union could lead to a return of acute financial pressures in the euro zone. “If we are not able to deliver in the dates we have committed, this will not be neutral in terms of the stability of the markets,” said Luis de Guindos, the Spanish economy minister.

For Spain, stricter supervision was supposed to be the condition for using European funds to bail out its troubled banks directly and a way to avoid accumulating more sovereign debt. Once the supervisor is in place, Spain wants the money it is drawing upon for its bailout to be moved off its government ledgers.

But France and Germany remained divided over the new banking rules on Tuesday. That is a significant obstacle because agreement between the two countries usually is needed to accomplish major reforms in Europe.

Pierre Moscovici, the French finance minister, told the meeting that the new rules should apply to all lenders rather than lead to a two-tier system.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany has suggested that the system could eventually apply to all 6,000 banks in the euro zone. But some German officials and industry groups would rather have the new centralized oversight apply only to the biggest European banks, and leave regulation of the country's smaller savings banks in the hands of national officials.

French officials have stressed the need for a system that covers all euro zone banks. Otherwise, the French have warned, any sudden intervention by the E.C.B. into the affairs of a bank under national regulation could raise alarm among investors and depositors and even lead to bank runs.

But Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, said Tuesday that trying to give too much central authority to a new banking regulator would meet stiff political opposition in his country.

“I think it would be very difficult to get an approval by the German Parliament if you would leave the supervision for all the German banks to European banking supervision,” Mr. Schäuble told the meeting. “Nobody believes that any European institution will be capable to supervise 6,000 banks in Europe.”

The government in Berlin has complained that overly rapid implementation of the rules could lead to regulatory loopholes. German state governments also have balked at giving the central bank oversight of their sparkassen, the hundreds of small and midsize savings banks that do much of the lending to consumers and small businesses.

Germany also refused to support one of the main British demands: new voting rules to ensure that lenders based in London continue to be regulated by Britain.

Yet another concern for Mr. Schäuble was whether placing so much supervisory power within the European Central Bank could lead the central bank to compromise its decisions on monetary policy — if, for example, the E.C.B. were setting interest rates while also trying to oversee politically sensitive issues like bank bailouts.

“In the long run, you will damage the independence of the central bank,” Mr. Schäuble told the meeting.

Germany is the biggest financial contributor to the European Union, and establishing the single supervisory system could oblige Ms. Merkel to dip into the treasury to help prop up weaker European banks, like many of those in Spain. Such aid could be an issue for German taxpayers, ahead of national elections in their country next September. German citizens have already grown weary of paying most of the bill for bailouts, and they are wary of using more money to help banks in vulnerable southern European countries.

Another issue to be resolved in coming weeks will be the leadership of the group of ministers who oversee the euro area.

Jean-Claude Juncker, who has been the group's president since 2005, reiterated at a news conference Monday night that he would step down at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year.

But he declined to signal his preference for any particular successor to the post, which gives the holder significant power over the agendas of their meetings.
122 2012-12-05 The multiyear licensing agreement represented a breakthrough for Netflix over premium TV networks like HBO....
123 2012-12-06 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
124 2012-12-06 Samsung and Apple lawyers butted heads over the more than $1 billion in damages that a federal jury awarded Apple in August, but the judge in the case issued no new rulings in the case....
125 2012-12-06 Deputy Editor David Gillen leads a roundtable discussion on whether Apple's promise to expand manufacturing in the U.S. will turn out to be good news for American workers.
126 2012-12-06 Netflix said that it and its chief executive, Reed Hastings, may face civil claims from the Securities and Exchange Commission because of information disclosed in a Facebook post....
127 2012-12-06 The president is relying on longtime supporters and aides to run the inaugural committee: Jim Messina, his campaign manager, will oversee preparations for the parade, while Julianna Smoot, a former White House Social Secretary, will run the inaugu...
128 2012-12-06 The first postcampaign book has yet to hit shelves, but Stuart Stevens, the chief strategist of Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential bid, offered his take on the race on "The Charlie Rose Show."...
129 2012-12-06 The first entry in a new feature, David Pogue’s 12 Gadgets of Christmas, looks at a version of the board game that lets an iPad or iPhone count the money....
130 2012-12-06 A branch of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals in New Zealand says it has taught three shelter dogs to drive....
131 2012-12-06 Then there were the gallery owners who had sold works to Mr. Cohen. As a general rule, the more business they have conducted with the man, the more worried they are likely to be.

“It’s disconcerting,” said Timothy Blum, co-owner of Blum & Poe, a gallery in Los Angeles. “We’re talking about a lot of liquid,” he added, meaning money. “A lot of liquid. I’ve never calculated it out, but he’s responsible for a significant percent of our business.”

For Mr. Blum and other elite gallery owners, there is sincere dread at the notion, however remote, that Mr. Cohen may one day be sidelined. Known in the securities world for astounding investment returns and an occasionally volcanic temper, he is described by dealers as the ideal collector — warm, dedicated, eager to take home the best pieces and unafraid to spend what it takes.

“We would absolutely hate to have him not active in the market, I can wholeheartedly say that,” said David Zwirner, who owns a gallery that bears his name in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. “This man is a friend of mine. I called him last week — ‘How are you? What’s going on?’ I think the art world is rooting for him. I’m rooting for him. I wish he were here right now.”

Two years ago, Mr. Cohen arrived at Mr. Zwirner’s booth in the opening minutes of the V.I.P. preview day and dropped $300,000 on a work by Adel Abdessemed, an Algerian-born artist who lives in Paris. Within the hour, Mr. Cohen had reportedly spent an additional $180,000 at Blum & Poe for a work by Tim Hawkinson called “Bike.”

The fair didn’t officially open until Thursday, but on Wednesday the convention center was already radiating an air of unabashed opulence. Cavernous, and crammed with product, the place is a kind of Costco for the rich, where the prices range from a low of a few thousand dollars to a high of “we don’t give out that information.” Women pushing carts handed out free flutes of Ruinart Champagne, the official Champagne of Art Basel Miami Beach.

Will Ferrell, the comedian, was one of handful of celebrities in the crowd. Wearing mirrored aviator sunglasses and sporting a green shirt with “Ireland” emblazoned on the back of the neck, he said he already knew what he wanted.

“The sponge cake,” he deadpanned, nodding toward a cube of marble covered with frostinglike swirls, a work by the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei. “They don’t know it yet,” he said, referring to the dealers at Lisson Gallery, where the block sat. “But it’s done.”

Several people who were asked about Mr. Cohen described prosecutors’ apparent pursuit of him as a witch hunt. Eli Broad, a businessman and philanthropist with one of country’s most significant art collections, took a quick break from browsing on Wednesday to say that all the talk about Mr. Cohen is “a lot of gossip. And the art world loves to gossip.”

This may be true, but many in the art world are also reluctant to forecast what it may mean if Mr. Cohen ends his shopping sprees at fairs or stops waving paddles at the auction houses. (Or, to be more precise, stops hiring a consultant to wave on his behalf.) Those willing to speculate thought it was a bit premature to speculate.

“I don’t mean to sound cavalier but there is this sense at this point that this is much ado about nothing,” says Todd Levin of the Levin Art Group, an art consulting firm. “If there were actual allegations by the S.E.C. and those turned into actual charges and if it actually went to trial, then we’d have something to talk about. Until then, I don’t think anyone is paying attention to this.”

That said, if the worst happened to Mr. Cohen and he wound up in prison, “would there be an effect?” asks Mr. Levin. “Sure, but only in the super, super, superhigh end of the modern and contemporary markets. There would still be plenty of people buying in the eight-figure range and plenty buying in the seven-figure range. There are a lot of really wealthy people in the world, in Brazil, England, other parts of Europe, China. If one billionaire stops buying art, it’s unfortunate, but the world goes on.”

Because Mr. Cohen has so much money, he is unlikely to ever have to sell his collection, experts say. But if he did, he would probably find many willing buyers. History suggests that any tarnish that might attach itself to the reputations of people doesn’t touch their art assets. Mr. Cohen’s well-regarded eye would probably give his works a greater value.

But those who say they believe the art market would be unfazed by Mr. Cohen’s absence are saying something about the market itself, which is now more diverse than ever. “Five or six years ago, all this talk about Steve Cohen might have been quite significant,” says Anders Petterson of ArtTactic, an art market research company based in London, “but he’s now just one of many big fish in this pond.”
132 2012-12-06 Kobe Bryant is the youngest player to score 30,000 points, and at 34, he is not only leading the N.B.A. in scoring this season, he's also enjoying the most efficient scoring season of his career....
133 2012-12-06 An adaptation of the 1950s sitcom, starring Michael McGrath, will open the 2013-14 season at the Old Globe theater....
134 2012-12-06 Deutsche Telekom, the parent company of T-Mobile USA, said that it had entered a partnership with Apple to sell its products for use on its network in 2013. T-Mobile USA is the last major carrier in the United States that does not offer Apple prod...
135 2012-12-06 In an interview with NBC, the chief executive of Apple, Timothy D. Cook, said the television was “an area of intense interest” for the company....
136 2012-12-06 Peering into famous bedrooms is a pastime of biographers and filmmakers alike, and this season offers several opportunities for the nosily inclined. Alfred Hitchcock, as well as Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton, have all recently received the keyhole treatment; even Abraham Lincoln helps loosen Mary’s corset in the otherwise buttoned-up “Lincoln.” And in “Hyde Park on Hudson,” filmgoers can watch some presidential pleasuring, courtesy of Franklin Delano Roosevelt (Bill Murray) and his obliging cousin, Daisy Suckley (Laura Linney).

It’s the 1930s, and Franklin has taken to driving Daisy around the countryside in a specially designed car that he operates only manually. Daisy will soon have something to occupy her hands because, after waving away his security detail, Franklin stops the car in a field of purple blooms. It’s a pretty scene, framed by the bright sky and soft, green hills. He takes Daisy’s hand and places it on one of his legs, but just when you think you are about to see more of the 32nd president of the United States — and Mr. Murray — than you would like, the British director Roger Michell cuts to a long shot of them in the car. The violins surge, the flowers bob, and, alas, so does the president.

Roosevelt was one of the towering figures of the 20th century, but he and his accomplishments scarcely register in this amorphous, bafflingly aimless movie. The story hinges, increasingly to its detriment, on Daisy, a distant cousin to Roosevelt and his wife, Eleanor (an amusing Olivia Williams, unconvincingly dowdied). In 1922 the real Suckley was plucked from her humdrum life to keep Roosevelt company when he visited his mother’s home in Hyde Park, which he did regularly. Suckley remained at his side until he died. A cache of papers found after her death in 1991 indicates that they had, at the least, a sustained flirtation; the movie suggests that these cousins did more than kiss, to which you may shrug and say, So what?

The movie, written by the playwright Richard Nelson, doesn’t have an answer. Daisy’s relationship with Franklin provides the almost somnolent way into the story, but it soon becomes part of the background noise for a visit from the king and queen of England (the lively, nicely matched Samuel West and Olivia Colman). The visit was part of a larger tour — the king was the first British monarch to enter the United States — that was intended to stir up support for Britain on the eve of war in the face of recalcitrant American isolationism. It was big news, splashed across national headlines, as was Eleanor Roosevelt’s plan to serve the royals hot dogs, a calculated choice intended to help humanize the monarchs for the American public. (The wiener stratagem worked.)

Mr. Michell has fun with the royal visit, and there’s an absorbing, intimate scene between the president and the king that could be a coda to “The King’s Speech,” the 2010 film about his relationship with his speech therapist. (You have to wonder if Daisy was added in a bid to better distinguish this movie from “The King’s Speech.”) Saddled with a role that groans with historical weight, yet is also terribly underwritten and underconceptualized, Mr. Murray’s Franklin rarely comes to palpable life before this encounter. The actor strikes familiar poses, the famous cigarette jauntily thrusting. Yet because the movie often assumes Daisy’s point of view (she also narrates), his character remains vague, remote, more of a place holder among the rest of the period-correct production design.

Suckley and Roosevelt’s relationship has added layers to the historical record, yet it’s mainly important for what it says about him. That sounds cruel, but the film does nothing to right that impression. Did she feel empowered by her access? Turned on? Too bad no one here asks. Forced to creep around the edges, Ms. Linney makes a show out of Daisy’s awkwardness; to watch her pantomime of a wallflower is to watch an actress struggling to remain true to a character without fading in turn. (Bette Davis would have made this mouse roar.) Daisy’s dreariness is so persuasive that whenever Eleanor or Missy (Elizabeth Marvel), another of Franklin’s lovers, charge in, you long to follow them into another film — one in which everyone really does live in interesting times.

“Hyde Park on Hudson” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). The rating is preposterous, given the film’s carefully understated representations of sex and female nudity.
137 2012-12-06 Enjoy several videos of the Open Source Science Fair....
138 2012-12-06 In a regulatory filing, Goldman disclosed that its 407 partners own 12.7 percent of the the investment, up from 11.4 percent in late October....
139 2012-12-06 For the first time in years, Apple will manufacture computers in the United States, the chief executive of Apple, Timothy D. Cook, said in interviews with NBC and Bloomberg Businessweek. As an icon of American technology success and innovation, Ap...
140 2012-12-06 In a long-running investigation of insider trading, SAC Capital Advisors has continued to surface. | Standard Chartered says it expects to pay $330 million to settle money laundering charges. | Citigroup's plan to cut 11,000 jobs worldwide continu...
141 2012-12-06 In search of every dollar and euro, strapped governments in the United States and Europe are stepping up the war on tax evaders by persuading the Swiss to close loopholes. Switzerland is cooperating -- to an extent....
142 2012-12-06 Of the 67 lion areas identified in Africa by a research team, only 10 support lion populations that are large, stable and protected enough to persist into the foreseeable future....
143 2012-12-06 Consumers can create a collection location at no cost by signing up a home or business on our Web site. We pay the shipping, and for each pound of cigarette waste collected, we donate $1 to Keep America Beautiful....
144 2012-12-06 The company will pair its own information about shopping habits with other data about car and truck shoppers to help marketers direct their ads more precisely....
145 2012-12-06 Two college students who wrote for our student-led series "The Envelope, Please" are answering questions about going to college. Part 4....
146 2012-12-06 The biggest danger of the looming “fiscal cliff” is that the government will do too little to address underlying problems in the economy....
147 2012-12-06 Senate Democrats on Wednesday blocked Republicans from bringing up a House-passed immigration bill offering permanent residence visas for foreigners with advanced degrees. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, sought unanimous consent to consider a bill that would provide 55,000 visas a year to some graduates with masters and doctorate degrees from American colleges. But Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, objected because it eliminated a visa program that benefits less-educated people, particularly from Africa.
148 2012-12-06 The African Union appealed on Wednesday for the United Nations to pay for a military operation to combat Islamist extremists in northern Mali after the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, cautiously recommended that the Security Council approve the force without financing it. Mali descended into chaos in March when soldiers toppled the president, leaving a power vacuum that enabled rebels to seize two-thirds of the country. Islamist extremists, some allied with Al Qaeda, have hijacked the revolt. The African Union observer to the United Nations, Antonio Tete, told the 15-member Security Council that the deployment and operations of an African force of 3,300 troops would need money from the United Nations “to ensure sustained and predictable support to the mission.” Diplomats said the African Union and France, the most vocal Western backer of a plan for African troops to retake northern Mali, were angry that Mr. Ban had not offered United Nations financing.
149 2012-12-06 A former New York Fire Department employee who supervised safety inspections at day care centers was sentenced on Wednesday to two and a half years in prison for accepting thousands of dollars in bribes from center operators in return for overlooking violations and not performing inspections.

The former employee, Carlos Montoya, who had been with the department for two decades, resigned in February after pleading guilty, the authorities have said.

The judge, Paul G. Gardephe of Federal District Court in Manhattan, said Wednesday that Mr. Montoya’s actions had placed infants and toddlers at the centers at risk of harm.

“It must be clearly understood by every city employee with inspection responsibilities,” the judge said, especially “for matters that go to public safety, that if they betray the public trust, they will go to jail.”

Mr. Montoya had been charged as part of a broad investigation into what the Department of Investigation described as a $1 million fraud and bribery scheme, in which corrupt city employees and day care operators bilked a program that subsidizes day care costs for low-income parents. “Mr. Montoya was willing to shirk his responsibilities in exchange for cash,” a prosecutor, Harris Fischman, told the judge.
150 2012-12-06 My grandfather, Rabbi Israel Goldstein, led Congregation B’nai Jeshurun from 1918 to 1960. I recall his stories of pressing the congregation to support civil rights over strong opposition from many members. He felt that the rabbi’s job was to lead the congregation, not to follow it. In 1958, as president of the American Jewish Congress, he urged Jewish leaders to be “among those who do the steering, not the drifting.”

Congratulations to B’nai Jeshurun for taking a bold stand for the two-state solution and the United Nations. Strong leadership from the United States government, backed by American Jews, will be the critical element in moving forward both Palestinian statehood and the prospects for peace and security for Israel.

I am sorry that the rabbis and lay leaders of B’nai Jeshurun wrote to their congregants to express support for the United Nations vote to grant observer-state status to Palestine. Granting Palestinians this status, instead of bringing the Palestinians and Israel closer to peace, supports the Palestinian Authority’s position that negotiations between the parties are unnecessary and that statehood can be established by United Nations fiat.

Moreover, these Jewish leaders’ support of the recognition of a state of Palestine at the United Nations, a state still without negotiated borders, only encourages Palestinians to continue dreaming about destroying Israel and creating a country, as chanted in anti-Israel rallies, “from the river to the sea.”

I applaud the actions of my colleagues at Congregation B’nai Jeshurun in taking an unequivocal stand supporting the Palestinian quest for statehood and publicizing it to their community. I support their action not only because I agree with it — and I most certainly do — but also because liberal American religion, not only Judaism, has become afraid of its own shadow and unwilling to take bold, morally complex public positions.

The bind we are in is untenable and creates boring, safe religious leadership. Our congregants frequently communicate in different ways that they don’t want controversy. We are often silenced by fears of contract negotiations. How have we become a world in which we want to hear only from those in our religious communities who reinforce what we already think?

I welcome those who disagree with me in my synagogue, Congregation Beit Simchat Torah. And I hope that they appreciate knowing what I really think and enjoy engaging with me on the issues facing all of us today.
151 2012-12-06 A fourth white man pleaded guilty to hate crime charges on Tuesday in the killing of a black man who was robbed, beaten and run over by a pickup in Jackson. Three others have already pleaded guilty and await sentencing in the death of James C. Anderson, who was assaulted in June 2011. William Montgomery, 23, confessed in Federal District Court in Jackson on Tuesday to assaulting Mr. Anderson but said he did not participate in running him over. Another suspect, Jonathan Gaskamp, 20, also pleaded guilty to hate crimes charges in assaults against other blacks.
152 2012-12-06 The City of Detroit, straining to manage its debts and meet its payroll, may be nearing circumstances dire enough to require a state-appointed emergency financial manager, Michigan officials cautioned city leaders this week.

Detroit, once the nation’s fourth-largest city but one where the population has slipped to 713,000, has long grappled with a shrunken tax base and other financial woes. A year ago, city officials found themselves in similarly dismal circumstances — at risk of running out of cash — and in April agreed to a consent deal that allowed the city to operate with help from an oversight board that includes officials chosen by the state.

But critics say the oversight board has proved unable to help overhaul Detroit’s finances swiftly or drastically enough. Adding to the troubles, Mayor Dave Bing and members of the Detroit City Council have clashed over how best to turn the city around, even as the threat of having to furlough city employees looms. And complicating matters, in November Michigan residents voted to overturn the state’s emergency manager law, which granted sweeping power to state appointees sent to struggling cities and which was a legal underpinning of the agreement that brought the oversight board to Detroit.

Last week, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Detroit’s bond rating, citing the city’s “precariously narrow cash position and a weakened state oversight framework.” The ratings agency added, “The outlook on the ratings is negative, given the rising possibility that the city will file for bankruptcy or default on an obligation over the next 12 to 24 months, the general uncertainty of state oversight, and the city’s ongoing inability to implement reforms necessary to regain financial stability.”

Next week, a state team is likely to begin a formal review of Detroit’s finances, a spokesman for Andy Dillon, the state treasurer, said Wednesday, hours after the treasurer met with city officials and indicated he had heard growing concerns about “the city’s near-term ability to meet its financial obligations and its long-term viability.”
153 2012-12-06 Dance rhythms teased throughout the concert at Carnegie Hall on Tuesday night: a summit of Latin jazz pianists with Chucho Valdés and Gonzalo Rubalcaba from Cuba, Danilo Pérez from Panama and Egberto Gismonti from Brazil.

Cuban guajira, Panamanian tamborito or Brazilian frevo would wink into view, hinting at tradition and its comforts. But they were only hints, brief flashes of a cultural talisman. Then the music would scamper off on dazzling individual tangents: playful, willful tempo fluctuations, thickets and inundations of dissonance, wry quotations, pensive melodic interludes. The concert was part of Carnegie Hall’s Voices From Latin America series; it was a night of hyperactive improvisational freedom grounded in deep musical erudition.

The program was mathematical: four solos, two duets, one quartet. It also had a tinge of friendly competition and the best kind of showing off. Mr. Pérez started his solo reaching inside the piano to damp a string so that the note he was tapping suggested a drum. He sprinkled impressionistic clusters, high and translucent and then lower and more aggressive, cleared them away to ponder a melody, then let a dance-tinged pattern emerge and put it through dizzying chromatic transformations.

Mr. Rubalcaba summoned the salon elegance of old Cuban music and then splintered it in multiple ways: with whimsical stops and starts, with argumentative bursts of dissonance, with breakneck sprints that could split into counterpoint. One of his pieces, “El Cadete Constitucional” — written by his grandfather Jacobo Rubalcaba — incorporated Sousa’s “Stars and Stripes Forever,” recast as a slow dance.

Mr. Valdés played the flirt and the speed demon, moving in and out of a Cuban guajira to quote Bach or strew two-fisted dissonances up and down the keyboard. Mr. Gismonti set up luminous, rippling patterns behind optimistic major-key melodies that peeked out gradually, adding a few notes at a time, then swerved in and out of percussiveness and spikier harmonies.

With so many flying fingers the duets could be tangled. Mr. Pérez and Mr. Gismonti’s duet revolved around a balladlike melody that drifted in and out of focus, with copious layers of complex harmony. Mr. Rubalcaba and Mr. Valdés made things easier on themselves, sharing a Cuban vamp and more clearly delineating solo and accompaniment, sometimes tossing sly musical one-liners back and forth.
154 2012-12-06 Now that the report has been finished, most observers expect more projects to get the green light.

The report found that higher exports would actually generate more economic benefits. Noting that gas exports could produce up to $47 billion in new economic activity in 2020, when many new terminals would be up and running, it said, “Welfare improvement is highest under the high export volume scenarios because U.S. consumers benefit from an increase in wealth transfer and export revenues.”

Only a decade ago, it appeared that the country’s domestic gas supplies were drying up and that huge amounts of expensive gas in liquefied form would have to be imported from Trinidad, Africa and the Middle East. But over the last few years, a technological revolution has occurred in shale gas fields across the country, driven by hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. That has produced a glut that has driven the price of natural gas down by two-thirds since 2008.

The report, the second Energy Department study this year, was immediately challenged by Dow Chemical, which relies heavily on natural gas for fuel and as a raw material to produce many of its chemicals. The company warned that large-scale exports that raise domestic gas prices would hurt the ability of energy-intensive manufacturers to compete with foreign firms.

“We’re disappointed,” said George Blitz, Dow’s vice president of energy and climate change. “The report fails to take into account the $80 billion in new spending along with 3 to 5 million new jobs that the industrial sector has already announced predicated on available and low natural gas prices.”

Yet oil and gas companies are eager for exports to bolster the lagging price of natural gas.

“It’s encouraging to see that experts are joining the expectation that we are in a global marketplace and the United States has a huge opportunity to generate economic growth and at the same time reduce our energy costs,” said Rodney Waller, a senior vice president at Range Resources, a natural gas producer.

Shares of companies that have proposed major export projects rose in trading on Wednesday, with Sempra Energy up 3 percent, Dominion Resources up 2.6 percent, and Cheniere up 1.8 percent. Shares of natural gas producers were mixed.

The report is likely to spur a competitive lobbying campaign for regulatory approval of export terminals.

Several powerful members of Congress, including Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is in line to be the next chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, have opposed large-scale exports.

Senator Wyden’s office released a statement noting that the report concluded that exports would raise domestic prices. “Senator Wyden will continue to call on the Energy Department to ensure that unfettered natural gas exports don’t harm U.S. consumers and manufacturers,” the statement said.

The Sierra Club and other environmental groups have also opposed exports as a way to limit hydraulic fracturing, a technique that blasts shale rock with water, sand and chemicals to release gas and oil. Environmentalists say drinking water supplies can be put in jeopardy, a charge disputed by the oil industry.

The Energy Department report noted that large exports of gas would raise prices slightly and have a negative impact on electric utilities, energy-intensive manufacturers and producers of chemicals and fertilizers.

It acknowledged that natural gas prices could jump by over a dollar per thousand cubic feet, or more than 25 percent, over five years if there are significantly more exports. That would still be well below the average natural gas price before the 2008 economic downturn.

But the report said that natural gas exports could also produce $10 billion to $30 billion of annual export revenue. The country now exports some gas by pipeline to Mexico and Canada.

There is still no certainty that the administration would approve more than a handful of liquefied natural gas terminals, and the terminals each take several years to build. So manufacturers could still continue to enjoy low energy prices.

Cheniere’s plant, which is scheduled to begin operations in 2016, will have a capacity to export 2.6 billion cubic feet a day, equivalent to only about 4 percent of current domestic demand.

But four other projects with a combined export capacity triple that of Cheniere’s terminal are scheduled to receive federal regulatory decisions in 2013. All told, the 15 proposed terminals would have an export capacity of 26.5 billion cubic feet a day, more than a third of what is currently consumed in the United States.

Charif Souki, Cheniere’s chairman and chief executive, said he was not surprised by the report. “The bottom line is you still have to spend a lot of money to find out if your project works and then once you have done that you have to spend a lot more money to build your projects.”
155 2012-12-06 “Now that there is a new opposition formed, we are going to be doing what we can to support that opposition,” Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said at a news conference in Brussels, adding that at the Marrakesh meeting “we will explore with like-minded countries what we can do to” end this conflict. The State Department announced on Wednesday that Mrs. Clinton would lead the United States delegation at the meeting.

Separately, the United States is moving toward designating one Syrian opposition group, Al Nusra Front, as an international terrorist organization, American officials said. The group is seen by experts as affiliated with Al Qaeda. The step would be synchronized with the emerging strategy toward the opposition and  would aim to isolate radical foes of the Assad government.

With the pressure on to create a government framework, the coalition and its delegates have held meetings in Cairo to try to agree on how to choose leaders, including a prime minister. Another round of talks could take place there on Saturday. Yaser Tabbara, a member of the coalition, said they might also try to identify candidates for 10 to 15 cabinet positions.

The spotlight on the coalition as a governing alternative is also growing stronger at the same time that pressure is building on the Assad government.

This week, fighting has raged around the capital, Damascus, and the airport, and diplomatic setbacks have come in waves. A senior Turkish official has said that Russia, a staunch supporter of Mr. Assad’s government, had agreed to a new diplomatic approach that would seek ways to persuade him to give up, and a Foreign Ministry spokesman was said to have defected.

In addition, President Obama, Mrs. Clinton and NATO ministers warned Syria that any use of chemical weapons would be met with a strong international response. The Syrian Foreign Ministry told state television that the government “would not use chemical weapons, if it had them, against its own people under any circumstances.”

But American intelligence officials detected that Syrian troops have mixed together small amounts of precursor chemicals for sarin, a deadly nerve gas, at one or two storage sites, and that the chemical weapons might be loaded into aerial bombs or artillery shells and deployed in the fighting there. Mrs. Clinton again highlighted the new concerns.

“And I have to say again what I said on Monday, what President Obama has said repeatedly: We’ve made our views absolutely clear to the Syrians, to the international community, through various channels — public, private, direct, indirect — that this is a situation that the entire international community is united on,” she said in Brussels on Wednesday after the NATO meeting.

“And our concerns are that an increasingly desperate Assad regime might turn to chemical weapons or might lose control of them to one of the many groups that are now operating within Syria.”

Fighting continued on Wednesday in the suburbs of Damascus as the government pressed a counteroffensive against rebels. Some antigovernment fighters said they had taken the Aqraba air base near the Damascus airport, which has been effectively closed during six days of fighting, but activists said the fight for the base, and for Damascus was continuing.

Speculation percolated about whether Mr. Assad would seek asylum in a foreign country. State media in Cuba and Venezuela have reported that the Syrian deputy foreign minister, Faisal Miqdad, visited the countries in late November and delivered written messages from Mr. Assad to their leaders, who share his defiance of the United States. The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that he had requested asylum in Latin America.

But the subject of the meetings remained unclear, and some analysts expressed doubt that Mr. Assad would leave Syria.In Washington, a State Department spokesman, Mark Toner, said, “We do understand that some countries, both in the region and elsewhere, have offered to host Assad and his family should he choose to leave Syria.”

But Mr. Miqdad, making the first appearance by a Syrian government official in more than a week, called the media reports “laughable.”

“I assure you 100 percent that President Assad will never leave his country,” he said.
156 2012-12-06 According to the minutes of the meeting, which were made available to The Times, Sridevi Kalavakolanu, a Walmart director of ethical sourcing, along with an official from another major apparel retailer, noted that the proposed improvements in electrical and fire safety would involve as many as 4,500 factories and would be “in most cases” a “very extensive and costly modification.”

“It is not financially feasible for the brands to make such investments,” the minutes said.

Kevin Gardner, a Walmart spokesman, said the company official’s remarks in Bangladesh were “out of context.”

“Walmart has been advocating for improved fire safety with the Bangladeshi government, with industry groups and with suppliers,” he said, adding that the company has helped develop and establish programs to increase fire prevention.

Ms. Zeldenrust said, “Everyone recognized that fire safety was a serious problem and it was a high time to act on it, and Walmart’s position had a very negative impact.” She added, “It gives manufacturers the excuse they’re looking for to say, ‘We’re not to blame.’ ”

Scott Nova, the executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium, a factory monitoring group based in Washington, was also at the meeting. He said that upgrading the factories’ safety would cost a small fraction of what Walmart and other retailers pay for the clothing they import from Bangladesh each year.

Bloomberg News first reported details of the Dhaka meeting on Wednesday.

Walmart has indirectly acknowledged that the factory, Tazreen Fashions, outside Dhaka, was producing some of its apparel, saying in a statement that a supplier had “subcontracted work to this factory without authorization and in direct violation of our policies.” In that statement, issued two days after the Nov. 24 fire, Walmart said, “We have terminated the relationship with that supplier.” Walmart has declined to name the supplier.

After Walmart was shown some of the documents from the factory on Wednesday, Mr. Gardner replied in an e-mail. “As we’ve said, the Tazreen factory was de-authorized months ago,” he wrote. “We don’t comment on specific supplier relationships.”

The photographed documents from the factory indicate that three suppliers — the International Direct Group, Success Apparel and Topson Downs — used the factory to make shirts, shorts and pajamas for Walmart. One document, written in July, provides product descriptions from Success Apparel for Walmart’s Faded Glory house-brand shorts. A photo taken inside the factory after the fire showed a pair of Faded Glory shorts.

The documents indicate that Success Apparel often worked through Simco, a Bangladeshi garment maker.

Mr. Nova of the Worker Rights Consortium said the documents raised questions about Walmart’s statements after the fire.

“It was not a single rogue supplier as Walmart has claimed — there were several different U.S. suppliers working for Walmart in that factory,” Mr. Nova said. “It stretches credulity to think that Walmart, famous for its tight control over its global supply chain, didn’t know about this.”

Mr. Nova works closely with the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity and made the factory documents available.

Investigators also found apparel made for Sears and Disney inside the factory after the fire. Both companies said suppliers had given orders to the factory without their knowledge and authorization.

Mr. Gardner said accredited outside auditors had periodically inspected the factory on Walmart’s behalf. A May 2011 audit gave the factory an “orange” rating, meaning that there were “higher-risk violations” and that it would be re-audited within six months. If a factory gets three orange ratings over two years, it loses Walmart’s approval.

A follow-up audit in August 2011 for Walmart gave Tazreen an improved “yellow” rating, meaning “medium-risk violations.”
157 2012-12-06 The White House hopes such statements help crack Republican solidarity.

“There are a lot of people in there who support the Republican Congress, who were ‘super PAC’ donors to Mitt Romney, yet they want a solution here,” David Plouffe, the president’s senior adviser, said after the Business Roundtable visit. “A lot of them have special influence in the Republican Party, and if they’re telling Republican leaders and members that they have to compromise, that’s going to have a real effect.”

Still, plenty of business leaders oppose Mr. Obama’s plans, and Republicans countered Wednesday by releasing comments from small-business owners saying that higher tax rates would stifle their firms. And even those who have signaled support for Mr. Obama’s stance on taxes are also pressing Democrats to rein in spending.

During a closed question session after Mr. Obama’s speech Wednesday, Kenneth I. Chenault, chief executive of American Express, emphasized that entitlement overhaul was necessary to address long-term deficits, along with tax increases and other spending cuts, according to a chief executive in the room.

Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of the Blackstone Group, pointed out that while taxes were lower compared to the economy as a whole than they had been, spending was well above the historical norm. Robert A. McDonald, chief executive of Procter & Gamble, asked about a comprehensive corporate tax overhaul.

Some conservatives are as distrustful of corporate America as they are of big government.

“Large corporations are seekers of welfare as much as anybody,” said Chris Chocola, president of the Club for Growth, an antitax group. “When he has all these guys to the White House, it’s not surprising that they agree with the president. They helped create the current system, and they have a vested interest in a sense in making it worse.”

Mr. Obama’s argument to business leaders focuses on stability, saying that even if they oppose his plans, they should want the fiscal crisis resolved for the sake of the economy. He also is promising them that he will consider a broader overhaul of the tax code next year that could even lower corporate tax rates in exchange for eliminating special breaks.

During his speech to the Business Roundtable, Mr. Obama warned that Republicans might again use a vote on raising the debt ceiling as leverage in the fiscal fight, much like last year.

“That is a bad strategy for America, it’s a bad strategy for your businesses and it is not a game that I will play,” Mr. Obama said. “Everybody here is concerned about uncertainty. There’s no uncertainty like the prospect that the United States of America, the largest economy that holds the world’s reserve currency, potentially defaults on its debts.”

The administration brought home the possibility that a painful series of automatic tax increases and spending cuts will go into effect with the new year if no agreement is reached. The White House Office of Management and Budget asked agencies this week for information about how they would institute the deep spending cuts if there were no deal.

Republicans called on Mr. Obama to dispense with the public campaign and begin serious negotiations. Speaker John A. Boehner did not give an inch Wednesday on his opposition to raising tax rates or insistence that any deficit-reduction plan emphasize spending cuts.

But he sounded exasperated as he insisted that he had moved toward the president’s position by agreeing to $800 billion in higher tax revenue over 10 years by curtailing tax breaks. “The revenues we’re putting on the table will come from guess who? The rich,” he said, his voice rising. “There are ways to limit deductions, close loopholes and have the same people pay more of their money to the federal government without raising tax rates.”

Republicans argued that Mr. Obama’s plan was antibusiness, citing a study showing that it would cost 700,000 jobs. “Raising rates will hurt the very people that we’re expecting to help create jobs in our country,” Mr. Boehner said.

Mr. Obama’s outreach to business leaders began shortly after an election in which he effectively ran against corporate America and corporate America poured hundreds of millions of dollars into defeating him.

The president has held two meetings with chief executives at the White House and a third with small-business owners and called others individually. He has stopped by meetings his aides have had with executives, and he gave his first television interview since his re-election to the business-oriented Bloomberg Television this week.

“We’re making sure they understand where the president’s coming from,” Mr. Plouffe said, “and that we strongly believe it’s in the economy’s and country’s interest to get a deal.”
158 2012-12-06 “We created the business,” Mr. Ribeiro said, “we created the structure, and we had a team that counted on us.” Six years after signing the divorce papers, the business partners say they are working together happily and the firm is in good shape.

RESPECT IS CRUCIAL When Stephanie Blackwell and her husband of 12 years divorced in 1991 — “we just fell out of love,” she said — she wanted out of the business they had started together, growing alfalfa sprouts. He was angry, she said, and she could not deal with it. One day she drove off, but he chased her and told her to come back to work. “There was so much anger between the two of us,” she said, “but I still cared for him. I just didn’t want to be married.”

While it was tough to continue running the company with her husband, she stuck it out. They had four children together, she could not afford to leave her job, and she still respected him.

In 1998, she left to start another business, Aurora Products, which turned into a $45 million company that packages and sells natural and organic snacks. Initially, her former husband took full control of the alfalfa business but it closed 12 years later. He now works for her, overseeing construction of a new plant.

Ivan Lansberg, co-founder and senior partner at Lansberg Gersick & Associates, a consulting firm in New Haven that advises family businesses, also emphasizes the importance of respect. Unfortunately, he said, many relationships become so damaged — especially if one person has cheated — that trust and respect are not possible.

To Mr. Lansberg, it all depends on open communication, predictability (people have to do what they say they are going to do), and consistency (they have to follow through even on bad days). But there also has to be some compassion. “You have to be able to put yourself in the shoes of the other person and empathize with what they are going through,” he said.

GET HELP Unlike most former spouses, those who own a business together must continue to see each other regularly even after the divorce papers are signed. That can make it harder to heal, which may be a good reason to seek professional help — even if it is too late to save the marriage.

Terri Allen still cared for her husband when the two separated in 2010 — they are not yet divorced — but there was so much anger that they could barely communicate. That made it difficult to continue running their accounting firm, which is based in Toronto.

The couple decided to hire a therapist to help them sort through their problems so they could continue working with each other. They found someone who specializes in Imago Relationship Therapy, a type of therapy that helps people communicate. “It helped us learn how to talk to each other in a calm and rational way,” Ms. Allen said.

Soon, she said, the yelling and screaming stopped, and they began to appreciate each other’s needs and concerns. “I was able to make it not about him and not about me,” she said. “So I became less angry.”

And that did wonders for their business relationship. When personal feelings interfere in a work conversation, she uses what she learned in therapy. “I’ve learned to be patient,” she said.

CREATE AN AGREEMENT Most business partners sign a shareholders agreement to establish what happens if someone wants to sell. Married entrepreneurs, though, often do not write such an agreement. “We didn’t have a proper partnership agreement,” Ms. Allen said. “We were married, and we wanted to work together.”

She and her husband are now putting together an agreement. When it’s done, it will detail how they would split the business’s assets if either one were to decide to leave. “It would have been great if we had done it before,” she said.

When Mr. Ribeiro and Ms. Calistro divorced, she was worried that she might lose her job. She asked her ex-husband to sign an agreement saying she could stay in the business for three years. “I needed to know that I could continue working here and earn an income,” she said. That security calmed her nerves and gave them time to find a way to work together.

TALKING TO EMPLOYEES When owners divorce, the employees, not unlike children in a divorce, often pick sides. If that happens, Mr. Lansberg said, the company can fall apart quickly.

Divorcing owners, he said, need to be upfront about what is happening. If employees hear the news from someone else, they are likely to feel betrayed and worry about their jobs. “If people get wind of it, it tells them something about their connection to you,” he said. “They’ll feel like you don’t trust them.”

He suggests couples come up with a common story that they can share. Reassure staff members that the issues are being dealt with, he said, and that the company is not going to be affected. Of course, many people are not comfortable being that open. Ms. Blackwell, for example, did not make any formal announcement, though some staff members knew what was going on. “I felt sorry for the office administrator,” she said. “There was a lot of hollering and screaming.”

Ms. Allen took Mr. Lansberg’s approach. After the separation, she and her husband sat down with their employees and told them. “We knew we needed to be the first ones to tell them,” she said.

They told the staff that while the separation had been a long time coming, they still respected each other and wanted to continue in the business. The employees, she said, “were polite and thankful that we told them. They were happy that they knew their jobs were secure.”

As difficult as it is to run a business with a former spouse, Ms. Allen, Ms. Blackwell, Mr. Ribeiro and Ms. Calistro all said that it gets easier after about two years.
159 2012-12-06 Stocks closed higher on Wednesday, their first gain of the week, as bank shares rose and comments by President Obama made investors optimistic that a deal could be made to avoid the federal tax increases and spending cuts expected after the first of the year.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 82.71 points, to end at 13,034.49. It had been up as much as 137. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed up 2.23 points, at 1,409.28. The Nasdaq composite index was down 22.99 points, at 2,973.70, held back by a slump in Apple.

Citigroup rose $2.17, or 6.3 percent, to $36.46 after the bank said it planned to eliminate more than 11,000 jobs, or about 4 percent of its work force, to cut expenses and improve efficiency. Travelers, the property insurer, surged $3.47, or 4.9 percent, to $74 after it announced plans to resume stock buybacks. Travelers temporarily suspended repurchases after Hurricane Sandy while it assessed its exposure to damage claims.

In lunchtime remarks to the Business Roundtable in Washington, Mr. Obama said: “We can probably solve this in about a week. It’s not that tough.” The comments, made just before noon, helped push the market higher, said Quincy Crosby, a market strategist at Prudential Financial.

Stocks have been flat for two weeks as investors waited for developments from Washington on crucial budget talks to avoid a series of government spending cuts and tax increases, which is scheduled to start Jan. 1 unless an agreement is reached to cut the budget deficit. Economists say that the measures, if put in place, could push the United States back into recession.
160 2012-12-06 The total amount discovered is equivalent to about 12 billion barrels of oil. A high proportion of the gas is likely to be recoverable, Eni said.

According to Eni’s estimates, its share of the Mozambique discoveries so far could be worth around $15 billion.

The Eni finds coincide with an effort by the company’s chief executive, Paolo Scaroni, to focus more on exploration and production, and less on transmission of natural gas in Italy. When a company makes a business of exploration and is successful, he said, “you make a huge amount of money.”

Eni first found gas in Mozambique last year, not long after a discovery by Anadarko Petroleum of the United States, which is now Eni’s main competitor in the region.

The two companies are negotiating with the government on a development plan.

The most profitable market for the Mozambique gas is likely to be exports to Asia as supercooled liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., on special ships. The Web site of the Instituto Nacional de Petróleo, the country’s energy regulator, has a presentation that indicates that as many as 10 L.N.G. conversion plants could be built, which would make Mozambique a significant player in the world gas market.

Mr. Scaroni said there could also be a role for an offshore floating conversion plant, a technology that Royal Dutch Shell is now developing for use off Western Australia. Shell recently tried to buy Cove Energy, which had a small position in the Mozambique discoveries, but was outbid by PTT Exploration and Production of Thailand.

Eni is not a big player in liquefied natural gas and may need help with the huge capital costs for developing the gas, which Mr. Scaroni put in the “tens of billions” of dollars.

Because Anadarko is not a liquefied natural gas specialist either, it is widely thought in the industry that both companies will bring in partners.

Mr. Scaroni said he had been talking to potential partners “but we are fairly reluctant to strike a deal with anybody until we finish our exploration.”

A recent report by Bernstein Research says that Mozambique would be “Eni’s most significant project, although we do not expect production until 2019 at the earliest.”

The gas discoveries off Mozambique are contained in sandstone deposits in what were ancient river canyons, similar to those off West Africa and elsewhere.

What makes the Mozambique discoveries particularly rich is that the sandstone layers containing the gas are thick — as much as 300 meters, or nearly 1,000 feet — indicating sizable reserves.

“Mozambique is a very positive exploration story,” Mansur Mohammed, a Wood Mackenzie analyst, said. “We are talking about an unprecedented high exploration success rate that transformed the outlook for the region.”
161 2012-12-06 LOS ANGELES — After an eight-day strike that crippled the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach, clerical workers from a local office of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union on Tuesday night agreed to a new contract with the terminal operators at the ports. Union members will return to work Wednesday morning.

As the strike dragged into its second week, both sides had come under increasing pressure from local officials to end the dispute, which had threatened to derail the Southern California economy during the holiday season. Officials from the Port of Long Beach estimated that $650 million in trade has been idled each day of the strike. A federal mediator arrived on Tuesday to help broker a deal.

“I am pleased to announce that an agreement has been reached between labor and management that will bring to an end the eight-day strike that has cost our local economy billions of dollars,” Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles said in a statement released Tuesday night. “With the strike now ending, we must waste no time in getting the nation’s busiest port complex’s operations back up to speed.”

Although only about 600 clerical workers had been participating in the strike, they managed to shut down 10 of the 14 shipping container terminals at the two ports because thousands of longshoremen from the union would not cross the picket lines.

“This victory was accomplished because of support from the entire family of 10,000 members in the harbor community,” Robert McEllrath, the president of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, said in a statement announcing the agreement.
162 2012-12-06 Wang Qishan, a vice prime minister who has one of the strongest reputations in China for pursuing economic and financial changes, joined the seven-member Politburo Standing Committee at the party congress and was put in charge of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, which he is expected to invigorate through his extensive contacts in the country’s banks.

Mr. Wang has relatively few of the conflicts of interest of other top Chinese officials because he does not have children, said a longtime friend of Mr. Wang’s who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Mr. Wang’s wife, who comes from a very influential family, was permanently disabled when a mob attacked her during the Cultural Revolution, which lasted from 1966 to 1976.

Social media postings suggest that corruption is a source of widespread anger and resentment in China. Several local officials have already been forced to step aside in recent weeks after revelations that they had far greater assets than could be explained by legal investments.

A local official in Chongqing, Lei Zhengfu, was detained last week after a five-year-old sex video circulated on the Internet showing him with a woman, then 18, who had reportedly been retained by a real estate developer to gather blackmail material on public officials involved in allocating public land.

The investigation of Mr. Li follows the detention since August of Dai Xiaoming, the chairman of the Chengdu Industry Investment Group, on suspicion that he may have bribed government officials in Chengdu in order to obtain access to the province’s lucrative oil industry.

Neither Mr. Li nor Mr. Dai has been charged with any crime. The news office at the Sichuan provincial Communist Party headquarters said that Mr. Li was not around and that no information about him was available. A woman answering the phone at Mr. Dai’s corporate headquarters said that Mr. Dai had not been seen there for a long time, and she declined to elaborate.

The investigation of Mr. Li drew particular attention on social media inside and outside China because of speculation about whether it might be tied to a much broader factional struggle over the past year. That struggle has pitted advocates of legal and economic changes against partisans of a return to Maoist campaigns, sometimes unconstrained by the rule of law, against perceived enemies of the state.

Bo Xilai, the populist party secretary of Chongqing, was purged from the Politburo in the spring and is awaiting trial on a variety of charges involving abuse of power after his police chief, Wang Lijun, briefly fled to the American Consulate in Chengdu in February. According to China Vitae, a Web site that tracks the biographies and public appearances of Chinese officials, Mr. Li studied electrical motors at a university in Harbin, a chilly metropolis in the northeastern corner of China. He then worked his way up the Communist Party ladder there until 1998, when he was transferred to Sichuan, initially as vice mayor of Chengdu.

But his career has already been delayed once, pushing him off the fast track that can lead to Politburo membership. Mr. Li was an alternate member of the Communist Party’s Central Committee from 2002 to 2007. He then failed to win another term and was off the committee until his re-election three weeks ago.
163 2012-12-07 Post-election financial reports show that spending in the 2012 campaigns took a turn for the worse....
164 2012-12-07 Apple’s decision to make some of its computers in the United States shows how little assembly costs matter in the global computer market....
165 2012-12-07 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Friday's selection includes a theory that Apple may have helped Samsung become its most dangerous rival by making it such a big supplier and...
166 2012-12-07 The country added jobs in November, the 26th consecutive month of gains: 146,000 nonfarm payroll jobs, to be more precise. But employment still has a long way to go before returning to its prerecession level....
167 2012-12-07 Ingénues, icons, action heroes, divas and the world’s next great comedy star: 13 actresses who gave the dreamiest performances of 2012.
168 2012-12-07 The S.E.C. didn't like a Netflix post on Facebook. | Peter Lattman followed a trail of insider cases to SAC Capital Advisors. | Citigroup said it would cut 11,000 jobs. | Warren E. Buffett sat down for an interview with Andrew Ross Sorkin. | Five ...
169 2012-12-07 By contrast, the average hedge fund manager in the top 25 performers today makes that in a good year, and a few have earned more than $4 billion in a single year. Mr. Cohen reportedly earned $1.4 billion in 2009, and Forbes estimated his net worth in 2012 at $8.8 billion. (Mr. Milken’s fortune, by comparison, is estimated by Forbes at $2 billion, which puts him in the middle of the magazine’s list of the richest 400 Americans.)

At the same time, the tactics and technologies available to inside traders today are more sophisticated and more difficult both to detect and to prove.

A large majority of hedge funds have not been tainted by any wrongdoing, just as most junk bond traders were never accused of any crime. Mr. Cohen hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing nor has his firm, although the S.E.C. has said it may face civil charges.

This week, I stopped by St. Andrews Plaza in Lower Manhattan to see Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, and his deputy, Richard Zabel, the former head of the criminal division. Both said they couldn’t discuss any pending cases. But many people who work in financial markets “are highly skilled at cost-benefit analysis,” Mr. Bharara told me. “They’re highly intelligent. They’ve been to the best schools. They weigh the risk of getting caught against the potential reward, and they decide it’s worth the risk. We’re trying to tilt that equation.”

There’s no doubt that the potential for gain “has soared,” Robert S. Khuzami, head of enforcement at the S.E.C., told me, and not because there are more takeovers and other market-moving events to trade on. “That’s a big change from the 1980s and ’90s. Hedge funds can take massive positions, use short-selling and derivatives, and employ trading techniques that aren’t transparent, and make huge amounts of money on small fluctuations on price. They don’t need to hit a home run on a $20 pop on a takeover announcement. These bets may be bunts and singles, but they get to the same place.”

Even at lower rungs of the hedge fund world, the potential gains have shot up. Mathew Martoma, a former SAC trader who was accused last month of using secret information to help SAC gain profits, was paid a $9.4 million bonus in 2008, when he was just 34. At the same time, the cost of failure can be catastrophic. When he failed to replicate that kind of information, he was fired a little more than a year later. (Mr. Martoma pleaded not guilty to the charge, and, through his lawyer, has denied any wrongdoing.)

The pressure to get an “edge,” as hedge fund traders often put it, has never been greater. “There’s a cruciblelike intensity of competition now that didn’t exist at the time of Boesky,” Mr. Zabel told me. “With hedge funds, there’s a lot of capital, and they’re competing ruthlessly. You have to be better every quarter or you’re not going to exist. Add the tremendous incentive of great wealth, and it’s not surprising that some people lack the moral fiber to resist that kind of pressure.”

Even as the potential rewards have soared, the nature of today’s trading — the bunts and singles, as Mr. Khuzami put it — has made enforcement more difficult, leading to what seems to have been a perception of less risk of getting caught. In the wake of the Milken-Boesky era, the government has become sophisticated at monitoring major market-moving events like takeover announcements, to the point that insider trading on major corporate news has become relatively rare (though just this week the S.E.C. charged an old-fashioned insider trading ring based on leaks about proposed mergers and acquisitions).

Modern technology has also rendered obsolete the use of suitcases of cash, secret passwords and other subterfuges I described in “Den of Thieves,” my 1991 book about Mr. Milken, Mr. Boesky and insider trading in the 1980s. “In the 1980s, you had to meet someone, or have lunch or exchange information in ways that were slower and more visible,” Mr. Zabel said. “Now, you can have only the glow of your computer screen on your face and you can scoop up all sorts of valuable information from all over the country or even the world. If you get even little bits, you can trade on a daily or hourly basis on micromovements.”

But technology has cut both ways. Although some critics say the S.E.C.’s expertise has lagged advances in areas like high-frequency trading, the enforcement division has made progress in monitoring suspicious trading. “We’ve created databases to see who is trading in tandem, even if you know nothing about an event,” Mr. Khuzami said. “It’s a trader-based approach, not an issuer-based approach. These trading patterns are the first clue to what might be insider trading rings. You then have to do the real detective work, pulling phone records and e-mails and using other techniques to uncover the links. ”

There’s no doubt that the new techniques have been yielding results. Since Mr. Bharara became a United States attorney in 2009, his office has charged 75 people with insider trading, including such now-household names as Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund, and Rajat K. Gupta, a former McKinsey chief and Goldman Sachs director. His office has secured 69 convictions or guilty pleas without losing a case (six are pending and more are said to be in the pipeline). Many of those cases were developed in conjunction with the S.E.C., which has brought over 200 enforcement actions since 2009. “These have been cases of hard-core insider trading, and they’ve done a marvelous job,” said Harvey Pitt, the former S.E.C. chairman who previously represented Mr. Boesky (and has lectured SAC employees on compliance with securities law).

It’s still too soon to measure the deterrent effect of the latest wave of cases, but it’s surely substantial. For the most part, inside traders aren’t hardened criminals but rational decision-makers. When confronted by an F.B.I. agent in his front yard, Mr. Martoma fainted. “What we’re trying to accomplish is deterrence,” Mr. Bharara said. He mentioned that the jurors in the Gupta case openly wept as they rendered their guilty verdict, which they must have known meant the ruin of a once-illustrious career and reputation. “I want smart people to see that and say, ‘I never want that to happen to me.’ ”

One thing that apparently hasn’t changed is motive, and a question hovering over insider trading prosecutions then and now is why people who are already so rich and successful would resort to criminal activity. “Sometimes, it’s about the money or a bigger house in the Hamptons or wanting to climb the social ladder,” Mr. Khuzami said. “But for the already-rich, it’s mostly about ego and being a player. A winning tip impresses others and makes them part of the club.”

Mr. Pitt added: “My bottom line is that not a lot has really changed. Cheating is still cheating. Insider trading is cheating. It’s an effort to get an edge and give yourself an advantage you know you’re not supposed to have.”

“Far too many people are questioning whether the markets give you a fair shake or whether inside traders are taking advantage of them,” Mr. Pitt said. “That’s bad for capitalism, bad for capital formation and very bad for the country.”
170 2012-12-07 President Obama will accept unlimited donations from corporations - but no money from lobbyists or political action committees - to finance his 2013 inaugural festivities, a spokeswoman for his inaugural committee said Friday....
171 2012-12-07 An auction of more than 200 works of art at Christie's brings in nearly $4 million....
172 2012-12-07 Mitch McConnell takes the Senate absurdity to a new low....
173 2012-12-07 The N.H.L. Commissioner Gary Bettman answered questions from reporters on Thursday....
174 2012-12-07 Newly released documents show Senate Republicans transferred $760,000 to the Missouri State Republican Party in the first days of November....
175 2012-12-07 A controversial Facebook post by Netflix's chief executive shows how the Internet age has presented new challenges for defining what is "fair disclosure." | Diamondback Capital Management, which was caught up in the government's insider trading in...
176 2012-12-07 YouTube has redesigned, giving even more prominence to its "channels"; The Washington Post is said to consider a paywall for its online content; Netflix gets a notice over a Facebook post by its chief executive; Robert Lescher, literary agent, die...
177 2012-12-07 Apple announced its plans to bring some manufacturing jobs back to the United States, but some experts doubt that the move will inspire a broader rebirth in American manufacturing....
178 2012-12-07 While Ernst settled the shareholder suit, it said it would fight new charges by the Ontario Securities Commission that the audit firm failed to follow proper audit procedures. It was the commission suit, filed this week, that disclosed the e-mails exchanged by the auditors.

“We are confident that Ernst & Young Canada’s work was conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) and met all professional standards,” the firm said in a statement. “The evidence we will present to the O.S.C. will show that Ernst & Young Canada did extensive audit work to verify ownership and existence of Sino-Forest’s timber assets.”

However extensive the work, the audit failed to uncover the essential truth: the assets were fake.

Frauds, and audit failures, can happen in many countries. But China is a special case because the authorities there seem to be completely uninterested in getting to the bottom of scandals whose victims are American or Canadian investors. Even regulators in Hong Kong have voiced frustration with their mainland colleagues.

Last week China sent another delegation to the United States to talk about these issues with American regulators, and a Chinese official was quoted by The Financial Times as telling a Hong Kong audience that audit working papers should be shared with other regulators — something the Chinese supposedly agreed to a decade ago but had never actually done. “I think we’ll shortly be able to work out a way to deliver those papers,” he said.

The American regulators have heard those stories before. In July, the chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, Guo Shuqing, told Mary L. Schapiro, then the chairwoman of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, that he thought an agreement could be reached. It turned out that the Chinese insisted they would provide documents only if the S.E.C. promised not to use them in an enforcement proceeding without Chinese permission.

The week the S.E.C. filed court papers, in connection with its pending case against a Chinese affiliate of Deloitte, laying out case after case in which American regulators asked for assistance through obtaining audit work papers or even something as simple as verifying that a Chinese company existed. Repeatedly, the Chinese said something could be worked out, but somehow nothing ever was.

Separately, the S.E.C. this week filed proceedings against five Chinese audit firms — affiliates of the Big Four and of BDO — saying the five firms had refused to comply with S.E.C. subpoenas for audit work papers related to nine separate investigations of Chinese companies.

The firms maintain that they are caught in the middle between China and the United States, and that they cannot violate Chinese law by providing the documents. That has led to a standoff.

This might not matter so much if the auditors were doing decent jobs. But in many cases they have not, as can be seen from the succession of frauds that went undetected until short-sellers investigated. China has responded by throwing at least one such investigator in jail, which seems to have slowed the rate of such informal investigations. Are the auditors deliberately certifying frauds? Maybe some are, but that is not really necessary.

“It is the rare case when an auditor can be corrupted,” James Doty, the chairman of the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which was established a decade ago to regulate the industry, told an auditing conference at Baruch College last week. But, he added, “An auditor need only look the other way, accept a well-annotated rationalization, focus on corroborating evidence. An auditor need only say, ‘I don’t object.’ ‘It’s a matter of judgment.’ ‘The literature is unclear.’ ”

Greg Medcraft, the chairman of the Australian securities regulator, said this week that the quality of Australian audits, as shown by his agency’s inspections, had been declining. He said auditors were not getting sufficient evidence to support their conclusions and were not showing enough “professional skepticism” regarding what managements told them.

Mr. Doty’s board, like the S.E.C., has been doing a lot of talking to China. Every so often there appears to be progress, but there is no indication that the board will be allowed to take part in joint inspections with Chinese authorities of Chinese audit firms that certify the statements of companies traded in this country, or that take part in worldwide audits of major American multinationals.

When I talked to him this week, he sounded frustrated. He said the board was still pursuing an agreement, “recognizing that investors benefit from regulatory cooperation and that Chinese authorities want the credibility and respect of global investors that will come from conducting joint inspections and agreeing to an enforcement information sharing protocol.

“We are at a crossroads, though, and absent a near-term agreement that gives us meaningful access, will not hesitate to consider all appropriate and necessary alternatives to protect U.S. investors.”

Such tough talk may or may not be followed by real action if China keeps stalling, as seems likely. Already word has spread that the change in Chinese leadership may slow things down as new officials settle into their jobs.

The accounting oversight board could revoke the registrations of uncooperative Chinese firms, a move that would force their clients to stop trading in this country. But it seems unlikely the board or the S.E.C. would take such a step without approval of the State and Treasury Departments, and ultimately of the White House. Nor is it clear how that would help American investors who already own the securities.

The volume of new Chinese frauds seems to have declined, and there are few new listings of such companies — either because American investors have grown wary or because Chinese companies don’t want to deal with regulators who think investor protection is important.

One can only imagine the conversations of Chinese corporate officials as they discuss how gullible Americans turned out to be.
179 2012-12-07 Two college students who wrote for our student-led series "The Envelope, Please" are answering questions about going to college. Part 5....
180 2012-12-07 The worst thing about the animated film “Delhi Safari” isn’t that it’s awful. It’s that it shamelessly rips off much better animated movies. What kind of lesson is that for our young people?

The film, made in India but overdubbed in English for the American release, follows a group of animals whose forest home is being threatened by callous developers. The beasts decide to hike to New Delhi to try to get their grievances heard.

That they spend most of this journey engaging in dreary infighting and occasionally singing equally dreary songs would make the film unappetizing even if it didn’t so brazenly borrow from “The Lion King,” “The Jungle Book” and others.

An adorable lion cub — oh, sorry; it’s a leopard — who communes with his dead father (who lost his life saving the cub) is at the center of the story. Sound familiar? So will the laid-back, wisdom-spouting bear, the malicious hyenas and the humans-are-evil plot. This film is supposed to represent a step forward for Indian animation. The trouble is, there’s not an original idea in it.

“Delhi Safari” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested). It has menacing moments.
181 2012-12-07 The Swiss drug maker Novartis had been bracing all year for the day in late September when Diovan, its top-selling blood pressure drug, would lose patent protection and a cheaper generic version would become available.

But September has come and gone, and now, nearly three months later, there is still no generic alternative to Diovan on the market. The Food and Drug Administration has not given final clearance to Ranbaxy, the generic drug maker that won the exclusive right to sell the drug for the first six months after its patent expired.

Now a competing generic company, Mylan, is suing the F.D.A. to force the agency to revoke Ranbaxy’s exclusive rights and allow Mylan to begin selling the drug. A hearing on the matter is scheduled for Friday in federal court in Washington. Mylan is exclusively selling a related drug, a combination of Diovan and a diuretic, whose patent protection also expired in September.

The delay in approval of generic Diovan has proved to be an unexpected bright spot for Novartis, since Diovan brought in more than $1.9 billion in United States sales last year, according to the health care research firm IMS Health. “It’s like extra cash,” said Kim Vukhac, an analyst for Crédit Agricole.

But it represents another setback for Ranbaxy, which is operating under a federal consent decree and last month recalled more than 40 lots of generic Lipitor after discovering that the pills may have contained tiny glass particles. Ranbaxy has since halted all production of the drug, and the company told The Wall Street Journal this week that it believed the cause was splintered glass from the lining of a tank at a plant in India.
182 2012-12-07 In July, Alameda County, Calif., which includes Oakland and Berkeley, became the first locality to enact such a requirement. Drug companies have to submit plans for accomplishing it by July 1, 2013.

But the industry plans to file a lawsuit in United States District Court in Oakland on Friday, hoping to have the law struck down. The suit is being filed by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, or PhRMA, which represents brand-name drug companies, the Generic Pharmaceutical Association and the Biotechnology Industry Organization.

James M. Spears, general counsel of PhRMA, said the Alameda ordinance violated the Constitution in that a local government was interfering with interstate commerce, a right reserved for Congress.

“They are telling a company in New Jersey that you have to come in and design and implement and pay for a municipal service in California,” he said in an interview.

“This program is one where the cost is shifted to companies and individuals who are not located in Alameda County and who won’t be served by it.”

Mr. Spears, who is known as Mit, said that the program would cost millions of dollars a year to run and that pharmaceutical companies were “not in the waste disposal business.” He said it would be best left to sanitation departments and law enforcement agencies, which must be involved if narcotics, like pain pills, were to be transported.

Nathan A. Miley, the president of the Alameda County Board of Supervisors and the champion of the legislation, said late Thursday, “It’s just unfortunate that PhRMA would fight this because it would be pennies for them.”

“We will win legally and will win in the court of public opinion as well,” Mr. Miley said.

The battle in Alameda could set the direction for other states and localities. Legislators in seven states have introduced bills to require drug companies to pay for take-back programs in the last few years, said Scott Cassel, founder and chief executive of the Product Stewardship Institute, a nonprofit group that advocates such programs. But none of the bills have passed.

Mr. Cassel said about 70 similar “extended producer responsibility” laws have been enacted in 32 states for other products, like electronic devices, mercury-containing thermometers, fluorescent lamps, paint and batteries. He said he was not aware that any had been struck down on constitutional grounds.

The pharmaceutical industry already pays for take-back programs in some other countries. The law in Alameda is modeled partly on the system in British Columbia and two other Canadian provinces. There, the industry formed the Post-Consumer Pharmaceutical Stewardship Association, which runs the programs.

Consumers can take unused drugs back to pharmacies, from which they are periodically collected. Drug companies pay for the program in proportion to their market share, said Ginette Vanasse, executive director of the association. The program for British Columbia, with a population over four million, costs about $500,000 a year, she said.

The extent of the problem of unused pills and how best to handle them are matters of debate.

The United States Geological Survey has found various drugs, including antidepressants, antibiotics, heart medicines and hormones, in waterways it has sampled. Sewage treatment plants and drinking water treatment plants are not meant to remove pharmaceuticals.

Still, it is not known what effect the chemicals might have. “It’s a hard-to-pin-down problem,” said Sonya Lunder, a senior analyst at the Environmental Working Group, an advocacy group. It is thought that trace amounts in drinking water are probably not harmful. But larger amounts found in wastewater could be having an impact on wildlife.

It is also unclear whether take-back programs will help. Experts generally agree that the bigger source of pollution is urine and feces containing the remnants of drugs that are ingested, not the unused pills flushed down the toilet.

PhRMA also argues that take-back programs will not help much with the problem of drug abuse either. Mr. Spears said that it was better to have consumers tie up unused pills in a plastic bag and throw them in the trash. That is more effective, he said, because people would not have to travel to a collection point. Such collection points could become targets for thieves and drug abusers.
183 2012-12-07 Now, the authorities are investigating allegations that Ms. Deaton, 27, was drugged, sexually assaulted and killed on the orders of her husband, Tyler Deaton, 26, a man described by witnesses as a Pied Piper-like leader who gathered a band of young people around him and pressured them to engage in sexual practices under the guise of religious devotion. Mr. Moore has been charged with first-degree murder. Mr. Deaton and others are still under investigation.

“Each case is a puzzle,” said Sheriff Mike Sharp of Jackson County, whose department is leading the investigation. “And this one’s got hundreds of pieces.”

Mr. Deaton and his followers, including Ms. Deaton, moved here from three years ago to be close to the International House of Prayer, which draws tens of thousands of people from around the world to its 24-hour prayer hall in a former strip mall and to its university in nearby Grandview, a Kansas City suburb. Mr. Deaton and Mr. Moore had both been students at the International House of Prayer University.

The International House of Prayer — widely referred to as — has distanced itself from the case, saying that it was it was unaware of Mr. Deaton’s splinter group, which church leaders said operated independently and “under a veil of secrecy.”

“IHOP did not know what Deaton was doing,” said Ed Novak, a lawyer who is representing the church, adding, “That group that he organized and was working with, IHOP has no knowledge of, no oversight over and no participation in.”

But in the surrounding community, the killing has renewed debate about the church — which has acquired an increasing number of properties in Grandview and neighboring areas — and discussion about the line between religion and cult. Some critics have expressed concern that the church’s teachings, which emphasize charismatic beliefs like the power of prophecy, miracles and preparation for the end times, may create an atmosphere that allows the emergence of practices like those attributed to Mr. Deaton and his followers.

Keith Gibson, an evangelical pastor and author of a book that is critical of the church’s doctrines, said that he does not regard the International House of Prayer or its leaders as sinister. “But it would seem that the structures to correct abuses are not strongly in place,” he said, and that the emphasis on prophecy “leaves their followers without a grid to judge other people claiming to be prophets who might be more sinister in their methods.”

For Ms. Deaton, religion formed a central core of her life. She and others followed Mr. Deaton to Kansas City after graduating from Southwestern University, a small Methodist liberal arts college in Georgetown, Tex., in 2009. The couple married in August.

Kate Farlow, Ms. Deaton’s supervisor at Menorah Medical Center in Overland Park, Kan., where she worked with cardiology patients, described her as “a gifted young woman,” whose “beautiful big blue eyes” would light up when she talked about her faith or about her goal of becoming a missionary overseas.

“She was very spiritual and very inspiring in the way she loved talking to patients,” Ms. Farlow said.

On Nov. 6, a week after Ms. Deaton died, 100 people, including her husband and her parents, crowded into a funeral home overlooking Longview Lake to mourn her passing.

But according to Mr. Novak, the lawyer, members of Mr. Deaton’s group made statements at the service that alarmed officials from the International House of Prayer who attended. The next day, Mr. Deaton was informed that he was no longer welcome on any church property or at the university, Mr. Novak said.

On Nov. 9, Mr. Moore, escorted by senior church leaders, walked into the Grandview Police Department and told officers that Ms. Deaton’s death was no suicide.

Mr. Moore, the court document said, told the investigators that Mr. Deaton had instructed him to kill his wife, saying that “he knew Micah had it in him to do it.”

Over the course of months, Mr. Moore said, he and several other men had sexually assaulted Ms. Deaton at the house on East 122nd Street where she lived with her husband and other group members. The assaults had been recorded on an iPad and written about in poems, the documents said Mr. Moore had told one of the International House of Prayer leaders. Ms. Deaton had also been given Seroquel, an antipsychotic drug, during the assaults and in a water bottle before she was killed.

Mr. Moore told investigators that Ms. Deaton was killed because of fears that she would tell a therapist she was seeing about the sexual assaults.

In interviews with detectives, several men who lived in the house said they had been involved in “secret” sexual relationships with Mr. Deaton. After Ms. Deaton’s death, one witness said, Mr. Deaton mentioned having dreamed that “he had killed his wife by suffocating her.”

Jean Peters Baker, the Jackson County prosecutor, said the International House of Prayer was not a focus of the investigation. She views Mr. Moore, she said, as “a coldblooded killer.”

But after a court hearing last week, Melanie Morgan, one of two lawyers representing Mr. Moore, said there was no proof that a crime had taken place. Her client’s statements to the police, she said, were those of “a distraught and confused young man under extreme psychological pressure” and his confession was “fictional.”

“The facts suggest Bethany Deaton’s death was an unfortunate suicide and Micah Moore had nothing to do with that suicide,” Ms. Morgan said.

Ms. Baker, the prosecutor, said that her office was still awaiting a final report from the medical examiner’s office. A preliminary hearing has been postponed until January. In the meantime, a grand jury will take up the case.

Sheriff Sharp said that Mr. Deaton — who on his page lists , learning Greek and Hebrew, and Dietrich Bonhoeffer’s book “Life Together” as “likes” — had since returned to Texas. (Messages left on his voice mail and on Facebook and his e-mail received no response.)

Meanwhile, in online forums and in neighborhoods where students and worshipers from the International House of Prayer live, often crowded together in houses and apartments, arguments continue about whether the church’s influence had any role in Ms. Deaton’s death.

Mike Bickle, the pastor of the International House of Prayer, recently gave a sermon warning church members about the danger of cults. But in online forums, disaffected former church members have claimed that the church itself engages in cultlike practices, like telling members to stop communicating with their families (the International House of Prayer has denied this).

Several active church members, asked about the Deaton case, declined to discuss it. A reporter who approached customers at the Higher Grounds coffee shop, part of the prayer hall complex, was politely asked to leave by one of the church’s security guards, many of whom are armed, and referred to the church’s public relations specialist.

But Anna Alvarez, a baker who lives down the street from the now-deserted house where Mr. Deaton gathered his flock, said, “IHOP has always kind of given me the creeps.”

“They tend to attract people who are already naïve,” said Ms. Alvarez, noting that the cars of people visiting the Deaton house often filled the street. “They think that everybody in the organization is just like them, but it’s really easy if a wolf is there to just pull it apart.”
184 2012-12-07 Yet Tazreen was making clothing destined for some of the world’s top retailers. On the third floor, where firefighters later recovered 69 bodies, Ms. Pakhi was stitching sweater jackets for C&A, a European chain. On the fifth floor, workers were making Faded Glory shorts for . Ten bodies were recovered there. On the sixth floor, a man named Hashinur Rahman put down his work making True Desire lingerie for and eventually helped save scores of others. Inside one factory office, labor activists found order forms and drawings for a licensee of the that makes commercial apparel with the Marines’ logo.

In all, 112 workers were killed in a blaze last month that has exposed a glaring disconnect among global clothing brands, the monitoring system used to protect workers and the factories actually filling the orders. After the fire, Walmart, Sears and other retailers made the same startling admission: They say they did not know that Tazreen Fashions was making their clothing.

But who, then, is ultimately responsible when things go so wrong?

The global apparel industry aspires to operate with accountability that extends from distant factories to retail stores. Big brands demand that factories be inspected by accredited auditing firms so that the brands can control quality and understand how, where and by whom their goods are made. If a factory does not pass muster, it is not supposed to get orders from Western customers.

Tazreen Fashions was one of many clothing factories that exist on the margins of this system. Factory bosses had been faulted for violations during inspections conducted on behalf of Walmart and at the behest of the Business Social Compliance Initiative, a European organization.

Yet Tazreen Fashions received orders anyway, slipping through the gaps in the system by delivering the low costs and quick turnarounds that buyers — and consumers — demand. C&A, the European retailer, has confirmed ordering 220,000 sweaters from the factory. But much of the factory’s business came through opaque networks of subcontracts with suppliers or local buying houses. Labor activists, combing the site of the disaster, found labels, order forms, design drawings and articles of clothing from many global brands.

Walmart and Sears have since said they fired the suppliers that subcontracted work to Tazreen Fashions. Yet some critics have questioned how a company like Walmart, one of the two biggest buyers in Bangladesh and renowned for its sophisticated global supply system, could have been unaware of the connection.

The factory’s owner, Delowar Hossain, said his managers arranged work through local middlemen. “We don’t know the buyers,” Mr. Hossain said in an interview. “The local man is important. The buyer — I don’t care.”

Bangladesh is now a garment manufacturing giant, the world’s second-leading apparel exporter, behind , which is no longer the cheapest place to make many basic goods. Bangladesh has the lowest garment wages in the world, and many of the Tazreen factory’s victims were young rural women with little education, who earned as little as $45 a month in an industry that now accounts for $19 billion in exports.

In Bangladesh, public outrage about the fire has boiled over. An estimated 100,000 people attended the burial ceremony of 53 workers whose bodies could not be identified. Industry leaders have promised financial support for survivors and the families of the dead. The Bangladeshi government has started inspecting the country’s 4,500 garment factories; it has already found fire code violations in almost a third of the hundreds it has examined.

“Now we have to do much more,” said Mohammad Shafiul Islam Mohiuddin, president of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers and Exporters Association, conceding past failures. “We have learned. We start from here.”

In the United States, Labor Secretary compared the Tazreen blaze to the 1911 Triangle shirtwaist factory fire in New York, which led to sweeping reforms of American sweatshops. In Bangladesh, factory fires have been a persistent problem, with the International Labor Rights Forum saying more than 600 garment workers have died in such fires since 2005.

And even before the Tazreen blaze, outside pressure was building on Bangladesh’s garment sector to increase wages and ease restrictions on union organizing. Secretary of State , along with European diplomats, has urged the government to investigate the unsolved murder of a labor organizer, Aminul Islam.

In reconstructing the deadly blaze, interviewed more than two dozen survivors; relatives of the victims; Bangladeshi fire officials; garment factory owners and managers; auditors; and others. In the end, analysts said, the conflagration was a tragic byproduct of an industry in which global brands and retailers, encouraged by hundreds of millions of consumers around the world, are still primarily motivated by the bottom line.

“We as consumers like to be able to buy ever-greater quantities of ever-cheaper goods, every year,” said Richard M. Locke, deputy dean of the Sloan School of Management. “Somebody is bearing the cost of it, and we don’t want to know about it. The people bearing the cost were in this fire.”

Several months ago, Shima Akhter Pakhi was summoned to the sixth floor of Tazreen Fashions. Ms. Pakhi, 24, had worked at the factory for three years, and every month she sent money back to her family in rural Bangladesh. Now she earned a monthly base salary of $51, maybe $20 more with overtime. Up on the sixth floor, managers were tapping her for fire safety duty.

When Ms. Pakhi started at Tazreen, the factory had only three floors, but the owner was adding five upper floors in expectation that business would grow. The empty, unfinished sixth floor was nearly the size of a football field. Ms. Pakhi and a few other employees were handed fire extinguishers and taught to remove the pin, squeeze the handle and spray. They were also told that in the case of a fire on upper floors, employees should evacuate down the staircases in descending order from top to bottom.

“They did not tell us what we would do if the fire started on the ground floor,” Ms. Pakhi recalled.

Fire investigators say the blaze erupted on the cavernous ground floor after stacks of yarn and fabric caught fire. Had the fabric been stored in an enclosed, fireproof room, as required by law, the fire could have been contained and the workers could have escaped.

Instead, the blaze spread quickly, pushing up the staircases, along with toxic fumes from burning acrylic. Investigators discovered that few fire extinguishers had been used. And, finally, managers made a catastrophic mistake by initially dismissing the fire alarm.

“They killed time,” said Abu Nayeem Mohammad Shahidullah, the director general of Bangladesh’s national fire service. “Time was so precious, so important. But they said it was a false alarm.”

Mr. Hossain, the factory owner, said in a separate interview with Bangladeshi news media that he did not know why managers on the floor would have tried to stop employees from leaving the factory. He added that none of the gates in the staircases were locked.

Managers had been preparing the factory for inspections from buyers and staged a drill a few days before the fire, several employees said. Ms. Pakhi said managers had even displayed photographs of the fire training session on bulletin boards.

“I think they took the pictures and hung them on the board to show the buyers,” she said. “They would see the pictures and think they have trained people to fight fires. But personally, I don’t think I could fight fires with this training.”

Tazreen Fashions is part of a larger garment conglomerate, the Tuba Group, which owns at least half a dozen apparel factories in Bangladesh. Mr. Hossain said a team from Walmart’s local office conducted a compliance audit last year and faulted the factory for excessive overtime, while making no mention of fire safety or other issues. Moreover, he said, the local buying houses had also inspected and approved the factory, tantamount, he assumed, to approval from Walmart and the other global brands these middlemen represented.

Kevin Gardner, a Walmart spokesman, said the company stopped authorizing production at Tazreen “many months before the fire.” But he did not say why. Accredited outside auditors inspected the factory on Walmart’s behalf at least twice in 2011, he said. That May, auditors gave the factory an “orange” rating, meaning there were “higher-risk violations.” Three months later, the factory’s grade improved to “yellow,” meaning there were “medium-risk violations.”

Sears, in a statement, said its supplier “was not authorized” to produce goods at the Tazreen factory and that it had done so “in violation” of Sears’s rules.

But David Hasanat, the chairman of the Viyellatex Group, one of the country’s most highly regarded garment manufacturers, pointed out that global apparel retailers often depend on hundreds of factories to fill orders. Given the scale of work, retailers frequently place orders through suppliers and other middlemen who, in turn, steer work to factories that deliver low costs — a practice he said is hardly unknown to Western retailers and clothing brands. The order for Walmart’s Faded Glory shorts, documents show, was subcontracted from Simco Bangladesh Ltd., a local garment maker. “It is an open secret to allow factories to do that,” Mr. Hasanat said. “End of the day, for them it is the price that matters.”

On the sixth floor, Hashinur Rahman heard the screams and rushed to a staircase. He and others had been making satiny lingerie, but they pushed past a manager and began descending into thicker and thicker smoke. Ignoring the manager would save their lives.

The factory did not have ceiling sprinklers or an outdoor fire escape. Fire officials later concluded that the two staircases on the eastern side of the building were quickly overwhelmed with fire and toxic smoke. But officials say the lone western staircase remained passable for many minutes and provided an escape route for many survivors. About 1,150 people were working that night, and all of the roughly 300 workers on the second floor managed to escape down the stairs, fire officials said.

Mr. Rahman, 32, had barely made it out of the building, along with many of his colleagues, when his cellphone rang. It was a friend who worked on the third floor. Hundreds of people were trapped.

Mr. Rahman said he ran to the narrow alley that separated the factory’s western wall from a building under construction. The gap was maybe five feet. Work crews had covered the western wall with rickety bamboo scaffolding so they could put plaster on the exterior of the still-unfinished Tazreen factory.

Mr. Rahman climbed the bamboo to a third-floor window covered with an iron grille. He leapt onto a concrete slab of the new building and found a brick. He began smashing the grille, trying to break it open. He looked inside and saw his co-workers’ desperate faces. They were in the room where samples were made and sent to buyers for final approval, and they stood on sewing tables, pulling frantically on the grille.

One seamstress, who goes by a single name, Rahima, had tried to escape the third floor by a stairwell but began choking on smoke. As the smoke thickened, Ms. Rahima said, she fell to the floor. Then people trampled her.

“When I fell down, and the people were stepping on me, I did not think I would survive,” she recalled. “But then I thought of my daughter.”

Ms. Rahima had been married to a husband who beat her. When their daughter was born five years ago, the husband fled. Ms. Rahima left her village to find work in the garment industry, which has provided an escape from grinding rural poverty for millions of women like her in Bangladesh and around the world. She moved into a rented room with her two sisters and got a job at Tazreen. In the village, Ms. Rahima’s parents cared for her daughter while she sent back money. Two days before the fire, the little girl arrived for a rare visit.

“I got my strength, and I stood up,” Ms. Rahima said. “I ran to the sample room.”

A few men jumped to the concrete slab of the adjacent building. Leaning against the scaffolding, they reached across the gap to help co-workers make the leap. Women went first. Ms. Rahima made it across. So did Ms. Pakhi. On other floors, people smashed open windows or tore out exhaust fans and leapt into the darkness. Some landed on the metal roofs of nearby shanties. Some landed on the ground.

And some never made it out at all.

As word spread, people raced to the factory: mothers, fathers, husbands, wives and gawkers. Soon a throng stood beneath the building, their faces glowing in the cruel brilliance of the flames. Golapi Begum left her own factory job and raced to Tazreen Fashions to find her son, Palash Mian. He was 18 and worked on the fifth floor. Ms. Begum stared up at the factory and shrieked.

Then her cellphone rang. It was her son.

“Ma, I have no way to save my life,” he told her. “I cannot find any way to get out. I am in the bathroom of the fifth floor. I am wearing a black T-shirt. And I have a shirt wrapped around my waist. You will find me in the bathroom.”

He hung up. He called his father, as well as several friends. Then his phone went dead.

“I became insane,” his mother said. “I spent the whole night in front of the main gate of the factory. I was screaming all the time.”

She found him the next day. Rescuers had lined up all the recovered bodies on the grounds of a nearby school. Family members unzipped bag after bag, searching. One husband looking in vain for his young wife said the charred human remains looked like chunks of coal.

But Ms. Begum unzipped a bag and found her son. She recognized his face. And he was wearing a black T-shirt.

She collected his body and returned it to their village, where he was buried.
185 2012-12-07 Tommy Vietor, the spokesman for the National Security Council, said Thursday that “ ‘moving around’ means proliferation,” as in allowing extremist groups like Hezbollah, which has training camps near the weapons sites, to obtain the material.

Such shifts are nothing new in global standoffs; the Israelis have moved their lines more than a half-dozen times in recent years when talking about how close they would allow Iran to get toward the capacity to build a nuclear weapon before taking action.

But for Mr. Obama, the change in wording reflects the difficult politics and logistics of acting pre-emptively against Mr. Assad. No American president has talked more about the need to prevent the use of weapons of mass destruction, and to lock down existing stockpiles. And no president has insisted more publicly that this is a time for the United States to exit wars in the Middle East, not enter new ones.

“We’re kind of boxed in,” an administration official said this week as intelligence agencies in the United States and its allies were trying to figure out the worrisome activity at one or two of the three dozen sites where Syria’s chemical weapons are stockpiled. “There’s an issue of presidential credibility here,” the official said. “But our options are quite limited.”

The chief limitation, American and Israeli officials say, is that chemical weapons sites cannot be safely bombed. “That could create the exact situation we are trying to avoid,” said one senior American military official, who like several others interviewed would speak only on the condition of anonymity.

Making things worse, many of the storage sites are near the border with Jordan, raising the possibility that any plume of chemicals created by an attack could drift over the territory of an American ally. Putting troops on the ground has never been a serious option, American officials say.

But the Israelis clearly take the concept of pre-emptive strikes seriously. They conducted one against Saddam Hussein’s nuclear reactor in Iraq in 1981, and another, against a North Korean-built reactor in the Syrian desert, in September 2007.

“I don’t think we’d act again unless we thought Hezbollah might get their hands on these weapons,” said one senior Israeli official. “But we’ve proven that we are willing to do it, and probably more willing than the Americans.”

When Mr. Obama warned against moving chemical weapons, administration officials said he did not mean shifting the weapons from one site to another, which has happened several times, but preparing them for use.

But in recent days, that is exactly what intelligence agencies fear has happened. American officials have detected that Syrian troops have mixed small amounts of precursor chemicals for sarin, a deadly nerve gas, at one or two storage sites — though there is no indication that Mr. Assad, whose troops are under fierce assault from rebel forces, is ready to order the use of his arsenal.

Mr. Panetta said Thursday that the administration was “very concerned, very concerned” that as the opposition fighters close in on Damascus, the Syrian capital, the Assad government might actually use a chemical weapon. Over the past four decades, Syria has amassed one of the largest undeclared stockpiles of chemicals in the world, including huge supplies of mustard gas, sarin nerve agent and cyanide, according to unclassified reports by the C.I.A.
186 2012-12-07 Lionel Messi’s bone bruise on his left knee could force him to miss Sunday’s Spanish league match at Real Betis, but probably no games beyond that. He collided with Benfica goalkeeper Artur late in Wednesday’s Champions League match while trying to score a goal that would have tied him with Gerd Müller for the most goals in a calendar year.

¶ The 2020 European Championship will be played across the continent, rather than in one or two countries, as is customary. The UEFA president, Michel Platini, said he wanted to give smaller countries an opportunity to host.

¶ Chelsea midfielder John Obi Mikel was barred for three matches and fined about $100,000 for confronting a Premier League referee in the official’s locker room. Mikel had approached the referee, Mark Clattenburg, after the match against Manchester United on Oct. 28, having been wrongly informed by a teammate that the referee had racially abused him.
187 2012-12-07 While Ernst settled the shareholder suit, it said it would fight new charges by the Ontario Securities Commission that the audit firm failed to follow proper audit procedures. It was the commission suit, filed this week, that disclosed the e-mails exchanged by the auditors.

“We are confident that Ernst & Young Canada’s work was conducted in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS) and met all professional standards,” the firm said in a statement. “The evidence we will present to the O.S.C. will show that Ernst & Young Canada did extensive audit work to verify ownership and existence of Sino-Forest’s timber assets.”

However extensive the work, the audit failed to uncover the essential truth: the assets were fake.

Frauds, and audit failures, can happen in many countries. But China is a special case because the authorities there seem to be completely uninterested in getting to the bottom of scandals whose victims are American or Canadian investors. Even regulators in Hong Kong have voiced frustration with their mainland colleagues.

Last week China sent another delegation to the United States to talk about these issues with American regulators, and a Chinese official was quoted by The Financial Times as telling a Hong Kong audience that audit working papers should be shared with other regulators — something the Chinese supposedly agreed to a decade ago but had never actually done. “I think we’ll shortly be able to work out a way to deliver those papers,” he said.

The American regulators have heard those stories before. In July, the chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, Guo Shuqing, told Mary L. Schapiro, then the chairwoman of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, that he thought an agreement could be reached. It turned out that the Chinese insisted they would provide documents only if the S.E.C. promised not to use them in an enforcement proceeding without Chinese permission.

The week the S.E.C. filed court papers, in connection with its pending case against a Chinese affiliate of Deloitte, laying out case after case in which American regulators asked for assistance through obtaining audit work papers or even something as simple as verifying that a Chinese company existed. Repeatedly, the Chinese said something could be worked out, but somehow nothing ever was.

Separately, the S.E.C. this week filed proceedings against five Chinese audit firms — affiliates of the Big Four and of BDO — saying the five firms had refused to comply with S.E.C. subpoenas for audit work papers related to nine separate investigations of Chinese companies.

The firms maintain that they are caught in the middle between China and the United States, and that they cannot violate Chinese law by providing the documents. That has led to a standoff.

This might not matter so much if the auditors were doing decent jobs. But in many cases they have not, as can be seen from the succession of frauds that went undetected until short-sellers investigated. China has responded by throwing at least one such investigator in jail, which seems to have slowed the rate of such informal investigations. Are the auditors deliberately certifying frauds? Maybe some are, but that is not really necessary.

“It is the rare case when an auditor can be corrupted,” James Doty, the chairman of the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which was established a decade ago to regulate the industry, told an auditing conference at Baruch College last week. But, he added, “An auditor need only look the other way, accept a well-annotated rationalization, focus on corroborating evidence. An auditor need only say, ‘I don’t object.’ ‘It’s a matter of judgment.’ ‘The literature is unclear.’ ”

Greg Medcraft, the chairman of the Australian securities regulator, said this week that the quality of Australian audits, as shown by his agency’s inspections, had been declining. He said auditors were not getting sufficient evidence to support their conclusions and were not showing enough “professional skepticism” regarding what managements told them.

Mr. Doty’s board, like the S.E.C., has been doing a lot of talking to China. Every so often there appears to be progress, but there is no indication that the board will be allowed to take part in joint inspections with Chinese authorities of Chinese audit firms that certify the statements of companies traded in this country, or that take part in worldwide audits of major American multinationals.

When I talked to him this week, he sounded frustrated. He said the board was still pursuing an agreement, “recognizing that investors benefit from regulatory cooperation and that Chinese authorities want the credibility and respect of global investors that will come from conducting joint inspections and agreeing to an enforcement information sharing protocol.

“We are at a crossroads, though, and absent a near-term agreement that gives us meaningful access, will not hesitate to consider all appropriate and necessary alternatives to protect U.S. investors.”

Such tough talk may or may not be followed by real action if China keeps stalling, as seems likely. Already word has spread that the change in Chinese leadership may slow things down as new officials settle into their jobs.

The accounting oversight board could revoke the registrations of uncooperative Chinese firms, a move that would force their clients to stop trading in this country. But it seems unlikely the board or the S.E.C. would take such a step without approval of the State and Treasury Departments, and ultimately of the White House. Nor is it clear how that would help American investors who already own the securities.

The volume of new Chinese frauds seems to have declined, and there are few new listings of such companies — either because American investors have grown wary or because Chinese companies don’t want to deal with regulators who think investor protection is important.

One can only imagine the conversations of Chinese corporate officials as they discuss how gullible Americans turned out to be.
188 2012-12-07 “I’m willing to, but if it works that I’m not, so be it,” he said. “I will not be a person that’s going to stick an extra check in my tax bill as my donation to my country.”

Unless the White House and Congress are able to reach an agreement, federal taxes are scheduled to rise sharply next year for a large majority of Americans. Tax cuts first passed in 2001 and 2003 under President George W. Bush are scheduled to expire. So are cuts passed during Mr. Obama’s first term.

The president’s plan would prevent most of the scheduled increase for those below an income threshold Mr. Obama generally describes as $250,000. The Senate has passed similar legislation.

But Democrats remain at loggerheads with House Republicans, who want to prevent scheduled increases for the most affluent households, too. And the parties disagree about how to prune federal spending.

The number that now divides the parties was introduced by Mr. Obama in 2007, in the early days of the presidential campaign, when he promised to extend the Bush tax cuts for families that made less than that amount. “I can make a firm pledge,” Mr. Obama said in September 2008. “Under my plan, no family making less than $250,000 a year will see any form of tax increase. Not your income tax, not your payroll tax, not your capital gains taxes, not any of your taxes.”

When policy makers talk about income, however, they do not mean the amount of money a family earns; they mean the portion subject to taxes. For those who itemize their tax deductions, the government does not tax interest payments on mortgages or charitable donations, among other things, up to certain limits. As a result, two families with the same incomes will most likely have different taxable incomes.

To guarantee that tax rates do not increase for any family making less than $250,000, the Obama administration proposed in 2009 to raise marginal rates on taxable income above roughly $230,000 — because the minimum amount of income a family is entitled to shelter from taxation is roughly $20,000.

But the average amount families in that income range are entitled to shelter from taxation is much larger, closer to $60,000. In other words, families with taxable income of $230,000 on average earned about $290,000 in 2009.

“They wanted to be able to say that ‘Absolutely nobody making less than $250,000 could possibly pay higher taxes under our plan,’ ” said Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal advocacy group. “So they had to assume the most ridiculous assumptions, that even if you’re a childless couple with no itemized deductions making $250,001, your taxes still won’t go up. They figured that if this couple existed and their taxes went up, somebody would find them and jump on ’em.”

Furthermore, to remain consistent with the president’s original promise, the administration has adjusted the original numbers for inflation. When Mr. Obama says $250,000, the White House says he means “in 2009 dollars.” It is now proposing to raise marginal rates on families with taxable incomes above $246,000 — meaning, on average, families earning more than about $305,000.

While the president has said that he wants to raise tax rates for the top 2 percent, only about 1 percent of taxpayers will face higher marginal rates, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center, a widely respected research group.

The restoration of the other provisions temporarily suspended by the Bush tax cuts, including limits on deductions and higher taxes on investment income, still would raise taxes for only about 32 percent of families with income from $250,000 to $300,000, according to an analysis by Citizens for Tax Justice. About 77 percent of families with income of $300,000 to $350,000 would face an increase.

Neera Tanden, domestic policy director for Mr. Obama’s 2008 general election campaign, said the president might not have succeeded in rallying popular support for any tax increase if he had not made the $250,000 promise.

But Ms. Tanden, now president of the left-leaning Center for American Progress, said the administration should reconsider that commitment.

She co-authored a deficit-reduction plan released earlier this week recommending modest tax increases on households making as little as $100,000.

“We think it’s reasonable to ask a couple more dollars from people who make $150,000,” she said.

Some of the beneficiaries see good reasons their taxes should not rise.

“I wouldn’t exactly say I’m disappointed,” said Ryan Ruby, 36, of Bothell, Wash., after learning that the president’s tax plan probably would not affect him even though he and his wife make $250,000 to $300,000 a year. “I do think our tax rates should go up eventually, but right now I think the need for people to have disposable income to get the economy moving is probably more important than broadening the base.”

Most affluent households still will pay higher taxes next year for other reasons.

A two-year-old payroll tax break is scheduled to lapse at the end of this year. That would increase Social Security taxes by 2 percentage points on wage income below $113,700.

And the Affordable Care Act levies new taxes specifically targeting married couples earning more than $250,000 and singles earning more than $200,000 in adjusted gross income.
189 2012-12-07 Russia, as expected, has introduced a proposal to shift oversight over the Internet, including the address system, to an international body, contending that the United States wields too much influence over this. The address function is now handled by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, a private body that operates under a United States government contract.

“We fundamentally disagree with that,” Mr. Kramer said, referring to the Russian proposal. “Once governments are in that role, they are in position to decide how the Internet operates, what kind of information flows there, et cetera.”

Campaigners against restrictions on the Internet have also expressed concerns about proposals to bolster security and to crack down on spam — fearing that this could be used as a pretext for censorship — as well as about a proposed technical standard for “deep packet inspection.” This refers to technology that can be used to examine the content of traffic that passes through telecommunications networks.

It is unclear which, if any, of these initiatives might make it into the final treaty. The talks are set to continue through next week, and Mr. Kramer has pledged to block any proposals that would threaten the integrity of the Internet. The telecommunication union says proposals will be adopted only if they meet with widespread support at the conference, whose goal is to update regulations that date to 1988.

Groups that favor an open Internet have criticized the process as lacking transparency. While some meetings are going on behind closed doors, the union moved to provide webcasts of the plenary sessions, in which delegates from more than 190 countries are debating the proposals.

On Wednesday, however, access to the webcasts and other material on the union’s Web site was briefly blocked; the group said hackers appeared to have been responsible.

“Some delegates were frustrated at being unable to access some of the online working documents that were being considered by the meeting,” the union said in a statement. “However, a spirit of camaraderie prevailed, with those who had access to up-to-date online versions of the texts willingly sharing with other delegates in order to keep discussions moving forward.”

So far, fears that the conference could turn raucous have not come to pass.

“The world is having a conversation,” said Sally Shipman Wentworth, senior manager of public policy at the Internet Society, whose members include Internet companies, governance groups and others. “The meeting rooms are full, and everyone wants to have a chance to be heard. It’s been pretty collegial so far.”
190 2012-12-07 To participate, countries would have to agree to “contractual arrangements” that would commit them to addressing national weaknesses, like bottlenecks to growth and unemployment. That is the kind of conditionality designed to appeal to German sensibilities.

But that recommendation will disappoint leaders from countries including France and Italy, which favor the issuance of shared debt in the form of so-called eurobonds.

The report also played down the need for a euro zone system of bank deposit guarantees. Instead, the report suggested that a single supervisor under the aegis of the E.C.B. would ensure “strict and impartial” oversight of banks. This would be combined with a system to cover the cost of shutting down failing lenders in an orderly way. That, the report says, would help prevent frail banks from endangering national finances and pushing countries toward the need for full bailouts.

At the summit meeting next week, Mr. Van Rompuy is expected to seek a firm agreement on setting up a bank resolution fund by the end of 2014, financed mainly by levies on the banks themselves rather than by taxpayers.

But if finance ministers fail to reach agreement on how to establish the new banking supervisor at a gathering on the eve of the meeting E.U. leaders would arrive the following day without a cornerstone in place for the reforms envisioned by Mr. Van Rompuy and his co-authors.

The report recommends that rules be put in place by April 2013 to allow countries including Spain to move the burden of bailing out their teetering banking sectors from national balance sheets and onto the ledger of the European Stability Mechanism, the euro zone’s bailout fund. That timing is awkward for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who faces national elections in October 2013, because such a system would likely stoke unease among voters who fear they could eventually be stuck with most of the bill for bailing out weaker economies.

In fact, a system for the direct recapitalization of banks is likely to go ahead only once the supervisor is fully operating in January 2014, and once there is agreement among euro area countries on whether the capital could be used to help troubled banking systems. Finance ministers from Germany, Finland and the Netherlands have said they want the funds to be used only to recapitalize banks that get into trouble in the future.

Analysts said that public support could remain a stumbling block.

“As far as democratic legitimacy and accountability is concerned, there is little progress from the interim report” Mr. Von Rompuy released this year, Philippe Gudin de Vallerin, an economist at Barclays, wrote in a briefing note on Thursday. “The European Parliament, together with national parliaments, are set to play an important role, but the general institutional framework remains quite vague.”
191 2012-12-07 Then there were the gallery owners who had sold works to Mr. Cohen. As a general rule, the more business they have conducted with the man, the more worried they are likely to be.

“It’s disconcerting,” said Timothy Blum, co-owner of Blum & Poe, a gallery in Los Angeles. “We’re talking about a lot of liquid,” he added, meaning money. “A lot of liquid. I’ve never calculated it out, but he’s responsible for a significant percent of our business.”

For Mr. Blum and other elite gallery owners, there is sincere dread at the notion, however remote, that Mr. Cohen may one day be sidelined. Known in the securities world for astounding investment returns and an occasionally volcanic temper, he is described by dealers as the ideal collector — warm, dedicated, eager to take home the best pieces and unafraid to spend what it takes.

“We would absolutely hate to have him not active in the market, I can wholeheartedly say that,” said David Zwirner, who owns a gallery that bears his name in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. “This man is a friend of mine. I called him last week — ‘How are you? What’s going on?’ I think the art world is rooting for him. I’m rooting for him. I wish he were here right now.”

Two years ago, Mr. Cohen arrived at Mr. Zwirner’s booth in the opening minutes of the V.I.P. preview day and dropped $300,000 on a work by Adel Abdessemed, an Algerian-born artist who lives in Paris. Within the hour, Mr. Cohen had reportedly spent an additional $180,000 at Blum & Poe for a work by Tim Hawkinson called “Bike.”

The fair didn’t officially open until Thursday, but on Wednesday the convention center was already radiating an air of unabashed opulence. Cavernous, and crammed with product, the place is a kind of Costco for the rich, where the prices range from a low of a few thousand dollars to a high of “we don’t give out that information.” Women pushing carts handed out free flutes of Ruinart Champagne, the official Champagne of Art Basel Miami Beach.

Will Ferrell, the comedian, was one of handful of celebrities in the crowd. Wearing mirrored aviator sunglasses and sporting a green shirt with “Ireland” emblazoned on the back of the neck, he said he already knew what he wanted.

“The sponge cake,” he deadpanned, nodding toward a cube of marble covered with frostinglike swirls, a work by the Chinese artist Ai Weiwei. “They don’t know it yet,” he said, referring to the dealers at Lisson Gallery, where the block sat. “But it’s done.”

Several people who were asked about Mr. Cohen described prosecutors’ apparent pursuit of him as a witch hunt. Eli Broad, a businessman and philanthropist with one of country’s most significant art collections, took a quick break from browsing on Wednesday to say that all the talk about Mr. Cohen is “a lot of gossip. And the art world loves to gossip.”

This may be true, but many in the art world are also reluctant to forecast what it may mean if Mr. Cohen ends his shopping sprees at fairs or stops waving paddles at the auction houses. (Or, to be more precise, stops hiring a consultant to wave on his behalf.) Those willing to speculate thought it was a bit premature to speculate.

“I don’t mean to sound cavalier but there is this sense at this point that this is much ado about nothing,” says Todd Levin of the Levin Art Group, an art consulting firm. “If there were actual allegations by the S.E.C. and those turned into actual charges and if it actually went to trial, then we’d have something to talk about. Until then, I don’t think anyone is paying attention to this.”

That said, if the worst happened to Mr. Cohen and he wound up in prison, “would there be an effect?” asks Mr. Levin. “Sure, but only in the super, super, superhigh end of the modern and contemporary markets. There would still be plenty of people buying in the eight-figure range and plenty buying in the seven-figure range. There are a lot of really wealthy people in the world, in Brazil, England, other parts of Europe, China. If one billionaire stops buying art, it’s unfortunate, but the world goes on.”

Because Mr. Cohen has so much money, he is unlikely to ever have to sell his collection, experts say. But if he did, he would probably find many willing buyers. History suggests that any tarnish that might attach itself to the reputations of people doesn’t touch their art assets. Mr. Cohen’s well-regarded eye would probably give his works a greater value.

But those who say they believe the art market would be unfazed by Mr. Cohen’s absence are saying something about the market itself, which is now more diverse than ever. “Five or six years ago, all this talk about Steve Cohen might have been quite significant,” says Anders Petterson of ArtTactic, an art market research company based in London, “but he’s now just one of many big fish in this pond.”
192 2012-12-07 While presidents have waived the restrictions since the cold war ended — allowing them to remain on the books as a symbolic sore point with the Russians — the issue took on new urgency this summer after Russia joined the World Trade Organization. As part of its pact with the trade group, Russia lowered tariffs for other member countries, but only those that granted it normal trade status.

By some estimates, American exports to Russia are expected to double after its trade status is revised.

But another effect of the bill — and one that has Russian officials furious with Washington — will be to require that the federal government freeze the assets of Russians implicated in human rights abuses and deny them visas.

Lawmakers on Capitol Hill were inspired to attach those provisions to the trade legislation because of the case of Sergei L. Magnitsky, a Russian lawyer who sustained serious injuries and died in a Moscow detention center in 2009 after he accused government officials of a tax fraud scheme.

During the Senate debate, it was Mr. Magnitsky’s case, and not Russia’s trade status, that occupied most of the time.

One by one, Democratic and Republican senators alike rose to denounce Russian officials for their disregard for basic freedoms.

“This culture of impunity in Russia has been growing worse and worse,” said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. “There are still many people who look at the Magnitsky Act as anti-Russia. I disagree,” he added. “Ultimately passing this legislation will place the United States squarely on the side of the Russian people and the right side of Russian history, which appears to be approaching a crossroads.”

In Moscow, the denunciation was swift, and legislators promised retaliation with a proposal of their own that would freeze the bank accounts of American human rights violators.

“This initiative is intended to restrict the rights of Russian citizens, which we consider completely unjust and baseless,” said Konstantin Dolgov, the Russian foreign ministry’s human rights envoy, in comments to the Interfax news agency in Brussels. “This is an attempt to interfere in our internal affairs, in the authority of Russia’s investigative and judicial organs, which continue to investigate the Magnitsky case.”

Russian officials have said that Mr. Magnitsky is not the hero his supporters make him out to be, and they have pursued posthumous tax evasion charges against him. And lately the case has taken some more unusual turns. One witness was recently found dead in Britain.

Initially the Senate faced some pressure to pass a bill that punished human rights violators from all nations, not just those who are Russian. But the House bill applied only to Russia. And the Senate followed suit, as supporters of the bill wanted something that would pass quickly and not require a complicated back-and-forth with the House.

But Senator Ben Cardin, a Democrat from Maryland who wrote the bill that would apply internationally to all nations, said the United States position on human rights abusers was unambiguous. “This bill is our standard,” he said. “The world is on notice.”
193 2012-12-07 “I find it hard to see how the supply chains that drive manufacturing are going to move back here,” said Andre Sharon, a professor at and director of the Fraunhofer Center for Manufacturing Innovation. “So much of the know-how has been lost to , and there’s no compelling reason for it to return. It’s great when a company says they want to create American jobs — but it only really helps the country if those are jobs that belong here, if it starts a chain reaction or is part of a bigger economic shift.”

Over the last few years, companies across various industries, including electronics, automotive and medical devices, have announced that they are “reshoring” jobs after decades of shipping them abroad. Lower energy costs in America, rising wages in developing countries like and , quality control issues and the desire to keep the supply chain close to the gigantic American consumer base have all factored into these decisions.

“Companies were going abroad in pursuit of cost reduction, and it turns out there were a lot of unintended costs,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial. “America has been looking a lot more competitive lately.”

Even so, the impact on the American job market has been modest so far. Much of the work brought back has been high-value-added, automated production that requires few actual workers, which is part of the reason America’s higher wages are not scaring off companies.

American manufacturing has been growing in the last two years, but the sector still has two million fewer jobs than it had when the recession began in December 2007. Worldwide manufacturing appears to be growing much faster, even for many of the American-owned companies that are expanding at home. , for example, has hired American workers to build water heaters, refrigerators, dishwashers and high-efficiency topload washers, but continues to add more jobs overseas as well.

Apple has not announced plans to move the complex, faster-growing portions of its product lines. Macs now represent a relatively small part of Apple’s business, accounting for less than 20 percent of its nearly $36 billion in revenue in its most recent quarter. The company’s iPad and iPhone products, which amount to nearly 70 percent of its sales, will continue to be made in low-cost centers of manufacturing like China, mostly on contract with outside companies like .

Mr. Cook’s statements suggested Apple was planning to build more of the Mac’s components domestically, but with partners. He told Bloomberg Businessweek that the plan “doesn’t mean that Apple will do it ourselves, but we’ll be working with people, and we’ll be investing our money.”

Whether Apple’s newly announced plan might help create other higher-paying jobs along the supply line depends on the nature of the manufacturing.

Other computer manufacturing has been trickling back to the United States after largely shifting overseas in the 1990s.

In October, Lenovo, the computer giant based in China, said it would begin making its Think-branded computers, including notebooks, desktops and some tablets, at a facility in Whitsett, N.C. The move will create 115 manufacturing jobs at the plant, the company said.

Mark Stanton, director of global supply chain communications for Lenovo, said that moving the jobs to the United States would allow Lenovo to offer faster turnaround times for its customers in than if the machines were coming from overseas, and that the company was not specifically creating the American jobs because of any political pressure.

“We’re certainly not unaware of the economic situation and political environment,” he said. “It’s an added benefit, but we didn’t go in with that premise. We went in with a business case.”

The globalized model of the electronics industry was shaken last year by supply chain disruptions after floods in . The auto industry faced similar challenges after the tsunami in . Not coincidentally, recently announced that it was adding 1,200 jobs in , and foreign-owned auto manufacturers like Honda and Volkswagen have also invested in more hiring and training in and .

For the most part, companies seem to be stepping up production in the United States for domestic customers, as opposed to exports, said Chad Moutray, the chief economist at the . (Companies are moving their production closer to where their customers are in , too. Five years ago, supplied most of Europe’s desktops from China, but today it manufactures in the , and instead, according to Tony Prophet, senior vice president for operations for H.P.’s PCs and printers.)

But the United States is also becoming a more attractive place to manufacture goods destined for overseas markets. While the National Association of Manufacturers and other business groups complain about an antibusiness and regulatory environment in America, an international ranking from the on the “ease of doing business” placed the United States near the top of the list, and countries like Brazil, and the near the bottom.

“If you ask how many days does it take to open a business, to get electricity, things like that, you realize there are a lot of reasons why the business environment is really much better here than in places where labor happens to be really cheap,” said Torsten Slok, chief international economist at Securities.

On Thursday, the White House said it was encouraging to see more big American companies bringing back manufacturing.

“Policy matters, and our country is pushing policies that encourage manufacturing, R.& D., infrastructure, skills and the support for growing supply chains,” said , director of the president’s National Economic Council. “I think what you want is a mutually reinforcing cycle, where basic economic trends that make the U.S. more competitive for manufacturing and for creating supply chains is encouraged and supported by policies that recognize those location decisions have broader spillover impacts that benefit the economy beyond specific companies.”
194 2012-12-07 KAMPALA, Uganda — Congolese rebels and government officials prepared on Thursday for direct peace talks in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, their first face-to-face encounter since the rebels relinquished Goma, one of the Democratic Republic of Congo’s principal cities, after capturing it last month.

“Since May, we asked Kabila to come to the table,” said Amani Kabasha, a spokesman for the March 23 rebels, or M23, at the rebel-held border post of Rumangabo. Mr. Kabasha said his delegation was awaiting vehicles sent by the Ugandan government to carry them to Kampala. “He didn’t agree, he used force, arms, fighting. But now, because he was defeated, he agrees,” Mr. Kabasha said, referring to President Joseph Kabila.

An uneasy rhythm of commerce and calm returned to Goma this week as Congolese government soldiers again patrolled the streets and the port and airport reopened, allowing a fresh influx of people and cargo, as well as much-needed humanitarian aid for more than 100,000 people displaced by the recent fighting.

“It’s as good as it has been for the last two and a half weeks,” Tariq Riebl, a humanitarian coordinator for Oxfam in Goma, said Thursday. But the situation remained “very dynamic, very fluid,” he said.

In the strategic area of Masisi, to the northwest of Goma, fighting has continued to flare between government troops and numerous militias. Masisi has long been a hotbed of militia groups and ethnic tensions, and humanitarian relief workers said they were increasingly worried about the situation.
195 2012-12-07 HONG KONG — The former prime minister of Thailand, Abhisit Vejjajiva, was charged with murder on Thursday in connection with his role in a military crackdown on antigovernment protesters in Bangkok two and a half years ago.

Tharit Pengdit, the director of Thailand’s Department of Special Investigation, said Mr. Abhisit and his deputy had issued “orders that caused the deaths of many people.”

Mr. Abhisit was charged in the killing of Phan Khamkong, a taxi driver whose case is one of the first from the protests to advance through the courts. More than 90 people were killed in the violence, most of them civilians.

“Even though there was already loss of life, the operations were not stopped and other methods were not implemented,” Mr. Tharit said at a news briefing in Bangkok.

Mr. Tharit said that “at this stage” no charges would be brought against the soldiers who fired at protesters, because they acted under orders and were shielded under Thai law.
196 2012-12-07 Despite the popularity of these high-end meetings, shipping horses is not without risk. Horses are like humans: some travel well, some go along for the ride but would rather stay home, and some break out in a cold sweat the minute they see a suitcase.

Frankel, arguably the best racehorse in the world, retired in October undefeated but never raced outside his native England because he did not travel well.

At the other end of the spectrum, Cirrus des Aigles, the world’s top-rated horse still racing this year and the only one to give Frankel a run for his money, has logged more frequent-flier miles than most. From his base in Chantilly, France, Cirrus has traveled to England, Japan and Dubai and is on his fourth trip to Hong Kong.

While the horse has won three Group 1 races and millions in prize money, it has not all been smooth sailing.

“Two years ago, he came from Japan, and the quarantine was difficult,” said Corine Barande-Barbe, his trainer. “He was a tired horse when he got to Hong Kong. And then last year, he got boxed in in the stretch and couldn’t get a run. This year, he’s had only light racing, and he is really in form.”

Cirrus, a 6-year-old gelding, made his first trip to Hong Kong when he was just 3, finishing fifth in the Hong Kong Vase. He has become a hero in his home country, where he is known as Fighting Cirrus, with a record of 16 victories and 22 places from 45 career starts. Cirrus’s breeding, which could best be described as obscure, with nothing notable in five generations of his maternal line, makes him a flag-bearer for the underdog. He will nonetheless be one of the favorites to win on Sunday.

Trying his best to give him a run will be Saonois, who is also a member of the rags-to-riches set. Bought for just 4,000 euros by a country baker, Saonois won the Group 1 French Derby and the Group 2 Prix Niel this year before heavy ground ended his hopes of winning the Group 1 Prix de l’Arc de Triomphe at Longchamp in October. His owners turned down an offer to buy the horse for a small fortune before the Arc, and now they are hoping that the unseasonably heavy rain in Hong Kong stops soon so they can have a shot on Sunday.

If one of the French contenders wins, it will break a tie. Since the Hong Kong Cup attained Group 1 status and was lengthened to 2,000 meters in 1999, horses trained in France have won three times and Hong Kong-trained horses have won three times. England and the United Arab Emirates have each had two winning horses; the remaining races went to horses from Ireland, South Africa and Japan.

But the home team seems to have a lock on two of the other International races, the Sprint and the Mile. Runners trained in Hong Kong have won nine Sprints since the race was promoted to Group 1 status in 2002. The only foreign winner was JJ the Jet Plane, from South Africa, in 2010. There is little chance of that changing this year because only four horses from abroad will be competing — two from Japan, one from Singapore and one from Australia. Local fans will largely be rooting for Lucky Nine to defend his title from last year.

In the Mile, Hong Kong-based horses have won eight times since the race became a Group 1 in 2000. But the French trainer François Doumen hopes to break the local lock with the filly Siyouma, who heads into the race with Group 1 victories in the Sun Chariot Stakes in Newmarket, England, and the E. P. Taylor Stakes at Woodbine in Toronto.

Doumen knows what it takes to win in Hong Kong, having pioneered shipping there when he won what was then known as the Hong Kong Bowl, a 1,400-meter Group 2 race, in 1998 with Jim and Tonic. He returned with the same horse a year later to win the inaugural Hong Kong Cup, at 2,000 meters.

Winning the Mile might be a tall order for Europe, but the fourth race on the International card, the Vase, has proved elusive for Hong Kong horses.

Run at the European Classic distance of 2,400 meters, the Vase was added to the program as a way of enticing Hong Kong owners to import better stayers. It has not worked: local horses have been unable to wrest the Vase from the grip of Europeans bred to go the distance. Since the race attained Group 1 status in 2000, runners trained in France or England have always won it, with the exception of two editions, when the victors were trained in Japan (2001) and the United Arab Emirates (2010).

This year, France looks like it will have the upper hand, with the three-time Group 1 winner Meandre and the 2011 Melbourne Cup winner Dunaden lining up.
197 2012-12-07 Robert Lescher, a literary agent and steward to the works of a wide array of distinguished 20th-century authors, including Robert Frost, Isaac Bashevis Singer and Alice B. Toklas, died on Nov. 28 in New Milford, Conn. He was 83.

His death was confirmed by his wife, Susan.

Mr. Lescher epitomized a kind of Old World ideal of author’s agent — courtly, literary and invisible — reflecting both his nature and his wealth of contacts in the book world, where he began his career as an editor and something of a wunderkind. He was named editor in chief at Henry Holt & Company before he was 25.

At Holt he worked with a stable of stars that included Frost, Toklas and Wolcott Gibbs. His relationship with Toklas, the life companion and confidante of Gertrude Stein, was particularly close: he exchanged ideas and notes with her for five years as he helped her shape “What Is Remembered,” her 1963 autobiography. (It was the second of two “autobiographies” with which Toklas was associated, the first being Stein’s deadpan 1933 memoir titled “The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas,” which was mainly about Stein.)

When Mr. Lescher began his literary agency in 1965, his reputation for aesthetic insight and painstaking attentiveness to writers made him highly sought after.

“He was meticulous with writers’ work,” Calvin Trillin, one of Mr. Lescher’s first clients, said in an interview on Tuesday. Alluding to Irving (Swifty) Lazar — Mr. Lescher’s stylistic opposite in the field — Mr. Trillin once dedicated a book to “Robert ‘Slowy’ Lescher.”

Other clients included Frances FitzGerald, Benjamin Spock, Paula Fox, Madeleine L’Engle, Andrew Wyeth and Georgia O’Keeffe. Isaac Bashevis Singer, having served as his own agent for many years, hired Mr. Lescher in 1972, six years before Singer would receive the Nobel Prize in Literature. When Mr. Lescher asked him why he thought he needed an agent, Singer’s reply, as recounted by Al Silverman in “The Time of Their Lives: The Golden Age of Great American Book Publishers” (2008), evinced both the writer’s humor and the agent’s clout.
198 2012-12-08 American families are struggling with long adoption delays in Guatemala.
199 2012-12-08 A new YouGov poll has found that a slim majority of adults believe the federal government should not enforce federal laws against marijuana use in states where it has been legalized....
200 2012-12-08 A list of inaugural events and giving levels for prospective donors....
201 2012-12-08 The two-time Olympian Johnny Weir is skipping the rest of the season to prepare for the 2014 Games. Weir did not compete for two years after the 2010 Olympics but announced a comeback in January.
202 2012-12-08 Fifty-eight years after it banned discrimination in public education, the Supreme Court has set the stage for the defining civil rights decision of this era — agreeing to hear two cases challenging laws that define marriage to exclude couples of the same sex. To us, and a growing number of Americans, the right course seems clear: that the justices continue the march toward real equality.

In one of the cases, the justices will review a ruling earlier this year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in , which struck down ’s voter-approved ban on .

The Supreme Court could leave California’s same-sex marriage ban in place, planting the court on the wrong side of justice and equality. Or, in the absence of a five-vote majority to establish a nationwide constitutional right to same-sex marriage, the Supreme Court could affirm the narrower approach of the Ninth Circuit panel, which was confined to California.

The appellate panel reasoned that , as the voter initiative was known, was unconstitutional because it stripped gays, lesbians and bisexuals of the right to marry declared by the State Supreme Court. Thus it harmed “the status and dignity of the members of a disfavored class.”

The second case the Supreme Court will hear is a challenge to Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, the odious 1996 law that denies federal benefits to lawfully married same-sex couples. The case concerns Edith Windsor and Thea Clara Spyer of New York, who were married in 2007 in .

Because the Defense of Marriage Act did not allow the to treat Ms. Windsor as a surviving spouse when Ms. Spyer died in 2009, she was required to pay some $360,000 in federal from which opposite-sex spouses are exempt. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in , sensibly said that violated the Constitution’s promise of equal protection. The ruling against the Defense of Marriage Act, the second by a federal appeals court, said laws treating same-sex couples differently deserve heightened judicial scrutiny, like other laws that single out minorities long subjected to discrimination.
203 2012-12-08 A Chinese solar panel maker, Suntech Power Holdings, already under pressure from the collapse in the price of its products, said an internal investigation had determined that the company was defrauded by a partner in a solar development fund. As a result, Suntech will reduce its 2010 net income by $60 million to $80 million, it said. The accusation involves a Luxembourg investment fund, GSF Sicar, a solar power plant developer that is 80 percent owned by Suntech and 10 percent by Zhengrong Shi, who founded Suntech in 2001. The accusation relates to a minority shareholder, GSF Capital PTE, which owns the remaining 10 percent of the fund. Suntech, which plans to file restated consolidated results in early 2013, said it had concluded that a security interest it received from GSF Capital to finance Italian solar projects did not exist. It said in August that the 560 million euro ($727 million) security was in the form of German bonds. Suntech is also weighing alternatives to cover a $541 million convertible bond due in 2013. Suntech is grappling with a global glut of solar panels that has sent prices into a tailspin. The company also said revenue fell 18 percent in the third quarter from the second because subsidies were cut in Europe, a top solar market. Shipments of photovoltaic solar panels are expected to be lower than planned. Suntech also said that its results for 2011 and the first quarter of 2012 should not be relied on, although the impact was expected to be immaterial. The Chinese solar panel industry received a vote of confidence, too, on Friday, when a Suntech rival, JinkoSolar Holding, said its Swiss unit would get up to $1 billion over five years from the China Development Bank Corporation to provide money for projects outside China.
204 2012-12-08 But after the most expensive campaign in presidential history — Mr. Obama, the Democratic National Committee and the party’s joint fund-raising efforts took in $1.14 billion — many of the president’s contributors are feeling worn out, and the committee concluded that it would be difficult to raise the tens of millions of dollars it needed for the parade, inaugural balls and other events.

“Our goal is to make sure that we will meet the fund-raising requirements for this civic event after the most expensive presidential campaign in history,” the spokeswoman, Addie Whisenant, said in a statement, adding that donors’ names would be posted on a Web site “to ensure continued transparency.”

The question of whether the Presidential Inaugural Committee would accept corporate money has been a thorny one for Mr. Obama. Companies that donate money may have business before the White House, raising questions of conflict of interest. Committee officials said its lawyers would vet each donor, and those with conflicts would not be permitted to give.

But government watchdog groups sharply criticized the decision and accused Mr. Obama of abandoning his principles. “It’s very disappointing,” said Robert Weissman, president of the advocacy group Public Citizen, which wrote to Mr. Obama last month urging him to reject corporate money. “There’s no corporation which has no conflict of interest. It’s really a terrible reversal of the decision they made in 2009.”

Committee officials counter that Mr. Obama is using standards adopted by civic institutions that take corporate money, including museums, philanthropic groups and service organizations like the Red Cross.

The committee has laid down some guidelines for the kind of corporate money it will accept, an official said. Corporations that accepted money from the government’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, used to rescue the financial system during the economic meltdown of 2008 and 2009, will not be able to donate unless they have paid back the TARP money.

In addition, the committee said it would not enter into any sponsorship arrangements with companies. And in accordance with laws governing contributions to an inaugural committee, the panel will not accept money from foreign individuals or corporations.

Presidents rely on a mix of public and private funds to pay for their inaugurations. Taxpayers pay the bill for security and for events at the Capitol — the swearing in-ceremony and traditional inaugural luncheon — but private money pays for everything else. In 2009, Mr. Obama raised $53 million for his first inauguration, which stretched over a four-day weekend.

Donors are typically rewarded with access to exclusive events; on Friday afternoon’s conference call, they were told that depending on their level of contribution, donors might be invited to “benefactor brunches” at the White House on Jan. 17 and 18.

In 2009, donors who contributed $10,000 or more were rewarded with V.I.P. tickets to the swearing-in ceremony, balls and other events, like a parade-watching party at a restaurant along the route and a concert for children at the Verizon Center. Those who contributed $50,000 or more were invited to events including black-tie dinners the night before the inauguration.

Mr. Obama’s 2009 inauguration was a star-studded event that brought 1.8 million people to Washington, more than three times the typical inaugural crowd. Some of the music industry’s biggest celebrities — Bruce Springsteen, Bono and Beyoncé among them — rocked the National Mall the day before Mr. Obama took his oath.

The 2013 crowd is likely to be much smaller, and the committee has not said whether there will be a concert this time. But Mr. Obama has already announced that he will follow a practice he established four years ago by making Jan. 19, the day before his swearing-in, a national day of service.
205 2012-12-08 The Army Corps of Engineers has turned back requests by federal lawmakers and the barge industry to release more water from the Missouri River, believing that the drought-starved Mississippi River it feeds will remain open to shipping despite mounting concerns about water levels. Jo-Ellen Darcy, the assistant secretary of the Army for civil works, told lawmakers from Mississippi River states in a letter on Thursday that she did not consider it necessary to increase flows into the Mississippi. Ms. Darcy noted this week’s revised National Weather Service forecast, which showed that the Mississippi’s level was not falling as rapidly as expected. She also said the corps was hastening its work to rid the river of rock pinnacles south of St. Louis, which endanger barges when the water level is low. The corps insists that slowing the Missouri’s flow is necessary because low levels in its upper basin could harm recreation and affect drinking water supplies, animal habitat and hydropower.
206 2012-12-08 The ill-fated attempt at bipartisan outreach only highlighted the awkward limbo in which both Ms. Rice and the White House now find themselves over a potential nomination that by all accounts Mr. Obama has not signed off on.

Although Ms. Rice is still considered Mr. Obama’s favored choice to head the State Department, he is also seriously considering Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts. So putting on a full-court press for Ms. Rice, some officials said, could inhibit the president’s room for maneuvering.

Still, in an effort to contain the damage, the White House has set up an ad hoc team to respond to the charges over Ms. Rice’s statements about the attack on an American compound in Benghazi on Sept. 11. It has tried to recruit prominent outsiders, like former Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, and other cabinet members, like Mrs. Clinton, to come to her defense.

On Thursday, Mrs. Clinton said Ms. Rice’s statements on five Sunday TV news shows days after the attack were “based on the information that had been given to every senior official in our administration.” She added that Ms. Rice “made it very clear in her appearances that the information was subject to change.”

Ms. Rice’s most stalwart defender has been the president himself. He said last week that he did not worry about what “folks say on cable news programs, attacking highly qualified personnel like Susan Rice,” though he added that he had not made any personnel decisions.

In the meantime, Ms. Rice has had to battle a steady drip of negative news: accusations about her record as a policy maker on Africa, her role as a senior State Department official in a 1998 terrorist attack on American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, and even her financial holdings.

The question is whether Ms. Rice, 48, can survive a confirmation battle after the drubbing she has taken from Republicans who seem bent on disqualifying her before she is named. Some Republicans said the White House had left her to fend for herself.

“They floated her name to test the waters; they found out that the waters are pretty rough, and then they didn’t give her a life preserver,” said Senator John Barrasso, a Republican from Wyoming on the Foreign Relations Committee. “Now, Republican senators all across the political spectrum have questions about her experience and judgment.”

“I think it is very uphill for her at this point,” he added.

Republicans said the White House’s approach fits a pattern of not reaching out to Congress, whether on budget negotiations or to defend other appointments.

Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said the White House had not contacted her about Ms. Rice. After meeting with her last week, Ms. Collins expressed reservations about her suitability for secretary of state.

Ms. Collins said she did not believe outreach would have mitigated the issues that arose in their meeting, but she added that the White House generally had not engaged with Congressional Republicans in any meaningful way since the departure of Rahm Emanuel, Mr. Obama’s former chief of staff.

Friends of Ms. Rice, some of whom have voiced their frustration to the White House, said the administration had been distracted, first by the election and now by fiscal talks with Congress.

The White House, however, said that in addition to Mr. Obama’s very public defense of Ms. Rice, the administration had been working behind the scenes to push back on the negative reports and, through intermediaries, to change the narrative about the Benghazi episode.

In recent days, Ms. Rice’s defenders, who include former colleagues and staff aides, have begun their own counteroffensive.

They have pointed out that the Republican senators who criticized Ms. Rice for portraying the assault as a spontaneous protest, rather than a terrorist attack, co-sponsored a motion that said the site was “swarmed by an angry mob of protesters.”

After reports that Ms. Rice held investments in energy companies that have done business with Iran, journalists were pointed to evidence that Senator McCain also had holdings that included stock in an oil company that had been engaged with Iran.

As for Ms. Rice’s high net worth — between $23.5 million and $43.5 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics — officials noted that Paul O’Neill, George W. Bush’s nominee for Treasury secretary, was swiftly confirmed in 2001, despite reporting $59.2 million in compensation the previous year.

When Ms. Collins asked whether Ms. Rice bore responsibility, as a former assistant secretary of state for African affairs, for not bolstering the security of embassies in Kenya and Tanzania targeted in bombings in 1998, the White House circulated a State Department report on the attacks that did not mention Ms. Rice.

“In the long run, as these facts come out, the focus on Susan Rice has become even more absurd,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser.

If Ms. Rice is nominated, the White House will put together a team, as it did for Mrs. Clinton, to guide her through the confirmation process. It would probably assign a skilled political operative, like Stephanie Cutter, who helped Timothy F. Geithner through his arduous confirmation as Treasury secretary.

To some officials, the paradox is that Ms. Rice’s hard-headed approach to foreign policy — typified by her advocacy of military intervention in Libya — would normally appeal to hawkish senators like Mr. McCain.

“At a time when the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are winding down, Susan speaks to an affirmative view of what the United States would do around the world,” Mr. Rhodes said.

After the recent furor, however, it is not clear that the White House could get that kind of hearing for Ms. Rice. Senator Johnny Isakson, a Republican from Georgia, said the Benghazi episode had become too big a distraction for her to escape.

“If you go into a hearing on her nomination with a lot of the Benghazi stuff still hanging out there, that tends to be the primary topic instead of her vision for secretary of state,” he said.
207 2012-12-08 WHEN my brother was in kindergarten, where he was the only Jewish student, a parent organizing enrichment activities asked my mother to tell the class the story of Hanukkah. My mother obligingly brought in a picture book and began to read about foreign conquerors who were not letting Jews in ancient Israel worship freely, even defiling their temple, until a scrappy group led by the Maccabee family overthrew one of the most powerful armies in the world and won their liberty.

The Hanukkah story, she interrupted, was not about war. It was about the miracle of an oil lamp that burned for eight days without replenishing. She urged my mother to close the book. My mother refused.

The woman wasn’t alone. Many Americans, Jews as well as Christians, think that the legend of the long-lasting oil is the root of Hanukkah’s commemoration. And perhaps that mistake is no surprise, given that for many the holiday has morphed into “Christmas for Jews,” echoing the message of peace on earth accompanied by gift giving. In doing so, the holiday’s own message of Jewish survival and faith has been diluted.

Hanukkah is one of the most widely celebrated Jewish holidays in America. But unlike Rosh Hashana, Yom Kippur and Passover (or even the lesser-known Sukkot and Shavuot), all of which are explicitly mentioned in the Torah, Hanukkah gets only a brief, sketchy reference in the Talmud, the voluminous collection of Jewish oral law and tradition written down hundreds of years after the Maccabees’ revolt.

There for the first time the miracle of the oil is recorded: the ancient temple in Jerusalem held an eternal flame, but after the desecration by the foreign invaders — including the sacrificing of pigs, a non-kosher animal, on the altar — only one day’s worth of purified oil remained. Yet the faithful went ahead and lighted it.
208 2012-12-08 Pictures From the Week in Business, Dec. 7
209 2012-12-08 American’s top three unions are those representing pilots, flight attendants, and mechanics and other ground workers. Each has one seat on the company’s nine-member unsecured creditors’ committee.

US Airways can count on the backing of these three unions, which have all supported Mr. Parker’s merger plans in an unusual show of defiance against American’s management. The unions all came to a provisional agreement with US Airways that would provide the basis for new contracts for all workers after a merger.

After Friday’s vote, American’s pilot union, the Allied Pilots Association, repeated its support for a merger with US Airways, saying it was “the best path to a stronger, more competitive American Airlines that will in turn enhance our pilots’ long-term career prospects.”

The union said the collective agreement was endorsed by 74 percent of members who cast a ballot. In August, in a surprise move, American’s pilots overwhelmingly rejected a similar deal with the airline. The union said 96 percent of its eligible members voted on the new contract, with 5,489 in favor and 1,951 against.

American and its pilots have been negotiating a new contract since 2006. The union has urged its members to ratify this latest deal, which would give pilots a pay raise and a 13.5 percent stake in the carrier once it comes out of bankruptcy.

It also establishes new work rules requiring more flight time for pilots and freezes their pension. And it allows American’s regional airline partners to fly bigger planes, an issue that has long been a sticking point in labor talks.

The previous agreement, which called for similar concessions and benefits from the pilots, was opposed by 61 percent of pilots in a show of defiance. After that vote, American imposed more draconian terms on its pilots and quickly sought to negotiate a new deal with its union. In response, some pilots called in sick in greater numbers and reported more mechanical problems with planes, leading to wide flight delays and cancellations.

In a letter to employees on Friday, Mr. Horton said the contract was an important milestone for the company. He added that American was now closer to completing its review of strategic alternatives, including the merits of a merger with US Airways. “While we are confident the new American will be very strong, we are evaluating whether such a combination could create value for our owners and a positive outcome for our people and our customers. We expect to have a conclusion on this soon.”

In recent years, American lost its top position and retrenched its operations around five big hubs — Dallas, New York, Los Angeles, Miami and Chicago. It has been hobbled by higher costs than its competitors, who have all used bankruptcy proceedings mainly to restructure their labor contracts.

With its bankruptcy filing last year, American sought to close its cost gap with rivals. It sought savings of $2 billion, mostly by cutting labor costs: shedding jobs, freezing pensions and reducing health benefits.

At the same time, it also reviewed its airplane contracts, debt payments and other financial obligations. It outlined plans to radically overhaul its fleet, which has relied heavily on older, fuel-inefficient planes like the MD-80s. Those planes are being gradually retired.

In July, the airline announced a huge order of 460 new single-aisle planes from both Boeing and Airbus for the domestic market, to be delivered from 2013 to 2020. It also announced the purchase of 14 new long-range Boeing 777s next year, destined for international service and equipped with new flatbed seats for its premium cabins.

When the first of these planes is delivered, probably next month, American is expected to unveil a new corporate image and a new look for its airplanes. It is likely to end a tradition that goes back decades of leaving its planes unpainted, adorned with just a few stripes of red and blue on a fuselage of polished aluminum.

Earlier this week, the Allied Pilots Association urged its members to endorse the new deal, which it said was equal to or better than contracts at United, US Airways and Delta.

“We must at some point come to grips with the new reality of no longer being the ‘big dog’ in the industry that we once were,” the union’s vice president, Capt. Tom Chapman, said in a message to the pilots. “The American brand has been severely damaged, and it may take a while to repair.”

Some analysts remain unpersuaded about American’s goals after bankruptcy.

“AMR’s existing plan is essentially the same failed strategy that drove the company to failure over the past decade,” said Vicki Bryan, an analyst at Gimme Credit. “We remain convinced that the best solution for AMR is to be run by someone else, and the best candidate in our view still is US Airways.”
210 2012-12-08 By contrast, the average hedge fund manager in the top 25 performers today makes that in a good year, and a few have earned more than $4 billion in a single year. Mr. Cohen reportedly earned $1.4 billion in 2009, and Forbes estimated his net worth in 2012 at $8.8 billion. (Mr. Milken’s fortune, by comparison, is estimated by Forbes at $2 billion, which puts him in the middle of the magazine’s list of the richest 400 Americans.)

At the same time, the tactics and technologies available to inside traders today are more sophisticated and more difficult both to detect and to prove.

A large majority of hedge funds have not been tainted by any wrongdoing, just as most junk bond traders were never accused of any crime. Mr. Cohen hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing nor has his firm, although the S.E.C. has said it may face civil charges.

This week, I stopped by St. Andrews Plaza in Lower Manhattan to see Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, and his deputy, Richard Zabel, the former head of the criminal division. Both said they couldn’t discuss any pending cases. But many people who work in financial markets “are highly skilled at cost-benefit analysis,” Mr. Bharara told me. “They’re highly intelligent. They’ve been to the best schools. They weigh the risk of getting caught against the potential reward, and they decide it’s worth the risk. We’re trying to tilt that equation.”

There’s no doubt that the potential for gain “has soared,” Robert S. Khuzami, head of enforcement at the S.E.C., told me, and not because there are more takeovers and other market-moving events to trade on. “That’s a big change from the 1980s and ’90s. Hedge funds can take massive positions, use short-selling and derivatives, and employ trading techniques that aren’t transparent, and make huge amounts of money on small fluctuations on price. They don’t need to hit a home run on a $20 pop on a takeover announcement. These bets may be bunts and singles, but they get to the same place.”

Even at lower rungs of the hedge fund world, the potential gains have shot up. Mathew Martoma, a former SAC trader who was accused last month of using secret information to help SAC gain profits, was paid a $9.4 million bonus in 2008, when he was just 34. At the same time, the cost of failure can be catastrophic. When he failed to replicate that kind of information, he was fired a little more than a year later. (Mr. Martoma pleaded not guilty to the charge, and, through his lawyer, has denied any wrongdoing.)

The pressure to get an “edge,” as hedge fund traders often put it, has never been greater. “There’s a cruciblelike intensity of competition now that didn’t exist at the time of Boesky,” Mr. Zabel told me. “With hedge funds, there’s a lot of capital, and they’re competing ruthlessly. You have to be better every quarter or you’re not going to exist. Add the tremendous incentive of great wealth, and it’s not surprising that some people lack the moral fiber to resist that kind of pressure.”

Even as the potential rewards have soared, the nature of today’s trading — the bunts and singles, as Mr. Khuzami put it — has made enforcement more difficult, leading to what seems to have been a perception of less risk of getting caught. In the wake of the Milken-Boesky era, the government has become sophisticated at monitoring major market-moving events like takeover announcements, to the point that insider trading on major corporate news has become relatively rare (though just this week the S.E.C. charged an old-fashioned insider trading ring based on leaks about proposed mergers and acquisitions).

Modern technology has also rendered obsolete the use of suitcases of cash, secret passwords and other subterfuges I described in “Den of Thieves,” my 1991 book about Mr. Milken, Mr. Boesky and insider trading in the 1980s. “In the 1980s, you had to meet someone, or have lunch or exchange information in ways that were slower and more visible,” Mr. Zabel said. “Now, you can have only the glow of your computer screen on your face and you can scoop up all sorts of valuable information from all over the country or even the world. If you get even little bits, you can trade on a daily or hourly basis on micromovements.”

But technology has cut both ways. Although some critics say the S.E.C.’s expertise has lagged advances in areas like high-frequency trading, the enforcement division has made progress in monitoring suspicious trading. “We’ve created databases to see who is trading in tandem, even if you know nothing about an event,” Mr. Khuzami said. “It’s a trader-based approach, not an issuer-based approach. These trading patterns are the first clue to what might be insider trading rings. You then have to do the real detective work, pulling phone records and e-mails and using other techniques to uncover the links. ”

There’s no doubt that the new techniques have been yielding results. Since Mr. Bharara became a United States attorney in 2009, his office has charged 75 people with insider trading, including such now-household names as Raj Rajaratnam, the founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund, and Rajat K. Gupta, a former McKinsey chief and Goldman Sachs director. His office has secured 69 convictions or guilty pleas without losing a case (six are pending and more are said to be in the pipeline). Many of those cases were developed in conjunction with the S.E.C., which has brought over 200 enforcement actions since 2009. “These have been cases of hard-core insider trading, and they’ve done a marvelous job,” said Harvey Pitt, the former S.E.C. chairman who previously represented Mr. Boesky (and has lectured SAC employees on compliance with securities law).

It’s still too soon to measure the deterrent effect of the latest wave of cases, but it’s surely substantial. For the most part, inside traders aren’t hardened criminals but rational decision-makers. When confronted by an F.B.I. agent in his front yard, Mr. Martoma fainted. “What we’re trying to accomplish is deterrence,” Mr. Bharara said. He mentioned that the jurors in the Gupta case openly wept as they rendered their guilty verdict, which they must have known meant the ruin of a once-illustrious career and reputation. “I want smart people to see that and say, ‘I never want that to happen to me.’ ”

One thing that apparently hasn’t changed is motive, and a question hovering over insider trading prosecutions then and now is why people who are already so rich and successful would resort to criminal activity. “Sometimes, it’s about the money or a bigger house in the Hamptons or wanting to climb the social ladder,” Mr. Khuzami said. “But for the already-rich, it’s mostly about ego and being a player. A winning tip impresses others and makes them part of the club.”

Mr. Pitt added: “My bottom line is that not a lot has really changed. Cheating is still cheating. Insider trading is cheating. It’s an effort to get an edge and give yourself an advantage you know you’re not supposed to have.”

“Far too many people are questioning whether the markets give you a fair shake or whether inside traders are taking advantage of them,” Mr. Pitt said. “That’s bad for capitalism, bad for capital formation and very bad for the country.”
211 2012-12-08 GENEVA — Navi Pillay, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, expressed alarm on Friday at the rising casualty toll in Egypt’s deepening political turmoil and said flaws in the substance of its draft constitution and the process of preparing it were a major cause of the “disastrous situation” unfolding there that has resulted in at least six deaths.

The constitution proposed by President Mohamed Morsi, which is to be put to a referendum next week, includes “very worrying omissions and ambiguities” that could mean it is weaker than the 1971 Constitution introduced under ousted President Hosni Mubarak it is supposed to replace.

Speaking out on Egypt for the third time in a week, Ms. Pillay praised the new constitution for restricting the president to two four-year terms and for the freedom that it provides to set up civil associations and institutions simply by notifying the authorities rather than by seeking their permission.

But Ms. Pillay, in a statement, expressed dismay over the new constitution’s failure to give legal standing to a range of international treaties that protect civil and political rights and forbid torture and racial or gender discrimination. That failure opens the way to national laws that may conflict with Egypt’s international obligations, legal experts in her office warn.

Many of the new constitution’s provisions referred to existing laws that are out of step with international human rights norms, Ms. Pillay said, and concentrate powers in the hands of the president that could undermine the independence of the judiciary.

The new charter, she said, guarantees equality but does not explicitly prohibit discrimination on grounds of sex, religion or origin. It guarantees freedom of religion but only specifies three faiths Ms. Pillay added. And while it provides some protection for press freedom, that is “ taken back with certain clauses dealing with national security,” Mona Rishmawi, a legal and constitutional expert in Ms. Pillay’s office, said.
212 2012-12-08 Russia has been Mr. Assad’s most durable backer throughout the crisis and has resisted efforts to push him out of power. After the Dublin talks, Mr. Lavrov was quoted as saying that he would not make “optimistic predictions” and that Mr. Brahimi, the special envoy, knows that the chance of success is “far from 100 percent.”

The bleak assessment came as government and rebel forces were locked in sustained battle, particularly to the south of Damascus, where in recent days the airport has been caught up in fighting for the capital’s suburbs and has been closed to civilian flights for days at a time.

Apart from its importance as a logistical center, the airport, 12 miles south of Damascus, holds symbolic value. Its loss would bolster the rebels’ ability to depict Mr. Assad as isolated and beleaguered.

Nabil al-Amir, a spokesman for an insurgent military group attacking the airport, said rebels “who have been putting the airport under siege decided yesterday that the airport is a fair target,” Reuters reported.

“The airport is now full of armored vehicles and soldiers,” Mr. Amir said, seeming to suggest that it was firmly in government control. “Civilians who approach it now do so at their own risk.”

News reports also suggested that government forces were seeking to bring in reinforcements for a counterattack intended to reverse rebel gains on the fringes of the city.

The rebel threat seemed to deepen the uncertainties of the military campaign for Damascus, where visiting reporters say that the sound of government artillery pounding outlying suburbs can be clearly heard from the city center — once a haven of tranquillity even as the uprising against Mr. Assad evolved from peaceful protest in March 2011 to civil war.

Activists said government forces backed by tanks were heading toward two southwestern suburbs, covering their effort to advance with rocket and mortar fire.

Overnight, sounds of gunfire were heard in central Damascus near a major road, Baghdad Street.

On the southern edge of the city, in Tadamon, where antigovernment sentiment is strong and clashes have taken place all week, rebel fighters took control of a checkpoint, the Local Coordinating Committees, an antigovernment activist network, reported.

In the central city of Homs, a car bomb exploded just before noon near a mosque in the wealthy residential area of Inshaat, neighboring the restive Baba Amr neighborhood, and many people were reported wounded, residents and activists said.

There were no immediate claims of responsibility, but a demonstration denouncing the government broke out shortly afterward.

“I woke to the explosion,” a 35-year-old resident said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. “When I went down I saw a car on fire. The guys started a demonstration and we started chanting. Ten minutes later the security started shooting at us, so we ran away. Now I’m sure we should be armed next time.”

The United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, said during a visit to a refugee camp in Islahiye, Turkey, that all parties to the conflict should halt violence before any discussions about a political transition. Mr. Ban also chided the international community for failing to provide enough money for humanitarian relief for Syrian refugees, which placed a heavier burden on Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. The available funds cover only half of the cost of the response plan, he said.

“I appeal to the international community, do not close your eyes when people are suffering,” Mr. Ban said. “We have to help them.”
213 2012-12-09 Market power may be on the rise....
214 2012-12-09 Robert Lescher, a literary agent and steward to the works of a wide array of distinguished 20th-century authors, including Robert Frost, Isaac Bashevis Singer and Alice B. Toklas, died on Nov. 28 in New Milford, Conn. He was 83.

His death was confirmed by his wife, Susan.

Mr. Lescher epitomized a kind of Old World ideal of author’s agent — courtly, literary and invisible — reflecting both his nature and his wealth of contacts in the book world, where he began his career as an editor and something of a wunderkind. He was named editor in chief at Henry Holt & Company before he was 25.

At Holt he worked with a stable of stars that included Frost, Toklas and Wolcott Gibbs. His relationship with Toklas, the life companion and confidante of Gertrude Stein, was particularly close: he exchanged ideas and notes with her for five years as he helped her shape “What Is Remembered,” her 1963 autobiography. (It was the second of two “autobiographies” with which Toklas was associated, the first being Stein’s deadpan 1933 memoir titled “The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas,” which was mainly about Stein.)

When Mr. Lescher began his literary agency in 1965, his reputation for aesthetic insight and painstaking attentiveness to writers made him highly sought after.

“He was meticulous with writers’ work,” Calvin Trillin, one of Mr. Lescher’s first clients, said in an interview on Tuesday. Alluding to Irving (Swifty) Lazar — Mr. Lescher’s stylistic opposite in the field — Mr. Trillin once dedicated a book to “Robert ‘Slowy’ Lescher.”

Other clients included Frances FitzGerald, Benjamin Spock, Paula Fox, Madeleine L’Engle, Andrew Wyeth and Georgia O’Keeffe. Isaac Bashevis Singer, having served as his own agent for many years, hired Mr. Lescher in 1972, six years before Singer would receive the Nobel Prize in Literature. When Mr. Lescher asked him why he thought he needed an agent, Singer’s reply, as recounted by Al Silverman in “The Time of Their Lives: The Golden Age of Great American Book Publishers” (2008), evinced both the writer’s humor and the agent’s clout.
215 2012-12-09 Chevron has not paid the judgment. The company has said it does not believe that the Ecuador judgment is enforceable “in any court that observes the rule of law.” It maintains that the Ecuadorean case was riddled with fraud and says it will “continue to pursue relief against Ecuador in our pending arbitration and against the plaintiffs’ representatives in our RICO action pending in New York.”

Last July, a federal judge in the United States declined to declare the judgment unenforceable; he did note that aspects of the trial in Ecuador were tainted. And a judge in Argentina froze the assets of a local Chevron unit last month as the court determines whether it should enforce the Ecuadorean judgment.

Trillium is not a defendant in Chevron’s RICO suit. But it, along with other shareholders, has questioned how Chevron has handled all this. Earlier this year, for example, 40 Chevron shareholders overseeing $580 billion in total assets signed a letter asking to meet with company management to discuss the matter. Chevron declined.

When asked about the company’s subpoena to Trillium, Justin Higgs, a Chevron spokesman, acknowledged that it was not standard operating procedure. But, Mr. Higgs said, it reflects the company’s belief that Trillium was working closely with plaintiffs in the Ecuador case to pressure Chevron into a settlement. That belief, he said, is supported by documents produced in the suit.

In an interview on Friday, Randy Mastro, a lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher who represents Chevron in the case, said: “Our case is about a massive fraud and extortion scheme for billions of dollars. The conspirators enlisted a network of not-for-profits, so-called shareholders who were acting independently but really acting in collusion to get out their false story. We have a right to take discovery of those shareholders and those groups they enlisted to try to find out the methods of the scheme.”

Among the concerns Trillium has raised are Chevron’s disclosures to investors about the potential liabilities associated with the judgment. In 2011, the fund manager asked the Securities and Exchange Commission’s corporate finance unit to review whether Chevron had adequately explained “the scope and magnitude of financial and operational risk arising from the Ecuador judgment.”

In the letter, Trillium noted Chevron’s public contention that the uncertain legal environment in Ecuador meant the company could not estimate “a reasonably possible loss” in the case. But Trillium contrasted this stance with deposition testimony in the RICO case from Rex Mitchell, Chevron’s deputy controller. Mr. Mitchell said the company faced “irreparable damages” if the Ecuador plaintiffs succeeded in enforcing their judgment by seizing Chevron’s assets. It is unclear how the S.E.C. responded to this request. Mr. Higgs, the Chevron spokesman, said all of the company’s disclosures had been appropriate.

As this legal battle has raged, Trillium has sponsored several shareholder proposals. In 2011, Trillium co-sponsored a proposal asking that Chevron nominate an independent board member with expertise in environmental matters relative to energy.

Chevron urged shareholders to reject that proposal, saying its board’s “qualification standards adequately recognize the importance of environmental expertise.” About one-quarter of the shares supported the 2011 proposal advocating a director with environmental expertise.

“We have been outspoken on environmental and social issues we think are important, material and relevant to the financial performance of the companies in our portfolio,” Mr. Kron said. “Looking at some of the corporate missteps in recent years, all of those companies would have benefited greatly by having a more active and engaged shareholder base.”

TRILLIUM’S activities do not seem outlandish. Hiring an independent environmental expert to sit on a board is a common shareholder request these days and asking the S.E.C. to review a company’s disclosures is fair game for shareholders.

And yet, the receipt of the subpoena seems to indicate that Trillium’s work has drawn the company’s wrath.

It is not alone. Last month, Chevron filed an ethics complaint against Thomas P. DiNapoli, the New York State comptroller. As overseer of the state’s Common Retirement Fund, Mr. DiNapoli has also sponsored shareholder proposals at Chevron.

In its ethics complaint, Chevron contends that Mr. DiNapoli and the plaintiffs’ lawyers in the Ecuador case had “an illicit and unethical quid pro quo arrangement” in which the comptroller put pressure on Chevron in exchange for campaign donations. Eric Sumberg, a spokesman for Mr. DiNapoli, said the accusations were baseless and an attempt to intimidate. “Shareholders have the right to protect their investment, and that is exactly what the Common Retirement Fund is doing,” he said.

Chevron is entitled to be as aggressive as it likes in this court case and it may well prevail. But its actions against a shareholder are nonetheless remarkable. Timothy Smith, a vice president at Walden Asset Management, another socially oriented investment firm, said: “A shareholder making a legitimate appeal to the company doesn’t deserve this kind of counterattack.”
216 2012-12-09 Of course, the parent didn’t have to sign, but she also didn’t want her daughter left out.

I’ve faced the same choice — give up my rights or keep my kids home. In order for my son to attend a summer program at the Simon’s Rock campus of , for example, I agreed to release the institution, its trustees and (as far as I can tell) all their Facebook friends from any liability and to “fully and forever agree to indemnify” them in case of any claims arising from my son’s stay.

So I’m a regular Lloyd’s of London. Yet regulation of my role as an all-purpose insurer is scandalously lax. I haven’t heard a peep from my state’s regulator, for instance; evidently this official is blithely uninterested in just how much capital I’ve set aside — hang on while I go through the sofa cushions for change — to cover the vast potential liabilities lurking on our family’s balance sheet.

IT’S bad enough that everywhere I go, someone wants me to promise not to sue. I was once asked to sign a release as a houseguest in a private home! And to some extent, I’m sympathetic; it’s stressful and expensive to live in such a litigious society. But it’s ridiculous to demand that every Tom, Dick and Mary assume a liability that can only properly rest with those who bear responsibility. And it’s a perversion of the tort system, which is supposed to put the onus on the parties most able to make sure things are done right. Leaving aside the adequacy of my loss reserves, are these indemnifications legally enforceable? It depends how far they go and which state you’re in.

Margaret Jane Radin, a law professor at the , says they’re intimidating at the least, and overcoming such a provision could itself require litigation. In , for example, a trial court held that a gas station operator and his helper had to pay to defend an oil company for its own negligence in injuring them with gasoline, a ruling based in part on an indemnification clause. The state Supreme Court found that provision unconscionable, but the plaintiff had to go pretty far just to get his day in court.

At least that was a business agreement; the balance of power is even more asymmetric when consumers are involved. In a new book titled “Boilerplate: The Fine Print, Vanishing Rights, and the Rule of Law,” Ms. Radin argues that an onslaught of one-sided fine print is deleting people’s legal rights and making a mockery of the freedom of contract. In an interview, she observed that some other countries bar such casual rights erasures, and said the Federal Trade Commission could do likewise here.

It should. Meanwhile, people have to start objecting to these unfair agreements, which often relieve businesses and institutions of their most basic responsibilities, pressing individuals to act as their insurers. For years I’ve crossed out indemnity provisions in freelance contracts, and I did likewise for lacrosse. But often that’s not an option, and Ms. Radin warned that while deleting and initialing might help, the other side could contend that it never agreed to the changes. If things came to blows in court, I might still get stuck with the legal bill for both sides.
217 2012-12-09 But as things turned out, the theory failed the test, and now it’s DeMint rather than Obama who will be leaving office in January. Last Thursday the South Carolinian surprised most of Washington by announcing that he’d be departing the Senate just two years into his second term, to become president of the conservative .

Some of DeMint’s admirers quickly portrayed this move as a brilliant way to expand his campaign to remake the Republican Party. But it’s more likely that moving from the Senate to the world of think tank fund-raising (where he’ll probably excel) and policy (where his experience is thinner) will reduce his public profile, and close a chapter in the history of conservatism in the process.

This chapter — the DeMint chapter, the Tea Party chapter, call it what you will — was probably a necessary stage for the American right. It’s normal for defeated parties and movements to turn inward for a period of ideological retrenchment before new thinking takes hold.

What’s more, the DeMint worldview wasn’t so much wrong as incomplete. It really was important for Republicans to get more serious about entitlements and to shake off their Bush-era blitheness about deficits. The principles of many Tea Partiers really were an improvement over the transparent cynicism of a .

But if DeMint-style retrenchment was necessary for Republicans, it wasn’t anywhere near sufficient. The conservatism of 2011 and 2012 had a lot to say about the long-term liabilities of the American government but far too little to say about the most immediate anxieties of American citizens, from rising health care costs to stagnating wages to the socioeconomic malaise spreading across the country’s working class. Neither the Reagan legacy nor the current conservative catechism holds the solutions to these problems; they require Republicans to apply their principles more creatively, and think about policy anew.

So it’s fitting, perhaps, that the same week DeMint announced his departure from the Senate, one of the conservatives he fostered gave a speech that tried to do just that. This was Marco Rubio, who used an address at the Jack Kemp Foundation dinner to speak frankly about problems that too many Republicans have ignored these last four years — the “opportunity gap” opening between the well educated and the rest, the barriers to upward mobility, the struggles of the poor.

The speech didn’t offer the kinds of policy breakthroughs the party ultimately requires. Rubio mixed a few modest forays into fresh territory (mostly on education) with a long list of recycled proposals, and he stopped short of the leaps Republicans need to make on , health care and other issues.

But his tone and themes represented a very different response to an electoral drubbing than the kind of retrenchment Republicans embraced four years ago. And as DeMint exits electoral politics stage right, his legacy ultimately depends on whether that difference turns out to be real or superficial — and whether the younger generation he helped catapult to prominence can prove itself more supple, creative and farsighted than its departing patron.
218 2012-12-09 ’s finance team is offering corporations and other institutions that contribute $1 million exclusive access to an array of inaugural festivities, including tickets to a “benefactors reception,” a children’s concert, a candlelight celebration at the National Building Museum, two reserved parade bleacher seats and four tickets to the president’s official inaugural ball.

The offerings are detailed in an online inaugural fund-raising solicitation provided to by an Obama fund-raiser. The document describes four packages that Mr. Obama’s finance team can sell, with differing levels of access depending on the level of contribution. Individuals who contribute $250,000 will receive the same package as million-dollar “institutional donors,” which could include corporations, philanthropies, foundations and unions.

The financing arrangements are a departure from Mr. Obama’s policy in 2009, when he refused corporate donations altogether and capped individual contributions at $50,000. As in 2009, Mr. Obama will not be accepting money from lobbyists or political action committees.

While taxpayers pay for inaugural events at the Capitol — the swearing-in ceremony and inaugural luncheon — the president must raise money from private donors for everything else, including the inaugural parade, ball and concerts. In 2009, Mr. Obama raised $53 million.

The online solicitation, sent to donors by e-mail on Friday, described the different inaugural packages, each named for a president: Washington ($1 million from institutions and $250,000 from individuals); Adams ($500,000 from institutions and $150,000 from individuals); Jefferson ($250,000 from institutions and $75,000 from individuals); and Madison ($100,000 from institutions and $10,000 from individuals).
219 2012-12-09 Rihanna, 24, is perhaps the most visible marijuana devotee among a number of young female pop stars, but she is not alone. Lady Gaga, 26, is becoming increasingly vocal in her praise of the green stuff to her Little Monsters, smoking it onstage in Amsterdam at a stop of her “Born This Way Ball” tour in September, and promising concertgoers that she would try to persuade Oprah and President Obama on the “medical wonders of marijuana.” On Halloween, she dressed up as Princess High, the Cannabis Queen. (Rihanna was the Bride of Mary Jane.)

Then there is the throwback singer Lana Del Rey, who passes a marijuana cigarette back and forth to a tattooed love interest in the video for her song “Born to Die” while she raspily coos, “Keep making me laugh/Let’s go get high.” And there is the nasally rapper Kreayshawn, 23, whose rise to Internet fame last year was largely because of her bratty frankness about her smoking habits.

Glorifying marijuana has arguably turned out to be shrewd public relations moves for these women, in light of the decriminalization measures that passed in Colorado and Washington State last month. That they’re all women, all under the age of 30, is also nothing to cough at.

“When you look at what went down in Colorado, the dramatic rise in the public’s support of marijuana-law reform is being driven by a large part by an increase in support among women,” said Allen St. Pierre, executive director of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, which supports marijuana legalization. “Are there parallels between women being open and honest about cannabis use at the polls on a grass-roots level and some of the most visible women in music today being open and honest about their use in the news? Absolutely.”

Pop precedent goes all the way back to Billie Holiday. In magazine interviews, Barbra Streisand and Alanis Morissette have admitted to recreational use of the drug. Missy Elliott released a stoner anthem, “Pass That Dutch,” in 2003. Melissa Etheridge spoke openly about using medical marijuana after her breast cancer was diagnosed in 2004. Amy Winehouse mentioned her love of “puff” throughout her Grammy-award winning album “Back to Black” in 2006. Last September, Fiona Apple made headlines when she was held in jail in Sierra Blanca, Tex., after local authorities found hashish and marijuana on her tour bus.

Social media has put such revelations front and center.

Last November a video circulated on the Web showing Miley Cyrus, the former Disney star, enthusiastically receiving a Bob Marley birthday cake from her friend Kelly Osbourne for her 19th birthday party. “You know you’re a stoner when friends make you a Bob Marley cake,” Ms. Cyrus exclaims in the clip. After a number of accusations labeling Ms. Cyrus a bad influence, her publicist said the singer was being “sarcastic.”

Ms. Osbourne, on the other hand, took to Twitter to explain clumsily that the whole thing was totally implausible anyway: “If Miley Cyrus is not recording/filming/touring, she works every day. How could she possibly do all that if she was stoner?”

Maybe this kind of spin was unnecessary. Rihanna, Lady Gaga and Ms. Del Rey might be joining a marijuana-culture tradition that formerly only men like Jerry Garcia, Willie Nelson, Snoop Lion (formerly known as Snoop Dogg) and Wiz Khalifa could get away with.

But taking it a step further than those men, they’re seamlessly integrating it into their endorsement deals. In an advertisement for her Pink Friday fragrance, Nicki Minaj can be heard singing the phrase “burn a L,” which is slang for smoking a cigar filled with marijuana, also called a blunt.

A recent picture that Rihanna uploaded to her Instagram shows her wearing a jacket from Chanel, a brand she is often associated with, with her hair flawlessly coifed and an enormous blunt in her hand. In just four days, the image had more than 205,000 likes and 7,000 comments and counting, nearly all in adoration.

And while marijuana remains an illegal substance that can result in serious criminal charges in most states, there hasn’t been much public outcry. “During the Reagan era, this sort of stuff would get you banned from radio,” said Will Hermes, a senior critic for Rolling Stone and author of “Love Goes to Buildings on Fire,” a book about New York City’s pop music history.

Now marijuana “is about as normalized as beer or cocktails, but still enough of an issue politically that it feels like uncharted territory for these women to explore,” he said. “Being a pop star, transgression is good for business. And at this particular moment in American culture, saying you smoke weed is a pretty safe way to transgress.”

Vita Coco, a brand of coconut water that Rihanna has been the face of since 2011, is not just unfazed by its spokeswoman’s transformation into one of her generation’s most famous marijuana users, it actually appreciates the singer’s ability to tap into the movement.

“We knew exactly what we’re getting into when our partnership with Rihanna began,” said Arthur Gallego, a spokesman for the beverage. “We are looking for someone who is dynamic and evolving with culture, whether it’s a sound or a look or a viewpoint. Does her association with marijuana affect our brand? No, no, it does not. There has been no fallout.”

If decriminalization measures continue to pass state by state, could Ms. Del Rey, the current face of H & M, be the next face of THC? How long will it take for a star like Rihanna to land a major cannabis campaign, similar to a partnership between P. Diddy and Ciroc vodka?

“If marijuana gets legalized to the point where it can actually be marketed,” Mr. Hermes said, “then these ladies are really in a good position be on the front line of endorsement deals.”

Someone better put Terry Richardson on hold.
220 2012-12-09 THE HARD LIFE OF AN N.F.L. LONG SHOT

My nephew went through the same mental anguish, setting college records and receiving M.V.P. awards. He got drafted and went into camp for rookies and got his butt handed to him, mentally and physically. It’s very difficult to go from adulation to fighting for your career in less than six months. This article presents that transition very well. ROBERT HEFFERNAN, Wakefield, Mass., posted on nytimes.com

I gave up everything for football. By the time I was 23, I had already had four knee operations, multiple broken bones, concussions and many other injuries. During my final professional season, I had the chance to start when the first-team guy went down with a knee injury during practice. That very week I took a misstep off a sidewalk curb and reinjured an already tenuous knee. I was in surgery the next day. My career was over. My inability to make it in pro football was the single greatest failure of my life and the best thing that ever happened to me. CHRISTOPHER NYTE, Issaquah, Wash., posted on nytimes.com

If he were a promising but not stellar math or science student, Pat Schiller would be on his own: no supporting fans, no community infrastructure and maybe no family members backing him up — and probably no scholarship money. But as a math or science student, his contribution to society would be much greater. The United States might lead the world in linebackers or point guards or shortstops, but it’s going to take a lot more to solve our problems. MICHAEL PILLA, Millburn, N.J., posted on nytimes.com

When I went into private practice 20 years ago, the expectation was that it would take three years to build a “full” practice. Perhaps the author, like her potential clientele, is also looking for an instant and easy solution. SUSAN SIMONDS, Moscow, Idaho, posted on nytimes.com

I disagree with the implication in your article that I specialized in perinatal issues on a whim. I’ve been active in the birth world for two decades. My work as a counselor in the marriage-and-family system, focusing on maternal mental health, is based on a foundation of education and experience. Each year, there are more occurrences of postpartum depression than breast-cancer diagnoses and more cases of PPD than pre-eclampsia. PPD is one of the most common complications of childbirth. Women deserve to get the help they need from properly trained therapists. KATHY MORELLI, L.P.C., Kinnelon, N.J.
221 2012-12-09 She may explain her decision or stop charging you. But please tread lightly. It takes 25 years to make a 25-year friendship, so be gentle and keep your cool.

I had a consultation with a psychiatrist recently. After 20 minutes, in the middle of a raw story about my family, his cellphone rang. He looked at it and said, “Excuse me, I have to take this.” I assumed it was an emergency, until he said, “Yes, lentil soup sounds great.” I didn’t say anything, but it’s still bothering me. Should I bring it up at our next session? Anonymous

If you don’t, I will! Doctors have a special responsibility to give us their undivided attention in the midst of sensitive disclosures. And we need to trust in it — and them. At your next meeting, say, “It upset me that you took a call about lentil soup in the middle of our session.” Everyone messes up. But if he doesn’t apologize immediately (or provide a good explanation), find yourself another doctor — leaving this one free to consider what he’d like to order after his soup course.

My son is 22 and a super young man. We are fairly close, but we don’t often talk about personal subjects. My quandary: should I speak with him about his hygiene? He doesn’t take good care of his teeth and has strong body odor. I’m concerned about his health, and his social life. But I don’t want to be a nag.

If our dads don’t have our backs, who does? For many, 22 is an in-between age: we’re starting to be independent but are still adrift, and often without anyone close enough to tell us the hard (and stinky) truth about ourselves. That’s where you (still) come in, Pops.

In absolute private, say: “You are a great guy, Jimmy. But you are not taking great care of yourself. That can turn people off, and I’d hate for them to miss all your terrific qualities. Will you think about showering more often and taking better care of your teeth?”

He may become embarrassed or defensive. So give him room to be. Then circle back in a few weeks, if necessary. You can even make up a care package of deodorant and toothpaste. It’s not a pretty job, but who said being a parent would be?

I have several cookie recipes I’ve adapted over many years. I make them for the holidays. Invariably, people ask for my recipes. I’m happy to share them with close friends. It’s like giving them a piece of me. But I don’t like handing them out to people I don’t know well. What should I say when they ask?

Chalk up the cookies’ deliciousness to the Keebler elves. Or better yet, try an offhand “Oh, the recipe changes every time.” It’s probably true and saves disclosing your hierarchy of recipe-sharing — which may be hurtful to some (“I thought we were tight”) and seem odd to others (“Huh?”). But always make exceptions for advice columnists looking for primo oatmeal raisin recipes.
222 2012-12-09 For the past 30 years, a cow pasture outside Steamboat gets coated every winter with a quarter-million gallons of water that freezes into a treacherous sheet of ice: the perfect terrain track for the Bridgestone Winter Driving School (2300 Mount Werner Circle; 970-879-6104; winterdrive.com), which bills itself as the longest continually running school of its kind in the country. In a yurt students get a primer on transferring weight, handling slick conditions and braking on ice. Then they take a test spin on the icy tracks with two hours of training in a fleet of Lexus S.U.V.’s and sedans. Half-day sessions cost $270.

A handful of dude ranches ring Steamboat Springs, several of which are a winter wonderland for cross-country skiers. Whether you prefer open meadows blanketed in snow or winding paths through the aspen woods, the area boasts some of Colorado’s best trails. Though most ranch trails are closed to nonguests, one exception, if you don’t mind the one-hour drive, is Latigo Ranch (201 County Road 1911, Kremmling; 970-724-9008; latigotrails.com), which grooms over 65 kilometers of backcountry trails with sweeping views of the Continental Divide. Day passes for adults are $16. In town, the Howelsen Hill Ski Area (845 Howelsen Parkway; 970-879-8499) has over 20 kilometers of groomed paths; $10 per skier.

Strawberry Park Hot Springs (44200 County Road 36, 970-879-0342; strawberryhotsprings.com) is a secluded retreat nestled in the hills just outside of town. Cold and hot natural plunge pools carved along a ridge draw couples as well as groups of loud kids. To avoid the crowds, slip into one of the heated stone huts for a soothing massage ($90 per hour). Then snag a spot in one of the steaming-hot mineral baths, where you can gaze up at the stars. Even with the crowds, it’s worth it. Entrance is $10 for adults.

When Laundry (127 11th Street; 970-870-0681; thelaundryrestaurant.com), a gastro-pub with a vintage feel, opened last winter, expectations were high. And, indeed, the restaurant’s small-plate concept has proved to be a boon to Steamboat’s growing culinary scene. Housed in an old brick laundromat retrofitted with teardrop-shaped light fixtures and Art Deco-style wine racks, Laundry has a noisy but festive atmosphere. Platters of cheeses, cured meats and fennel-heavy veggies are rich and filling, as is the taco-confit duck ($12). Try the savory fried chicken-polenta ($11) or the hickory-smoked brisket ($12). The bar offers inventive cocktails, like a fiery margarita infused with hot-pepper tequila ($6).

Night life in Steamboat used to consist mainly of sports bars with Western themes and bland menus. But over the past few years, the riverfront avenue Yampa has turned into a popular strip of night spots with eclectic bar menus. At Carl’s Tavern (700 Yampa Avenue; 970-761-2060; carlstavern.com), it’s pot roast by day, party atmosphere by night — a roomy and festive space with live bluegrass most weekends and seemingly as many beers on tap as there are oversize TVs. Another local favorite and recent addition is Sweetwater Grill (811 Yampa Avenue; 970-879-9500; thesweetwatergrill.com), which has a large fire-pit-equipped back deck overlooking Howelsen Hill and a cozy lounge in front.

Before hitting the slopes, hit the Paramount (1865 Ski Time Square Drive; 970-879-1170; theparamountcolorado.com). This unassuming spot with counter service and a rustic-chic feel opened recently to little fanfare, but boasts Steamboat’s finest bacon, egg and cheese sandwich ($8).

What Steamboat (2305 Mount Werner Circle; 970-879-6111; steamboat.com) lacks in open-bowl skiing it makes up for in zippy lift lines, carved aspen glades and silky white Champagne powder. After taking the gondola up to the midstation, head left over to the Storm Peak Express to be whisked up to the summit. Warm up on Buddy’s Run, a meandering trail with lots of dips. For fewer crowds, try Frying Pan off the backside. But Steamboat’s main attraction is its glades, which are more manageable for intermediate skiers than on most mountains. Try Shadows or Closet for something less steep. A nice chaser back down to the gondola is Vagabond. Day passes for adults are $99.

Après-ski starts early at Steamboat. Look for the unmarked trailer just north of the gondola called T Bar (2045 Ski Time Square Drive; 970-879-6652), surrounded by plastic chairs and picnic tables around which are seated the usual types: hipsters, ski bums and shaggy dogs. Housed in a former ski patrol trailer, the bar opened a few years back yet remained hidden from most out-of-town revelers. Its dive bar interior belies its tempting menu of borscht and grilled panini (try the peanut-butter-and-bacon panini, for $7.50). The bar’s ethos, quirky yet simple, is emblematic of Steamboat’s rebirth as a resort town in touch with its playful side.

IF YOU GO

Near the mountain, try Trailhead Lodge (1175 Bangtail Way; 970-879-9000; wvrsteamboat.com), whose roomy suites have kitchenettes and fireplaces. It even has its own gondola. A studio with kitchenette starts at $118.

Another alternative to the cookie-cutter condos right on the slopes is Home Ranch (54880 County Road 129; 970-879-1780; homeranch.com). Twenty minutes from Steamboat, its eight cozy cabins, all with private hot tubs, are surrounded by forests, fields for horseback riding and a rustic family-style dining room. From $490, meals included.
223 2012-12-09 But in the 1970s the junk-bond market and the general economy staggered, and so did Mr. Steinberg. He roared back in the ’80s, however, with smaller triumphs, most of them examples of what came to be called “greenmail,” the practice of buying about 5 percent of a company’s stock, then asking senior management for a seat on the board. His subsequent purchase of a few more shares was usually sufficient for management to pay him millions to drop the chase (or the pretense of one). In 1984, his hostile bid for the Walt Disney Company made him $60 million.

Mr. Steinberg used junk bonds and traditional financing to buy companies in a variety of industries, as well as various companies within an industry. At one point he owned both Days Inn and the Grand Hotel in Cap-Ferrat, in the South of France.

By the 1980s Mr. Steinberg, a portly man with a high-pitched voice, had become very rich, and was not afraid to show it. He and his wife, Gayfryd, lived in a 34-room, 17,000-square-foot Park Avenue apartment that had once belonged to John D. Rockefeller Jr. There they collected art treasures and antiques and gave fabulous parties. When his daughter Laura married Jonathan Tisch, of the hotel family, 500 guests mingled among 50,000 French roses. A year later, for Mr. Steinberg’s 50th birthday party, Mrs. Steinberg orchestrated 10 tableaus of living models displaying scenes from paintings by the old masters.

In the 1990s, Mr. Steinberg focused more on his insurance company, opening offices around the world and announcing new business lines. But in 1995, he was dealt a double blow: just as the insurance business was slipping, he had a serious stroke. In the turmoil, Mr. Steinberg fired his brother, Robert, who had been at his side in all his business endeavors, and borrowed $5 million from his mother, Anne Steinberg.

She later sued her son seeking repayment of the loan, but what happened to the suit amid his other financial troubles is not clear. Saddled with heavy debt from its past corporate takeovers, Reliance began suffering huge losses, and Pennsylvania regulators soon liquidated it in what was then the biggest insurance company failure in American history. And the Steinbergs sold their apartment and auctioned off 61 masterpiece paintings and antiques, including a bronze-plated commode that went for more than $2 million.

Saul Phillip Steinberg was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 13, 1939, and moved with his family to Long Island as a youth. His father, Julius, operated a factory that made bathmats. Saul entered the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania at 16 and graduated at 19. At the business school, he wrote a paper on I.B.M. and hit upon the notion that there was a market niche in leasing I.B.M. computers for four years at high prices.

Returning to Brooklyn, he began managing subway station newsstands. In 1961, when he was 22, his father lent him $25,000 to finance his leasing idea. At first called the Ideal Leasing Company, the firm had by 1967 become the Leasco Data Processing Equipment Corporation. Mr. Steinberg sold stock to the public to raise $750,000, and Leasco became the vehicle he used to buy Reliance. The insurance company, in turn, became a wellspring of cash for future corporate attacks.

For 15 years, Mr. Steinberg was chairman of Wharton’s board of overseers.

His first two marriages, to the former Barbara Herzog and the former Laura Sconocchia, ended in divorce. Besides his daughter Laura, from his first marriage, Mr. Steinberg is survived by his wife, the former Gayfryd McNabb; his brother, Robert; his sisters Roni Sokoloff and Lynda Jurist; two sons from his first marriage, Jonathan (who is married to the CNBC anchor Maria Bartiromo) and Nicholas; a son from his second marriage, Julian; a son, Rayne, and a daughter, Holden, from his third marriage; and a number of grandchildren. Anne Steinberg’s death on Friday was reported in the New York Times death notices. No age or cause was given.

A sign on Mr. Steinberg’s Park Avenue office in English and Hebrew suggested the man’s immense energy. “On the eighth day,” it said, “Saul rested.”
224 2012-12-10 The president is urged to put on hold cases under consideration by immigration authorities of U.S. citizens who are seeking permanent resident visas, or green cards, for immigrants of the same sex they legally married....
225 2012-12-10 It isn't often that you fool a quarterback like the Saints' Drew Brees, but it appears the Giants did just that on a key play to open the second half....
226 2012-12-10 Senator John McCain wants a committee seat where he could weigh in on the nominee for secretary of state. He has already been clear about his opposition to one potential candidate, Susan E. Rice....
227 2012-12-10 Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly joined the television host Dr. Mehmet Oz at a ceremony for a new Harlem restaurant that eventually included Tiki Barber....
228 2012-12-10 Defense lawyers for Anthony Chiasson, a co-founder of the now-defunct Level Global Investors, and Todd Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital Management, called just two witnesses before resting their case. The move will send th...
229 2012-12-10 Josh Kilmer-Purcell, a creative director at JWT New York, came in first on the show, collecting $1 million, with his fiancé, Brent Ridge. He said he would be moving to live full time at the couple's farm, which has been the subject of another rea...
230 2012-12-10 The government will sell its final holdings of the American International Group, the insurance giant it bailed out in 2008 - and at a profit....
231 2012-12-10 South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley said Monday that she would not appoint a "placeholder" to fill temporarily the Senate seat made vacant by the retirement of Senator Jim DeMint....
232 2012-12-10 The sale of the International Lease Finance Corporation would allow A.I.G. to reduce its $16 billion of financial debt outstanding at the end of the third quarter....
233 2012-12-10 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
234 2012-12-10 The museum has been closed since Sandy struck in October....
235 2012-12-10 New rules may be needed to limit the possibility of insider trading by corporate officials....
236 2012-12-10 Our 2012 Hack Day was everything we’d hoped it would be: fun, inspiring and productive....
237 2012-12-10 We'll be deprecating the presidential donor request type in our Campaign Finance API on Friday, December 28....
238 2012-12-10 Michael Di Girolamo, partner and executive producer at Station Film, was named the 2013 chairman of the AICP Show, sponsored by the Association of Independent Commercial Producers, New York. The date for the 22nd annual show, which will also include the presentation of the Next Awards, is to be announced early in the new year; the show is usually held in June at the Museum of Modern Art.

Kevin Dillon joined Ratio Interactive, Seattle, in a new post, president. He had most recently been director for engagement strategy at Ascentium, Seattle, now known as Smith.

Erin Dorr and Layla Revis joined the New York office of We Are Social. Ms. Dorr becomes an account director; she had managed social media and advocacy programs at the Dachis Group. Ms. Revis becomes senior director; she had been vice president for digital strategy at Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP.

Emcee Design was opened by MeringCarson, Sacramento, Calif., to serve current and new clients. The design unit has seven employees and is being led by Michael Leonardini, design director at MeringCarson, and Mina Robertson, senior account manager at MeringCarson.

Samantha Fennell joined GTM, New York, in a new post, strategic adviser for branded entertainment. She had most recently been executive director at Time Inc. Branded Solutions, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner.

Suzanne Grimes joined Clear Channel Outdoor Americas, New York, part of Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, in a new post created after a reorganization, president and chief operating officer. She had most recently been a consultant and before that held executive posts at magazines owned by companies like Condé Nast Publications, News Corporation and the Reader’s Digest Association.

David Kurtz joined AdColony, Los Angeles, in a new post, chief product officer. He had most recently been vice president for the publisher network at AT&T Interactive.

Duke Marr joined R/GA, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, managing director for commerce. He had been vice president for e-commerce product management at 1-800-Flowers. Also, R/GA opened an office in Austin, Tex., which it said in July it was planning to open later this year.

Mary Warren McCarthy, senior vice president and group director/strategy at Blitz Media, Boston, was promoted to a new post, chief media officer.

Norman M. Miller joined Niche Media, New York, in a new post, executive director for luxury brands. He had been integrated sales director at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, New York.

Greg Pomaro joined the San Francisco office of T3 as senior vice president and executive media director. He assumes duties from Bryan Noguchi, vice president and executive media director, who is now vice president and media director for North America at DWA. Mr. Pomaro had most recently been senior vice president for client services at Mediabrands Audience Platform, San Francisco, part of the Mediabrands division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Wayne Silverman joined Dailybreak, Boston, in a new post, chief revenue officer. He had been chief revenue officer at Scanbuy, New York.

Steven Slon, editorial director at The Saturday Evening Post, Indianapolis, will also serve in a new position, associate publisher. The magazine, published by The Saturday Evening Post Society, plans to introduce a redesign with its January/February 2013 issue.

Eric Springer joined DraftFBC, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, executive vice president and chief creative officer of the Irvine, Calif., office, from which he will also oversee the creative output of the agency’s new Los Angeles office. Mr. Springer had most recently been chief creative officer at Pitch, Santa Monica, Calif.

Jeremy Steinberg joined the Weather Company, New York, as senior vice president for digital ad sales. He succeeds Sheila Buckley, who left to become chief revenue officer at Vibrant Media. Mr. Steinberg had been vice president for digital sales and business development at Fox News and Fox Business Network, part of News Corporation. The Weather Company, formerly the Weather Channel Companies, is owned by the NBCUniversal division of Comcast, Bain Capital and the Blackstone Group.

James Tucker joined DDB New York as an associate creative director. He had been a senior art director at Colenso BBDO New Zealand, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group. DDB New York is part of the DDB Worldwide division of Omnicom.

Two by Four hired five employees at its Chicago and Chattanooga, Tenn., offices. They are Brittany Dedman, account supervisor, Chattanooga; Alexandra DiBucci, copywriter, Chicago; Bryce Isaacson, copywriter, Chicago; Andrew Merritt, art director, Chicago; and Aaron Sanfillippo, art director, Chicago.

Jack Vaughn joined New Wave Entertainment, Burbank, Calif., as senior vice president for production and distribution. He assumes duties from Brian Volk-Weiss, who continues as head of production. Mr. Vaughn had led the Comedy Central Records division of Comedy Central, part of Viacom.

Meredith Wagner was named executive vice president for communications at MPA — The Association of Magazine Media, New York, effective on Jan. 7. She succeeds Howard Polskin, who is leaving, the trade organization said, to pursue other opportunities. Ms. Wagner had been chief marketing officer at Women for Women International, Washington. The appointment follows the arrival of Mary G. Berner as the new president and chief executive of the organization.

Watkins Manufacturing Corporation, Vista, Calif., selected I.d.e.a., San Diego, to provide creative branding development for its Hot Spring Spas brand of hot tubs, working with the internal Hot Springs marketing and brand team. Billings were not disclosed. There had been no previous creative agency of record.
239 2012-12-10 The British bank HSBC on Monday appointed Robert W. Werner, a former United States Treasury official, to head up financial crime compliance, a newly established role....
240 2012-12-10 Michael R. Bloomberg has been cagey about whether he might acquire The Financial Times; he is reported to have said, "I buy it every day." Also, John McAfee on the run, reporters in tow; and John Silva, the engineer at a Los Angeles TV station who...
241 2012-12-10 A report being released Monday by the McKinsey Center for Government shows a big disconnect between new grads looking for work and the employers looking to hire them. Should everyone go to university? Should schools focus on creating well-rounded ...
242 2012-12-10 “It’s the only paper I’d buy,” he has said to one associate. “Why should I buy it?” he has asked another.

His ambivalence speaks to the troubles facing the newspaper business, and to the complex motivations of the mayor himself. Drawn to power and prominence, Mr. Bloomberg is wrestling with his affection for the paper as its potential publisher and his wariness of an investment that could mar his company’s reputation for achieving outsize profits. Pearson, the parent company of The Financial Times Group, does not break out separate financial results for the paper, but analysts estimate that it loses money. A spokesman for the mayor declined to comment on his conversations about the paper.

For Thomson Reuters, the other likely bidder, the calculation is somewhat different. Unlike Mr. Bloomberg, who started his financial information company in 1982, James C. Smith, president and chief executive of Thomson Reuters, came up through Thomson’s regional newspapers and has ink in his veins. A replica of an old-fashioned printing press is on display in his corner office overlooking Times Square.

But the company has been hurt financially after its newest desktop terminal product struggled to catch on. In the first nine months of 2012, the company reported revenue of $9.88 billion, a 3 percent decrease from the period a year earlier. A company spokesman declined to comment.

The Financial Times could expand the Thomson Reuters brand and give its reporters additional exposure since, unlike Bloomberg, which bought Businessweek in 2009, the company does not own a regular magazine. Thomson Reuters, partly a British company, and The Financial Times also have large footprints in Asia.

But first, the paper needs to be put on the block. Pearson is about to lose two of its top executives, raising speculation the paper could be for sale. Analysts value The Financial Times Group at about $1.2 billion, well within the reach of Bloomberg L.P., which in 2011 had revenue of $7.6 billion, and Thomson Reuters, which posted revenue of $13.8 billion.

The paper has a successful digital strategy, and analysts have said that its strict online pay wall is considered a financial success. But like most newspapers, it is struggling in an industrywide decline in print advertising revenue. In the three months ending Oct. 1, the paper’s total paid circulation exceeded 600,000, more than half of which was from digital subscriptions. In its most recent earnings report, Pearson said it expected profit to decline because of a sluggish advertising market and “the shift from print to digital.”

Marjorie Scardino, Pearson’s longtime chief executive, who once said the paper would be sold “over my dead body,” is departing on Dec. 31. Rona Fairhead, chief executive of The Financial Times Group, will leave at the end of April. Both executives had championed the print businesses. A successor to Ms. Fairhead has yet to be named, though one person close to the company pointed to John Ridding, the chief executive of the paper.

One media banker with knowledge of the company expects the paper to be shopped around early next year. John Fallon, who is to take over from Ms. Scardino on Jan. 1 as chief of Pearson, rose through the educational business and does not share his predecessor’s fondness for print. In October, the company merged its Penguin publishing house with Random House, owned by Bertelsmann of Germany.

In an interview in October, Mr. Fallon said The Financial Times was a “valued and valuable” asset that fit nicely into Pearson’s overall business. He added that “the portfolio of Pearson, it’s constantly changing and evolving” and “we never rule out anything.”

Charles Goldsmith, a spokesman for Pearson, said in an e-mail that the company “has not initiated any sort of sale process for The Financial Times and has no plans to do so.”

Ian Whittaker, a media analyst at Liberum Capital in London, said of Pearson: “My gut feeling is that if Bloomberg came in with a crazy bid, they’d probably accept it, but there’s no compelling reason to sell at the moment.”

Even before the departures at Pearson, Bloomberg L.P. had commissioned a study to assess whether The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times or The Financial Times would potentially become available. Only The Financial Times emerged as a possibility, according to three people briefed on the findings who, like others, declined to be identified discussing private conversations.

Officials at Bloomberg L.P. said top executives had only discussed a possible deal for The Financial Times in hypothetical terms, awaiting a decision from Mr. Bloomberg, who controls 90 percent of the company’s shares. “Only one person makes the decisions about acquisitions and that’s Mike,” one executive said. A Bloomberg spokesman declined to comment.

In a brief interview at a party last week, Mr. Bloomberg sounded like a man who had carefully studied the paper’s business. “The F.T. sells more papers in the U.S. than The Wall Street Journal does in Europe,” he observed.

He eagerly described his method of reading The Financial Times, starting with its left-hand column, and praised its short articles, which begin and end on the front page. “There are no jumps,” he said, using a newspaper term.

He expressed reservations about any deal that would involve owning just half of The Economist. Under the co-ownership agreement, The Financial Times Group has no input into The Economist’s coverage. “You don’t have control. Why would you want that?” Mr. Bloomberg asked.

Factions within his company have argued that it would be smarter to buy a digital property, pointing to the Web site LinkedIn as an example. Daniel L. Doctoroff, a confidant of Mr. Bloomberg and the chief executive of the company, is said to be particularly skeptical about the value of buying a newspaper.

Shortly after a Bloomberg News series on how profit-making colleges exploited low-income students was named a finalist for a Pulitzer Prize in the prestigious public service category, Mr. Doctoroff dropped in on reporters in the company’s Boston bureau.

“He basically said newsprint is passé and pooh-poohed acquiring any print publications,” said one employee who was loath to speak publicly about internal discussions for fear of offending the company’s top management.

Inside Bloomberg, the primacy of its terminals — the superfast, financial data-splicing computers that sit atop traders’ desks on Wall Street — is unquestioned. Roughly 85 percent of Bloomberg’s revenue comes from its 315,000 terminal subscribers, who pay $20,000 a year for “the Bloomberg.” That revenue pays for the news operation’s generous employee benefits and underpins Mr. Bloomberg’s $25 billion fortune.

The debate over whether to buy The Financial Times highlights an internal tension within Bloomberg’s giant news operation: Is it intended to be an amenity for those who lease terminals or a robust international media organization whose content reaches millions of readers beyond the financial world?

Bloomberg News reporters complain frequently about the lack of a widely read platform for their storytelling, a reality highlighted by the relatively slight day-to-day attention paid to the mayor’s own foray into opinion journalism, Bloomberg View, which appears on the Bloomberg terminals and Web site. The editorials and columns housed at Bloomberg View would reach a far bigger audience in the pages of The Financial Times, reporters at the company argue.

Those who favor buying the paper said that, even if it failed to make money, it would fit neatly into Bloomberg’s core business, giving the company a prestigious international outlet for its expanding body of journalism.

Over time, and with investment from Bloomberg, The Financial Times could develop a broader readership in the United States, with the goal of becoming the No. 1 newspaper for American business readers, filling a gap left after News Corporation reimagined The Journal into a general interest paper.

Mr. Bloomberg seems to recognize that a decision on whether to buy a newspaper involves more than financial sense. At a book party at the Bloomberg Family Foundation in May, he recalled a recent dinner party conversation.

“Someone said the only people buying newspapers these days are billionaires with egos,” Mr. Bloomberg recalled. “And then he looked at me and said, ‘Like you, Mike.’ ”
243 2012-12-10 RIT Capital Partners, the investment firm chaired by Jacob Rothschild, said on Monday that it had acquired a stake in a British crowdfunding company, Zopa....
244 2012-12-10 Car sales are up. Gas prices are up. Holiday parties are back. And Montgomery Burns explains all....
245 2012-12-10 The activist talks about his work with Maoists, his controversial conviction and Indian law....
246 2012-12-10 In 2010, the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness announced a plan to end homelessness, starting with the most vulnerable populations. The goals included ending chronic and veteran homelessness by 2015, and ending homelessness among families, the young and children by 2020.

“They have set ambitious goals for themselves, but I don’t think those are goals that aren’t doable,” said Nan Roman, the president of the National Alliance to End Homelessness. “But not at the rate that we’re going.”

Though chronic and veteran homelessness have declined markedly, it seems unlikely that the housing agency and its partners will be able to eliminate homelessness among those two populations by the 2015 deadline. According to the HUD estimates, there were 99,894 chronically homeless people when a survey was conducted in January 2012, and 62,619 homeless veterans.

Still, the government has played a major role in keeping homelessness from rising during the recession. Indeed, the number of people counted as homeless has fallen for four out of the past five years. It is now about 6 percent lower than it was five years ago. Many poverty experts anticipated that homelessness would increase during the recession, and many were surprised that it did not.

At the same time, other measures of economic distress have increased. According to the Census Bureau, the poverty rate has climbed for four out of the past five years. It is now 22 percent higher than it was five years ago.

The report’s data comes from a large survey conducted on a single night in late January, in which local teams counted the number of sheltered and unsheltered homeless people to provide a comprehensive “point in time” estimate of homelessness. The housing agency also keeps separate estimates of the number of people who become homeless for periods over the course of a year.

Housing officials said the declining population of homeless people could be credited in part to a $1.5 billion infusion of federal stimulus money. As part of the stimulus-financed Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing Program, local governments identified vulnerable people and intervened to stop them from becoming homeless by helping them find and pay for new places to live, for instance. That program prevented or ended homelessness for more than one million people, the housing agency estimates.

HUD and its partners also increased the number of available beds in emergency shelters by about 15 percent over five years, and the number of beds in longer term housing by nearly 50 percent.

But with emergency stimulus financing at its end, experts worry that homelessness might increase for some vulnerable groups in the coming year. Ms. Roman, for instance, predicted that the end of the rapid rehousing program might result in more family homelessness in 2013.

Housing officials said they had invested in research and data analysis to learn how to use their resources more efficiently. “There’s always a start-up period where we’re trying to learn what works, and trying to understand the best and most effective uses of our resources,” said Ann Oliva, the acting deputy assistant housing secretary for special needs. “We know what we need to do now and between 2015 to get to zero.”

Some analysts say the large federal expansion of Medicaid coming in 2014 might help reduce homelessness. States that join the Medicaid expansion — with the federal government chipping in $9 for every $1 the state spends — will be required to provide coverage to all adults whose income is up to 33 percent higher than the poverty line. Many states do not provide Medicaid to childless adults now, no matter how poor.

Mark Johnston, the acting assistant housing secretary for community planning and development, estimated that homelessness could be effectively eradicated in the United States at an annual cost of about $20 billion. The housing department’s budget for addressing homelessness is currently about $1.9 billion.
247 2012-12-10 Their slump is ill-timed, with the Knicks coming to Brooklyn on Tuesday, when the Nets begin a stretch of four games in five nights.

The Nets clearly miss Brook Lopez, their offensive anchor and leading shot blocker, who missed his fifth straight game. But it is their All-Star backcourt that is now causing consternation.

Williams and Joe Johnson (6 points) combined for just 24 points and gave up 50 to the Bucks’ backcourt of Brandon Jennings (26) and Monta Ellis (24). Johnson looked thoroughly out of sorts, missing his first five shots and passing up several scoring chances. He was benched three minutes into the third quarter and did not return until the start of the fourth.

“We need Joe’s production,” Coach Avery Johnson said. He added: “I just think when he gets his shot, he just needs to take it. Don’t ever be hesitant. I would rather him shoot and miss than to ever hesitate.”

As if to draw a contrast, Johnson then mentioned Williams, saying, “You see Deron out there, he’s pushing the ball, he’s setting screens, he’s moving without the ball. But it’s a total team effort.”

At the time he was pulled, Joe Johnson was 0 for 5 and had just committed a turnover. Asked if he understood the benching, he said, “I have no idea.” He dismissed concerns about his shooting, saying: “Oh for 5, that’s nothing. That’s part of the game, man.”

MarShon Brooks, who replaced Johnson in the third quarter, scored 14 points in 21 minutes, perhaps making a case for more playing time. Gerald Wallace finished with 16 points and 16 rebounds.

After a franchise-best 11-4 start, the Nets are now an ordinary 11-8 and sinking in the Eastern Conference standings. The offense is cratering and the defense is barely passable. Lopez now seems indispensable.

“We definitely want him back,” Williams said, “but we don’t want to think we can’t win without him.”

Avery Johnson started Reggie Evans in an attempt to inject some defense into the lineup, pushing Kris Humphries to the bench. It paid early dividends when the Nets raced to an 11-2 lead, with Evans making two steals that led to layups. But the boost faded quickly, and the Bucks closed the first quarter with a 25-18 lead. Evans finished with nine rebounds, four steals and five turnovers.

The Nets committed 22 turnovers, and their shooting percentage hovered in the 30s until the fourth quarter, when they hit 12 of 15 attempts. They trailed by 17 points at halftime, by 29 in the third quarter and by 20 early in the fourth.

Williams, Wallace and Brooks led the late rally, combining for 26 points in the final quarter. Back-to-back dunks from Humphries and Wallace cut the deficit to 85-79 with 3 minutes 3 seconds to play. But Ellis and Larry Sanders scored on driving layups and Marquis Daniels hit a 3-pointer as the Bucks (10-9) pulled away.

“We came out the first couple minutes and looked really good,” Williams said. “We executed well. And then something happened where we just couldn’t find it. Couldn’t find it.”

Avery Johnson, sounding impatient for the first time, acknowledged that Brook Lopez was taking longer than expected to return from his sprained foot. “It’s a little bit slower than what we thought,” Johnson said, “and we’ll see if we catch some good fortune here soon where he can heal enough to a point where he can practice and play in a game.” Lopez worked out Sunday, but he has yet to practice with the team. If he practices Monday, there is a chance he could play Tuesday against the Knicks. That sounds far from certain, however. “Until we can get him in a practice and he can go through a practice, it would be irresponsible on our part just to throw him out there in a game,” Johnson said. Although he has described Lopez as “pain-free,” Johnson conceded that Lopez still feels “discomfort” when he cuts, which he called “a telltale sign that something is not fully operational.”
248 2012-12-10 Still, the Supreme Court’s move came just eight years after became the first state to permit gay and lesbian couples to marry and just four years after voters in rejected a ruling of their Supreme Court allowing same-sex marriages there.

The cautious move for the justices would have been to hear just one of the cases they were asked to consider, the one posing the relatively modest question of whether the federal government can discriminate against same-sex couples married in the places that allow such unions.

But the court went big on Friday, also taking the case from California filed by and . Their case seeks to establish a constitutional right to same-sex marriage in the remaining states, almost all of which have laws or constitutional provisions prohibiting it.

“We are now literally within months,” Mr. Boies said Friday, “of getting a final resolution of this case that began three and a half years ago.”

The speed with which the court is moving has some gay rights advocates bracing for a split decision. The court could strike down the federal law, the Defense of Marriage Act, saying that the meaning of marriage is a matter for the states to decide. At the same time, it could reject the idea that the Constitution requires states to allow same-sex marriage, saying that the meaning of marriage is a matter for the states to decide.

That may be why supporters of traditional marriage sounded pretty cheerful on Friday.

“I’m ecstatic,” said Brian S. Brown, the president of the National Organization for Marriage. “Taking both cases at the same time exposes the hypocrisy on the other side.”

It is entirely possible, then, that the votes to grant review in the California case came from the court’s more conservative justices. They may have calculated that they had a shot at capturing the decisive vote of the member of the court at its ideological center, Justice , at least in the California case.

But while the court is moving fast, it has left itself plenty of offramps. Officials in California refused to defend , the voter initiative that banned same-sex marriage in the state, or to appeal the lower-court decisions invalidating it. They left those tasks to proponents of the initiative.

On Friday, the justices directed the parties to address the issue of whether the proponents of banning same-sex marriage had suffered the sort of direct injury that gave them standing to appeal. If the answer is no, the trial court decision requiring the state to allow same-sex marriage would stand, but its sweep in the short term could be limited to two California counties or perhaps even to just the couples who brought the case.

The justices could also affirm a California-only rationale relied on by the appeals court. That court said Proposition 8 must fall because voters had withdrawn a constitutional right from gay men and lesbians. Whether the establishment of such a right was required by the Constitution in the first place, it said, was a question for another day.

Finally, the justices could pursue what Kenji Yoshino, a law professor at , calls the “eight-state solution,” one that would affect California, , , , , , and . Those states give gay and lesbian couples all the benefits and burdens of marriage but withhold the name “marriage.” That distinction, the court could rule, violates equal protection principles.

Such a ruling, though, could have “perverse effects,” Professor Yoshino says. States prepared to enact laws allowing gay and lesbian couples to join in civil unions — marriages in everything but name — might hesitate, for fear of being forced by the courts to adopt same-sex marriage if they do.

But the eight-state solution would also be unlikely to give rise to the sort of reaction that imposing same-sex marriage on, say, would. However the court rules in the California case, its very decision to consider it is a change from the caution of an earlier era.

In private correspondence in 1957, Justice Felix Frankfurter said the court was doing all it could to avoid hearing cases that would require giving the nation an answer about whether bans on interracial marriage — anti-miscegenation laws, in the parlance of the day — were constitutional.

“We twice shunted it away,” Justice Frankfurter wrote to Judge Learned Hand, “and I pray we will be able to do it again without being too brazenly evasive.”

Judge Hand responded that “I don’t see how you lads can duck it.”

“I shall work, within the limits of judicial decency,” he wrote, “to put off decision on miscegenation as long as I can.”

The Supreme Court did not strike down laws banning interracial marriage until 1967, in Loving v. Virginia, when 16 states still had them on the books. That was almost two decades after the California Supreme Court in 1948 struck down a law making illegal “all marriages of white persons with Negroes” in Perez v. Sharp.

It has been just four years since the California Supreme Court, citing Perez, struck down two state laws limiting marriage to a man and a woman.

“We are in the midst of a major social change,” Justice Carol A. Corrigan wrote in dissent. She said she supported allowing “our gay and lesbian neighbors” to marry. But she said change must come from the political process, not the courts.

“Societies seldom make such changes smoothly,” Justice Corrigan wrote. “For some the process is frustratingly slow. For others it is jarringly fast.”
249 2012-12-10 “It’s the only paper I’d buy,” he has said to one associate. “Why should I buy it?” he has asked another.

His ambivalence speaks to the troubles facing the newspaper business, and to the complex motivations of the mayor himself. Drawn to power and prominence, Mr. Bloomberg is wrestling with his affection for the paper as its potential publisher and his wariness of an investment that could mar his company’s reputation for achieving outsize profits. Pearson, the parent company of The Financial Times Group, does not break out separate financial results for the paper, but analysts estimate that it loses money. A spokesman for the mayor declined to comment on his conversations about the paper.

For Thomson Reuters, the other likely bidder, the calculation is somewhat different. Unlike Mr. Bloomberg, who started his financial information company in 1982, James C. Smith, president and chief executive of Thomson Reuters, came up through Thomson’s regional newspapers and has ink in his veins. A replica of an old-fashioned printing press is on display in his corner office overlooking Times Square.

But the company has been hurt financially after its newest desktop terminal product struggled to catch on. In the first nine months of 2012, the company reported revenue of $9.88 billion, a 3 percent decrease from the period a year earlier. A company spokesman declined to comment.

The Financial Times could expand the Thomson Reuters brand and give its reporters additional exposure since, unlike Bloomberg, which bought Businessweek in 2009, the company does not own a regular magazine. Thomson Reuters, partly a British company, and The Financial Times also have large footprints in Asia.

But first, the paper needs to be put on the block. Pearson is about to lose two of its top executives, raising speculation the paper could be for sale. Analysts value The Financial Times Group at about $1.2 billion, well within the reach of Bloomberg L.P., which in 2011 had revenue of $7.6 billion, and Thomson Reuters, which posted revenue of $13.8 billion.

The paper has a successful digital strategy, and analysts have said that its strict online pay wall is considered a financial success. But like most newspapers, it is struggling in an industrywide decline in print advertising revenue. In the three months ending Oct. 1, the paper’s total paid circulation exceeded 600,000, more than half of which was from digital subscriptions. In its most recent earnings report, Pearson said it expected profit to decline because of a sluggish advertising market and “the shift from print to digital.”

Marjorie Scardino, Pearson’s longtime chief executive, who once said the paper would be sold “over my dead body,” is departing on Dec. 31. Rona Fairhead, chief executive of The Financial Times Group, will leave at the end of April. Both executives had championed the print businesses. A successor to Ms. Fairhead has yet to be named, though one person close to the company pointed to John Ridding, the chief executive of the paper.

One media banker with knowledge of the company expects the paper to be shopped around early next year. John Fallon, who is to take over from Ms. Scardino on Jan. 1 as chief of Pearson, rose through the educational business and does not share his predecessor’s fondness for print. In October, the company merged its Penguin publishing house with Random House, owned by Bertelsmann of Germany.

In an interview in October, Mr. Fallon said The Financial Times was a “valued and valuable” asset that fit nicely into Pearson’s overall business. He added that “the portfolio of Pearson, it’s constantly changing and evolving” and “we never rule out anything.”

Charles Goldsmith, a spokesman for Pearson, said in an e-mail that the company “has not initiated any sort of sale process for The Financial Times and has no plans to do so.”

Ian Whittaker, a media analyst at Liberum Capital in London, said of Pearson: “My gut feeling is that if Bloomberg came in with a crazy bid, they’d probably accept it, but there’s no compelling reason to sell at the moment.”

Even before the departures at Pearson, Bloomberg L.P. had commissioned a study to assess whether The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times or The Financial Times would potentially become available. Only The Financial Times emerged as a possibility, according to three people briefed on the findings who, like others, declined to be identified discussing private conversations.

Officials at Bloomberg L.P. said top executives had only discussed a possible deal for The Financial Times in hypothetical terms, awaiting a decision from Mr. Bloomberg, who controls 90 percent of the company’s shares. “Only one person makes the decisions about acquisitions and that’s Mike,” one executive said. A Bloomberg spokesman declined to comment.

In a brief interview at a party last week, Mr. Bloomberg sounded like a man who had carefully studied the paper’s business. “The F.T. sells more papers in the U.S. than The Wall Street Journal does in Europe,” he observed.

He eagerly described his method of reading The Financial Times, starting with its left-hand column, and praised its short articles, which begin and end on the front page. “There are no jumps,” he said, using a newspaper term.

He expressed reservations about any deal that would involve owning just half of The Economist. Under the co-ownership agreement, The Financial Times Group has no input into The Economist’s coverage. “You don’t have control. Why would you want that?” Mr. Bloomberg asked.

Factions within his company have argued that it would be smarter to buy a digital property, pointing to the Web site LinkedIn as an example. Daniel L. Doctoroff, a confidant of Mr. Bloomberg and the chief executive of the company, is said to be particularly skeptical about the value of buying a newspaper.

Shortly after a Bloomberg News series on how profit-making colleges exploited low-income students was named a finalist for a Pulitzer Prize in the prestigious public service category, Mr. Doctoroff dropped in on reporters in the company’s Boston bureau.

“He basically said newsprint is passé and pooh-poohed acquiring any print publications,” said one employee who was loath to speak publicly about internal discussions for fear of offending the company’s top management.

Inside Bloomberg, the primacy of its terminals — the superfast, financial data-splicing computers that sit atop traders’ desks on Wall Street — is unquestioned. Roughly 85 percent of Bloomberg’s revenue comes from its 315,000 terminal subscribers, who pay $20,000 a year for “the Bloomberg.” That revenue pays for the news operation’s generous employee benefits and underpins Mr. Bloomberg’s $25 billion fortune.

The debate over whether to buy The Financial Times highlights an internal tension within Bloomberg’s giant news operation: Is it intended to be an amenity for those who lease terminals or a robust international media organization whose content reaches millions of readers beyond the financial world?

Bloomberg News reporters complain frequently about the lack of a widely read platform for their storytelling, a reality highlighted by the relatively slight day-to-day attention paid to the mayor’s own foray into opinion journalism, Bloomberg View, which appears on the Bloomberg terminals and Web site. The editorials and columns housed at Bloomberg View would reach a far bigger audience in the pages of The Financial Times, reporters at the company argue.

Those who favor buying the paper said that, even if it failed to make money, it would fit neatly into Bloomberg’s core business, giving the company a prestigious international outlet for its expanding body of journalism.

Over time, and with investment from Bloomberg, The Financial Times could develop a broader readership in the United States, with the goal of becoming the No. 1 newspaper for American business readers, filling a gap left after News Corporation reimagined The Journal into a general interest paper.

Mr. Bloomberg seems to recognize that a decision on whether to buy a newspaper involves more than financial sense. At a book party at the Bloomberg Family Foundation in May, he recalled a recent dinner party conversation.

“Someone said the only people buying newspapers these days are billionaires with egos,” Mr. Bloomberg recalled. “And then he looked at me and said, ‘Like you, Mike.’ ”
250 2012-12-10 Mr. Xi’s father, Xi Zhongxun, was a revered senior official handpicked by Mr. Deng to help shape the new economic policies and oversee the creation of the Shenzhen zone. Mr. Xi’s mother lives in Shenzhen, and he visited her on his trip, according to Hong Kong news reports.

“If he indeed went to Shenzhen, that means he intends to make reform a subject of priority,” said Li Weidong, a liberal political analyst. “That would really be a phenomenon.”

Mr. Li cautioned, though, that the so-called reform policies that followed Mr. Deng’s 1992 southern tour, in his view, “ended up being fake” because China’s boom resulted in widespread corruption and the expansion of state enterprises at the expense of private entrepreneurship.

When Mr. Xi’s predecessor, Hu Jintao, became party chief in 2002, he was seen by many as a potential reformer, but his tenure was marked by conservative policies. For his first trip outside Beijing as party chief, Mr. Hu went in December 2002 to Xibaipo, a hallowed site for the revolution, where he reiterated a speech given by Mao Zedong.

Over the weekend, video footage from Phoenix Television showed a line of minibuses and police cars winding its way through Shenzhen. Mr. Xi and other officials walked outdoors in dark suits. The party’s official news organizations did not immediately report on the trip, but some prominent mainland Chinese news Web sites cited the Hong Kong reports.

Mr. Xi’s early moves as party leader seem aimed at emphasizing national “revival,” a theme he highlighted when he appeared on Nov. 29 with the party’s new seven-man Politburo Standing Committee in a history museum at Tiananmen Square. According to People’s Daily, the party mouthpiece, Mr. Xi stood in front of an exhibition called “The Road to Rejuvenation” and said, “After the 170 or more years of constant struggle since the Opium Wars, the great revival of the Chinese nation enjoys glorious prospects.”

He added: “Now everyone is discussing the Chinese dream, and I believe that realizing the great revival of the Chinese nation is the greatest dream of the Chinese nation in modern times.”

The emphasis on a “Chinese dream” is particular to Mr. Xi, and could prove to be a recurring motif throughout his tenure. The notion of a grand revival — “fu xing” in Mandarin — has been popular with Chinese leaders for at least a century, but Mr. Xi appears to be tapping more deeply into that nationalist vein than his recent predecessors, perhaps recognizing that traditional Communist ideology no longer has popular appeal.

Given China’s many recent accomplishments, it is somewhat surprising that “this narrative, which counterpoises China against Japan and the West, should be becoming more rather than less prominent,” said Orville Schell, a veteran China observer who is writing a book on the country’s modern quest for wealth and power with John Delury, a historian. “And now, as the new Chinese leadership begins to write the script for the next act of their country’s reform, it appears as if Xi Jinping is finding nationalism an irresistible ingredient in his effort to galvanize his people.”

Mr. Xi’s brand of nationalism, analysts say, could mix bolder economic policies with anticorruption campaigns, a vigorous military buildup and a muscular foreign policy. The combination is somewhat reminiscent of the Self-Strengthening Movement in the late 19th century, when some Chinese leaders and intellectuals tried to push institutional reforms to revive a weakening Qing dynasty harassed by Western powers and Japan.

Leaders here know that anti-foreign nationalism, shaped by the state education system and mass media, is a powerful undercurrent in Chinese society. Just weeks before Mr. Xi took power, anti-Japan protests erupted in Chinese cities over a territorial dispute. Under Mr. Xi, China has been assertive with Southeast Asian nations over disputed territory in the South China Sea.

On Wednesday, Mr. Xi met with representatives of the Second Artillery Corps, which oversees China’s nuclear arsenal. That prompted The People’s Liberation Army Daily to say the next day: “In realizing the great dream of the great revival of the Chinese nation, the Second Artillery Corps is duty-bound to take up the task of forging the saber of a great power.”

For many Chinese, calls for revival refer to resurrecting a China strong enough to dictate foreign policy on its own terms, before Western nations humiliated the Qing rulers during the two Opium Wars in the 19th century. The last golden age of China as a great power is often considered to be the late 18th century, after the Qing empire’s ethnic Manchu rulers had expanded China’s geographic reach. Perhaps most telling, the Qianlong Emperor tried forcing George Macartney, the British envoy, to kowtow in the imperial court in 1793.

After the Opium Wars, nationalist intellectuals, including Sun Yat-sen, pushed for rejuvenation. Sun founded the Revive China Society, whose motto was to “expel the Manchus, revive China and establish a unified government.”

In Mr. Schell’s view, “if there is any one sentiment that has tied all the thinkers and leaders of China’s 20th century together, it is certainly nationalism.”

Mr. Delury, the historian, said there was a millennia-old concept of rejuvenation in dynastic China that the party might find relevant now. It was called a “middle revival,” or zhong xing, and was used to describe a period midway through a dynastic cycle when an empire had to revive itself to move past the failings of weak leadership.

“To rally the troops, there’s a call for zhong xing,” Mr. Delury said. “The archetype is you have these strong founding emperors, and then you have an inexorable weakening, and then there’s a crisis, and a strong leader emerges in the middle who pushes the zhong xing. It gives the dynasty a second life.”
251 2012-12-10 JEDDAH, Saudi Arabia (Reuters) — Saudi Arabia’s national oil company, Aramco, said on Sunday that a cyberattack against it in August that damaged some 30,000 computers was aimed at stopping oil and gas production in Saudi Arabia, the biggest exporter in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.

The attack on Saudi Aramco — which supplies a tenth of the world’s oil — failed to disrupt production, but was one of the most destructive hacker strikes against a single business.

“The main target in this attack was to stop the flow of oil and gas to local and international markets and thank God they were not able to achieve their goals,” Abdullah al-Saadan, Aramco’s vice president for corporate planning, said on Al Ekhbariya television. It was Aramco’s first comments on the apparent aim of the attack.

Hackers from a group called Cutting Sword of Justice claimed responsibility for the attack, saying that their motives were political and that the virus gave them access to documents from Aramco’s computers, which they threatened to release. No documents have yet been published.

Aramco and the Saudi Interior Ministry are investigating the attack. A ministry spokesman, Maj. Gen. Mansour al-Turki, said the attackers were an organized group operating from countries on four continents.

The attack used a computer virus known as Shamoon, which infected workstations on Aug. 15. The company shut its main internal network for more than a week. General Turki said the investigation had not shown any involvement by Aramco employees. He said he could not give more details because the investigation was not complete.
252 2012-12-10 ¶American Honda Motor Company, Torrance, Calif., part of Honda Motor of Japan, said it would place in review the national general-market creative and media accounts of its Honda and Acura brands, which are handled by RPA, Santa Monica, Calif. Combined spending was estimated at more than $700 million. RPA said it would take part in the review, which is to be completed during the first quarter of 2013. Another agency believed to be participating is McGarryBowen, part of the Dentsu Network unit of the Japanese agency Dentsu. RPA and predecessor agencies have been handling Honda since 1974 and Acura since 1999.

¶Tempur-Pedic International, Lexington, Ky., chose sibling agencies in Minneapolis that are owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies for advertising and public relations assignments. Spending was estimated at more than $100 million. Carmichael Lynch was named creative agency of record, assuming duties that had been handled by the Acme Idea Company, Norwalk, Conn., and Carmichael Lynch Spong was named public relations agency of record, assuming duties that had been handled by Edelman, part of Daniel J. Edelman Inc.

¶Tri Honda Dealer Advertising Association, a new organization of 60 Honda dealers in metropolitan New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, named two agencies in New York that are owned by the Publicis Groupe to handle its advertising and media services accounts. Spending for 2013 was estimated at $40 million. Publicis Kaplan Thaler, part of the Publicis Worldwide division of the Publicis Groupe, will handle the creative assignment, including commercials, digital ads, social media and sponsorships. MediaVest, part of the Starcom MediaVest Group division of the Publicis Groupe, will handle media planning and buying. The association’s account is separate from the national Honda advertising account that has been placed in review.

¶The Economist magazine hired Atmosphere Proximity, New York, part of the Proximity Worldwide division of BBDO Worldwide, to serve as its North American agency of record for brand marketing. Billings were not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by a sibling agency, BBDO New York. BBDO Worldwide is part of the Omnicom Group. The Economist is part of the Economist Group, which is 50 percent owned by Pearson.

¶Beneficial Bank, Philadelphia, part of Beneficial Mutual Bancorp, selected two agencies to handle duties that had been handled by LevLane, Philadelphia. Billings were not disclosed. The Brownstein Group, Philadelphia, will be brand agency of record, and Harmelin Media, Bala Cynwyd, Pa., will handle media services.
253 2012-12-10 “The nightmare I’m fighting day and night is this vision of the downtown area filled with empty shops and ‘for rent’ signs,” Mr. Sheffe said. “That’s something that we saw after September 11 and I never want to see it again.”

Among the obstacles to recovery is the slow restoration of phone and Internet service, business owners and city officials said. Many merchants have been able to accept only cash payments for more than a month, an inconvenience they are loath to impose on the customers trickling in.

At Pizza Pizza N.Y.C. on Pearl Street, Eddie, the only person behind the counter one recent afternoon, has been giving his personal cellphone number to customers who want to call in for slices or pies. The restaurant is surrounded by generators and trailers providing heat and water to neighboring buildings and could not take orders on its Web site.

Many of the displaced workers had been in the business of feeding the hordes of people who work on and around Wall Street. Marcia Gordon was one.

Ms. Gordon, 55, had worked in the cafeteria at 4 New York Plaza for 26 years until Hurricane Sandy sloshed ashore. She and 40 others who worked for the Aramark food-service company in that building or the cafeteria at 55 Water Street are now collecting unemployment benefits and waiting to hear when they will be able to work again.

“What I’m getting from unemployment can’t even make my rent,” said Ms. Gordon, who said she paid $1,550 a month for her home in the Canarsie section of Brooklyn.

Guests at the New York Marriott Downtown near the 9/11 Memorial could not order room service more than a month after the storm. The restaurant and bar in the lobby had been so wrecked by flooding from the storm that the Marriott shut them and laid off all 38 of their employees.

Amanda Byron Zink has been trying to keep her dog-grooming business going even though her shop, the Salty Paw in South Street Seaport, could be washed out for months, and possibly for good. Ms. Zink and some of the groomers who worked in her shop have been operating temporarily from the basement of an animal hospital near the Seaport, but she said they “can only do little guys” because they only have a small sink to bathe the dogs in.

The Salty Paw was in the Historic Front Street development, which took on so much water that it will be closed for months. The complex of shops and apartments was powered by a set of geothermal wells drilled deep into the bedrock of Manhattan. The flood water, which Ms. Zink said rose to 11 feet in her ground-level salon, swamped the heating and electrical systems in the basement, she said.

Ms. Zink said she had received no payments from her insurance company even though she was covered for business interruption. Like most of the small businesses around hers, she had no flood insurance.

She said she had applied for a grant from the Downtown Alliance but learnedthat she would receive it only if she reopened in the same location within a few months, which seems impossible. The only other sources of financial assistance are loans, but she said she was reluctant to borrow more for a business whose future was so uncertain.

A 17-year resident of the neighborhood, Ms. Zink has been living with her husband and two young sons out of hotel rooms paid for by the Federal Emergency Management Agency since the storm drove them from their apartment on South Street. Hurricane Sandy arrived on her older son’s fourth birthday. She had hoped in vain to get back into their apartment before her younger son’s birthday over the weekend.

“Now, my goal is to get home before Christmas,” she said.

Even some businesses that were able to get back into their buildings quickly after the storm are suffering. In Fidelifacts at 42 Broadway, only 2 of 16 phone lines were working last week, preventing the firm’s employees from performing background checks on clients’ prospective hires. Thomas Norton, the president, said he had to let a few workers go because “business is down, there’s no question about it.”

Verizon said the saltwater that poured into Lower Manhattan had ruined most of the old copper wiring that ran under the streets. The company’s executives had been telling elected officials that it could take three or four more months to fully restore those connections. But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said last week that he told Verizon’s chief executive that the answer was unacceptable.

Mr. Squadron, the state senator, said some of his constituents had expressed concern that Verizon was taking so long because it wanted to switch them over to FIOS, its network of fiber-optic cables that deliver phone, television and Internet service. Mr. Squadron said he had been assured that laying the fiber would take no longer than replacing the copper wires, but he said he did not know if that was true.

“We’re making sure that Verizon is doing this absolutely as quickly as possible so that people can be wired again,” Mr. Squadron said.

Residents of some of the luxury buildings downtown are also struggling to get their lives back to normal.

Some tenants at 1 West Street, who pay as much as $3,500 a month for one-bedroom apartments, said they would use the landlord’s response to the storm as grounds to break their leases. Those who wanted to return were allowed back into their homes 10 days ago. They immediately lodged complaints, saying elevators were operating erratically, they lacked heat and there was a persistent odor of oil on the upper floors.

A spokesman for the building’s owner, the Moinian Group, acknowledged that “some tenants were stuck” in an elevator last week and that “a smell lingers in some locations,” but said the landlord would try to “get the smell out of the walls and hallways” and clean the carpets this week.

“They still expect us to pay what we signed our lease for, but let’s be very clear, this building is not the same building post-Sandy,” said Laura Takasaki, who lives on the 30th floor.

Margaret S. Chin, a city councilwoman who represents the area, has expressed concern about diesel generators fouling the air. In a letter she sent on Friday to Joseph Martens, the state commissioner of environmental conservation, Ms. Chin invoked post-Sept. 11 air quality hazards and said, “We cannot leave it to private entities involved with cleanup to assure residents that the air is safe to breathe.”
254 2012-12-10 Credit: Jeff Swensen for The New York Times
255 2012-12-10 She is among just a dozen patients with advanced leukemia to have received the experimental treatment, which was developed at the University of Pennsylvania. Similar approaches are also being tried at other centers, including the and in New York.

“Our goal is to have a cure, but we can’t say that word,” said Dr. Carl June, who leads the research team at the University of Pennsylvania. He hopes the new treatment will eventually replace bone-marrow transplantation, an even more arduous, risky and expensive procedure that is now the last hope when other treatments fail in leukemia and related diseases.

Three adults with chronic leukemia treated at the University of Pennsylvania have also had complete remissions, with no signs of disease; two of them have been well for more than two years, said Dr. David Porter. Four adults improved but did not have full remissions, and one was treated too recently to evaluate. A child improved and then relapsed. In two adults, the treatment did not work at all. The researchers were presenting their results on Sunday and Monday in at a meeting of the American Society of Hematology.

Despite the mixed results, cancer experts not involved with the research say it has tremendous promise, because even in this early phase of testing it has worked in seemingly hopeless cases. “I think this is a major breakthrough,” said Dr. Ivan Borrello, a cancer expert and associate professor of medicine at the School of Medicine.

Dr. John Wagner, the director of pediatric blood and marrow transplantation at the , called the Pennsylvania results “phenomenal” and said they were “what we’ve all been working and hoping for but not seeing to this extent.”

A major drug company, , is betting on the Pennsylvania team and has committed $20 million to building a research center on the university’s campus to bring the treatment to market.

Hervé Hoppenot, the president of Novartis Oncology, called the research “fantastic” and said it had the potential — if the early results held up — to revolutionize the treatment of leukemia and related blood cancers. Researchers say the same approach, reprogramming the patient’s immune system, may also eventually be used against like breast and .

To perform the treatment, doctors remove millions of the patient’s T-cells — a type of white blood cell — and insert new genes that enable the T-cells to kill cancer cells. The technique employs a disabled form of H.I.V. because it is very good at carrying genetic material into T-cells. The new genes program the T-cells to attack B-cells, a normal part of the immune system that turn malignant in leukemia.

The altered T-cells — called chimeric antigen receptor cells — are then dripped back into the patient’s veins, and if all goes well they multiply and start destroying the cancer.

The T-cells home in on a protein called CD-19 that is found on the surface of most B-cells, whether they are healthy or malignant.

A sign that the treatment is working is that the patient becomes terribly ill, with raging fevers and chills — a reaction that oncologists call “shake and bake,” Dr. June said. Its medical name is cytokine-release syndrome, or cytokine storm, referring to the natural chemicals that pour out of cells in the immune system as they are being activated, causing fevers and other symptoms. The storm can also flood the lungs and cause perilous drops in — effects that nearly killed Emma.

Steroids sometimes ease the reaction, but they did not help Emma. Her temperature hit 105. She wound up on a ventilator, unconscious and swollen almost beyond recognition, surrounded by friends and family who had come to say goodbye.

But at the 11th hour, a battery of blood tests gave the researchers a clue as to what might help save Emma: her level of one of the cytokines, interleukin-6 or IL-6, had shot up a thousandfold. Doctors had never seen such a spike before and thought it might be what was making her so sick.

Dr. June knew that a drug could lower IL-6 — his daughter takes it for . It had never been used for a crisis like Emma’s, but there was little to lose. Her oncologist, Dr. Stephan A. Grupp, ordered the drug. The response, he said, was “amazing.”

Within hours, Emma began to stabilize. She woke up a week later, on May 2, the day she turned 7; the intensive-care staff sang

Since then, the research team has used the same drug, tocilizumab, in several other patients.

In patients with lasting remissions after the treatment, the altered T-cells persist in the bloodstream, though in smaller numbers than when they were fighting the disease. Some patients have had the cells for years.

Dr. Michel Sadelain, who conducts similar studies at the Sloan-Kettering Institute, said: “These T-cells are living drugs. With a pill, you take it, it’s eliminated from your body and you have to take it again.” But T-cells, he said, “could potentially be given only once, maybe only once or twice or three times.”

The Pennsylvania researchers said they were surprised to find any big drug company interested in their work, because a new batch of T-cells must be created for each patient — a far cry from the familiar commercial strategy of developing products like or medicines, in which millions of people take the same drug.

But Mr. Hoppenot said Novartis was taking a different path with cancer drugs, looking for treatments that would have a big, unmistakable impact on a small number of patients. Such home-run drugs can be approved more quickly and efficiently, he said, with smaller studies than are needed for drugs with less obvious benefits.

But such drugs tend to be extremely expensive. A prime example is the Novartis drug Gleevec, which won rapid approval in 2001 for use against certain types of leukemia and gastrointestinal tumors. It can cost more than $5,000 a month, depending on the dosage.

Dr. June said that producing engineered T-cells costs about $20,000 per patient — far less than the cost of a bone-marrow transplant. Scaling up the procedure should make it even less expensive, he said, but he added, “Our costs do not include any profit margin, facility depreciation costs or other clinical care costs, and other research costs.”

The research is still in its early stages, and many questions remain. The researchers are not entirely sure why the treatment works, or why it sometimes fails. One patient had a remission after being treated only twice, and even then the reaction was so delayed that it took the researchers by surprise. For the patients who had no response whatsoever, the team suspects a flawed batch of T-cells. The child who had a temporary remission apparently relapsed because not all of her leukemic cells had the marker that was targeted by the altered T-cells.

It is not clear whether a patient’s body needs the altered T-cells forever. The cells do have a drawback: they destroy healthy B-cells as well as cancerous ones, leaving patients vulnerable to certain types of infections, so Emma and the other patients need regular treatments with immune globulins to prevent illness.

So far, her parents say, Emma seems to have taken it all in stride. She went back to school this year with her second-grade classmates, and though her grades are high and she reads about 50 books a month, she insists impishly that her favorite subjects are lunch and recess.

“It’s time for her to be a kid again and get her childhood back,” Mr. Whitehead said.
256 2012-12-10 The creation of regional operators that can sell cross-border service simultaneously within several E.U. countries could bolster competition in individual countries and, at least theoretically, lead to lower prices for consumers. Currently, operators are required by E.U. and national laws to treat each national market as a distinct entity, contributing to limits on domestic retail opportunities and the rise of an oligopolistic status quo in some countries.

A new level of regional competition in the industry could lead to more vigorous direct competition between Telefónica of Spain, Vodafone of Britain, Deutsche Telekom and Orange of France, the big operators that until now have mainly avoided the home markets of their peers. If mergers were easier to pursue, Orange and the T-Mobile subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom, which have steered clear of each other’s domestic markets, could theoretically go head to head in France and Germany.

Maritheres Paul, a spokeswoman for 3Austria, said the company was optimistic that Mr. Almunia would approve the takeover of Orange Austria, which was announced in February.

“We’ve been negotiating with the E.U. for nearly a year now,” Ms. Paul said. “We think that we have met everyone’s concerns and are hopeful for a positive decision.”

Mr. Almunia took up the Austrian case at the request of that country’s regulator, which had initially voiced concerns about losing a mobile network through the combination. Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Mr. Almunia, declined to comment on the case.

Mergermarket says that the level of merger activity in the European telecommunications sector has fallen for two consecutive years amid the global economic slowdown and the financial difficulties of Southern Europe.

The volume of mergers and acquisitions in the sector has fallen to €16.3 billion, or $21.1 billion, so far in 2012, less than half the €35.4 billion in 2010 and down 59 percent from a peak of €39.7 billion in 2007 before the financial crisis took hold, according to Mergermarket.

Over the past decade, the European telecommunications sector has been largely devoid of big acquisitions that defined the early phase of the industry. But the economic downturn has led operators to pursue a series of smaller mergers and network-sharing arrangements.

In 2010, Deutsche Telekom merged its British subsidiary into a 50-50 joint venture with Orange to create the current market leader, Everything Everywhere. In October, Telefónica of Spain raised €1.5 billion by selling 23 percent of its German unit, O2 Germany, to investors.

TeliaSonera, a Swedish operator, has said it wants to sell its Spanish operator, Yoigo. Vodafone and Orange have both said publicly that they might make a bid.

But the concerns of national regulators have blocked other deals.

Last February, Vodafone called off exploratory talks to merge its Greek operator, Vodafone Greece, with a competitor, Wind Hellas. Greek regulators had been skeptical about the deal, which would have reduced the number of network operators to two from three. In announcing the end of talks, Vodafone did not say why it abandoned the merger.

In 2010, Sunrise, a Swiss operator owned at the time by TDC of Denmark, abandoned a proposed merger with Orange Switzerland after the Swiss regulator expressed concerns.

In the Austrian transaction, 3Austria, a unit of Hutchison Whampoa, which is based in Hong Kong, is proposing to buy Orange Austria for €1.3 billion. The deal would allow 3Austria, currently the No.4 mobile operator in Austria with a 10 percent market share, to become the No.3 operator, with 22 percent.

The new operator would trail the market leader, Telekom Austria’s A1, which has a 41 percent market share, and T-Mobile Austria, with about 30 percent.

Mr. Almunia initially said that he had “serious” reservations about the Austrian fusion. To sweeten the deal, 3Austria agreed to sell the Orange Austria brand name, One, to Telekom Austria, as well as a prepaid mobile brand called Yesss. 3Austria also said it would allow virtual network operators, which resell telecommunications service to consumers, to have unlimited low-cost access to run their businesses on 3Austria’s bigger network.

This month, 3Austria said it had signed up a new virtual network operator, UPC, the biggest cable TV operator in Austria and a unit of Liberty Global, which is based in Englewood, Colorado.

Paul Rübig, a member of the European Parliament from Wels, Austria, said Mr. Almunia was intent on developing a compromise that let the Austrian merger go through, while at the same time placating the country’s antitrust regulator.

Mr. Rübig, who was one of the legislative architects of Europe’s retail price controls on mobile roaming fees, said that he was also confident that Mr. Almunia would approve the deal.

“The European Commission and Parliament have the goal of supporting cross-border consolidation in the telecom industry,” Mr. Rübig said during an interview. “That is why Mr. Almunia has taken so long on this case. He realizes it will set a major precedent.”

Europe may be about to lower those regulatory hurdles at a time when some foreign investors are beginning to express interest in European operators, whose market value and presumed purchase prices have declined during the economic downturn.

This year, America Móvil, the Latin American group owned by the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helú, bought a 23 percent stake in Telekom Austria and a 28 percent stake in the Dutch operator KPN. Last month, the Egyptian businessman Naguib Sawiris expressed interest in acquiring a stake in Telecom Italia.

Whether a more accommodating regulatory approach from Brussels spurs further investment remains unclear. Clemens Phillipp Schindler, a lawyer in Vienna at the law firm Wolf Theiss, which represented America Móvil in the purchase of its Telekom Austria stake, declined to comment on the 3Austria-Orange deal.

But he noted that the proposed deal had taxed the resources of the small community of legal firms in Austria that specialize in telecommunications deals. “You probably won’t find a telecom mergers lawyer that isn’t involved,” he said.
257 2012-12-11 The Securities and Exchange Commission's case against Reed Hastings, the Netflix chief executive, over a Facebook post illustrates how the regulator clings to outdated notions of how markets work....
258 2012-12-11 According to a new report by the Federal Trade Commission, several hundred of the most popular educational and gaming mobile apps for children, on Google and Apple platforms, fail to disclose their data collection practices. “The survey results described in this report paint a disappointing picture of the privacy protections provided by apps for children,” the report said.

Is it time to finally acknowledge that using the Internet, whether you’re an adult or a child (or the parent of a child), means relinquishing your privacy?
259 2012-12-11 Microsoft will sell its tablet in other retailers’ stores as a way to compete with the iPad....
260 2012-12-11 Nikki Haley, the Republican governor, is narrowing her search to a handful of men and women to fill the seat of Senator Jim DeMint, and Republican officials in the state expect her announcement within the next week....
261 2012-12-11 A former state comptroller, H. Carl McCall, and an investment banker, Peter J. Solomon, are among 10 people Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo named to a panel charged with proposing reforms to the state's tax code....
262 2012-12-11 The Small Business Optimism Index is starting to look misnamed....
263 2012-12-11 With the right idea and enough financial firepower, hedge fund investors can exert significant political and economic influence — even to the point of setting monetary policy....
264 2012-12-11 TimesCast: Childhood obesity is seen as falling in some cities. | Edith Windsor revels in her day in court. | Why Silicon Valley is embracing the Stoics.
265 2012-12-11 Proposals aimed at shifting power to rivals like Frankfurt and Paris reflect concerns that so much trading in the euro is done in a country that does not use the currency....
266 2012-12-11 A court must hold hearings on a petition for the unsealing of records in a lawsuit brought against the gas industry by a Pennsylvania couple, a panel rules....
267 2012-12-11 РУСАЛ запустил бренд алюминия с низким углеродным следом ALLOW find out more
268 2012-12-11 The police said Monday that they were searching for the mother of Nigeria’s finance minister after she was kidnapped on Sunday. Kamene Okonjo, 83, the mother of Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, was abducted in Ogwashi-Uku in Delta State. Ms. Okonjo-Iweala was among the candidates for the World Bank’s top job last spring. The police declined to say whether the kidnappers had asked for a ransom.
269 2012-12-11 In recent weeks, two centrist groupings have been actively courting Mr. Monti: the Union of Christian Democrats, led by Pier Ferdinando Casini, a former ally of Mr. Berlusconi; and Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, the president of Ferrari who started a civic movement last month and said it would endorse Mr. Monti.

In another significant development, Cardinal Angelo Bagnasco, the leader of the Italian Bishops’ Conference, all but endorsed Mr. Monti. “What leaves one astonished is the irresponsibility of those who think of arranging things for themselves while the house is still burning,” Cardinal Bagnasco told the newspaper Corriere della Sera on Monday.

No Italian government has survived without the blessing of the Roman Catholic Church, which is as much a political operation in Italy as a religious one.

The centrist movements do not have well-oiled political operations or even a clear constituency, but could be vessels for a potential Monti candidacy. If Mr. Monti gave them his support, that would significantly weaken the Democratic Party, which is unlikely to win enough seats in Parliament to govern without forming alliances with centrist groups.

A moderate former Communist, Mr. Bersani is seen as part of the old guard of the Democratic Party and recently won a hard-fought primary race against Matteo Renzi, the 37-year-old mayor of Florence. Mr. Bersani has pledged to adhere to Mr. Monti’s cost-cutting agenda. But his party is seen as beholden to unions, which have challenged changes to Italian labor laws that could make it easier for businesses to hire and fire employees.

Still, some analysts say that a Bersani government would be in tune with President François Hollande of France, a Socialist, and could serve as a counterbalance in Europe to an increasingly powerful Germany.

But even if Mr. Monti decides to run, it remains to be seen whether his austerity program would win over Italian voters. Mr. Monti, an economist who was asked to form a government last year after Mr. Berlusconi resigned, may have raised Italy’s profile on the world stage, but many Italians know him as the unelected leader who raised taxes and the retirement age and made it harder for small businesses to survive.

Mr. Berlusconi, who is not expected to win enough votes to govern, is likely to try to tap into that popular discontent. The former prime minister has always been the id of Italy, but for his next act, he may well become the id of Europe, a populist force that rails against the single currency even as he outwardly supports it.

While saying that he had always been a “a convinced Europeanist” who had always fought for a Europe with single currency, Mr. Berlusconi, in a statement on Monday, criticized foreign news organizations that questioned, or even mocked, his return to politics.

“It would be too simple to connect this interference with the umpteenth speculative maneuver aimed at weakening our businesses and making them the easy prey of foreign buyers,” he said.
270 2012-12-11 The documents were found in factory offices that were largely undamaged by the fire and were made available to The New York Times by an intermediary, the Worker Rights Consortium, a factory monitoring group based in Washington that is financed by American universities.

Kevin Gardner, a Walmart spokesman, said that the retailer had stopped authorizing production at the plant “many months ago,” but on Monday he again declined to say when or why Walmart had ended such authorization.

“We are still investigating the facts,” Mr. Gardner said. “If we determine that other suppliers were using a deactivated factory to produce merchandise for Walmart, that’s a violation of our supplier standards. If that is the case, it is unacceptable and we will take appropriate action.”

Documents found at the factory earlier showed that orders in the name of three other American apparel suppliers had been produced at the factory for Walmart within the last year or so.

In a statement, International Intimates said it was “conducting a thorough review of this incident.” The company added, “It is critical to note that Tazreen Fashions is NOT one of our approved partners and no one was authorized to make our products there.”

Judy Gearhart, executive director of the International Labor Rights Forum, a Washington-based nonprofit group, said, “I don’t understand why Walmart is spending so much time focusing on trying to claim that they didn’t know that work for Walmart was being done in this factory when Walmart should be focusing on trying to insure decent compensation for the families and to prevent future fires in its supply chain.”

Mr. Gardner said Walmart was working with “key stakeholders,” including Bangladesh garment manufacturers, the Bangladesh government and others “to improve fire safety standards in Bangladesh.”

Scott Nova, executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium, said the new documents raised additional questions about Walmart’s role at the factory.

“If Walmart’s claim that they were the victim of one rogue supplier had any shred of credibility, it’s gone now,” he said. “Walmart is limited to one of two options — to say, yes, we know these suppliers were using the factory or, two, we have no control over the supply chain that we’ve been building in Bangladesh for more than 20 years.”

In a statement, Success Apparel said that it had placed an order with a Walmart-approved subcontractor, Simco, and that Simco, without its authorization, in turn subcontracted 7 percent of that order to Tazreen’s parent, the Tuba Group.

A spokesman for Success Apparel acknowledged that it was the company that Walmart had terminated as a supplier.

In a statement, Sears said that it did not know that one of its suppliers had been using Tazreen and that it, too, had terminated that supplier.
271 2012-12-11 Boeing officials have said that the company will earn enough on subsequent sales to average a percentage profit in the low single digits on the first 1,100 planes, which includes deliveries into 2021. Company officials said late Monday that they remained confident in their projections.

But in a research report, Mr. Strauss said that Boeing’s costs did not appear to be declining rapidly enough for sales to turn profitable in 2015 and that the program could continue to spend $4 billion to $5 billion more than it gained in revenue over the next three years. Unless the company can bring down the costs more quickly as it gains experience in building the planes, Mr. Strauss wrote, Boeing may not begin to make a profit on each plane until 2021.

A lot is riding on the success of the , a risky technological and commercial bet for Boeing, which is based in . The company has so far delivered 38 of the jets to eight airlines, including United Airlines, All Nippon Airways of and ’s LOT. It has outlined ambitious plans to double its production rate to 10 planes a month by the end of 2013. It is also starting to build a stretched-out version and mulling an even larger one after that, to make the venture more profitable.

But with the combination of the problem on the flight and the F.A.A. directive, “This was too much news about the 787 in one day,” said Addison Schonland, an aviation analyst and a partner at . “But remember, it’s a brand-new airplane. When you start flying it around, you start discovering things. Over all, the number of hiccups has been fantastic.”

The basic model, called the 787-8, can carry 210 to 250 passengers about 8,000 nautical miles, the distance from New York to , and has a list price of $206.8 million. Early customers, however, are receiving big discounts to make up for the delays caused by a series of manufacturing problems. The first stretched version for 250 to 290 passengers, the 787-9, is listed at $243.6 million and could be ready in early 2014.

Mr. Strauss estimated that Boeing was recently spending $232 million to build each plane but charged customers, on average, only about half that.

Given Wall Street’s concerns, Boeing’s stock has been in limbo for more than three years, trading in a narrow range around $75 a share.

“Boeing has not had a major snafu on the 787 for over a year now, but we think most investors remain skeptical as to whether Boeing can keep this up,” Robert Stallard, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets, said in a note to clients last month.

Boeing has acknowledged that it outsourced too much of the work on the plane to suppliers who were willing, collectively, to cover billions of dollars of the development costs. Many parts needed reworking. That and other design changes forced the company to set up a separate line in Everett, Wash., to handle the extra work on the first 65 jets. It has also built a 787 plant in , S.C., with an entirely new work force.

Still, even with all of the headaches, the 787 has enabled Boeing to jump ahead of its European rival, , in exploiting the lightweight carbon composites. Half of the plane by weight is made with composites instead of aluminum and other metals. Airbus said last week that it had finished assembly on the first A350, its rival to the 787. Its entry into commercial service is not expected before the second half of 2014.

Passengers who have flown on 787s this year have raved about the experience, and the first airlines using them also seem satisfied.

United will begin using the 787 internationally in January, with flights from Houston to Lagos, . “There is a tremendous amount of promise for customers preferring this airplane over others,” said Jeff Smisek, chief executive of United. “It still has a new-plane smell.”

Japan’s All Nippon, the first carrier to get a 787 and the plane’s largest operator so far, observed the jet’s first anniversary on Nov. 1. Since the plane went into service, the airline has flown 9,000 flights with the 16 787s in its fleet. It said the 787 had achieved fuel savings of 21 percent per flight, beating Boeing’s target of 20 percent.

“ is delighted with the performance of the 787s in its fleet over the course of the last year,” the airline’s chief executive, Shinichiro Ito, said in a statement.

All Nippon, which has ordered 66 787s, said the number of passengers wanting to fly on that plane had increased 10 percent.

It has not been immune, though, to the 787’s problems. The 787’s inaugural flight from to in October was delayed by 24 hours because a faulty part in the plane’s cooling system needed to be replaced.

Ethiopian Airlines, which has been operating the 787 since August and now has four, also praised the jet’s and range. Ethiopian, for instance, has a daily flight between Addis Ababa and .

Still, Tewolde Gebremariam, the airline’s chief executive, said it was too soon to draw any conclusions about the plane’s maintenance and reliability.

“This airplane has some quite advanced technology, and you have teething problems here and there, and some technical problems,” he said. “But this is not unusual. It is rather expected from new airplanes.”

Larry Loftis, a Boeing vice president and general manager of the 787 program, said last month in a conference call arranged by RBC Capital Markets, that company officials had been “really pleased with the gains we’ve made over the last year as we’ve stabilized the production system.”

The company expects to sell 5,000 787s in the next 20 years.

Mr. Strauss, the UBS analyst, said Boeing could make profits sooner than he projected if its suppliers reduced their costs. Profits are also expected to go up once Boeing starts delivering the larger 787-9 and, most likely, a 787-10 late in the decade.
272 2012-12-11 Deaths of bicyclists and occupants of large trucks rose sharply last year, even as total traffic fatalities dropped to their lowest level since 1949, federal safety officials said on Monday. Bicyclist deaths rose 8.7 percent, and deaths of occupants of large trucks increased 20 percent, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said in an analysis of 2011 traffic deaths. Over all, traffic fatalities dropped 1.9 percent, to 32,367. The decline came as the number of miles driven by motorists dropped by 1.2 percent.
273 2012-12-11 In a letter to the White House on Monday, more than 50 gay rights and immigrant advocacy groups asked President Obama to delay immigration cases involving Americans who are seeking legal residency visas, known as green cards, for their foreign-born spouses of the same sex until the Supreme Court issues a ruling on same-sex marriage next year. Under the federal Defense of Marriage Act, a same-sex marriage cannot be a valid basis for federal benefits, including immigration documents. Administration officials have been denying applications for green cards for foreign-born same-sex spouses of American citizens. On Friday, the Supreme Court agreed to hear two cases involving same-sex marriages, including a direct challenge to the federal law. The groups are asking the administration to postpone decisions on green card applications from gay couples until the court rules.
274 2012-12-11 The Bloomberg administration’s main agency for economic development has pledged to make its operations more transparent, thanks to a new agreement with the city comptroller, John C. Liu.

Mr. Liu, a Democrat, has long criticized the Economic Development Corporation for not disclosing more information about its finances and contracts. And in July, the attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, found that the corporation, a nonprofit organization whose president is appointed by the mayor, improperly “played a behind-the-scenes role in the lobbying activities” of two local groups that promoted the mayor’s efforts to spur growth in Willets Point in Queens and Coney Island in Brooklyn.

But this time, Mr. Liu used the occasion of the corporation’s annual contract renewal, which must be approved by his office, as an opportunity to demand additional reforms. So in the $896 million contract, signed late Friday, the corporation pledged to make some financial information that is already in the public domain more accessible.

Among other pledges, the corporation, which offers financing, tax exemptions and other development programs, is expected to publish its capital and budget expenses on the comptroller’s Web site, Checkbook NYC. The corporation must also detail how companies that have received contracts from the corporation have lived up to job-creation promises — and how they may be penalized, if they have failed.

“After years of operating in the shadows, the E.D.C.’s books have finally been cracked open,” Mr. Liu said. “These new measures will ensure that E.D.C. focuses on its mission of boosting employment. If they still can’t get their act together, then they should close up shop and stop wasting taxpayer dollars.”

In the past, the agency has routinely, and vigorously, disputed Mr. Liu’s criticisms. In one instance, the corporation accused Mr. Liu — who is expected to run for mayor next year, despite a federal investigation into his campaign finances — of trying “to sensationalize the record.”

But on Monday, the corporation suggested in a statement that the new contract, in contrast to previous dealings, had been reached in a more amicable fashion.
275 2012-12-11 BEIJING — Chinese police officials have detained a Tibetan monk and his nephew and accused them of playing a role in a series of self-immolations, according to Xinhua, the state news agency. The move appeared to be part of a campaign to prosecute Tibetans who are accused of aiding others who set fire to themselves in protest of Chinese rule.

The police said the monk who was detained — Lorang Konchok, 40, of the Kirti Monastery in Sichuan Province — was connected with eight self-immolations, Xinhua reported Sunday.

The two men were apparently detained in August; it was unclear why Xinhua did not report on them until now.

The Kirti Monastery, in the town of Ngaba, has been central to the wave of self-immolations that began in Tibetan areas in February 2009, when a young monk from Kirti named Tapey set himself on fire in the center of Ngaba. Nearly 100 people in Tibetan regions of China have set themselves on fire to protest Chinese rule, including three over the weekend, according to Tibetan exile groups.

The Xinhua report said that Mr. Lorang Konchok and his nephew, Lorang Tsering, 31, were suspected by the police of passing on information to exiles in India about the identities and backgrounds of Tibetans who have burned themselves. A Tibetan government-in-exile is based in India, and the Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of the Tibetans, lives there. Some of the information and photos were sent using a cellphone, the report said.

Xinhua said Mr. Lorang Konchok became involved after being contacted by a “Tibetan independence organization” tied to the Dalai Lama after Tapey’s self-immolation in 2009.
276 2012-12-11 2. Place the grated sweet potatoes in a large bowl. Toss the grated apple with the lime juice and add to the sweet potatoes, along with the ginger, spices, baking powder, salt, oat bran and matzo meal or flour. Taste and adjust salt. Add the beaten eggs and stir together.

3. Take a 1/4 cup measuring cup and fill with 2 tablespoons of the mixture. Reverse onto the parchment-lined baking sheet. Repeat with the remaining latke mix. You should have enough to make about 40 latkes.

4. Add the oil to the pan and when it is hot (hold your hand a few inches above – you should feel the heat), slide a spatula under one portion of the latke mixture and press down with the spatula to flatten. Repeat with more mounds. In my 10-inch pan I can cook four at a time without crowding; my 12-inch pan will accommodate five or six. Cook on one side until golden brown, about three minutes. Slide the spatula underneath and flip the latkes over. Cook on the other side until golden brown, another two to three minutes. Transfer to the rack set over a baking sheet. Try one latke and if it is still a bit chewy in the middle transfer them to the baking sheet and place in the oven for 10 minutes, until golden brown and soft in the center.

5. Serve hot topped with applesauce and low-fat sour cream, thick Greek yogurt or crème fraîche if desired.

Advance preparation: You can prep the ingredients and combine everything except the eggs and salt several hours ahead. Refrigerate in a large bowl. Don’t add salt until you are ready to cook, or the mixture will become watery, as salt draws the water out of the vegetables.

Nutritional information per serving: 242 calories; 11 grams fat; 1 gram saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 7 grams monounsaturated fat; 62 milligrams cholesterol; 32 grams carbohydrates; 5 grams dietary fiber; 153 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 5 grams protein

Martha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”
277 2012-12-11 PARIS — Huawei Technologies, a Chinese maker of telecommunications equipment, said on Monday that it planned to open a research and development center in Helsinki next year, accelerating its investments in Europe, where its business is expanding rapidly.

The move illustrates a trans-Atlantic difference in attitudes toward Huawei. The company has been largely shut out of the United States market for network gear because of Congressional concerns about possible security threats — fears the company insists are unfounded.

While Huawei has faced difficulties in some European markets, like France, it has done better elsewhere. Huawei employs more than 7,000 people in the region, and it says that total could double in the next three to five years. Huawei already has a research center in Italy and is studying the possibility of opening one in Spain. It also recently announced a $2 billion investment in Britain.

The planned center in Helsinki, involving an investment of 70 million euros, or about $90 million, will work on smartphone development, including features like user interfaces and power management, the company said. When the center opens next year, it will employ 30 people, but this could grow to 100 over the next five years, the company said.

The announcement is a plus for the Finnish technology industry, which has been suffering from the woes at Nokia. The company was once the world’s biggest cellphone maker, but its market share has fallen sharply in recent years.

“The open and innovative environment in Finland,” Huawei said, “is an ideal place for Huawei to strengthen our global R.& D. capabilities for devices, creating opportunities for both Huawei and the Finnish telecommunications industry.”

Huawei has been known mostly for its network equipment, but the company is pushing to make a name for itself with its handsets.
278 2012-12-11 The company said it hoped to avoid layoffs in Bochum by expanding a distribution center at the site, by making components there, and through early retirements and buyouts. Nevertheless, the decision was ominous for the 3,000 workers at the plant and for the city of Bochum, where Opel is the largest private employer and the jobless rate is already nearly 10 percent.

The mayor of Bochum, Ottilie Scholz, accused Opel management of failing to negotiate in good faith about the future of the plant. She call G.M.’s decision “a bitter loss for the city and the region.” The decision came days before a planned celebration of the plant’s 50th anniversary.

Opel labor representatives, who in recent months had toned down their rhetoric toward G.M. management, reacted angrily to the decision and said they would continue to fight to keep the plant open. Wolfgang Schäfer-Klug, chairman of the Opel workers council, said in a statement that Bochum workers were being forced to suffer the consequences of “decades of management errors and lack of a consistent corporate strategy.”

European makers of mid-priced cars, including Opel, Fiat and PSA Peugeot Citroën, have been hit the hardest by the industry downturn, forcing them to close factories or cut jobs despite severe resistance from unions and political leaders.

Fiat said Friday it would lay off 1,500 workers out of about 4,600 at a plant in Tychy, Poland, which manufactures the Fiat 500 and other models for the European market. Even though the 500 is one of the Italian automaker’s most popular models, demand is so weak that the plant will produce only 300,000 vehicles next year, half as many as in 2009, Fiat said.

Slumping car production was the main reason for a 0.7 percent decline in French factory output in October compared to September, analysts at Barclays Capital said Monday in a note to clients.

Peugeot has announced plans to close a plant near Paris, but has run into stiff opposition from unions and the French government.

In 2008, when the auto industry downturn began, many countries including Germany and France offered tax credits or other incentives to encourage people to trade in old cars for new ones. But those stimulus measures merely postponed a reckoning with overcapacity that predated the financial crisis. European governments, which are focused on reducing debt, have shown no inclination to bail out Opel or other automakers.

Georg Streiter, a spokesman for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, offered only words of sympathy on Monday.

“The chancellor and the government regret this decision,” Mr. Streiter told reporters in Berlin. “It’s a severe blow that affects a lot of people and their families and the Bochum region as well.”

Mr. Streiter gave no indication, however, that the German government would intervene, saying only that he expected “that the parent company General Motors will do everything possible to find socially acceptable solutions” regarding the future of the employees.

The crisis has had much less effect on makers of German luxury cars, but their immunity seems to be wearing off. Audi, the luxury car unit of Volkswagen, said Monday that global sales in November rose 10.9 percent compared to a year earlier, to 123,600 automobiles. European sales fell 2 percent, however.

Bayerische Motoren Werke said Monday that sales in November rose 23 percent worldwide, to 170,932 cars. That included a 10 percent increase in European sales. But BMW has warned that it could also be hurt by plunging sales in countries like Spain. “The situation in Europe remains difficult,” Friedrich Eichiner, BMW’s chief financial officer, said Friday.

The end of car production at the Bochum plant was no surprise after Opel said in July that it would not produce the next generation of the Zafira Tourer minivan there when the current model’s life cycle ends. The Zafira, which shares many parts with the Chevrolet Orlando, is the main model produced in Bochum.

Workers had hoped they would be able to persuade G.M. to produce another model at Bochum, but the automaker ruled that out on Monday.

Emotions were high at a meeting Monday morning in Bochum at which employees learned of the decision. Spiegel Online and other German media reported that security guards had to restrain a union official who tried to prevent an Opel executive from leaving the gathering. An Opel spokesman, Ulrich Weber, confirmed there had been an incident but said it was not serious.

Opel had serious problems before the crisis. It has lost market share to rivals like Volkswagen and has not made a profit in Europe in more than a decade. Opel’s share of the European Union market was 6 percent in October, down from 6.6 percent a year earlier, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. Sales of Opel brand cars were off 15 percent in the first 10 months of 2012 from a year earlier.

In Germany, Opel’s base, the company’s image has suffered from years of strife with workers. In an attempt to avoid further damage, Opel said it hoped to avoid forced layoffs in Bochum and would finance a working group made up of employees, local officials and economists to find other ways to create jobs in the region. But it seemed unlikely that Opel would find jobs for all the workers at the plant.

“Opel is conscious of its social responsibility, and will do everything possible to implement the necessary job reduction as fairly as possible,” Stephen J. Girsky, president of GM Europe, said.
279 2012-12-11 SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said on Monday that a technical issue had been found in the rocket it had planned to launch as early as this week to put a satellite in orbit, but that it still planned to try the launching by the end of the month.

North Korea announced on Dec. 1 that it would launch the rocket, called the Unha-3, sometime between Monday and Dec. 22. But on Sunday it said it might have to postpone the launching, without specifying a reason, prompting speculation in the region about what motivated the delay.

On Monday, a spokesman for the Korean Committee of Space Technology said scientists had found “a technical deficiency in the first-stage control engine module” of the three-stage rocket. Although the preparations to launch the rocket were nearly complete, the spokesman was quoted by the state-run Korean Central News Agency as saying that scientists were forced to extend the window for a launching by a week, until Dec. 29.

North Korea said it was exercising its right to the peaceful use of space technology by using the rocket to put a scientific satellite, called Kwangmyongsong, into orbit. But the United Nations Security Council, as well as the United States and its allies, say that North Korea’s purpose is to develop the ability to deliver a nuclear warhead on a long-range ballistic missile. North Korea is banned from testing such technology under United Nations resolutions, and sanctions have been imposed over its previous tests.

Since 1998, North Korea has conducted four rocket launchings that the United States has said were ballistic missile tests. In two of them, in 1998 and 2009, North Korea claimed to have lofted a satellite into orbit, but Western experts say all four rockets failed. In the most recent launching, in April, the rocket disintegrated shortly after takeoff, embarrassing the government of the new North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, in front of foreign reporters who were invited to witness the event.
280 2012-12-12 A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit brought by the United States Chamber of Commerce and the Investment Company Institute against the Commodity Futures Trading Commission....
281 2012-12-12 Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Tuesday that he wanted to significantly expand New York's regulation of political spending by corporations, individuals, and tax-exempt groups....
282 2012-12-12 The solar panel installation company had expected to raise up to $151 million with shares priced at $13 to $15, but on Wednesday the company lowered its sights....
283 2012-12-12 The only official concert will be a children's concert, similar to one that was held in 2009, according to the planners....
284 2012-12-12 Dean Murphy, a deputy in the department, will become the new editor, replacing Larry Ingrassia, who will take on a larger role at the paper....
285 2012-12-12 Stuart Elliott, the advertising columnist of The New York Times, discusses how the rise of social media has changed thinking among Super Bowl advertisers....
286 2012-12-12 A bar below the acclaimed 18-seat restaurant Atera had a quiet debut on Tuesday night....
287 2012-12-12 Using basic e-commerce software along with free Web analytics tools, small businesses can now perform sophisticated data collection and analysis that can help them compete with companies that have far greater resources....
288 2012-12-12 I've been telling people I read The Economist since college. But like many people in Washington, I am a complete fraud....
289 2012-12-12 BrightScope has released its annual list of top-ranked 401(k) plans....
290 2012-12-12 The cafe, believed to be the oldest continually operating drinking establishment in New York City, has been shut down since it took on three feet of water in its dining room during Sandy....
291 2012-12-12 An umbrella organization for insurers allows you to calculate the flood risks your home faces and what the ultimate costs might be, depending on the severity of the event....
292 2012-12-12 A new study from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York adds to the list of reasons asset purchases don't work better....
293 2012-12-12 In the past, banks have had no legal obligation to reimburse businesses for money lost to cyberattacks. But a recent court decision creates a precedent to change that....
294 2012-12-12 Available data shows clearly that benefits that help people in poverty undercut incentives for them to seek work....
295 2012-12-12 Forty-eight percent of voters said they preferred that a bipartisan coalition run the Senate, according to the poll, compared with 31 percent who said they wanted Democrats to control the chamber and 17 percent who said they supported Republican l...
296 2012-12-12 An appeals panel refused Tuesday to release a New York businessman who has been jailed for 18 months without charge despite strong evidence he was fleeced and extorted by corrupt prosecutors. Instead, the two judges sent the money-laundering case against Jacob Ostreicher back to the trial judge, ordering her to reconsider favorable evidence she previously threw out at the urging of an official who is now under arrest. Mr. Ostreicher’s case led to the uncovering of a shakedown ring said to be run by the top legal adviser in the Interior Ministry, and including two prosecutors.

“This is all a joke,” said Mr. Ostreicher, 54. “This is literally a circus.”
297 2012-12-12 An accrediting commission placed Florida A&M University on probation on Tuesday, 13 months after a marching band member died after a brutal hazing ritual.

The panel imposed a less serious penalty on the University of Virginia, issuing a warning in an inquiry prompted by the short-lived ouster of its president.

Robert Champion, 26, a drum major in the Florida A&M band, the Marching 100, died in November 2011 after being beaten by fellow band members. His death was ruled a homicide, caused by blunt force trauma.

The death prompted an inquiry by the accrediting body, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges. James H. Ammons resigned as president of Florida A&M in July amid criticism about academic policies and hazing.

In a brief statement released on Tuesday, the commission said the university had not only violated an accrediting rule requiring “a healthy, safe and secure environment,” but also rules requiring integrity, qualified and competent leaders, and adequate control of its finances. The panel will issue a more detailed account of the charges this month.
298 2012-12-12 Oklahoma specifically targets National Merit scholars for recruitment, seeing them as a way to raise the university’s quality and profile. And while some academic administrators dislike the practice, many of Oklahoma’s peers do the same, though not with the same fervor or favors.

At Oklahoma, National Merit scholars are given scholarships based on academic credentials, money to study abroad, housing primarily for high-achieving students, research opportunities, a writing center, priority in choosing some classes, and an Honors College — a school within a school — with smaller, more challenging classes.

“We give scholarships for athletic achievement, so why not for academic achievement?” said Mr. Boren, a Yale graduate and former Rhodes scholar. “I want them to get the kind of opportunity at home that they would get in the Ivy League.”

In fact, many Honors College students say that they could have gone to the some of the nation’s most selective colleges, but came here looking for some of the same experience at a fraction of the price. Thomas Owens, a sophomore studying chemical engineering, said he was accepted to Duke University, where tuition and fees top $55,000. “My family could have managed it,” he said, “but this was so much less of a burden, it’s amazing.”

The university charges $17,087.50 per year for tuition, fees, room and board, for students from Oklahoma, and $28,724.50 for out-of-state students. Officials said the price for National Merit scholars varies, but is less than half as much.

Oklahoma’s program touches on a long-running argument within higher education, about the role of “merit aid” — scholarships that schools give on the basis of credentials like grades, test scores or musical skills — versus the aid that nearly all schools give on the basis of a student’s financial need. Most colleges give some academic merit aid (though some of the wealthiest and most selective schools do not), and the amount has increased over the years as competition for top students grows more fierce. Oklahoma’s honors program is an extreme example.

“There are those, me included, who say the purpose of aid should be to help people go to college who might not be able to otherwise,” said Donald Heller, dean of the College of Education at Michigan State University. “Giving merit scholarships to kids who would have been going to college anyway can benefit the institution without necessarily benefiting the broader public.”

The dispute is especially sharp when it comes to state schools, which face dwindling resources and are seen as having a public service mission, but it is largely confined to those who study education policy. Oklahoma’s program draws little other fire, on or off campus, even given that about half of the National Merit scholars come from out of state.

“I guess it’s a good thing if you get smarter people to come here,” said Ashley Blackburn, a sophomore biology major who is not in the honors program. “I don’t think anyone resents it. You deserve rewards if you do well.”

The National Merit figures are a bragging point for the university and are mentioned repeatedly on its Web site and in its publications. University officials say that attracting top students is worth the added cost and has helped Oklahoma rise in academic rankings over the last generation.

“Having these kinds of classmates motivates other students, it elevates class discussions, it’s a recruiting tool when we go after new students or faculty,” said David Ray, a political science professor and dean of the Honors College. “We don’t just throw money at them to get them here; we give them unique opportunities once they’re here.”

Oklahoma has plenty of company, among both public and private universities, in giving scholarships to large numbers of students based on National Merit status. Texas A&M University, the University of Southern California and Washington University in St. Louis all do the same. Some top public schools halted the practice in recent years, though many of them still reward academic credentials.

“We decided that basing a big hunk of aid mostly on a single test that people take in 11th grade was too one-dimensional,” said Tom Melecki, the director of financial services at the University of Texas at Austin.

After becoming president at Oklahoma 18 years ago, Mr. Boren greatly expanded a small honors program and created the Honors College, which now has about 2,200 students, one-tenth of the university’s undergraduate enrollment. Early on, he had the university put a particular emphasis on National Merit scholars, a visible, readily defined elite group, who now make up more than one-third of the Honors College enrollment.

Students must apply for admission to the college and meet a more stringent set of standards to graduate from it. They take about one-quarter of their classes within the college and the rest with the general student body. (Mr. Boren gets a firsthand look at the differences, alternating between teaching the honors version of his government class and a regular version with more than 200 students.)

For the honors students, the results are hard to beat; this year’s senior class in Oklahoma’s Honors College has winners of the Rhodes, Marshall and Mitchell scholarships.

Jerod Coker, the Marshall scholar, is an economics major who has been accepted to law schools at Berkeley and Duke, and next year he will study at the London School of Economics.

“Paying for private school was out of the question for my family,” he said. “The criticism of something like the Honors College might be valid, I don’t know, but it’s the only way I could have had this kind of experience.”
299 2012-12-12 The State Department has no policy that forbids former diplomats to lobby on behalf of nations where they served or returning to them for profit, beyond the one applying to federal employees as a whole, which prohibits senior officials from contacting agencies where they once worked for one year and bans all federal employees for life from advising on the same matters.

Kosovo is not the only nation where former officials have returned to conduct business — Iraq is another example — but it presents an extreme case, and perhaps a special ethical quandary, given the outsize American influence here. Pristina, the capital, may be the only city in the world where Bob Dole Street intersects Bill Clinton Boulevard.

Foreign policy experts say the practice of former officials’ returning for business is more common than acknowledged publicly. Privately, former officials concede the possibility of conflicts of interest and even the potential to influence American foreign policy as diplomats who traditionally made careers in public service now rotate more frequently to lucrative jobs in the private sector.

Asked for comment, former officials involved said their business dealings with the Kosovo government would benefit Kosovars by building a more prosperous economy. “We’re going to employ people, provide training, create exports and help the country grow and develop as a democracy,” said General Clark, who is chairman of Envidity, a Canadian energy company seeking to explore Kosovo’s lignite coal deposits and produce synthetic fuel.

Lawrence Lessig, a law professor and director of the Edmond J. Safra Center for Ethics at Harvard, said the appearance of “cashing in” risked undermining the prestige of the United States by clouding the humanitarian nature of the 1999 intervention, which was aimed at ending Serbian atrocities against Kosovars.

After the separation, Kosovo was an international protectorate run by thousands of officials from other countries and the United Nations serving as government representatives and private contractors. Four years of internationally “supervised independence” ended in September. About 6,000 peacekeepers remain.

The closeness of the ties between the state-builders and the state they built has made it easy for officials to change hats. Though the country is one of Europe’s poorest, there is still the potential for profit, particularly as the government privatizes critical assets.

Albright Capital Management, founded by Ms. Albright, has been shortlisted in the bidding for a 75 percent share in the state telecommunications company, PTK. The company’s sale is expected to bring in between $400 million and $800 million.

Senior executives of a sister company, Albright Stonebridge Group, are already small shareholders in PTK’s only competitor, the private company IPKO, raising concerns on the threat to market competition if Ms. Albright’s consortium wins the bid.

Mr. Pardew, the former American envoy, lobbied top Kosovo officials on behalf of a competing consortium, Twelve Hornbeams S.a.r.l /Avicenna Capital LLC.

The memo on the prime minister’s meeting with Mr. Pardew, from within the consortium, was leaked by someone unhappy with the running of the tender process. The choice of Mr. Pardew as their emissary was “vitally important,” the memo noted, because Kosovo’s elite “know and love him for his role on the ground during the war.”

After the memo became public, Mr. Pardew withdrew from lobbying for the consortium, and he declined to comment. It is still possible that neither of the American-backed bidders will win the tender, which is expected to be decided in January.

Ms. Albright responded to an interview request with a statement. Citing limits to disclosure during the tender process, the statement from Nelson Oliveira, managing director and general counsel of Albright Capital Management, read in part, “We take seriously all of our obligations — legal and ethical, in this and all other potential investments.”

“We believe that a transparent, well managed privatization of the state-owned telecom company should bring substantial benefits to the economy and people of Kosovo,” the statement added.

Kosovo’s government denied that any of the former diplomats got special treatment. “I hope they will make money in Kosovo and that Kosovo will make money from their investments,” said Deputy Foreign Minister Petrit Selimi. “The Kosovo government will not choose a company just because it’s American.”

Telecommunications in Kosovo can be a rough business. In 2007, gunmen tried — first with firearms, then with a mortar attack on his car — to kill Anton Berisha, the head of the telecommunications regulatory agency. He survived both attempts, which took place not long after he awarded Kosovo’s second cellphone license to the Slovenian-owned IPKO. A year later, he became ambassador to Slovenia.

In 2004, Ms. Albright became a special adviser to the chairman of the board of IPKO, Akan Ismaili, who is now Kosovo’s ambassador to the United States.

The telecommunications deal is just one of many that Americans have angled for. The biggest infrastructure project in Kosovo’s post-Yugoslav history, a 63-mile stretch of highway connecting Pristina to the Albanian border, was awarded in 2010 to Bechtel of San Francisco in a joint venture with a Turkish company, Enka.

At the time, the prime minister estimated the deal at $1 billion.

Bechtel had help getting the contract from Mr. Tavlarides, the legislative director at the National Security Council during the 1999 Kosovo intervention. According to a lobbying report filed with the United States government, Mr. Tavlarides lobbied on behalf of Bechtel in Kosovo on “highway-related issues” while working for Van Scoyoc Associates, a Washington-based lobbying firm.

Mr. Tavlarides now works at the Podesta Group, which signed a $50,000 monthly contract with the Kosovo government on Jan. 1, advising it on communications and strengthening Kosovo’s ties to the United States government. The Podesta Group was co-founded as Podesta Associates by John Podesta, White House chief of staff in Mr. Clinton’s second term. Mr. Podesta left the firm in 1993. It is still owned by his brother, Anthony.

Mr. Tavlarides declined to comment, citing his firm’s policy to not speak with the news media about clients.

For his part, General Clark said it was “insulting” to suggest that there could be any conflict between private profit-making and his past responsibilities. “My business is aboveboard, transparent and helps the Kosovar people,” he said. “We are going to use a resource that had no value to the Kosovo people and bring in hundreds of millions of dollars of investment.”

United States military officers have a one-year post-retirement ban on contacting their former armed service about official matters, and a lifetime ban on any contacts related to the same matters on which they worked, according to the Pentagon.

Watchdog groups raise the possibility that Kosovo’s government might see doing business with former American officials as a conduit to the current United States administration. They also fear that the influence of former officials diminishes competition and hurts consumers.

The appearance of an inside track by some companies had discouraged competitors “because they know the game is set,” said Avni Zogiani, a Kosovar journalist who heads Cohu, an anticorruption organization in Pristina that has investigated the links between the telecommunications business, crime and politics. “There is no interest in investing in Kosovo by reputable companies anymore.”

Even some former officials acknowledge discomfort at the extent of the interplay between dealing and diplomacy.

Steven P. Schook, a retired United States army brigadier general and former chief of staff of KFOR, NATO’s force in Kosovo, said he had “mixed feelings” about it.

Mr. Schook, who also served as the deputy head of the United Nations mission in Kosovo, has returned as a private consultant for former Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj, who was acquitted last month by the war crimes tribunal in The Hague. He says that he works for Mr. Haradinaj because of a belief in his leadership and that his only compensation is his expenses living in Kosovo, about $2,600 a month.

“There are a lot of ex-diplomats coming in and out that are now representing private interests,” he said. “If I’m a large corporation and I want to get in to be competitive, I want to work with people to help me do that.”

“But on the other hand, it seems a bit tawdry,” Mr. Schook added. “One minute you’re liberating a place, and the next minute you’re trying to get an energy tender.”
300 2012-12-12 Her sentence reflected a revolution in public policy, often called mass incarceration, that appears increasingly dubious to both conservative and liberal social scientists. They point to evidence that mass incarceration is no longer a cost-effective way to make streets safer, and may even be promoting crime instead of suppressing it.

Three decades of stricter drug laws, reduced parole and rigid sentencing rules have lengthened prison terms and more than tripled the percentage of Americans behind bars. The United States has the highest reported rate of incarceration of any country: about one in 100 adults, a total of nearly 2.3 million people in prison or jail.

But today there is growing sentiment that these policies have gone too far, causing too many Americans like Ms. George to be locked up for too long at too great a price — economically and socially.

The criticism is resonating with some state and federal officials, who have started taking steps to stop the prison population’s growth. The social scientists are attracting attention partly because the drop in crime has made it a less potent political issue, and partly because of the states’ financial problems.

State spending on corrections, after adjusting for inflation, has more than tripled in the past three decades, making it the fastest-growing budgetary cost except . Even though the prison population has leveled off in the past several years, the costs remain so high that states are being forced to reduce spending in other areas.

Three decades ago, spent 10 percent of its budget on higher education and 3 percent on prisons. In recent years the prison share of the budget rose above 10 percent while the share for higher education fell below 8 percent. As university administrators in California increase tuition to cover their deficits, they complain that the state spends much more on each prisoner — nearly $50,000 per year — than on each student.

Many researchers agree that the rise in imprisonment produced some initial benefits, particularly in urban neighborhoods, where violence decreased significantly in the 1990s. But as sentences lengthened and the prison population kept growing, it included more and more nonviolent criminals like Ms. George.

Half a million people are now in prison or jail for drug offenses, about 10 times the number in 1980, and there have been especially sharp increases in incarceration rates for women and for people over 55, long past the peak age for violent crime. In all, about 1.3 million people, more than half of those behind bars, are in prison or jail for nonviolent offenses.

Researchers note that the policies have done little to stem the flow of illegal drugs. And they say goals like keeping street violence in check could be achieved without the expense of locking up so many criminals for so long.

While many scholars still favor tough treatment for violent offenders, they have begun suggesting alternatives for other criminals. , the conservative social scientist whose work in the 1970s helped inspire tougher policies on prison, several years ago recommended diverting more nonviolent drug offenders from prisons to treatment programs.

Two of his collaborators, George L. Kelling of the Manhattan Institute and of the , have joined with prominent scholars and politicians, including and , in a group called Right on Crime. It advocates more selective incarceration and warns that current policies “have the unintended consequence of hardening nonviolent, low-risk offenders” so that they become “a greater risk to the public than when they entered.”

These views are hardly universal, particularly among elected officials worried about a surge in crime if the prison population shrinks. Prosecutors have resisted attempts to change the system, contending that the strict sentences deter crime and induce suspects to cooperate because the penalties provide the police and prosecutors with so much leverage.

Some of the strongest evidence for the benefit of incarceration came from studies by a University of Chicago economist, Steven D. Levitt, who found that penal policies were a major factor in reducing crime during the 1990s. But as crime continued declining and the prison population kept growing, the returns diminished.

“We know that harsher punishments lead to less crime, but we also know that the millionth prisoner we lock up is a lot less dangerous to society than the first guy we lock up,” Dr. Levitt said. “In the mid-1990s I concluded that the social benefits approximately equaled the costs of incarceration. Today, my guess is that the costs outweigh the benefits at the margins. I think we should be shrinking the prison population by at least one-third.”

Some social scientists argue that the incarceration rate is now so high that the net effect is “crimogenic”: creating more crime over the long term by harming the social fabric in communities and permanently damaging the economic prospects of prisoners as well as their families. Nationally, about one in 40 children have a parent in prison. Among black children, one in 15 have a parent in prison.

Ms. George was a young single mother when she first got in trouble with drugs and the law. One of her children was fathered by a crack dealer, Michael Dickey, who went to prison in the early 1990s for drug and firearm offenses.

“When he went away, I was at home with the kids struggling to pay bills,” Ms. George said. “The only way I knew to get money quick was selling crack. I was never a user, but from being around him I pretty much knew how to get it.”

After the police caught her making crack sales of $40 and $120 — which were counted as separate felonies — she was sentenced, at 23, to nine months in a work-release program. That meant working at her mother’s hair salon in Pensacola during the day and spending nights at the county jail, away from her three young children.

“When I caught that first charge, it scared me to death,” she recalled. “I thought, my God, being away from my kids, this is not what I want. I promised them I would never let it happen again.”

When Mr. Dickey got out of prison in 1995, she said, she refused to resume their relationship, but she did allow him into her apartment sometimes to see their daughter. One evening, shortly after he had arrived, the police showed up with a search warrant and a ladder.

“I didn’t know what they were doing with a ladder in a one-story building,” Ms. George said. “They went into a closet and opened a little attic space I’d never seen before and brought down the lockbox. He gave them a key to open it. When I saw what was in it, I was so mad I jumped across the table at him and started hitting him.”

Mr. Dickey said he had paid her to store the cocaine at her home. At the trial, other defendants said she was present during drug transactions conducted by Mr. Dickey and other dealers she dated, and sometimes delivered cash or crack for her boyfriends. Ms. George denied those accusations, which her lawyer argued were uncorroborated and self-serving. After the jury convicted her of being part of a conspiracy to distribute cocaine, she told the judge at her sentencing: “I just want to say I didn’t do it. I don’t want to be away from my kids.”

Whatever the truth of the testimony against her, it certainly benefited the other defendants. Providing evidence to the prosecution is one of the few ways to avoid a mandatory sentence. Because the government formally credited the other defendants with “substantial assistance,” their sentences were all reduced to less than 15 years. Even though Mr. Dickey was the leader of the enterprise and had a much longer criminal record than Ms. George, he was freed five years ago.

Looking back on the case, Judge Vinson said such disparate treatment is unfortunately all too common. The judge, an appointee of President who is hardly known for liberalism (last year he ruled that the Obama administration’s entire health care act was unconstitutional), says he still regrets the sentence he had to impose on Ms. George because of a formula dictated by the amount of cocaine in the lockbox and her previous criminal record.

“She was not a major participant by any means, but the problem in these cases is that the people who can offer the most help to the government are the most culpable,” Judge Vinson said recently. “So they get reduced sentences while the small fry, the little workers who don’t have that information, get the mandatory sentences.

“The punishment is supposed to fit the crime, but when a legislative body says this is going to be the sentence no matter what other factors there are, that’s draconian in every sense of the word. Mandatory sentences breed injustice.”

In the 1980s, stricter penalties for drugs were promoted by Republicans like Mr. Reagan and by urban Democrats worried about the crack epidemic. In the 1990s, both parties supported President ’s anticrime bill, which gave states money to build prisons. Three-strikes laws and other formulas forced judges to impose life without parole, a sentence that was uncommon in the before the 1970s.

Most other countries do not impose life sentences without parole, and those that do generally reserve it for a few heinous crimes. In , where it is used only for homicides involving an aggravating factor like child abduction, torture or terrorism, a recent study reported that 41 prisoners were serving life terms without parole. In the United States, some 41,000 are.

“It is unconscionable that we routinely sentence people like Stephanie George to die in our prisons,” said Mary Price, the general counsel of the advocacy group Families Against Mandatory Minimums. “The United States is nearly alone among the nations of the world in abandoning our obligation to rehabilitate such offenders.”

The utility of such sentences has been challenged repeatedly by criminologists and economists. Given that criminals are not known for meticulous long-term planning, how much more seriously do they take a life sentence versus 20 years, or 10 years versus 2 years? Studies have failed to find consistent evidence that the prospect of a longer sentence acts as a significantly greater deterrent than a shorter sentence.

Longer sentences undoubtedly keep criminals off the streets. But researchers question whether this incapacitation effect, as it is known, provides enough benefits to justify the costs, especially when drug dealers are involved. Locking up a rapist makes the streets safer by removing one predator, but locking up a low-level drug dealer creates a job opening that is quickly filled because so many candidates are available.

The number of drug offenders behind bars has gone from fewer than 50,000 in 1980 to more than 500,000 today, but that still leaves more than two million people on the street who sell drugs at least occasionally, according to calculations by Peter H. Reuter, a criminologist at the . He and Jonathan P. Caulkins of say there is no way to lock up enough low-level dealers and couriers to make a significant impact on supply, and that is why cocaine, heroin and other illegal drugs are as readily available today as in 1980, and generally at lower prices.

The researchers say that if the number of drug offenders behind bars was halved — reduced by 250,000 — there would be little impact on prices or availability.

“Mandating long sentences based on the quantities of drugs in someone’s possession just sweeps up low-level couriers and other hired help who are easily replaced,” Dr. Caulkins said. “Instead of relying on formulas written by legislators and sentencing commissions, we should let judges and other local officials use discretion to focus on the dealers who cause the most social harm — the ones who are violent, who fight for turf on street corners, who employ children. They’re the ones who should receive long sentences.”

These changes are starting to be made in places. Sentences for some drug crimes have been eased at the federal level and in states like New York, and . Judges in and have been given more sentencing discretion. Californians voted in November to soften their state’s “three strikes” law to focus only on serious or violent third offenses. The use of parole has been expanded in and . The United States Supreme Court has banned some life sentences without parole for juvenile offenders.

Nonetheless, the United States, with less than 5 percent of the world’s population, still has nearly a quarter of the world’s prisoners.

Ms. George said she could understand the justice of sending her to prison for five years, if only to punish her for her earlier crack-selling offenses.

“I’m a real firm believer in karma — what goes around comes around,” she said. “I see now how wrong it was to sell drugs to people hooked on something they couldn’t control. I think, what if they took money away from their kids to buy drugs from me? I deserve to pay a price for that. But my whole life? To take me away from my kids forever?”

When she was sentenced 15 years ago, her children were 5, 6 and 9. They have been raised by her sister, Wendy Evil, who says it was agonizing to take the children to see their mother in prison.

“They would fight to sit on her knee the whole time,” she recalled recently during a family dinner at their home in Pensacola. “It’s been so hard for them. Some of the troubles they’ve had are because of their anger at her being gone.”

The youngest child, William, now 20, dropped out of middle school. The older two, Kendra and Courtney, finished high school but so far have not followed their mother’s advice to go to college.

“I don’t want to blame things on my situation, but I think my life would have been a whole lot different if she’d been here,” said Courtney, now 25, who has been unemployed for several years. “When I fell off track, she would have pushed me back. She’s way stronger than any of us.”

Ms. George, who has gotten a college degree in prison, calls the children every Sunday. She pays for the calls, which cost 23 cents a minute, with wages from two jobs: a regular eight-hour shift of data processing that pays 92 cents an hour, supplemented by four hours of overtime work at a call center in the prison that provides 411 directory assistance to phone companies.

“I like to stay busy,” she said during the interview. “I don’t like to give myself time to think about home. I know how much it hurts my daughter to see her friends doing things with their mothers. My boys are still so angry. I thought after a while it would stop, that they’d move on as they got older and had girlfriends. But it just seems like it gets worse every Mother’s Day and Christmas.”

She seemed undaunted, even cheerful, during most of the interview at the prison, where she sleeps on a bunk bed in an 11-by-7-foot cell she shares with another inmate. Dressed in the regulation uniform, khaki pants and work boots, she was calm and articulate as she explained her case and the failed efforts to appeal the ruling. At this point lawyers say her only hope seems to be presidential clemency — rarely granted in recent years — yet she said she remained hopeful.

She lost her composure only once, while describing the evening in 1996 when the police found the lockbox in her apartment. She had been working in the kitchen, braiding someone’s hair for a little money, while Courtney, then 8, played in the home. He watched the police take her away in handcuffs.

“Courtney called out, ‘Mom, you promised you weren’t going to leave us no more,’ ” Ms. George recalled, her eyes glistening. “I still hear that voice to this day, and he’s a grown man.”
301 2012-12-12 “At the risk of having to endure the howls of outrage of the cynical, I nevertheless urge you, pray for him, and for his family, anyway,” Mr. Dilbert said in a statement.

The Cayman Islands is known as a haven for corporate subsidiaries, hedge funds and other financial interests that take advantage of its bank secrecy laws to avoid or lessen tax payments and other obligations.

It drew attention during Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign because the private equity firm he founded, Bain Capital, had set up dozens of companies there.

Mr. Bush is a popular and outspoken politician who, analysts say, prided himself on not having finished high school and serving long enough in the legislature to earn the nickname “Father of the House.”

A self-employed businessman and the leader and founding member of the United Democratic Party, Mr. Bush has been the target of previous investigations. In April, when an inquiry into financial irregularities concerning a land deal became public, Mr. Bush brushed it off as a politically motivated attack.

Analysts said he might have been at odds with the British government, which has jurisdiction over the territory, though Mr. Bush is its elected head of government.

“The British are insisting on greater accountability,” said Thomas F. Phillips, a professor of economics at Trent University in Canada and a columnist for Grand Cayman Magazine. “McKeeva wouldn’t be a model for accountability,” he said, alluding to the investigations.

The chairman of the islands’ stock exchange, Anthony Travers, said there was no reason for international investors to be concerned about the case.

“The financial services industry is quite independent of the political and the legislature,” he said.

It was the second arrest of a political figure from a British overseas territory in recent days. On Friday, Michael Misick, the former premier of the Turks and Caicos Islands, was arrested in Brazil on an international warrant from Interpol in connection with a corruption investigation.
302 2012-12-12 An outspoken advocate for child sexual abuse victims in the Satmar Hasidic community was injured by a chemical he believed to be bleach that was thrown in his face as he walked down the street in his Williamsburg, Brooklyn, neighborhood on Tuesday.

The advocate, Rabbi Nuchem Rosenberg, who runs a Web site and telephone call-in line that publicizes claims of sexual abuse in the ultra-Orthodox community, said in an interview at the hospital where he was treated that he was walking on Roebling Street about noon when a man came up behind him and tapped him on the shoulder.

“He has a cup of bleach,” Rabbi Rosenberg said, adding that he recognized the man. “And then he says ‘whoops’ and throws it in my face and walks off.”

A Police Department spokeswoman said on Tuesday evening that there had been an “ongoing dispute” between Rabbi Rosenberg and the man who threw the unidentified substance, but that no arrest had yet been made. Rabbi Rosenberg was taken to Woodhull Medical Center with burns to his face. According to a relative who was at the hospital, he had a corneal abrasion to his left eye and chemical burns around his eye. He was released after treatment and is expected to fully recover, his relative said.

Tensions are high in the tightly knit Satmar Hasidic community in Williamsburg after the conviction on Monday of Nechemya Weberman, a prominent community member who was found guilty of repeatedly sexually abusing a girl who came to him for counseling. Since his arrest on those charges last year, Mr. Weberman has had the backing of the community’s rabbinical leaders, and many in the neighborhood continue to believe he is innocent.
303 2012-12-12 Ms. Wampach and Mr. Schroeder arrived Monday morning from Burnsville, Minn., at the Aria Resort and Casino, saw a tribute show to the Bee Gees and woke up Tuesday morning to get ready for the limousine that would take them the 3.5 miles north along the Strip for the run-through at the Chapel of the Flowers, the site of their nuptials.

Aimee Stephens, a spokeswoman for the chapel, said her colleagues had spent “the past couple of months getting our game plans together” for the big day. There were 80 weddings scheduled for Wednesday at Chapel of the Flowers, about 15 times what would be expected for a Wednesday in December, she said.

Couples were coming from England, Brazil, Canada and Luxembourg, paying special prices ranging from $812 to $2,412 just for the ceremony. That is not counting reception, photos and any other extras.

Why were they choosing this day to start their futures together?

“People like being a part of something larger,” Ms. Stephens said, adding that the brides also wanted “to make it easier for their husbands to remember.”

A few blocks north along the Strip, at Viva Las Vegas Wedding Chapels, Brian Mills had 120 weddings scheduled, which, he said, is 12 times what is typical for this time of year. That included couples from Australia, England, the Netherlands and Sweden. Mr. Mills is a general manager and also plays Elvis in several wedding packages. (Couples can also choose to get married with a pink Cadillac, or by staff members dressed up as James Bond or Michael Jackson.) Prices range from $312.12 to $1,212.12.

Mr. Mills speculated on the chapel’s Web site about the date, theorizing that “the ‘go-getting’ 1 and the ‘sensitive’ 2 make this a very balanced number.” And, he said, “this is the last one there is for 100 years.”

Or, to be exact, 89: 01/01/2101.

At the Bellagio Hotel, a more high-end setting, 12 weddings were scheduled — which “blows away a normal Wednesday in December,” said Monica Bisek, senior assistant manager of the hotel’s chapels.

On Monday night, Ms. Wampach had only one regret: her 12/12/12 wedding was scheduled for 9 a.m. “I wasn’t thinking,” she said. “I should’ve done it at 12 noon. Then,” she added, “it would’ve ended at 12:12.”
304 2012-12-12 “To lose almost 10 percent of your games to lockouts, that’s a chilling number,” said Bob Gutkowski, a partner at the private equity firm Innovative Sports and Entertainment and formerly a member of the N.H.L. Board of Governors as the president of Madison Square Garden.

The N.H.L.’s 2004-5 lockout wiped out the regular season and Stanley Cup playoffs, the only season in North American major league sports to be lost to a labor dispute. At that point, the N.H.L. was a money-losing enterprise that had largely receded from the wider sports consciousness in much of the United States.

The league bounced back through rule changes that made the game more exciting, and because the Winter Classic and the Winter Olympics helped draw new fans. Fans in the United States returned with the success of teams in Detroit, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Philadelphia, Boston and New York, and a strong Canadian dollar increased revenue north of the border.

N.H.L. revenue grew from about $2 billion in 2005-6 to $3.3 billion last season. The league’s profitability made this season’s lockout seem counterintuitive.

But today’s N.H.L. is in many ways as troubled as it was before the previous lockout. The Toronto Maple Leafs, the Rangers and the Montreal Canadiens generate about 80 percent of the league’s revenue, according to Forbes magazine’s valuations, which have been disputed but are the most widely used measure of league finances. The magazine estimated that 13 of the league’s 30 teams are losing money, some more than $10 million a year.

“Missing so many games shows that for some of these teams, it’s better when they’re not playing, because then they’re not losing money,” said Drew Dorweiler, a managing partner of the business evaluation firm Dartmouth Partners in Montreal. “In a nutshell, it’s because there’s a structural nonviability of certain franchises in their current locations.”

Dorweiler cited money-losing clubs in Nashville; Columbus, Ohio; Florida; and Phoenix, a team he called a wounded animal.

Despite a new 10-year, $2 billion contract with NBC, Gutkowski said: “The N.H.L. doesn’t get the kind of national TV money that the other leagues get, which means most of revenue is locally driven. And in a lot of markets, it’s very hard to make it work.”

Bettman has often explained that as with the last lockout, this one is about limiting players’ salaries to control costs.

“Too many people are forgetting where we were 10 years ago,” Bettman said last Thursday after he rejected the union’s latest offer for a settlement. “We didn’t have a healthy game and we had too many franchises that couldn’t continue. We did what we had to do in 2004 to make it right, and we’re focused with our owners on what we need to make this game healthy for our fans.”

One way to get healthy is to establish labor peace, said Jay Grossman, an N.H.L. player agent.

“Though the routes that baseball and football have taken to labor peace have been vastly different, both realize that labor peace equates to record growth in revenue and franchise values leaguewide,” he said. “The notion that an unconditional attack on players in three consecutive lockouts will enable growth for every N.H.L. club misses the mark.”

Brian Cooper, the president of the Toronto sports management company S&E Sponsorship Group, said the current lockout would hurt the N.H.L’s business.

“To many people, this has become a pattern, an M.O.,” he said. “It’s almost as if consumers and sponsors are getting the message, ‘Enjoy the next six or seven years, because you know we’re going to be out the year after that.’ ”

He added: “What people want from a brand is consistency of product, accessibility and emotional connection that’s uninterrupted. These lockouts interrupt everything.”

But the N.B.A. came back from a truncated season last year and had its best metrics across the board, Cooper said. “If that can happen,” he said, “maybe the N.H.L. can come back too.”
305 2012-12-12 But the Yankees needed him. They went into the off-season with no intention of pursuing a third baseman, but that attitude changed when they discovered that Rodriguez would miss at least half the season because of surgery on his left hip that is scheduled for January.

Youkilis fits the bill because he can play third base and bats right-handed, and the Yankees had been looking for a right-handed bat even before Rodriguez’s injury. The Yankees are also trying to get their payroll below the $189 million luxury-tax threshold for 2014, which is why they are doling out so many one-year deals. Andy Pettitte, Mariano Rivera, Hiroki Kuroda, Youkilis and Suzuki are among the veteran players who have accepted one-year contracts for 2013.

Youkilis will be 34 next season. He joined the Red Sox as a rookie in 2004, and was already highly regarded by advocates of the so-called Moneyball approach because of his high on-base percentage. It is an attribute that also appeals to the Yankees, who encourage their hitters to go deep into pitch counts. Youkilis has a career .283 batting average and a .384 on-base percentage.

From 2008 to 2010, he hit better than .300 each year, but he hit .258 in 2011 and only .235 last season. He hit .275 against left-handers in 2012.

Youkilis become a fan favorite at Fenway Park, where chants of “Yoooooook” were heard when he came to the plate with his distinctive batting stance — his hands separated on a bat held high, his knees bouncing, his eyes fixated on the pitcher. Firmly ensconced in the pantheon of Boston sports icons, he is married to the sister of Tom Brady, the New England Patriots’ Super-Bowl-winning quarterback.

Youkilis played in an American League division series in 2004 but did not participate in that year’s World Series, the Red Sox’ first championship since 1918, when Ruth still played for the team. Youkilis emerged as star on the 2007 team that won Boston’s second World Series title in four years. He had his best season in 2008, batting .312 with 29 homers and 115 runs batted in, and he finished third in the voting for the A.L.’s Most Valuable Player award.

He has played 607 games at first base, 442 at third base and 20 in left field.

During a television interview in April, Bobby Valentine, then the manager, questioned whether Youkilis had the same searing commitment to the game that he was known for. The comment caused a huge stir in Boston, and although Valentine apologized and later retracted the comment, Youkilis never seemed to forgive him.

So, on June 24, the Red Sox traded Youkilis to the Chicago White Sox, where he began with a flourish. In his second game back in Boston, he hit a three-run homer off Jon Lester to lead the White Sox to a 7-5 victory. But he batted .236 with Chicago, only three points higher than his average with the Red Sox.

Youkilis had a strong bond with Terry Francona, the Red Sox manager in the World Series years and the new manager of the Cleveland Indians. It seemed plausible that Youkilis would wind up in Cleveland until the Indians signed Mark Reynolds to play first base.

So Youkilis is on the verge of becoming the eighth member of the 2004 Red Sox — who came back from a three-game deficit to defeat the Yankees in the American League Championship Series — to go on to play for the Yankees. That list includes Johnny Damon, who won a World Series title with the Yankees in 2009, and Derek Lowe, who joined the team last year.

Damon was never forgiven by Boston’s fans for spurning the Red Sox to sign with the Yankees as a free agent in 2006. Youkilis was traded away by the Red Sox, so Red Sox Nation may give him more latitude. That would change if he ends up riding off the field on a police horse.
306 2012-12-12 By then, Ms. Vishnevskaya had already retired from opera. In 1984 she published a memoir, “Galina: A Russian Story,” which recounted the repression, squalor and humiliation endured even by cultural luminaries like herself and her husband under a corrupt political system that claimed to exalt classical music and the opera. She was forced to live in a communal Moscow apartment “swarming with people and bedbugs,” she wrote.

Nor was fame any protection from the politically powerful. In 1955, she wrote in her memoir, Premier Nikolai Bulganin made passes at her in front of her husband and pressured Rostropovich unsuccessfully to agree to let her become his mistress in exchange for better housing. But Ms. Vishnevskaya was by then inured to such indignities. Her earlier life had been far more harrowing.

Galina Pavlovna Ivanova was born in St. Petersburg, then known as Leningrad, on Oct. 25, 1926. As a 3-year-old she sang to house guests while her mother strummed a guitar. She was brought up mostly by her grandmother after her father, an alcoholic, tried to kill her mother with an ax. At 10, she was given a recording of Tchaikovsky’s “Eugene Onegin.” It was the first opera she had ever heard, and she played it again and again on her grandmother’s hand-cranked record player.

“I was in a fever for days,” Ms. Vishnevskaya recalled. “I noticed nothing around me, I forgot to eat, I no longer ran out into the street to play with the boys.”

During the Stalinist purge of the 1930s, entire families in her building were hauled off to Siberian camps and almost certain death. Then came World War II, with the 872-day siege of Leningrad by the German Army that left more than a million people dead from starvation, disease and combat injuries.

When the siege was finally broken in 1944, she successfully auditioned for the Leningrad Operetta Theater and joined a music hall revue that entertained Russian troops. During this period she married twice — briefly to a young alcoholic sailor, Georgi Vishnevsky, whose surname she took, and then to a violinist, Mark Rubin, who was 22 years her senior.

Ms. Vishnevskaya began studying opera under a prized voice teacher, Vera Garina, in 1951. But her career and life were almost cut short by tuberculosis. Doctors told her she could survive only if she allowed them to collapse her infected lung — the conventional treatment in those days, when antibiotics were scarce. But at the last moment she balked because the procedure would have prevented her from singing professionally again. She recovered with injections of adulterated streptomycin purchased on the black market.

Then, in 1952, she won a competition to join the Bolshoi in Moscow. Her first starring role there was as Tatyana in “Eugene Onegin” in October 1953. She had almost been passed over after complaining that the traditional production was boring. But she was allowed to offer her own, more animated interpretation of Tatyana, and it became her signature role. In Paris 29 years later, she sang the part in her farewell appearance.

As her star rose, she left her second husband in 1955 to marry Rostropovich, with whom she had her two daughters, Olga and Elena. But Ms. Vishnevskaya’s fame and dark beauty soon attracted unwanted admirers in the Kremlin. She was forced to attend drunken parties for Politburo members.

“Most loathsome was to be expected to sing toward the end of a reception,” she recalled. “People drink and chew, their backs turned to you.” She added, “In that huge pigsty you sing for their pleasure like a serf girl.”

The Soviet authorities allowed her to perform abroad, most notably in recitals with the U.S.S.R. State Symphony Orchestra on a two-month tour of the United States in 1959, and again in 1961, when the impresario Sol Hurok arranged a 46-day American tour, during which she sang four “Aidas” and one “Madama Butterfly” at the Met and 11 solo concerts across the country. Rostropovich also performed in more than 25 concerts on the second trip.

Tours of Western and Eastern Europe followed for the couple.

A turning point in their lives came when they were in Prague, at the start of a tour, on Aug. 21, 1968, the day Soviet troops invaded Czechoslovakia to put an end to the Communist reform government there. “It seemed the most disgraceful act in the history of the Russian state,” she wrote.

Ms. Vishnevskaya and Rostropovich began associating with Soviet dissidents like Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov, the eminent nuclear physicist who became a human-rights activist. The couple allowed Solzhenitsyn, who had come under attack by Soviet authorities, to live and write in their country home outside Moscow from 1969 to 1973.

Ms. Vishnevskaya received the highest prize in the Soviet Union, the Order of Lenin, in 1971. But within months the government, apparently regretting the award, ordered a media blackout. “The major newspapers simply stopped writing about me, and my voice could no longer be heard on radio or television,” she wrote.

When the couple criticized the lack of artistic freedom in the Soviet Union during a tour abroad, the Kremlin proclaimed them “ideological renegades” and revoked their citizenships. Before it was restored in 1990, they lived in Europe and the United States.

In addition to her daughters, survivors include six grandchildren.

In 2002 Ms. Vishnevskaya opened the Galina Vishnevskaya Opera Center to promote young Russian singers. By then she had become conservative in her opera tastes. A half-century earlier she had fought the conservative Soviet cultural establishment in arguing for a fresh version of “Eugene Onegin.” But now a new production of the opera at the Bolshoi in 2006 angered her — so much so that she canceled her 80th-birthday celebration there and moved it to the Tchaikovsky Concert Hall in Moscow. “I’ll never enter this theater again,” she vowed.

The following year Rostropovich died in Moscow at 80.
307 2012-12-12 “I don’t like ‘nos’ for answers,” Mr. Bliss said.

Ms. Sinema, who was elected to Congress last month, devised a strategy. For the legislation to be approved, she said in an interview, it would need the support of a staunch Republican, preferably in the Senate, where many bills sponsored by Democrats implode. She zeroed in on Karen S. Johnson, whom she described as “Tea Party before there was a Tea Party.” (Ms. Johnson, who left the Legislature in 2008, prefers the “conservative” label.)

“Hey, for heaven’s sake, how could anybody not be supportive of this?” said Ms. Johnson, who is perhaps better known for sponsoring a bill that would have allowed people with concealed-weapon permits to carry guns at public colleges and universities.

She had no qualms about putting her name next to Ms. Sinema’s, who at 28 was the Legislature’s youngest member — as well as an openly bisexual lawmaker whom “a lot of people liked to pick on,” as Ms. Sinema put it.

The bill stipulated that the project had to be paid through private donations. On Mother’s Day, Mr. Bliss raised more than $100,000 through a benefit concert here, out of $375,000 he has raised so far. (He said there is still about $10,000 to go.)

The concert brought together some big names in both comedy and civil rights. One of them, Dick Gregory, 80, had marched alongside the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and staged hunger strikes in the name of racial equality. Another, Tom Smothers, 75, was a star of “The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour,” a top-rated show on CBS from 1967 to 1969 before it was canceled over the provocative tone of its political commentary, particularly on the Vietnam War.

The bill passed unanimously in the Arizona House and Senate in 2006, which was unusual for a legislative body that remains politically divided. It was an encouraging moment for Mr. Bliss, who said it “confirmed it was a mission worth committing to.” Since then, he has gotten a commemorative Bill of Rights display unveiled outside the Poweshiek County Courthouse in Montezuma, Iowa, and another has been approved in Everett, Wash. Mr. Bliss has also begun raising money for a monument outside the Texas Supreme Court building in Austin.

The lead sculptor for the monument here, Joseph Kincannon, has carved 10 slabs of limestone, one for each amendment. They are planted outside the Capitol and will be dedicated on Saturday. Each slab is undulating and unique — the First Amendment resembles the tip of a key; the Second Amendment, a pregnant woman’s profile.

Mr. Kincannon trained at the stoneyard at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in Manhattan. He worked there for 27 years, carving and building its ornate south tower. He said he wanted the monument’s pieces “to have movement when they were next to each other” so they would become “inviting to the eye.”

The blocks of limestone came from a quarry near Austin, where they were milled and carved over the summer. The heaviest, at about 7,000 pounds, carries the imprint of the Fifth Amendment, which protects against abuse of government authority in a legal procedure. The lightest, at 2,500 pounds, offers the Third Amendment, which prohibits quartering soldiers in private homes without the homeowner’s consent.

Mr. Kincannon has read the material over and over, and from many angles. To him, the project was never about the significance behind the words, but about making them “comfortable to read,” he said.

For Mr. Bliss, however, it is all about the words’ meaning. He envisions the monument as a place for learning and reflection, “our bedrock principles broken up in 10 digestible bites,” he said.
308 2012-12-13 Sush Krishnamoorthy, a student in New Delhi who is applying to universities in the United States, is bracing herself for rejection....
309 2012-12-13 Northeast Asia is scrambling to deal with the fallout of the launch and speculation is growing that North Korea will next carry out a nuclear test....
310 2012-12-13 The bar at Má Pêche in the Chambers Hotel was closed for a private party, so it would be a night without seven-spice sours and steamed pork buns. The King Cole Bar at the St. Regis was so packed with souls — almost all of them merry, fittingly enough — that there wasn’t even room to stand.

But on an unseasonably balmy Monday night in December, the Salon de Ning, the rooftop bar at the Peninsula Hotel on Fifth Avenue, had a surprising amount of space, at the bar and on the terrace. And the terrace, with its views of the Sony Building, the Met Life Building and the G.E. Building, is where you want to be.

“This is just one of those views of New York that make me happy,” is how a friend aptly put it. And the holiday season, with a skyline that has a sprinkling of green and red lights, is a particularly nice time to take in the cityscape from the 23rd floor. (Heat lamps make this possible even in winter.) An evening here gives you a new appreciation of the word aerie.

This recommendation comes with several asterisks and advisories. For one, this place is pricey, as you might expect of a rooftop bar in a fancy Midtown hotel. For another, the service, at least on this night, was spotty, which is not what you expect at an establishment with the Peninsula brand (staff members can be brusque on the telephone as well). And the music, while played at a moderate level, is just plain weird, veering from what sounds like propulsive, generic European dance music to Lady Antebellum’s “Need You Now” to Nelly Furtado’s 2006 hit “Promiscuous.”

Many of the drinks that are Ning specialties are $24; beers (an unadventurous selection) are $13 (Palm is $17); glasses of wine, from a roster that is really no more than a shrug, start at $18. A glass of Kim Crawford Sauvignon Blanc, no vintage listed, is $20; it goes for less than $14 a bottle in many stores. (In the unlikely event you were wondering, cigars are sold here as well; the Davidoff 2000 is $40.)
311 2012-12-13 The first batteries, which Nissan began producing in Smyrna in October, have gone through the required aging process, which takes several weeks; and now they are ready to receive a charge, a Nissan spokesman said....
312 2012-12-13 A state commission plans to conduct its own investigation into how utilities prepared for Hurricane Sandy and responded to the damage it caused....
313 2012-12-13 Leading a post-hurricane task force, the nation's housing secretary says the vast majority of communities can be rebuilt safely, however....
314 2012-12-13 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Thursday's selection includes arrests in New York after gang members can't resist bragging on Facebook and Twitter, a study about fitness-mo...
315 2012-12-13 Shares of SolarCity leaped more than 47 percent in its market debut on Thursday, closing at $11.79. That valued the company at $861 million....
316 2012-12-13 The award nominations for "Argo" may help other filmmakers secure financing for ambitious works, Ben Affleck said....
317 2012-12-13 A coupon-code site survey found that more than half the users would prefer to travel on child-free flights, and most would pay more for them....
318 2012-12-13 Paintings by Rubens, Titian, El Greco, Goya, Velázquez and others will go on view at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston on Sunday, in a blockbuster exhibition called "Portrait of Spain: Masterpieces from the Prado'' that represents the first time t...
319 2012-12-13 Quentin Tarantino’s “Django Unchained” garnered five nominations, just shy of “Lincoln,” which had seven. The Weinstein Company led the field with 14 nominations overall....
320 2012-12-13 Credit: David James/DreamWork and Twentieth Century Fox, via Associated Press
321 2012-12-13 The Day: Data shows that, on a percentage basis, New Yorkers pay a good deal more than others at the turnstile, and Albany and City Hall are less generous than state and local governments elsewhere....
322 2012-12-13 The return of a Google-powered maps application to the iPhone may make it easier for Apple's customers to find their way. But it will not relieve Apple of the pressure to bring its own maps service up to snuff, Nick Wingfield reports in Thursday's...
323 2012-12-13 You can spend years and years building a business, but you generally get only one shot at selling it....
324 2012-12-13 Another set of global student test results, another round of hand-wringing in America. (And a bit of back-patting in Asia). Yet, the technology companies that changed the world come from the U.S....
325 2012-12-13 PHOENIX — A man who bought two weapons found at the scene of a Border Patrol agent’s killing and subsequently linked to the botched gun-trafficking investigation known as Operation Fast and Furious was sentenced here on Wednesday to 57 months in federal prison, closing another chapter in a case that ignited a political firestorm.

The man, Jaime Avila Jr., bought 52 guns over several months, including powerful assault and sniper rifles, which Judge James A. Teilborg of Federal District Court called “weapons of war.”

As many as 2,000 guns were bought by straw buyers like Mr. Avila between 2009 and 2011 — in cash, from licensed merchants in and around Phoenix, and under the watchful eyes of agents from the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The agents were supposed to keep track of the weapons, part of a plan to stem the flow of illegal guns into Mexico. Instead, weapons vanished into the hands of drug gangs; hundreds remain unaccounted for.

Mr. Avila, 25, was recruited in November 2009. He was, by many measures, an ideal candidate — a poorly educated young man with barely a stain on his criminal record (his only conviction had been for a misdemeanor), battling a $50-a-day drug habit. In court, his lawyer, Candice Shoemaker, pleaded for leniency, saying that Mr. Avila’s habit was “controlling his decisions” when he signed up to buy the weapons, for which he was paid $50 apiece.

Shane Harrigan, the assistant United States attorney prosecuting the case, described a more significant role. Mr. Avila, he said, recruited others, including a cousin who brought in another buyer, who then drafted one other buyer into the ring. Altogether, they bought almost 90 guns, Mr. Harrigan said.

Agent Brian A. Terry of the Border Patrol was killed in December 2010 not far from the Mexican border, in the southern Arizona desert, 11 months after Mr. Avila had bought the rifles. Two of the rifles he bought were found at the scene, though investigators have not disclosed if the bullets that killed Agent Terry were fired by either of them.
326 2012-12-13 The return of a Google-powered maps application to the iPhone may make it easier for Apple’s customers to find their way. But it will not relieve Apple of the pressure to bring its own maps service up to snuff.

The release of the new Google Maps app for the iPhone, expected in Apple’s App Store on Thursday, does put to rest most of the conspiracy theorizing that began when Apple stopped bundling Google’s mapping service with the latest operating system for the iPhone and iPad, released in September. Apple did that because it was determined to own an increasingly critical feature of its devices, but the move seemed premature, as flaws in the company’s new service led to unusual public embarrassment.

Mobile analysts wondered whether Google would create an app for the iPhone or allow Apple, its rival, to flail around without a service on its devices that so many people rely on. After all, any long-term fallout for the iPhone could, in theory, benefit Google by making its own Android mobile operating system, which includes Google Maps, more attractive to customers.

Analysts also questioned whether Apple would approve the distribution of a Google Maps app through its App Store or hold it up, as it has some previous Google apps, to help Apple Maps.

That speculation is over. By making a high-quality maps app for the iPhone, it appears Google has put creating the biggest possible audience for its maps service above trying to undermine Apple’s product. “They’re more interested in owning the relationship with customers in any way they can,” said Carolina Milanesi, an analyst at Gartner.
327 2012-12-13 According to intelligence officials and the incomplete public record, detainees who endured varying degrees of physical force did tell their interrogators some truths, as well as half-truths and outright lies. What remains unprovable is whether — as agents with long experience questioning terrorists have argued — the same or better information might have been obtained without taking the morally and politically treacherous path the C.I.A. chose.

Mark Boal, the screenwriter of “Zero Dark Thirty,” which is directed by , said in an interview Wednesday that the movie was no documentary, though it is based on extensive research.

“I’m trying to compress a program that lasted for years into a few short scenes,” he said. The film, he said, attempts “to reflect a very complex debate about torture that is still going on” and shows brutal treatment producing both true and false information.

Jameel Jaffer, deputy legal director of the , who saw the film Tuesday night, said he was concerned that because the film opens with torture and ends with the killing of Bin Laden, “it may leave a hazy impression that it was cause and effect.”

But he added: “I don’t think it makes a strong case for or against torture. It shows the big breaks came from good, old-fashioned intelligence work.”

A major difficulty in judging just how faithful “Zero Dark Thirty” is to the facts is that many facts remain hidden from the public. Though has repeatedly condemned such methods — his only appearance in the film is on a television that shows him declaring, “America doesn’t torture” — he also declared on taking office that he preferred to “look forward, not back,” and there has never been a public official inquiry into torture and the questions that surround it such as its effectiveness, its legal basis and how extensively it was used.

Senator Feinstein calls her committee’s report “comprehensive” and “strictly factual.” She has previously made clear that the report is harshly critical of the program, saying that the inquiry found that “coercive and abusive treatment of detainees was far more widespread and systematic than we thought.”

But the report was written by Democratic staff members after Republicans declined to participate, and Senator of , the committee’s top Republican, said the draft contained “significant errors and omissions,” in part because it is based exclusively on documents rather than interviews. He said the draft should be given to the C.I.A. for fact-checking before any committee vote. “I do not understand why any member would vote for this report before that step is taken,” he said.

The political divisions over the program have broken down largely along party lines — with the notable exception of Senator of , a Republican who was tortured as a prisoner in North Vietnam, who told reporters on Tuesday that the Senate report “absolutely” should be made public. Some 26 former senior military officers also urged the committee on Wednesday to approve and release the report.

But with even a partial declassification unlikely before next spring, “Zero Dark Thirty,” to be released in New York next Wednesday and nationally on Jan. 11, may powerfully shape public impressions of the C.I.A. program.

The extended interrogation scene shows a terrorist identified as Ammar, whom Mr. Boal describes as a composite character, being waterboarded, deprived of sleep, chained to the ceiling and forced into a small box. But he delivers his important nugget of information — that Bin Laden used a courier known as — only later, over a relaxed meal of hummus, after C.I.A. officers trick him into believing that he has already spoken freely during torture sessions.

Another character, loosely based on a militant named Hassan Ghul, does speak candidly after saying that he had been tortured by a Middle Eastern spy service and that “I don’t want to be tortured again.” But in another scene, a Qaeda member named is shown — accurately, intelligence officials say — lying about the courier despite the brutal treatment he has experienced.

Most of the movie, however, portrays years of dogged intelligence sleuthing with no connection to torture. In the film, as in reality, the real breakthrough comes when the C.I.A. learns the true name of the courier from a foreign intelligence service. “Zero Dark Thirty” portrays the name as having been overlooked for years in American files; an intelligence official on Wednesday declined to say whether that is accurate.

The portrayal of torture in television shows like — which makes no pretense of reflecting real events — may already have contributed to a notable shift in American public opinion toward the idea that brutal interrogations are necessary and effective, said Amy B. Zegart, who studies intelligence at .

She commissioned a study in August that showed a switch since 2005 in views on the torture of terrorists who might know about new plots. There was a sharp a decline, for instance, in disapproval of waterboarding and of chaining naked prisoners in uncomfortable positions in the cold. The more spy shows people have watched, she said, the more enthusiastic they are about torture.

“I think the evidence is that television is shifting views,” said Ms. Zegart. “Entertainment has an alarming impact.”
328 2012-12-13 The apology brought a bitter reaction from Geraldine Finucane, Mr. Finucane’s widow, who was injured in the shooting. At a London news conference, Mrs. Finucane dismissed the new report as similar to previous British inquiries that she said had protected senior British officials, including high-ranking figures in the government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, in power at the time of the killing.

“This report is a sham, this report is a whitewash, this report is a confidence trick dressed up as independent scrutiny and given invisible clothes of reliability,” she said. “But most of all, most hurtful and insulting of all, this report is not the truth.”

The lawyer who conducted the new inquiry, Sir Desmond de Silva, was given wide powers to trawl through secret documents and to question current and former senior officials of MI5 and MI6, Britain’s highly secretive domestic and external security agencies, as well as police and army officers involved in the Finucane case.

The hearings were held behind closed doors, a point Mrs. Finucane emphasized in demanding that Mr. Cameron now order a full public inquiry, something he dismissed on Wednesday as unlikely to uncover any new evidence.

The task set for Mr. de Silva by Mr. Cameron was to answer questions about the killing that have persisted despite earlier inquiries, including an exhaustive review conducted more than a decade ago by Sir John Stevens, a former head of Scotland Yard, which reached similar if less detailed conclusions about the British authorities’ complicity.

In one of its most damning passages, the new report set out the wink-and-nod approach to some sectarian killings by unionist extremists that it said had been taken by army and police intelligence units. It said the men who directed and took part in the Finucane attack, several of whom are now dead, had been linked as informers to the army unit, and to intelligence officials in the Royal Ulster Constabulary, as the province’s police force, then widely regarded as strongly biased toward the Protestant community, was known at the time.

In effect, the report said, British officials, including agents of MI5 and MI6, turned a blind eye to some high-profile assassinations carried out by Protestant extremists. It said the intelligence officials had been told by informants of two previous plans to kill Mr. Finucane, but did not notify him of the threat.

“Steps were often not taken to secure the protection of those who were considered to be a thorn in the side of security forces during the time of the Troubles,” it said.
329 2012-12-13 MOSCOW — In a report commissioned by the government of Ukraine, a team of American lawyers has concluded that important legal rights of the jailed former prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, were violated during her trial last year on charges of abusing her official power, and that she was wrongly imprisoned even before her conviction and sentencing.

The lawyers, led by President Obama’s former White House counsel, Gregory B. Craig, concluded that Ms. Tymoshenko was denied legal counsel at “critical stages” of her trial and that at other times her lawyers were wrongly barred from calling relevant witnesses.

Those two findings suggest that she could have some success in a pending appeal before the European Court of Human Rights.

But over all, the lawyers, from the firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, seemed to side heavily with the government of President Viktor F. Yanukovich, which commissioned their report. They concluded that Ms. Tymoshenko’s conviction was supported by the evidence presented at trial, and they found no evidence in the trial record to support to her main contention: that her prosecution was a politically motivated effort by Mr. Yanukovich, her archrival, to sideline her and cripple Ukraine’s main opposition party.

“The trial court based its finding of Tymoshenko’s guilt on factual determinations that had evidentiary support in the trial record,” the lawyers wrote. “Based on review of the record,” they added, “we do not believe that Tymoshenko has provided specific evidence of political motivation that would be sufficient to overturn her conviction under American standards.”
330 2012-12-13 News Corporation’s British newspaper unit, embroiled in the aftermath of a phone hacking scandal, lost another high-ranking executive on Wednesday when the editor of The Times of London announced he would step down.

The executive, James Harding, considered by many a golden boy of British journalism, said he would depart his post at The Times amid pressure from News Corporation’s senior leadership.

He called the corporation’s chief executive, Rupert Murdoch, early Wednesday to offer his resignation, the second in two weeks at News International, the British newspaper subsidiary of News Corporation. On Dec. 2, Tom Mockridge, chief executive of News International, announced his resignation.

“It has been made clear to me that News Corporation would like to appoint a new editor of The Times,” Mr. Harding told his staff. “I have therefore agreed to stand down.”

The same day that Mr. Harding said he would depart, regulatory filings showed that Rebekah Brooks, a former chief executive of News International, had received a $17.6 million severance package that included “compensation for loss of office” and “various ongoing benefits.”
331 2012-12-13 While in the hospital for a kidney infection, Tolentino Gonzalez discovered he did not have insurance through his union despite working 75 hours every two weeks....
332 2012-12-13 These are epic questions about a seismic shift in American demography. How should we consider a waning majority when their privilege of numbers gives way to what many other Americans have experienced as the minority plight?

On election night, ’ said that “the white establishment is now the minority.” The question is whether this should be a reason for lamentation or celebration. Or neither.

In September, a white student named Matthew Heimbach at Towson University caused a bit of an uproar when The Baltimore Sun reported that he was “gathering support” to start a white student union on campus. The newspaper pointed out: “His former group, Youth for Western Civilization, had sparked controversy with its public displays against Islam, and multicultural education. That group disbanded after it lost the support of its faculty sponsor, but Heimbach said he hopes his new organization will promote white identity without disparaging other people.”

Now, putting Youth for Western Civilization’s intolerance aside for a moment (if that’s possible), we must ask: when will public displays of white pride become culturally acceptable? Will they forever be freighted with the weight of history — tantamount to gloating about privilege? Or should all racial and cultural pride be viewed more or less the same?

The Sun quoted Heimbach as saying, “It comes a point where we’re not directly involved in what happened centuries ago and our culture just perpetuates the guilt cycle.” He continued, “We want to provide a positive view of white identity.”

Is that offensive? Or fair play in light of where the country is heading?

And what of O’Reilly’s “white establishment”? Power is a precious commodity. It is rarely voluntarily surrendered, particularly by those who believe they have earned it. The task is to expand the franchise without casting some people as givers and others as takers. That is harder than it sounds.

There will most likely be a growing rub between traditional power structures and emerging ones, much of which will be visible along racial lines but also along gender and sexual identity lines. A great deal of that friction boils down to simple economics. As a July 2011 Pew Research Center report pointed out: “The median wealth of white households is 20 times that of black households and 18 times that of Hispanic households.” Women and gays also earn less than their male and heterosexual counterparts.

This wealth disparity plays into the national debate about the role of government, appropriate spending levels and rates of taxation.

And on a worrisome note, a recent Associated Press poll showed that since was elected in 2008, prejudice toward blacks has increased. According to the report: “In all, 51 percent of Americans now express explicit anti-black attitudes, compared with 48 percent in a similar 2008 survey. When measured by an implicit racial attitudes test, the number of Americans with anti-black sentiments jumped to 56 percent, up from 49 percent during the last presidential election. In both tests, the share of Americans expressing pro-black attitudes fell.”

Furthermore, The A.P. found: “Most Americans expressed anti-Hispanic sentiments, too. In an A.P. survey done in 2011, 52 percent of non-Hispanic whites expressed anti-Hispanic attitudes. That figure rose to 57 percent in the implicit test. The survey on Hispanics had no past data for comparison.”

The last thing we need is a racial and ethnic backlash in this country. Now is the time to move forward with sensitivity and respect and with a watchful eye on how we behave and what we expect as the traditional American majority becomes just another minority.
333 2012-12-13 WE don’t think much about pitch pine poles until storms like Hurricane Sandy litter our landscape with their splintered corpses and arcing power lines. Crews from as far away as California and Quebec have worked feverishly to repair or replace those poles as utility companies rebuild their distribution systems the way they were before.

Residents of New Jersey and New York have lived through three major storms in the past 16 months, suffering through sustained blackouts, closed roads and schools, long gas lines and disrupted lives, all caused by the destruction of our electric system. When our power industry is unable to perform its most basic mission of supplying safe, affordable and reliable power, we need to ask whether it is really sensible to run the 21st century by using an antiquated and vulnerable system of copper wires and wooden poles.

Some of our neighbors have taken matters into their own hands, purchasing portable gas-powered generators in order to give themselves varying degrees of “grid independence.” But these dirty, noisy and expensive devices have no value outside of a power failure. And they’re not much help during a failure if gasoline is impossible to procure.

Having spent our careers in and around the power industry, we believe there is a better way to secure grid independence for our homes and businesses. (Disclosure: Mr. Crane’s company, based in Princeton, N.J., generates power from coal, natural gas, and nuclear, wind and solar energy.) Solar photovoltaic technology can significantly reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and our dependence on the grid. Electricity-producing photovoltaic panels installed on houses, on the roofs of warehouses and big box stores and over parking lots can be wired so that they deliver power when the grid fails.

Solar panels have dropped in price by 80 percent in the past five years and can provide electricity at a cost that is at or below the current retail cost of grid power in 20 states, including many of the Northeast states. So why isn’t there more of a push for this clean, affordable, safe and inexhaustible source of electricity?
334 2012-12-13 George Gonzalez, a spokesman for F.H.A., disputed the findings of the analysis. “The assertion that F.H.A. is setting up potential homeowners for failure by insuring 30-year, fixed-rate, fully documented loans for underserved borrowers is not supported by the information presented,” he said. “Selective use of F.H.A. data ignores that F.H.A. has successfully provided access to mortgage financing for millions of creditworthy borrowers for almost 80 years.”

The mission of the F.H.A., created in 1934, is to provide “homeownership opportunities for first-time homebuyers and other borrowers who would not otherwise qualify for conventional mortgages on affordable terms, as well as for those who live in underserved areas where mortgages may be harder to get.” It was founded to save homeowners from default during the Great Depression.

In recent years, the F.H.A. has been increasing its participation in the market. After the mortgage crisis, traditional lenders withdrew from the business and borrowing to buy a home became much more difficult. The F.H.A., as well as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, have stepped in to fill that void. While Fannie and Freddie have tightened their loan standards, the F.H.A.’s underwriting requirements have remained liberal.

To receive F.H.A. backing on their loans, borrowers must have a credit score of at least 580 out of a possible 850, and they are required to put down at least 3.5 percent. F.H.A. allows the borrowers whose loans it insures to have a monthly housing debt payment of around 30 percent of their incomes.

Still, 40 percent of the 2010 loans in the F.H.A.’s insurance portfolio were made to borrowers whose total monthly debt payments were greater than 50 percent of their monthly incomes or had a credit store of less than 660, the study found, a dangerous level.

F.H.A. does not adequately monitor the risks in the loans it backs, the study said. Moreover, it does not charge guarantee fees appropriately adjusted to reflect these risks. For example, the study notes that F.H.A. levies the same insurance premium for a borrower with a 3.5 percent down payment, a 580 credit score and a 50 percent total debt-to-income level as one who puts 20 percent down, has a 720 credit score and 25 percent debt-to-income.

The concentration of loans backed by the F.H.A. in areas of subpar family incomes is another warning flag, according to the study. Of the 2.4 million loans studied, some 44 percent were made to borrowers in ZIP codes where the median family income was below that of the corresponding metropolitan area. These loans will most likely generate foreclosure rates averaging 15 percent, the study concluded, well above the overall 9.6 percent average the F.H.A.’s auditor has projected for those years.

That so many F.H.A.-insured loans are going to at-risk families concerns Mr. Pinto. “The F.H.A.’s underwriting policies encourage low- and moderate-income families with low credit scores to make a risky financing decision,” he said, “one combining a low score with a 30-year loan term and a low down payment. This sets up for failure the very families and communities it is the F.H.A.’s mission to help.”

Because of the potential for borrower harm that Mr. Pinto sees in F.H.A.’s practices, he said the agency should reduce mortgage terms to 20 years, so that homeowners can build up equity more easily. Or the agency should insure loans only for borrowers who carry lower overall debt loads.

“The F.H.A. should set loan terms that help homeowners establish meaningful equity in their homes with the goal of ending their dependence on F.H.A. lending,” he said.
335 2012-12-13 The premier event on the British bridge calendar is the Gold Cup. The semifinals and final, played at the West Midlands Bridge Club in Solihull, England, last weekend, featured two close matches.

The first was the semifinal battle between the top seeds: Alexander Allfrey, Andy Robson, Peter Crouch, Derek Patterson, Tony Forrester and David Gold; and Simon Cope, Andrew Murphy, Sally Brock, Barry Myers, Nicola Smith and Chris Dixon.

The match was played in eight eight-board sets. With 16 deals to be played, Cope led by 52 international match points. Allfrey won the penultimate session by 29 imps to 8, aided by the diagramed deal, Board 56.

The auction was identical at both tables, but the opening leads were not.

Forrester (West) led the club ace. Note that with four to the ace-king, leading the ace is normal; but with five to the ace-king, one should usually lead fourth-highest. The idea is that with five cards, if the suit is 5-3-2-3 around the table, either you take the first five tricks, if partner has the queen; or you keep communication with partner, if declarer has a stopper. But if you have only four cards, partner is more likely to have three cards, so you can afford one high round to see the lay of the land and to try to avoid losing a trick to a doubleton queen in an opponent’s hand — as in this deal.

The defenders took the first four tricks in clubs, Smith (South) discarding her diamond ten to unblock the suit. However, when Gold (East) shifted to a low heart, South won with her ace, cashed the diamond king and continued with the diamond jack, which West of course did not cover. Declarer had to overtake with dummy’s ace, hoping for a 2-2 split, and now went down three, losing four clubs, one diamond and two hearts.
336 2012-12-13 A few feet away was Don Johnson telling reporters about the joys of being cast as a plantation owner.

Inside the theater, Sony’s Amy Pascal and the Weinstein Company’s Harvey Weinstein (who are co-distributors of the film) were huddled over a sheet of paper on which they were taking copious notes.

“I’m doing a sequel of ‘Lawrence of Arabia’ with Amy,” Mr. Weinstein said jokingly. “I showed it to her the other day, but I cut out the last scene with the motorcycle. We’ve cast Michael Fassbender. He was so good in ‘Prometheus’ playing Peter O’Toole that we decided he should play him again.”

At five past eight, Mr. Tarantino made his way to the front of the theater to deliver an expletive-filled speech about what they were about to witness. “You guys ready for some ‘Django Unchained’? ”

And for nearly three hours people howled and winced as the white cast members spoke in horribly racist language and then proceeded to get shot and dismembered to rapturous applause.

Afterward, audience members made their way to a packed party at the Standard hotel Biergarten. There in the front was the pop singer Sia, chatting away with Olivier Theyskens and with Zosia Mamet of “Girls.” In the back, Mr. Foxx was munching on a grilled cheese sandwich as Mr. Tarantino held court at a nearby banquette with Uma Thurman and Sam Rockwell.

Ms. Thurman, of course, has done numerous movies for Mr. Tarantino including “Pulp Fiction” and “Kill Bill.” She can’t give an exact tally of how many people she’s killed on-screen for him. “At least 88,” she said.

Nearly everyone in the house professed to love his latest offering. “It was three hours of Tarantino perfection,” Cameron Diaz said, though she admitted to having some trouble watching some of the bloodier scenes.

“It was awesome” Patti Smith said. “The guy kills 100 people and doesn’t even get wounded. I want to go see it again at midnight with a theater packed full of crazy kids screaming.”
337 2012-12-13 “My 15 seasons at the Metropolitan were not happy ones,” Ms. Della Casa told Mr. Rasponi. “Mr. Bing would not have it any other way, for he kept repeating that I was indispensable for the Mozart and Strauss operas, and that he had a surplus of sopranos for the Italian and French ones.”

Yet Ms. Della Casa rarely bickered or engaged in offstage dramatics. In an opera world notorious for outsize egos and histrionic rivalries, her colleagues openly admired her. The Romanian soprano Maria Cebotari, famous for her portrayal of Arabella in the 1940s, lobbied for the young Ms. Della Casa to sing alongside her in the role of Zdenka. “I’ll put my hand in the fire for her,” Ms. Cebotari told a Vienna opera manager who was skeptical of this relatively unknown soprano’s talent.

Ms. Della Casa was also admired for her glamorous good looks. The German soprano Anneliese Rothenberger compared her to Elizabeth Taylor.

Still, at 55 and at the height of her career, she abruptly announced her retirement in 1974 after singing her last Arabella at the Vienna State Opera. She then retreated with her husband, Dragan Debeljevic, and their daughter, Vesna, who was often in poor health, to their castle near Lake Constance in Switzerland. She offered no public explanations, nor was she ever tempted into recitals or master classes.

Lisa Della Casa was born on Feb. 2, 1919, in Burgdorf, near Bern, to an Italian-Swiss father, an ophthalmologist, and a Bavarian-born mother, who ran a restaurant. Her parents, both musically inclined, encouraged her to pursue an opera career. At 15 she began vocal studies at the Zurich Conservatory under Margarete Haeser, her only teacher, who instructed her in a mixture of bel canto and Strauss.

Ms. Della Casa made her debut in 1941 in the title role of Puccini’s “Madama Butterfly” at the Solothurn-Biel Municipal Theater in Switzerland. Only two years later she joined the ensemble of the Zurich Municipal Opera House, making her debut as Annina in “Der Rosenkavalier,” a role written for a mezzo. At the Zurich Opera she went on to perform most notably as the Queen of the Night in “The Magic Flute” and Dorabella in “Così Fan Tutte.”

After World War II Ms. Della Casa moved on to the more prominent opera stages of Austria. She appeared first at the Salzburg Festival in 1947 as Zdenka in “Arabella”; after hearing her premiere performance, Richard Strauss himself asserted, “The little Della Casa will one day be Arabella!” In the fall of 1947 she made her debut as Gilda in Verdi’s “Rigoletto” at the Vienna State Opera, where she remained an ensemble member for 27 years.

After a brief first marriage that ended in divorce, Ms. Della Casa wed Mr. Debeljevic, a Yugoslav journalist and violinist, in 1949. He largely dedicated himself to managing her career and helping to care for Vesna, their only child. (Information on her survivors was not immediately available.)

In 1953 Ms. Della Casa made her debut as the Countess Almaviva at the Metropolitan Opera, where she continued to perform until 1968. Her early Met performances as Donna Elvira and Madama Butterfly did not impress the New York critics. But she hit her stride with Arabella.

“There was a youth in her movement and a beauty in her appearance that might well have driven Vienna’s gay blades wild,” Howard Taubman of The New York Times wrote in 1957. “And her singing was unfailingly lovely — accurate, well focused and sensitively phrased.”

In the late 1960s Ms. Della Casa began to cut back her performances, particularly after her daughter suffered a near-fatal aneurysm in 1970. But the opera world was stunned four years later when she decided to retire. She spent the rest of her life with her family between their castle and a villa on the Mediterranean coast of Spain.

“The strange thing about a singer’s destiny,” she told Mr. Rasponi, “is that you have to renounce everything for its sake, and then it’s all over in a flash.”
338 2012-12-13 But the global oil market is undergoing significant change, led by the surge in U.S. oil production, which reached 6.5 million barrels a day in September. That was the highest since 1998 and a 900,000 barrels-per-day increase from a year earlier, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.

Meanwhile, Iraq, an OPEC member not subject to the organization’s quotas because the country is recovering from the ravages of war, is also rapidly increasing production, reaching levels last seen in the late 1990s.

OPEC probably cannot avoid being buffeted by these shifts and their impact on market share.

“More production in the U.S. means there is less available for OPEC,” said Jamie Webster, an analyst for Washington-based consultants PFCEnergy, who was in Vienna observing the meeting.

Approximately a third of global oil output is produced by the cartel’s 12 members: Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.

The high oil prices of recent years have led oil companies to invest heavily in exploration and in techniques to extract hydrocarbons that until recently were off limits, including the shale formations in North Dakota in the United States. As a result, supply is increasing faster than just about anyone expected, while demand remains sluggish as a result of the tepid world economy.

IHS Cera, a market analysis firm, expects the global supply of oil from non-OPEC producers like the United States, Kazakhstan and Brazil to grow by 1.2 million barrels per day next year. That would be well ahead of world demand, which the firm expects to increase by only 800,000 barrels a day in 2013.

Should this prediction, which is in line with the cartel’s own forecast, prove to be on the mark, OPEC will probably need to trim its output, giving up market share, to buffer falling prices.

The signs are that — quota notwithstanding — it is already cutting back. An OPEC report published Tuesday showed that Saudi Arabia, the key decision maker in the group, had already reduced output by 200,000 barrels a day in November, to 9.5 million barrels per day, its lowest level since October 2011.

“If the world ends up with a lot more capacity to produce oil than appetite to consume it, then either OPEC countries have to figure out a way to cut back production or prices will crash,” said Michael Levi, an energy fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “Sometimes OPEC doesn’t make decisions, but individual countries do and then others follow.”

Abdalla Salem el-Badri, the OPEC secretary general, acknowledged the possibility of production cuts in Vienna on Wednesday. “Maybe in the coming months we will produce less,” he said.

Recently, OPEC has not revealed specific quotas for members. But the whole organization was supposed to observe a 30 million barrel-per-day ceiling, which it is now being exceeded by around 1 million barrels per day. This lack of specific targets allows the Saudis to try keeping the global system balanced by adjusting the amount of oil they sell, without the need to haggle over changes.

But if prices look in danger of plummeting, the Saudis would very likely ask their Gulf neighbors and the wider organization to help out, possibly threatening the organization’s cohesion.

“It could cause tension in OPEC if they had to cut back substantially to shore up prices; some of the pain might have to be shared,” said Mr. Bahree of IHS CERA.

At the meeting, OPEC ministers voted to retain Mr. El-Badri, a former Libyan oil official, as secretary general for another year, partly because Iran and Saudi Arabia, longtime rivals for influence in the group, could not agree on a successor.

The rapid growth of Iraqi production may mean OPEC needs to find even larger cuts. Iraq has already surpassed sanction-hampered Iran and become the second-largest producer in the cartel and has plans to go much higher.

The International Energy Organization’s central base case forecast for Iraqi production is 4.2 million barrels per day by 2015 and 6.1 million by 2020. That is much less than Iraq’s own ambitions but substantially over its current production of roughly 3.1 million barrels per day.

Although OPEC will probably want to bring Iraq back under its quota system, Iraq seems likely to resist. The Iraqi deputy prime minister Hussain Al-Shahristani argued recently that the country needs to make up for the production and revenue it lost for decades under the regime of Saddam Hussein.

Mr. Al-Shahristani said at a conference in London on Dec. 13 that when his country’s production reached 4 milllion to 5 million barrels per day, “we will start discussions with other members of OPEC.” But if world demand remains sluggish, Iraq’s fellow OPEC members may not be patient.

World economic performance is the key. Stronger growth would stoke demand for energy and help soak up substantial increases in supply, as happened when Russia increased its oil production by around 50 percent between 1998 and 2004.

On Wednesday, the International Energy Agency revised its demand forecasts for next year upward by 100,000 barrels per day, giving some comfort to OPEC.

But the I.E.A., an autonomous group that represents oil-consuming nations, wrote that it was trying to interpret a confusing outlook, noting that the European economy is stagnant, while trends for China, the big source of demand growth in recent years, are hard to predict.

Some analysts argue that oil prices are as high as they are today only because of fear of a major disruption, particularly one resulting from the tensions between the United States and Iran over the country’s nuclear program.

As OPEC trims output, the spare capacity — the buffer of oil available to compensate for any outages — will expand.

IHS CERA forecasts that spare capacity will reach about 3.7 million barrels per day — most of it held by the Saudis — in 2013. That is enough oil to deal with all but the most dire events and could calm markets, cooling prices.

“The more spare capacity grows, the less important fear will become,” said Leonardo Maugeri, a former senior executive of the Italian company Eni, who is now a fellow at Harvard University. Mr. Maugeri said that “the conditions for a significant downturn” were in place. But no one is predicting when it will come.

Stanley Reed reported from London and Clifford Krauss from Houston.
339 2012-12-13 Wall Street turned south late in the day on Wednesday despite gains when the Federal Reserve said it would continue its bond-buying stimulus plan to support the economy.

The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended flat with little change, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 0.1 percent,about 3 points, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 0.3 percent.

The Federal Reserve said it would continue its bond-buying to bolster a fragile economic recovery threatened by political wrangling over the government’s budget.

Negotiations intensified to avert the tax increases and spending cuts that kick in early in 2013. President Obama and House Speaker John A. Boehner, who have said they want to make a deal before the end of the year, spoke by phone on Tuesday after exchanging new proposals.

BlackRock, one of the world’s biggest asset managers, said it expected the S.&P. 500 to scale new heights in 2013 and reach 1,600 points by the end of the year. That’s a gain of more than 12 percent from current levels and would surpass the index’s previous peak of 1,576.09 set in 2007.

On Tuesday, the S.&P. 500 closed at its highest level since Nov. 6, led by technology companies. With just two weeks of trading left this year, the S.&P. 500 is up about 13.5 percent so far; it ended the year flat in 2011.
340 2012-12-13 Mr. Assad’s decision to fire Scuds — not known for their precision — inside his own country appears directly related to the rebel ability to take command of military bases and seize antiaircraft weapons. The Scuds have been fired since Monday from the An Nasiriyah Air Base, north of Damascus, according to American officials familiar with the classified intelligence reports about the attacks. The target was the Sheikh Suleiman base north of Aleppo, which rebel forces had occupied.

The development may also represent a calculation by the Syrian leadership that it can resort to such lethal weapons without the fear of international intervention, partly because Washington had set its tolerance threshold at the use of chemical weapons. Mr. Obama has never suggested that the would take action to stop attacks against Syrian rebels and civilians with conventional weapons, no matter how severe.

“This may be another example of the unintended consequence of the red line the administration has drawn with regard to chemical weapons,” said Joseph Holliday, a former Army intelligence officer and a senior analyst at the Institute for the Study of War, a nongovernmental research group. “Assad views every weapon short of chemicals as fair game.”

The disclosure about the Scuds came as representatives of more than 100 nations gathered in , , for a conference intended to give a political lift to the Syrian opposition, which is formally known as the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces. And it came amid an increase in violence in Syria, including reports of a new massacre of about 100 Alawites, Mr. Assad’s sect, and a large bombing in the capital.

Mr. Obama, in an interview on Tuesday with ABC News, formally recognized the coalition as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people.

William Burns, the deputy secretary of state who led the American team to the Morocco gathering, said Wednesday that he had invited opposition leaders to Washington, including Sheik Ahmad Moaz al-Khatib, the coalition leader.

Mr. Khatib, however, took issue with a decision by the Obama administration to classify Al Nusra Front — one of several armed groups fighting Mr. Assad — as a foreign terrorist organization.

“The logic under which we consider one of the parts that fights against the Assad regime as a terrorist organization is a logic one must reconsider,” Mr. Khatib said. “We can differ with parties that adopt political ideas and visions different from ours. But we ensure that the goal of all rebels is the fall of the regime.”

Obama administration officials have said that the Nusra Front is an offshoot of , the terrorist group that has sought to foment sectarian violence there and topple the Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad.

“All of us have seen what Al Qaeda in Iraq tried to do to threaten the social fabric of ,” Mr. Burns said at a news conference. “And that’s not a future that the vast majority of Syrians want to see, and it’s certainly not a future that the international community supports.”

Mr. Burns spoke after a declaration recognizing the new coalition as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people was adopted at the Morocco gathering. It also called on Mr. Assad to “stand aside” to permit a “sustainable political transition.”

In Damascus on Wednesday, a car bomb and two other explosives went off outside the Interior Ministry headquarters — known as the House of Justice — in Kafar Souseh, on the southern outskirts, Syrian state news media reported. Two Lebanese television channels that favor the Syrian government reported that there had been casualties. One channel, Mayadin, reported that the interior minister, Mohammad al-Shaar, had been wounded, but other accounts said he had escaped unharmed.

An activist in Damascus, Abu Qays, said Syrian security forces had sealed off Shami Hospital, a central Damascus facility used by Syria’s elite, in a possible indication of high-profile casualties in the blasts.

But it was the Scud attacks that caught the attention of American intelligence experts. Scuds are capable of carrying chemical weapons, though American officials emphasized that conventional warheads, not poison gas, had been used in the recent strikes.

recently approved the deployment of American, Dutch and Patriot antimissile batteries to , a neighbor of Syria that has become one of Mr. Assad’s most ardent rivals, to protect against a possible Syrian missile attack. The Patriot batteries have not yet arrived in Turkey, and it may take weeks for them to get there.

An American official said that the Syrian brigade that controls and operates the Scuds was an all-Alawite team. “There’s tremendous sensitivity about that weapon system, so Assad keeps it in the hands of his most trusted agents,” he said.

It is not clear whether all of the Scuds struck the base they were aimed at or what casualties they might have caused. But there was military logic to the move, experts said.

“The Assad regime has consistently escalated its use of force whenever the rebels’ strength has presented a significant challenge to the regime,” Mr. Holliday said.

“In January 2012, the regime started to use artillery because the rebels learned how to defend against regime ground forces,” he added. “The regime started using its air power in June because the rebels had gained control of the countryside. Now that the rebels have begun to defeat Assad’s air force and overrun his bases, it shouldn’t be surprising that the regime is responding with Scuds.”
341 2012-12-13 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
342 2012-12-14 Apple's new iTunes 11 program may look different from previous versions, but you still have several ways to add playlists and other content to a connected iPod....
343 2012-12-14 Walmart has cut prices on the iPhone and iPad....
344 2012-12-14 The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. Friday's selection includes a guide to Facebook gifts, some reservations about changes brought about by social networks and a talk with the ...
345 2012-12-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
346 2012-12-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
347 2012-12-14 On the heels of "The Bike Lane Cancer," the latest anti-bike screed which was published in The New York Post, we catalog the growing lexicon of the burgeoning anti-bike genre....
348 2012-12-14 TimesCast: The United States and its allies come to Turkey’s defense. | Examining Susan E. Rice’s blunt style. | Building a showcase campus, on a foundation of debt.
349 2012-12-14 The founder of Weavering Capital, one of Britain's oldest hedge funds, has been charged with fraud, fraudulent trading and false accounting....
350 2012-12-14 Sush Krishnamoorthy, a student in New Delhi who is applying to universities in the United States, is bracing herself for rejection....
351 2012-12-14 To attract and keep young talent, outsourcing companies woo their parents....
352 2012-12-14 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
353 2012-12-14 In this case, too, the Muslim Public Affairs Council and All Saints Church have used the attacks to rally support from local clergy members and legislators.

The Los Angeles Times published an editorial on Thursday calling the church’s decision to host the convention a “mitzvah,” Hebrew for a commandment of God or a moral act. The editorial noted that the council “has been fending off criticism for years,” and said:

“We don’t necessarily agree with every word its leaders have ever uttered, but the organization has generally taken moderate stances on international issues and has regularly denounced major acts of terrorism around the globe. It has consistently urged American Muslims to cooperate with law enforcement and help prevent terrorism.”

All Saints Church is a well-known liberal congregation, one of the first Episcopal churches in the country to bless same-sex unions, in 1992, Father Bacon said. He said that he had been close to the leaders of the council, an advocacy group for American Muslims, for more than 18 years and that he had no reservations about their motives.

The church’s decision to host the Muslim convention first came under fire this month by the Institute on Religion and Democracy, a conservative group that criticizes the Episcopal Church and other historically mainline Protestant churches for what it sees as their drift to the left.

The institute’s Web site published an essay accusing the Muslim group’s founders of longstanding ties to the Muslim Brotherhood, and of supporting Hamas and Hezbollah, which the United States has labeled terrorist organizations.

“Yet again, the Islamists are taking advantage of naïve Christians,” said the post, written by Ryan Mauro, who founded WorldThreats.com, writes for RadicalIslam.org and is a commentator on Fox News.

Mr. Mauro said in an interview that the institute had paid for him to write the article, which was also posted at Front Page Magazine. He said that he ws not opposed to interfaith efforts, but that he believed the council was a Brotherhood affiliate.

He said that the Islamic Center of Southern California, a large mosque in Los Angeles whose founders began the council, still promoted books written by scholars who studied with the founder of the Muslim Brotherhood.

The council regularly works with the police and sheriff’s departments in Los Angeles, the Department of Homeland Security and the F.B.I. Its president, Salam al-Marayati, recently returned from a State Department-sponsored trip to Warsaw.

Asked why government agencies would work with this Muslim group if it were subversive, Mr. Mauro said, “They’re either naïve or they decided that the ends justify the means, that it’s worth overlooking the group’s history to accomplish Muslim relations.”

The church is expecting about 1,000 people to attend the convention, where politicians, a rabbi and Father Bacon are among the featured speakers. Mr. Marayati has invited Mr. Mauro and other detractors to attend.

“I want to convert them — not to be Muslims, because we have more than enough Muslims, but to convert their hearts to remove the prejudice and fear,” Mr. Marayati said.
354 2012-12-14 The Philadelphia Phillies added infielder Michael Young and outfielder Ben Revere. The Washington Nationals added the right-handed pitcher Dan Haren. The Atlanta Braves added outfielder B. J. Upton. Conversely — but proactively nevertheless — the Miami Marlins have smashed up their entire roster.

The Mets, meanwhile, have mostly sat on their hands.

They have been open about their needs — they want a right-handed catcher and some right-handed outfield power — but they have been vague about just how they plan to obtain them.

Alderson has said he is unimpressed by the right-handed catchers who are available, either as free agents or through trades. And it is unclear whether the Mets have the money, flexibility or willingness to pursue such solid but unspectacular talents as Cody Ross or Scott Hairston, who slugged 20 homers for them last year.

Amid this, the Mets and their fans have been closely monitoring other activity around the league and analyzing what effect each transaction may have on their continued talks with the Cy Young winner R. A. Dickey, who is entering the final year of his contract and is seeking an extension.

A trade has always been a possibility, and the Mets could still wait. Dickey this week expressed frustration with how slowly the negotiations were proceeding and said he was disappointed the Mets were not accepting what he felt was a fair offer from his agent. But it may be in the Mets’ favor to see how the other clubs’ moves play out.

One move that could have a significant effect throughout baseball occurred Thursday, when the Los Angeles Angels signed outfielder Josh Hamilton, who slugged 43 home runs for the Texas Rangers last season before becoming a free agent.

For baseball, the signing signaled a recent westward shift of power. For the Mets, the perceived repercussions seemed twofold. One line of thought was that the Angels, now with a glut of outfielders, would be looking to trade one of them to address their need for starting pitching.

Even if it was only speculation, links were being created to Angels outfielders Mark Trumbo and Peter Bourjos. But Trumbo may be too promising a power hitter for the Angels to let go, and Bourjos may not have proven himself sufficiently at the plate to tempt trade partners.

The other possible implication of the Hamilton signing was that the Rangers, who have missed out on a couple of big free agents this winter — like Zack Greinke, who went to the Los Angeles Dodgers — would turn their focus more aggressively toward Dickey.

It all remains conjecture, and Alderson acknowledged this week that the Mets could look very much as they did toward the end of last season. He also noted it was still early in the off-season.
355 2012-12-14 Brooklyn Bridge Park, an 85-acre work-in-progress that stretches along the East River waterfront, took a significant step toward completion on Thursday with the opening of three new athletic fields, two playgrounds and a picnic area on Pier 5.

The $26 million pier, one of several former shipping berths at the park, is the third to be developed for recreational use. When a new pedestrian bridge linking Brooklyn Heights to Pier 1 opens by the end of the year, the park, which drew 90,000 visitors on a typical weekend last summer, will be nearly halfway finished.

At a ribbon-cutting ceremony, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the new fields, in a borough hungry for athletic sites, would lure more people to the park.

“The beautiful and innovative Brooklyn Bridge Park has quickly become one of the main attractions in the newly revitalized New York Harbor,” Mr. Bloomberg said before ceremonially blowing a whistle.

Regina Myer, the president of the Brooklyn Bridge Park Corporation, the nonprofit group that oversees development and operations, called the opening of Pier 5 “a major turning point.”

The five-acre pier, like the park as a whole, was designed by the prominent landscape architecture firm Michael Van Valkenburgh Associates. It is filled with design touches and amenities that one seldom sees in public parks.
356 2012-12-14 Reviving a 20-year debate over illnesses of veterans of the 1991 Persian Gulf war, a new scientific paper presents evidence that nerve agents released by the bombing of Iraqi chemical weapons depots just before the ground war began could have carried downwind and fallen on American troops staged in Saudi Arabia.

The paper, published in the journal Neuroepidemiology, tries to rebut the longstanding Pentagon position, supported by many scientists, that neurotoxins, particularly sarin gas, could not have carried far enough to sicken American forces.

The authors are James J. Tuite and Dr. Robert Haley, who has written several papers asserting links between chemical exposures and gulf war illnesses. They assembled data from meteorological and intelligence reports to support their thesis that American bombs were powerful enough to propel sarin from depots in Muthanna and Falluja high into the atmosphere, where winds whisked it hundreds of miles south to the Saudi border.

Once over the American encampments, the toxic plume could have stalled and fallen back to the surface because of weather conditions, the paper says. Though troops would have been exposed to low levels of the agent, the authors assert that the exposures may have continued for several days, increasing their impact.

Though chemical weapons detectors sounded alarms in those encampments in the days after the January 1991 bombing raids, they were viewed as false by many troops, the authors report.
357 2012-12-14 That is largely because the parties nominally supporting his government were looking to save their seats and did not want to alienate their constituents. A bill that would have reduced the number of Italian provinces, eliminating a level of state spending and bureaucracy, was blocked in Parliament, as was a bill that would cut state spending on politicians.

“Paradoxically, the government of technocrats was blocked by the ‘technocracy,’ people in the public administration in Italy who have been there for years and who tried to make it hard for the government,” Mr. Boeri said.

Mr. Monti has said he has done the best he could with limited time.

It is not hard to understand Italians’ dissatisfaction. The austerity measures have exacerbated Italy’s worst recession in 60 years. Consumer spending suffered its sharpest year-on-year drop since World War II, according to Italy’s leading business association. Home sales were down 23 percent in the second quarter of the year compared with the same period last year.

Bank lending has plummeted and unemployment is at 11.1 percent, rising to 36.5 percent for young people, and experts say the figure may be even higher. Italy has one of Europe’s lowest employment levels, and some workers have been put on government-subsidized furloughs.

Much to Italians’ chagrin, the second installment of a new property tax came due just ahead of the holiday shopping season.

“This government has really given us a good thrashing,” said Rosaria Cistello, 62, as she worked at a laundromat in Rome. “Even the honest technocrat only managed to impose taxes on citizens, not to change the system.”

With growth prospects slim — Italy’s economy has grown only very slightly in two decades, lagging far behind many of its European Union peers — some say Mr. Monti should have used the European Central Bank’s new bond-buying mechanism, which would have locked Italy into budgetary commitments set by the International Monetary Fund in exchange for the bank’s buying Italian bonds to keep interest rates down.

“Had we had an I.M.F. program right now there would be much less uncertainty,” said Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, a former member of the bank’s executive board. If the recession deepens, the credit crunch worsens and reforms stall, he said, Italy may need external help to service its debts in the future. Others say such help can be politically toxic.

With more economic turmoil ahead, it remains to be seen who will govern Italy after the elections. Although former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi startled markets recently by saying that he would run again, he now appears to be looking for ways to back out.

Nothing is certain in the political chaos, but it appears unlikely that Mr. Monti will run in early elections expected in February. Even if Mr. Monti were to decide to run, it is unclear what party he would ally with, since Italy lacks a mainstream center-right.

Lost in the theatrics is Pier Luigi Bersani, the understated leader of the center-left Democratic Party and a former economic growth minister who looks poised to win elections by a large margin. He is trying to forge an image as a reliable leader on board with Mr. Monti’s agenda.

But Mr. Bersani’s party, which is backed by Italy’s largest labor union, will have trouble governing without the help of centrist parties and the smaller Left Ecology and Freedom party, which does not agree with many of Mr. Monti’s neoliberal reforms.

“The most likely scenario today is that the Democratic Party with the Left Ecology and Freedom party will win both in the House and in the Senate,” said Roberto D’Alimonte, a political scientist at Luiss Guido Carli University in Rome.

There is wide speculation that instead of running for office, Mr. Monti, who will remain in Parliament as a senator for life, could replace Giorgio Napolitano, who is 87, as president of Italy.

“These are the most unpredictable elections in years,” said John Foot, a professor of Italian history at University College London. “It’s not worth trying to predict anything. You will just be proved wrong straight away.”

Most Italians long for stability. “The real issue with Italian politics is that no one has had a plan, a program for the past 20 years,” said Antonio Torda, 53, who owns a housewares shop in Rome.

Mr. Torda said he had “deep respect” for Mr. Monti, but wished he had passed some growth measures. Now, he said, “We need a political government that really makes decisions, takes responsibility for them and then asks the electorate whether they were right or wrong at the next turn.”
358 2012-12-14 Oliver Burkeman, take my job, please. Help my retail clients go out of their way to make a miserable experience for shoppers so that they will buy more.

You seem to have cracked the code in your article: suffer, spend, repeat. Really? Not from where I sit.

Yes, music can have a profound effect on shoppers, but no smart retailer in his right mind would blast headbanging music as a strategy to capture greater share of wallet.

The worst sensory combination at retail has proved to be loud, frenetic music in crowded settings, leading to negative consumption emotions, not impulse buying. Do you really think that the big bad retailer is out to intentionally create a cluttered, overstimulating retail setting?

If retailers are truly creating these egregious environments, they just simply don’t have a clue.
359 2012-12-14 NATO foreign ministers last week endorsed the decision to send Patriot batteries to Turkey. The details of how many each nation would send were not worked out until this week, officials said.

In preparation for the deployment, allied officials had conducted surveys of 10 potential sites, mostly in southeastern Turkey, that could be defended by one or more Patriot batteries.

But NATO nations do not have enough batteries to cover all of the sites. With tensions building with Iran and North Korea defying the United States and its Asian allies by launching a long-range rocket, American officials did not want to send more than a few Patriot batteries to Turkey, especially since it is not clear how long they will be needed.

But NATO diplomats said that the goal was to show enough of a commitment to Turkey’s defense to deter a Syrian attack.

It will take three weeks to ship and deploy the two American Patriot batteries, a Defense Department official said.

One allied official said it might be possible to speed up the deployment of the German and Dutch batteries if necessary. Each of those nations will also send up to 400 troops.

The United States, Germany and the Netherlands are the only NATO members that have the advanced PAC-3 Patriot system.

The Patriot batteries in Turkey will be linked to NATO’s air-defense system. The response by the missile batteries would be nearly automatic, firing interceptor missiles to destroy the target by ramming into it, a tactic the military calls “hit to kill.”

Syria denied Thursday that it had fired Scud missiles this week. But NATO’s secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said that the intelligence gathered by the alliance indicated that they were Scud-type missiles. “In general, I think the regime in Damascus is approaching collapse,” he said. “I think now it’s only a question of time.”
360 2012-12-14 Beneath the official tolerance of North Korea, a debate about the wisdom of remaining loyal to such a world outlier and its defiant young leader simmers among analysts who strive to influence China’s foreign policy.

China runs the risk, Dr. Zhu said, of being bunched together with North Korea as one of “the two bad guys.”

“I feel very frustrated,” Dr. Zhu added. “At least we should distance ourselves from North Korea. The reality is, as long as North Korea can’t change their behavior, then peace and stability on the peninsula will be increasingly vulnerable.”

China has twice asked Mr. Kim, who inherited the leadership of North Korea after the death of his father at the end of last year, not to proceed with missile tests, and twice he has rebuffed the entreaties. Shortly after he came to power, a Chinese vice minister of foreign affairs, Fu Ying, visited Pyongyang to warn him not to conduct a test. In April, Mr. Kim went ahead anyway with a rocket launching, which fizzled. Last month, Li Jianguo, a member of the Politburo, visited North Korea to again urge restraint.

Despite their displeasure, China’s leaders see little choice but to put up with such indignities.

The slight pique expressed by the Foreign Ministry on Wednesday was not a signal that China would alter its course, the analysts said, or back tougher sanctions at the United Nations.

The official reaction was “very hesitant,” said Jin Canrong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing.

After the missile test, Washington immediately started pushing for deeper sanctions at the United Nations and for a tightening of existing sanctions that China agreed to after earlier rocket launchings.

“China will not support a resolution; it will favor a president’s statement,” said Cai Jian, the deputy director of the Center for Korean Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai. A president’s statement at the United Nations is considered a much weaker form of condemnation than sanctions.

A major reason for not backing new sanctions is the fear that they would provoke North Korea to test another nuclear weapon, a far worse prospect than the launching of an unarmed rocket like the one on Wednesday, said Jonathan D. Pollack, a North Korea expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington.

“The North Koreans demurred from a third nuclear test in April, very likely under major Chinese pressure,” Dr. Pollack said.

In 2006 and 2009, North Korea tested a nuclear weapon soon after launching missiles. Dr. Pollack said a repeat of that action would pose a major test to the Obama administration, as well as to the new Chinese leader, Xi Jinping.

“Pyongyang may have decided now is the time to put down a major marker as Obama’s second term approaches and as South Korea elects a new president,” he said.

Beyond the hard strategic questions for the new Chinese leadership, the concerns among ordinary Chinese about why China bankrolls such a ruthless government should be considered, several Chinese analysts said.

“Internally in China, many voices are questioning all this spending on rocket launches instead of on improving people’s livelihoods,” said Jia Qingguo, an expert at Peking University.

The South Korean government recently estimated that North Korea had spent $2.8 billion to $3.2 billion since 1998 on its missile program, said Stephan M. Haggard, a professor of Korea-Pacific studies at the University of California, San Diego. That amount of money would have bought enough corn to feed the country for about three years, Dr. Haggard said.

The debate within China about its relationship with North Korea stems from the unusual nature of the alliance. Fundamentally, the two governments do not like each other and harbor deep mutual suspicions, said Stephanie T. Kleine-Ahlbrandt, the China and Northeast Asia project director of the International Crisis Group in Beijing. When North Korean officials visited Singapore this year to get new ideas for Mr. Kim’s government, leaders in Beijing — who have sent teams of their own to Singapore to study its softer form of one-party leadership — became very nervous, she said.

The larger fear is that any fundamental change in North Korea could send waves of refugees into China, who would be considerably more difficult to absorb than people of other nationalities on China’s borders.

“For the Chinese,” Ms. Kleine-Ahlbrandt said, “there are fewer problems keeping North Korea the way it is than having a collapse.”
361 2012-12-14 This is not a museum, you might think, it is a high-tech playground, some 19,000 square feet with 30 attractions on two floors. I stand in front of a screen, and I see myself as a tree sprouting branches of mini-me’s (“Human Tree”). I cover a wall with interlocking monkeys (“Tesselation Station”). I dip a paint roller into water and map footprints on a blackboard (“Water Frieze”). Child’s play or something else?

And that is part of the point. The museum’s founder is Glen Whitney, who parlayed his training as a mathematical logician into a lucrative position as quantitative analyst for a hedge fund; he then decided to create a museum that would celebrate math. His collaborator was Cindy Lawrence, an accountant and educator who is associate director. And the design chief is Tim Nissen, who worked for Ralph Appelbaum Associates and developed the original exhibits. The museum cost $15 million; $22 million was raised.

The goal, each principal emphasized in conversations this week, was to show that math was fun, engaging, exciting. MoMath is a proselytizing museum. And despite its flaws, it is exhilarating to see math so exuberantly celebrated. And while fourth through eighth are said to be the intended grade levels, it is hard to imagine a younger child or mature adult not drawn in by some exhibits here. In many ways the sensations of the displays are more compelling than the explanations of their content.

That is also one of the flaws. The reason that there haven’t been many math museums is that the enthusiasm the subject inspires is not easily communicated and not readily discovered. In the United States, where student math performance is far from stellar, it is easy to see why a compensatory straining at “fun” is more evident than a drive toward illumination.

To attract the uninitiated, a display must be sensuous, readily grasped and memorable. Yet the concepts invoked are often abstract, requiring reflection and explanation. How are these opposing needs to be reconciled? With widely varying results. When I visited the museum twice this week not every display was completed, but the exhibits covered a broad spectrum of achievement. Many on the higher end of that range should be celebrated; much on the lower should be scrutinized and brought up to grade level.

So first, celebrate: in many of these exhibits the physical sensation of being immersed in a world shaped by a mathematical idea will have lasting resonance. If you sit on a chair at the center of “Hyper Hyperboloid,” for example, you are surrounded by colored cables arranged in two surrounding circles. As you rotate the chair, they begin to angle in opposing directions, until the column of cables is pulled together in the center above your head. You are literally on the central axis of a graceful and surprising shape, its surfaces and contours outlined by series of stretched lines.

Or ride that square-wheeled trike or the “coaster” rolling on acorns. In each case your instincts tell you to expect jerky disruptions, since only circles or spheres can be counted on to maintain smoothness in motion. But the acorns are shaped to have constant width, just as spheres do, so there is no sense of rise and fall as the wagon slides.

And the “trike’s” square wheels rotate just fine on a surface designed to accommodate them. The surprising thing is that this surface is a curve called a catenary, which is also the shape of a drooping chain. It allows the axis of the odd wheels to remain level as the contraption rolls along. (You can even give the wheels other improbable shapes.)

In both cases there is a startling aspect to the experience that must be explained, and that leads us into thinking about shapes and curves in a different way. This is the kind of thing that happens repeatedly in the museum’s best exhibits: You see yourself as a tree sprouting identical images of yourself and learn about fractals; or watch laser lights slice through transparent solids and revise your sense of space.

The problem is that we don’t get enough guidance to be led deeper. The exhibits offer touch screens that can display three different explanations, the appropriate level sensed from a coded card provided each visitor. But these explanations are the museum’s weakest part. The most basic are often stilted or overly elaborate; the most advanced, not sufficiently suggestive.

A “basic” comment in the hyperboloid display, for example, needlessly refers to “two-dimensional objects which can be thought of as the graphs of second degree equations in three variables, typically x, y, z.” I doubt that anybody less than virtuosic at the Rubik’s Cube and group theory will readily follow the guide to its solution offered in another exhibit space, the “Enigma Café.”

On the other hand, information can be missing. In the trike and coaster displays there are things we might want to know about objects of constant width or catenary curves, but there is little detail. There are connections to be made between some of these displays — even the “Tracks of Galileo” with its allusion to “cycloids” and the rectangular-wheeled trike — that might have also been subtly explored.

Occasionally a display is less enlightening than its promise. A two-story paraboloid — a shape created by a cuplike parabola rotating in space — is used as a calculator to multiply numbers from 1 to 10 by having illuminated strings crisscross its central axis. That is difficult to imagine, but it is not made simpler by seeing a two-story model of the project. It is not readily generalized into other kinds of insights and it reverses the mathematical ambition of making complicated things simple.

And I wish that “Harmony of the Spheres,” designed with the Princeton music theorist Dmitri Tymoczko, had been more clearly explained, and provided with levels of “experiments” to perform by touching its colored spheres to produce three-note chords. It is the kind of exhibit that would have once led me into deeper explorations.

But with luck that will happen for many visitors interacting with the exhibits here already. The problems with text and explanation can readily be fixed. Over time the Enigma Café will be filled with varieties of puzzles. The “Math Square” will light with diverse programmable possibilities. And perhaps, eventually, the proselytizing of MoMath will turn theory into practice.
362 2012-12-14 Not coincidentally, Mr. Palmieri began his career as a percussionist, playing timbales at the age of 13 in bands led by or featuring his older brother, Charlie, a pianist who was his first big musical influence. He jokes that he switched back to the piano, which he had studied as a child, only because he got tired of hauling percussion gear around and wanted to save money by playing an instrument that club owners had to provide.

“I’m a drummer at heart, I love the percussion,” he said. “That’s what makes you move, it’s the pulse of life.” Mr. Palmieri said the jazz saxophonist Donald Harrison, who often plays with him, “always tells me, ‘You know Eddie, you solo like a drummer.’ But that’s natural, because no matter how you want to play it, the piano is a percussion instrument, hammers on strings.”

The first of the many ensembles Mr. Palmieri has led was La Perfecta, founded in 1961. It immediately drew attention because it took charanga, a traditional Cuban style focused on violins and flute, and made it bold and brassy by substituting a pair of trombones for the strings. That sound, with the trombonist Barry Rogers taking a leading role, came to be known as “the roaring elephants,” and Mr. Palmieri further intensified his music’s rhythmic drive by recruiting top percussionists like Manny Oquendo.

“Eddie revolutionized Latin music, and had a huge impact on musicians, especially me,” said the pianist Larry Harlow, who helped create the Fania salsa sound of the 1960s and ’70s as a bandleader, producer and arranger. “He took these very tropical Cuban rhythms and added this new harmonic thing, modern jazz chords in a Latin context. Other players were good, but not dynamic like Eddie, who stood out as an innovator.”

In 2009 the Library of Congress added “Azúcar Pa’ Ti,” a La Perfecta recording from 1965, to its national registry of historic recordings (along with Little Richard’s “Tutti Frutti” and Howlin’ Wolf’s “Smokestack Lightning”). Mr. Palmieri’s work from that era is often described as a foundation for the New York style that came to be known as salsa, but he recoils from that notion.

“Salsa is a misnomer, and a high degree of lack of respect for rhythmic and sacred religious patterns that all have their proper names,” he said. “You start with rumba, and then you have mambo, cha cha cha, guaracha, changüí, danzón, bolero. All that came from Cuba, and to lump it under the word salsa and claim it came out of here, that is” ridiculous, he said.

After La Perfecta dissolved, in 1968, Mr. Palmieri’s music, while retaining its swing, took on a more overtly political coloration. He read the work of the radical 19th-century economist Henry George; played benefits for César Chávez and the farm workers’ union; performed at prisons like Sing Sing, Attica and Rikers Island; and recorded songs with titles like “Justicia” or “Revolt/La Libertad Logico.”

All the while, Mr. Palmieri had been listening intently to jazz players like Thelonious Monk, Miles Davis and John Coltrane, whose original quartet he first saw at Birdland, just down the block from the Palladium, in the intervals between his own sets. He and his brother Charlie incorporated those influences, along with soul, funk and blues elements, into a new ensemble called Harlem River Drive, creating the expanded template that marked most of his best work throughout the 1970s, like “Vamonos Pa’l Monte” and “Adoración.”

Even classical music became part of the mix. In an animated three-hour interview last week, Mr. Palmieri referred to works by Bach, Chopin and, especially, Debussy that he admires and has studied. Mr. Thompson, who describes Mr. Palmieri’s music as “Schoenberg with a beat,” recalls seeing La Perfecta at the Palladium in the 1960s and not believing his ears when he heard Mr. Palmieri quoting from Mendelssohn in a solo.

Mr. Thompson also perceives certain similarities between Mr. Palmieri and Bartok, mainly in their fondness for dissonant chords and chromaticism. One of Mr. Palmieri’s “great contributions, a minor miracle, really,” he said, “is that he took abstruse elements of music” and put them into a danceable form, without meeting audience resistance.

“I didn’t care, I just played,” Mr. Palmieri said when asked how he achieved that. “Those dissonances are attention grabbers that, if you do it properly, create tension and excitement. The audience accepts them because they know the band is swinging. As long as there’s clave” — the basic five-stroke pattern of Latin music — “and the band is cooking, I can do anything I want to with the number.”

At the National Endowment for the Arts event, Mr. Palmieri is to be inducted by the pianist McCoy Tyner, who played in the groundbreaking Coltrane quartet of the 1960s. In an interview Mr. Tyner, who has also been designated a jazz master, described himself and Mr. Palmieri as kindred spirits, with affinities that are both musical and personal.

“When I met Eddie, he and I were sort of going down a similar road,” he said. “He was also influenced by African rhythms, and I think that is where we connected, even before we did some gigs together. Plus, I think he was very very harmonically involved and very creative in that area. And as an arranger, he was an innovator, thoroughly an artist in terms of his ability to deliver this feeling through his concept.”

In recent years Mr. Palmieri, who has won nine Grammy Awards, has recorded several CDs in a Latin jazz style. He has also led a band called La Perfecta II, bringing his career full circle.

“Here’s a guy who begins by having a monumental impact on Latin music by bringing in jazz elements and changing the whole direction of that music,” said Bob Blumenthal, a jazz critic who is a member of the panel that chose Mr. Palmieri for the jazz master honor. “And then, as time passes, and more jazz artists get acclimated to his concepts, he brings that other realm into jazz. To me, what he really represents is someone drawing on the two cultures in which he grew up, and having an influence on both.”
363 2012-12-14 The debt burden taken on by colleges and universities as a whole has more than doubled since 2000. The schools’ financial resources have not kept pace.
364 2012-12-14 In his first show with the gallery Sperone Westwater, the filmmaker Kutlug Ataman ruminates on the cultural and geopolitical forces transforming his home country, Turkey. Although he has received many accolades for his longer videos, he proves himself to be equally skilled at other kinds of moving-image art. This show includes, alongside a feature-length narrative video projection, an enveloping multichannel installation and performance-based video loops.

“Mesopotamian Dramaturgies” consists of four pieces, all excellent if sometimes a little too portentous. (None would look out of place in a big international survey like Documenta or the Venice Biennale, where some of his earlier works have appeared.)

“Mayhem,” the most recent piece (from 2011), involves seven projections of rushing and cascading water. Using the floor and various screens, it entices and then overwhelms you with visions of hydraulic energy (with an intentional parallel to the Arab Spring and a seemingly prescient one to the severe weather of our New York autumn).

In another room “The Complete Works of William Shakespeare” delivers on its promise; the entire folio, written out in graceful black penstrokes by Mr. Ataman, scrolls past at a rapid and unreadable clip. The piece works beautifully in concert with “English as a Second Language,” which shows two Turkish schoolboys stammering their way through poems by Edward Lear.

On the second floor the gallery is screening Mr. Ataman’s “Journey to the Moon,” a split-screen historical fiction, in color and black and white, about Anatolian villagers who make a Sputnik-inspired attempt at space travel in a vehicle fashioned from a minaret and helium balloons. It has elements of “Waiting for Guffman,” the Icarus myth and Georges Méliès’s “Voyage dans la Lune,” with shrewd world-is-flat observations from a large cast of Turkish scholars, and it should not be missed.
365 2012-12-14 But the deliberate off-the-ball fouling remained a part of Nelson’s strategy. He used it against Shaquille O’Neal. He used it against Larry Smith. And if he were coaching today, he said he would do it against Dwight Howard, the Lakers’ center.

Howard is leading the N.B.A. in free-throw attempts (248) for the fifth time in the last six years for one reason — he misses more than he makes. He averages 11 attempts per game. He entered Thursday night’s game against the Knicks shooting a career-worst 48.8 percent from the line. The Knicks, however, never needed to foul Howard at the end of their 116-107 victory. He finished 4 for 6 from the line.

Howard was coming off a loss in Cleveland in which he attempted 22 free throws, a season high, while making 13. That is his fourth-best shooting game of the season from the foul line, according to ESPN Stats and Information.

“He definitely has issues with his free throws — that’s obvious,” Nelson said in a phone interview from his home in Maui, Hawaii. “And when you’re not making them, it affects the player’s game, his confidence and the team’s confidence. Why is that team not winning? I know Steve Nash is out. But they should still be winning games. They’re under .500. That’s incredible.”

After Tuesday’s loss, the Lakers were 9-13, the first time they had been four games under .500 since 2004-5. That happens to have been Howard’s rookie season, when he shot a career-best 67.1 percent from the line for the Orlando Magic. But last season, even while missing nearly 20 percent of the games, he led the N.B.A. in free-throw attempts while shooting a career-low 49.1 percent. He has been even worse this season. In games through last Sunday, Howard was shooting 43.1 percent from the line in the third quarter and 42.5 percent in the fourth. That is why teams are not hesitant to adopt the Hack-a-Howard strategy.

“I found it to be a very effective strategy,” Nelson said. “It stops momentum and that is important, especially against a good team. It puts the game in the hands of a bad free-throw shooter. I won a lot of games doing that. I lost some, too. But it gives you a chance when you otherwise would have no chance to win.”

The rules stipulate that if a player is fouled off the ball in the final two minutes, he is given two free throws and his team keeps the ball. N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern recently said that he would like to see that rule enforced over the full 48 minutes, but the league’s competition committee decided otherwise.

“I would have liked to have seen the rule changed to make the last two-minute rule the whole rule,” Stern told a New Orleans radio station. He added that it was getting to a point last year where “they were just grabbing players; I think that’s ludicrous.”

“The committee didn’t want to do it,” Stern added. “And so that’s just the way it is. Because the reality is that there are a lot of basketball purists — and I understand that point of view — who say, ‘Hey, why don’t you learn to shoot foul shots? You’re supposed to be a pro.’ ”

Wilt Chamberlain, probably the greatest scorer in league history, also could not make free throws (although he did go 28 for 32 in his 100-point game in 1962). Opposing teams often would assign a player to chase Chamberlain around the court to foul him. Nelson recalled one incident where he actually chased Chamberlain off the court and into the stands trying to foul him.

Chamberlain adopted the underhand shooting method popularized by Rick Barry, one of the deadliest free-throw shooters in N.B.A. history. Nelson thinks Howard should do the same.

“If you are really bad, you have to be willing to make that change,” Nelson said. “That’s an obvious one to me.”

Howard is not as bad as Andris Biedrins — the Warriors big man went 4 of 25 from the line in the 2009-10 season. “You can drop-kick it and have a better percentage than that,” said Nelson, Biedrins’s coach for four seasons. But Howard is bad enough that he can count on someone fouling him — a lot — until he makes the opponent pay.

Wells, an assistant coach at his alma mater, Austin Peay, said he was asked occasionally about his “record” game. His answer is always the same: “Because Nellie asked me to do it, so I did it. He’d do anything to win.”
366 2012-12-14 BEIJING — A Chinese court has sentenced eight Tibetan students to prison for their role in street protests last month that unnerved security forces already coping with a wave of self-immolations, many of them by young people who have become increasingly radicalized in their opposition to Chinese policies in the region, a Washington-based advocacy group reported Wednesday.

According to the group, the International Campaign for Tibet, the students, from a predominantly Tibetan part of Qinghai Province, were sentenced to five-year terms on Dec. 5 for organizing demonstrations in response to government booklets that vilified the self-immolators and disparaged the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s exiled spiritual leader.

The group said news of the verdicts was based on a Tibetan exile with contacts in the region. Local government officials reached by telephone on Thursday declined to comment.

Word of the trials and convictions comes amid a growing crisis for Beijing as it tries to stop the surge in self-immolations that began more than two years ago. So far, nearly 100 people in Tibetan areas of the country have set themselves on fire, nearly a third of them since November. The majority have been in their teens and 20s.

The authorities have responded harshly, locking down some monasteries, requiring Buddhist monks to attend “political education” classes and issuing new regulations that criminalize any act seen as encouraging the protests. This week, the official Xinhua news agency said a Tibetan monk and his nephew had been detained for their role in eight self-immolations.
367 2012-12-14 BERLIN — A German man who was mistaken for a terrorist and abducted nine years ago won a measure of redress on Thursday when the European Court of Human Rights ruled that his rights had been violated and confirmed his account that he had been seized by Macedonia, handed over to the C.I.A., brutalized and detained for months in Afghanistan.

In a unanimous ruling, the 17-judge panel, based in Strasbourg, France, found that Macedonia had violated the European Convention on Human Rights’ prohibition on torture and inhuman or degrading treatment, and ordered it to pay the man about $78,000 in damages. It was the first time a court had ruled in favor of the man, Khaled el-Masri, 49, in a case that focused attention on the C.I.A.’s clandestine rendition program, in which terrorism suspects were transported to third countries for interrogation.

The decision, which Amnesty International hailed as “a historic moment and a milestone in the fight against impunity,” is final and cannot be appealed. The C.I.A. declined to comment. A lawsuit against the United States filed on Mr. Masri’s behalf by the American Civil Liberties Union was dismissed in 2006 on the grounds that it would expose state secrets. The group filed a petition in 2008 at the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights in 2008; the United States government has yet to respond.

Mr. Masri, a German citizen of Lebanese descent, was pulled off a bus at the Macedonian border on New Year’s Eve in 2003 after guards confused him with an operative of Al Qaeda who had a similar name. He was taken to a hotel in the capital, Skopje, and locked in a room there for 23 days. His detention, along with the threat that he would be shot if he left the hotel room, “amounted on various counts to inhuman and degrading treatment,” the ruling said.

When he was handed over to the C.I.A. rendition team at the Skopje airport, he was “severely beaten, sodomized, shackled and hooded” in the presence of Macedonian officials, the ruling said, a treatment that “amounted to torture.” He was then flown to Afghanistan, where he spent more than four months in captivity before being flown to Albania and dropped on the side of a road.

His German lawyer, Manfred Gnjidic, said his mental state had suffered not only from the abuse but also from the “nine years of constantly fighting, being called a liar, a terrorist, an Islamist, a hard-liner.” Mr. Masri has broken off contact with his lawyers while serving a prison sentence on unrelated charges involving a 2009 assault on the mayor of Neu-Ulm in Bavaria.
368 2012-12-14 Bond issuance in the United States and in emerging markets has risen to record levels in 2012, while interest rates have declined, particularly for lower-quality borrowers.
369 2012-12-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
370 2012-12-15 The economy is not OK, and the Fed needs to act....
371 2012-12-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
372 2012-12-15 We’re sorry, we seem to have lost this page, but we don’t want to lose you.
373 2012-12-15 A Russian circus trainer fed a cocktail of warm water and vodka to two elephants stranded in the blistering Siberian cold on Thursday and credited it with saving their lives. A trailer carrying the Indian elephants caught fire on a highway in the Novosibirsk region, sending emergency workers scrambling to get the animals out of the cold and into a nearby garage, state media reported. The animals’ trainer, Leonid Labo, diluted two cases of vodka and fed the mixture to the animals, he told Komsomolskaya Pravda, a popular tabloid. The animals suffered nothing more serious than frostbite to their ears, a veterinarian said. The director of the Novosibirsk regional zoo said if not for the vodka, the animals certainly would have died. “In cold temperatures we give vodka to the elephants and the monkeys even when they are inside,” said the director, Rostislav Shilo. “But only domestic vodka.”
374 2012-12-15 A piano seen in the film “Casablanca” was sold on Friday for $602,500, well below the auction house’s estimate before the sale.

The auction house, Sotheby’s, said the buyer did not want to be identified. The bidding began at $400,000 and climbed to $475,000, when it seemed to stall. The auctioneer, David N. Redden, a vice chairman of Sotheby’s, asked the audience in the auction room, “Are we all through?”

One more bid, for $500,000, came in from someone bidding by telephone. “Fair warning now,” Mr. Redden said. “Sold for $500,000.”

Commissions added $102,500 to the total. Sotheby’s had estimated before the sale that the piano would go for $800,000 to $1.2 million.

The tiny piano — it has 58 keys, 30 fewer than a conventional piano — was used in a flashback scene in the Parisian cafe with the words “La Belle Aurore” on the window. Warner Bros. used a different piano in the scenes in Rick’s Café Américain. That piano, not this one, was the one in which Humphrey Bogart placed the “letters of transit” that figured in the plot.
375 2012-12-15 Their labor negotiations stalled, the N.H.L. and the players union traded legal jabs on Friday, moves that raised the chances that the entire season could be canceled.

With no face-to-face meetings between the sides on Friday and the lockout three months old, the executive board of the N.H.L. Players’ Association voted to let its membership vote on whether to empower the board to disclaim interest. That move would be similar to decertifying the union because both moves could lead to challenges against the league on antitrust grounds.

The vote by the more than 700 players is expected to take place in the next few days. Even if they give the board the power to disclaim interest, there is no guarantee the board will use it.

Still, the N.H.L. took pre-emptive legal countermeasures when it filed a class-action complaint in federal court in New York seeking to confirm the legality of the lockout, which the players would challenge if they disclaimed interest. At the same time, the N.H.L. filed a charge with the National Labor Relations Board alleging that the union’s vote “constitutes bad-faith bargaining.”

In a statement, the union said: “The N.H.L. appears to be arguing that players should be stopped from even considering their right to decide whether or not to be represented by a union. We believe that their position is completely without merit.”

The legal maneuvering echoed similar steps taken by the N.F.L. and its union last year. The league ultimately came out on top in those cases, but the two sides settled before any games were lost. The stakes are much higher for the N.H.L. and the union because the league has canceled 42.8 percent of the schedule, including the All-Star Game and the Winter Classic. The legal wrangling could move the fight between the two sides into the courts, consuming what is left of the season.
376 2012-12-15 John McAfee returns to the United States, Boeing addresses problems with its 787 aircraft and European Union leaders hold their last summit of the year....
377 2012-12-15 The Mets have been nothing if not predictable since they moved to Citi Field in 2009. The team has finished in fourth place for four straight seasons, and attendance has dipped each year. To lure fans back, the team has repeatedly reduced ticket prices, eliminated seating categories and increased giveaways and discounts.

But the 2013 season will bring some changes. Despite finishing below .500 again, the Mets have raised single-game ticket prices for nearly every seating category, regardless of whether it is for the most expensive dates like opening day and the interleague series against the Yankees or for less appealing matchups early and late in the season against less popular teams.

At the same time, the Mets have lowered prices for some games that are purchased as part of season-ticket plans. Fans renewing their season-ticket plans have also been offered small discounts for doing so.

The strategy seems to be to get fans to buy tickets to games they might not otherwise attend. To get a lower-priced ticket for opening day, for instance, you can buy tickets to 14 other games in 2013. Because fans can choose which 14 games they want to see, they will not necessarily be stuck with tickets to midweek games at the beginning and the end of the season, which are often lightly attended.

Dave Howard, the team’s chief of business operations, told ESPN New York that the higher single-game ticket prices were designed to encourage fans to buy season-ticket plans that include access to a top-valued game as well as discounts on tickets in other categories. While the tactic is a well-worn one, many fans feel they are being unfairly squeezed by a team that has underperformed and has yet to demonstrate it is free of the financial duress caused by the Bernard L. Madoff fraud scandal.
378 2012-12-15 The traditional remoteness from, and often distaste for, financial markets, Mr. Wolff said, is largely a function of Brussels’ distance from major financial centers. The nearest is London, which for reasons of British domestic politics and fears in the city’s financial sector of meddling by the European Union, has often had testy relations with functionaries of the European Commission, the group’s main administrative and policy-making arm.

But ideology has also played a role, with many Brussels officials looking askance at what they have tended to scorn as an Anglo-Saxon preoccupation with markets, a phenomenon exemplified by the former British prime minister, Margaret Thatcher. Mrs. Thatcher is despised by many so-called Eurocrats because of her robust hostility to the organization’s goal of an “ever closer union,” a mission laid out in the 1957 Treaty of Rome, and her insistence that Europe should focus instead on building a common market for goods and services and keeping the sovereign powers of individual states intact.

“The European Parliament has many rooms named after famous Europeans, but there is no Margaret Thatcher room and there never will be one,” predicted Derk-Jan Eppink, a Dutchman elected to the parliament by voters in Belgium and vice president of the European Conservatives and Reformists Group. A member of the legislature’s budget and economic monitoring committees, Mr. Eppink said he had nonetheless noticed a sharp shift in attitudes toward markets among his colleagues and also E.U. officials since the debt crisis began shaking investors’ faith in the euro’s future.

“At the beginning of the crisis, everyone was always talking about greedy speculators and Wall Street sharks,” but such views were now “limited mainly to the hard left,” he said. “There has been a change in thinking. These markets and rating agencies are not widely seen anymore as an alien force of evil but as basically investors who don’t want to lose their money.”

“This changed over the past year,” Mr. Eppink added, when officials and politicians in Brussels “realized that many problems in the euro zone were bought on by ourselves, not by sharks and speculators.”

Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING Bank in Brussels, said, “It has been a steep learning curve, not just for the commission but also for markets.”

Accustomed to viewing the European Union through an American prism, many investors took fright at Europe’s fragmented and glacial decision-making process, Mr. Brzeski said. European officials, for their part, he added, often viewed the wild swings of the market, and the pain this caused as borrowing costs in Greece and Spain soared, with uncomprehending horror.

A big reason anxiety about markets has waned is that they have stayed calm in recent months, largely in response to a pledge this summer by the president of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, to “do whatever it takes” to defend the euro. The previous panic among investors has lifted to the point that the central bank has so far not needed to make any of the bond purchases Mr. Draghi vowed to make to shore up the debt of troubled countries.

Mr. Wolff, of the Bruegel research center, said this week’s summit meeting, far more tranquil and methodical than many previous conclaves, was an important step forward, but by no means the end of Europe’s troubles.

“There is a sense of direction at the moment, but the crisis is not over,” he said, warning that a grim economic outlook for next year, which will see much of the euro zone in recession, could upend the current optimism, especially if anger over unemployment — now at over 25 percent in Greece and Spain — leads to serious social unrest and political tumult.
379 2012-12-15 But Microsoft, based in Redmond, Wash., has realized that it cannot rely only on regulators to scrutinize Google — which is where Mr. Penn comes in. He is increasing the urgency of Microsoft’s efforts and focusing on their more public side.

In an interview, Mr. Penn said companies underestimated the importance of policy issues like privacy to consumers, as opposed to politicians and regulators. “It’s not about whether they can get them through Washington,” he said. “It’s whether they can get them through Main Street.”

Jill Hazelbaker, a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment on Microsoft’s actions specifically, but said that while Google also employed lobbyists and marketers, “our focus is on Google and the positive impact our industry has on society, not the competition.”

In Washington, Mr. Penn is a lightning rod. He developed a relationship with the Clintons as a pollster during President Bill Clinton’s 1996 re-election campaign, when he helped identify the value of “soccer moms” and other niche voter groups.

As chief strategist for Hillary Clinton’s unsuccessful 2008 campaign for president, he conceived the “3 a.m.” commercial that raised doubts about whether Barack Obama, then a senator, was ready for the Oval Office. Mr. Penn argued in an essay he wrote for Time magazine in May that “negative ads are, by and large, good for our democracy.”

But his approach has ended up souring many of his professional relationships. He left Mrs. Clinton’s campaign after an uproar about his consulting work for the government of Colombia, which was seeking the passage of a trade treaty with the United States that Mrs. Clinton, then a senator, opposed.

“Google should be prepared for everything but the kitchen sink thrown at them,” said a former colleague who worked closely with Mr. Penn in politics and spoke on condition of anonymity. “Actually, they should be prepared for the kitchen sink to be thrown at them, too.”

Hiring Mr. Penn demonstrates how seriously Microsoft is taking this fight, said Michael A. Cusumano, a business professor at M.I.T. who co-wrote a book about Microsoft’s browser war.

“They’re pulling out all the stops to do whatever they can to halt Google’s advance, just as their competition did to them,” Professor Cusumano said. “I suppose that if Microsoft can actually put a doubt in people’s mind that Google isn’t unbiased and has become some kind of evil empire, they might very well get results.”

At Microsoft, Mr. Penn has assembled a team of fewer than a dozen people, about two-thirds of whom operate out of offices in Washington, where Mr. Penn lives, with the rest in the Seattle area. It includes some of his lieutenants from politics and from Burson-Marsteller, the public relations firm where he was chief executive before joining Microsoft, a Burson client. Josh Gottheimer, a former senior counselor to the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, is a recent addition.

“The concept is to create a SWAT team to work with the product teams on some of their toughest problems,” Mr. Penn said.

While typical corporate advertising campaigns can take months to gestate, Mr. Penn’s team is set up to move much faster. It responded quickly in late October when Google completed a change in how it shows search results on its shopping service, displaying product listings only from merchants that paid to be included.

The team conducted Internet polls that found that most consumers were unaware of the change and bothered by it. In time for the holiday shopping season, it put together a campaign warning people that Google results might not include the best merchants or prices.

Google has said its shopping results improve when retailers pay, because they have an incentive to keep their listings accurate.

Mr. Penn has had a long consulting relationship with Microsoft going back to the late 1990s. He is said to be close with both Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft’s chief executive, and Bill Gates; all three attended Harvard together in the mid-1970s.

Frank Shaw, a spokesman for Microsoft, said the company’s willingness to go after competitors predated Mr. Penn’s arrival, pointing to a video criticizing Google for scanning Gmail users’ messages so it could deliver related advertising.

Marketing campaigns attacking competitors are common, though many technology companies view them as distasteful. Microsoft itself bore the brunt of one of the more brutal and effective negative campaigns, Apple’s “Get a Mac” commercials, which featured John Hodgman as a bumbling PC.

Microsoft executives now concede that they did not effectively challenge the ads. Mr. Shaw himself has tangled with Google executives in combative Twitter and blog posts.

“If any of our competitors say things about us that we don’t think are true, we’re not going to sit on the sidelines,” he said. “We’re going to pop them.”
380 2012-12-15 Matt Baier, now a junior at the University of Connecticut, and other high school classmates recalled how deeply uncomfortable Mr. Lanza was in social situations.

Several said in separate interviews that it was their understanding that he had a developmental disorder. They said they had been told that the disorder was Asperger’s syndrome, which is considered a high functioning form of autism.

“It’s not like people picked on him for it,” Mr. Baier said. “From what I saw, people just let him be, and that was that.”

Law enforcement officials said Friday that they were closely examining whether Mr. Lanza had such a disorder.

One former classmate who said he was familiar with the disorder described Mr. Lanza as having a “very flat affect,” adding, “If you looked at him, you couldn’t see any emotions going through his head.”

Others said Mr. Lanza’s evident discomfort prompted giggles from those who did not understand him.

“You could tell that he felt so uncomfortable about being put on the spot,” said Olivia DeVivo, also now at the University of Connecticut. “I think that maybe he wasn’t given the right kind of attention or help. I think he went so unnoticed that people didn’t even stop to realize that maybe there’s actually something else going on here — that maybe he needs to be talking or getting some kind of mental help. In high school, no one really takes the time to look and think, ‘Why is he acting this way?’ ”

Ms. DeVivo remembered Mr. Lanza from sixth grade and earlier, talking about aliens and “blowing things up,” but she chalked this up to the typical talk of prepubescent boys.

Still, after hearing of the news on Friday, Ms. DeVivo reconnected with friends from Newtown, and the consensus was stark. “They weren’t surprised,” she said. “They said he always seemed like he was someone who was capable of that because he just didn’t really connect with our high school, and didn’t really connect with our town.”

She added: “I never saw him with anyone. I can’t even think of one person that was associated with him.”

Mr. Baier, who sat next to Mr. Lanza in the back of their sophomore-year honors math class, said Mr. Lanza barely said a word all year, but earned high marks. He said he knew this only from peeking at Mr. Lanza’s scores when their teacher handed back their tests.

Out of view of his classmates, Mr. Lanza’s adolescence seemed to have been turbulent. In 2006, his older brother graduated high school and went to Quinnipiac University in Connecticut, leaving him alone with their parents — whose marriage was apparently coming apart.

In 2008, they divorced after 17 years, court records show. His father, Peter Lanza, a tax executive for General Electric, moved to Stamford, and in January 2011 married a woman who is a librarian at the University of Connecticut.

His mother, Nancy, kept their home in Newtown, a prosperous, hilly enclave of spacious, newer homes about five miles from the elementary school. Adam Lanza was thought to have been living in the house, too.

Friends remembered Ms. Lanza as being very involved in her sons’ lives.

“Their mother was very protective, very hands-on,” said Gina McDade, whose son was a playmate of Ryan Lanza’s and spent much time at his home, which she described as a two-story Colonial with a pool.

“It was a beautiful home,” Ms. McDade said. “She was a good housekeeper, better than me. You could tell her kids really came first.”

Beth Israel, 43, said she and her family lived down the street from the Lanzas, and her daughter went to school with Adam Lanza. She said she had not spoken to any members of the family in three years.

“He was a socially awkward kid,” Ms. Israel said. “He always had issues. He was kind of a loner. I don’t know who his friends were.”

She said she would speak with his mother on occasion, but said the family was not social.

On Friday, police officers and agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation swarmed through the Lanzas’ neighborhood, blocking off streets and asking residents to leave their homes.

Throughout the afternoon, Ms. Lanza’s surviving son, Ryan, was named by some news outlets as the killer.

Ryan Lanza’s identification had been found on the body of his underage brother, leading to the mistaken reports.

Brett Wilshe, a neighbor of Ryan Lanza’s in Hoboken, said he communicated with him by instant message at 1:15 p.m.

“He said he thought his mom was dead, and he was heading back up to Connecticut,” Mr. Wilshe said. “He said, ‘It was my brother.’ ”
381 2012-12-15 The parents of Brian A. Terry, a Border Patrol agent who was killed in a shootout linked to the gun-smuggling operation known as Fast and Furious, have sued federal officials, claiming that they should have known it created a risk to law enforcement officers. The case was filed Thursday, a day before the second anniversary of Agent Terry’s death and the deadline for filing a wrongful death claim in federal court.
382 2012-12-15 But in Virginia, after more than a year of planning and research, Gov. Bob McDonnell said his state would not operate its own exchange. “Despite repeated requests for information, we have not had any clear direction or answers from Washington until recent days,” Mr. McDonnell said.

On Monday, Ms. Sebelius gave preliminary approval to state-based exchanges being established by Colorado, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts, Oregon and Washington.

The exchanges are online supermarkets where people can shop for private health insurance and obtain federal subsidies to help defray the cost. The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that 25 million people will eventually receive coverage through the exchanges.

Federal officials and federal contractors will set up and run the exchange in any state that is unable or unwilling to do so.

Gary M. Cohen, a federal health official, said the administration “has encouraged states to establish their own exchanges.” But, he added, consumers will have access to affordable health insurance in all states, regardless of who is in charge of the exchange.

The concept of an exchange is simple: Competition will drive down prices. But operating an exchange is an immense technical challenge requiring sophisticated information technology to digest and display huge amounts of data on the costs and benefits of various insurance plans.

The federal government and states face a series of deadlines in the new year. On Jan. 1, Secretary Sebelius must determine whether each state will be able to operate its own exchange in compliance with federal standards. By Feb. 15, states must notify the federal government if they want to help with selected tasks, like consumer assistance and the supervision of health plans, in partnership with the federal government.

On Oct. 1, consumers can begin to enroll in health plans, for coverage starting on Jan. 1, 2014, when most Americans will be required to have insurance.

Administration officials said they were delighted this week when a Republican governor, C. L. Otter of Idaho, announced plans to establish a state-run exchange.

However, Mr. Otter’s rationale provided little comfort to the administration. He said he did not want to surrender power to “federal bureaucrats.” He denounced “the mandates and overreaching federal authority of the Affordable Care Act.” He said the law “will do little or nothing to reduce costs while force-feeding us coverage and increasing the size and scope of government.” And he said his decision could be rescinded if the State Legislature disagreed with him.

Pennsylvania seriously considered running its own exchange, but Gov. Tom Corbett said on Wednesday that he would not pursue the idea.

“State authority to run a health insurance exchange is illusory,” Mr. Corbett said. “In reality, Pennsylvania would end up shouldering all of the costs by 2015, but have no authority to govern the program.”

In Tennessee, state officials did a huge amount of planning for a state-run exchange. But Gov. Bill Haslam announced this week that he had decided against the idea because the Obama administration had failed to answer numerous operational questions.

Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey cited similar concerns in vetoing legislation to establish a state-based exchange last week.

“New guidance continues to trickle out of Washington at an erratic pace,” Mr. Christie said.
383 2012-12-15 A tablet taken once a day, Iclusig (pronounced eye-CLUE-sig) will have a wholesale price of about $115,000 a year, the latest cancer drug to pierce the $100,000-a-year level. Ariad said the price was about 15 percent higher than the drug’s competitors’.

While the approval was expected, it came three months before the federal agency’s deadline of March 27, and the drug’s label allows broader use of the drug than some analysts expected. However, the label also contains a boxed warning about the side effects of blood clots and liver toxicity, something analysts did not expect.

Ariad’s shares, which have roughly doubled in the last year, sank 21 percent to $18.93 on Friday.

Chronic myeloid leukemia would seem at first glance to be an unattractive target for pharmaceutical companies. Not only is it rare — with about 5,000 new cases a year in the United States and 600 deaths — it is also one of the more effectively treated of cancers.

But it is also a well-understood cancer. Drug companies know how to attack it, so they do — something akin to looking for lost keys under the lamppost because that is where the light is. Iclusig is the third drug for chronic myeloid leukemia approved by the agency this year, after Pfizer’s Bosulif and Teva’s Synribo.

The disease occurs when pieces of two separate chromosomes come together to form what is known as the Philadelphia chromosome. A fusion of genes creates an aberrant protein, known as BCR-ABL, which fuels uncontrolled cell growth.

Gleevec, developed by Novartis and approved in 2001, inhibits the action of that errant protein. It turned chronic myeloid leukemia from a death sentence into a chronic disease for many patients and is still considered the paragon of molecularly targeted drugs. Global sales were $4.7 billion in 2011.

But about 20 to 30 percent of patients have cancers that do not respond to Gleevec or that develop resistance to it.

So companies developed other drugs — Tasigna from Novartis and Sprycel from Bristol-Myers Squibb — that also inhibit the aberrant protein but work in many of the cases that are resistant to Gleevec. But some cases do not respond to those drugs, either.

Iclusig was designed by chemists and computers at Ariad to work against cancer cells with a mutation — known as T315I — that makes them resistant to Gleevec, Tasigna and Sprycel.

However, Iclusig was approved not only for patients with that mutation but for any patient who has tried one of the other three drugs without success. Ariad estimates that each year about 2,500 patients with the disease switch therapies, making them candidates for Iclusig.

That can still be a lucrative market, given the high price of the drugs and the fact that patients must take them for the rest of their lives, which is usually many years. Dr. Harvey J. Berger, chief executive of Ariad since the company’s inception, said he expected annual sales to reach $600 million to $800 million in a few years.

The F.D.A. approved the drug based on a trial with 449 patients, all of whom received Iclusig. The patients had already tried treatment with one, two or three of the other drugs.

About 54 percent of patients in the early stage of the disease had a major cytogenic response, meaning a reduction in cells with the Philadelphia chromosome.

Iclusig was also approved Friday as a treatment for an even rarer cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia characterized by presence of the Philadelphia chromosome.
384 2012-12-15 It must have been a hectic fall for students at the Juilliard Dance Division, with each of the four classes learning fresh choreography for New Dances: Edition 2012. As three of the new pieces indicated, students must have spent a lot of time crouching moodily on the floor or unfurling their legs at awkward angles.

The third-year dancers featured in Susan Shields’s “Visions and Miracles” were the odd ones out. Their piece, performed on Wednesday at the Peter Jay Sharp Theater — along with works by Camille A. Brown, Emery LeCrone and Jarek Cemerek — is unabashedly sunny.

Dancers pepper diagonal runs with low leaps, walk in relevé and pause in ballet positions in “Visions and Miracles.” They look fresh enough in white and lime green leotards designed by Fritz Masten — it’s like having a sneak peek at spring — yet the piece hits the same, unvarying choreographic note, despite the eager entrances.

At least in Ms. Shields’s piece, named after Christopher Theofanidis’s string quartet, we can see the dancers’ faces. In “Stages,” Ms. Brown opts for a darkened, foggy setting for her whiplash, driving movement. Set to Jonathan Melville Pratt’s propulsive score, the work uses the dancers’ raw exuberance to its advantage. Their feet plant firmly into the floor as they pitch their bodies forward; buttery slides and turns send them spinning through space in spidery choreography.

“Stages” is an ensemble work that showcases the students’ ability to locate the same spirit in the same moment. Ms. LeCrone’s “In Pursuit of Falling” is less coherent and fraught with too many references to both its title (falling, surrender, collapse) and to the work of the choreographer William Forsythe (off-kilter movement, socks, fluorescent lights and a whispered score).

The dance begins with a couple running across the stage. After the man scoops the woman from behind and lifts her onto his shoulder, she continues to move her feet in the air. Dancers place benches on either side of the stage and sit stoically, while others, in the center, slither in slow motion. Legs stretch as arms float around and above the body, like tentacles. Later the benches are used as tables; the women leap onto them, jump off them with a twist and fall into the arms of the men. It’s regressive on too many levels.

In “Footholds,” the final premiere, Mr. Cemerek, a Czech choreographer, incorporates hip-hop and contact improvisation to create a scene of falling, rolling and curving bodies. Much of it is a monotonous look at the bustle of urban life — with too many moments of amateur improvisation — and, like “Pursuit,” it’s better suited to the men.
385 2012-12-15 On Dec. 8, one semifinal of the Gold Cup, the premier event on the British bridge calendar, in Solihull, England, was between the top seeds: Alexander Allfrey, Andy Robson, Peter Crouch, Derek Patterson, Tony Forrester and David Gold; and Simon Cope, Andrew Murphy, Sally Brock, Barry Myers, Nicola Smith and Chris Dixon. With 8 of the 64 boards to be played, the Cope team was leading by 31 international match points.

On Board 57 Allfrey and Robson bid a thin six spades missed by Smith and Dixon. Allfrey found one of the winning lines to gain 11 imps. Two deals later Forrester and Gold bid to six spades, a slam missed by Brock and Myers, for another 11 imps.

The diagramed deal was Board 63, with Cope’s lead down to 7 imps.

In the other room Gold (South) was in four spades after an uncontested auction. Following a misdefense, he escaped for down one, minus 50.

In the given auction Robson (West), correctly assessing that his team was still behind in the match, opened two diamonds, indicating a weak two-bid in either major, despite the unfavorable vulnerability. Myers (North) doubled to show either a balanced 12 to 14 points or any big hand.

After Allfrey (East) responded two hearts (to play if partner’s suit was hearts), Brock (South) cue-bid three hearts. North, with a heart stopper, converted to three no-trump. When South passed, West doubled for penalty, a call that would not have occurred to most players. He knew the suits were breaking badly and was still trying to turn around the match.

If West’s double had been passed out, the contract would surely have gone down one, declarer having four spades, one heart and three diamonds, and Allfrey would have gained 2 imps.
386 2012-12-15 As of Oct. 31, about two million people had applied for income-based repayment, according to Education Department figures. About 1.3 million had low enough income and high enough debt payments under standard repayment plans to qualify for reduced payment under the terms of the program. Another 440,000 applications were still pending.

In the 2011-12 school year alone, more than 10 million people took out the popular federal Stafford student loans, according to the College Board’s Trends in Student Aid report. Cooper Howes, a Barclays analyst, estimated in a report earlier this month that more than half of all borrowers would be eligible for payment reductions because of their incomes.

If you or your children are borrowers and the income-based repayment program is new to you, you should consult the Project on Student Debt’s ibrinfo.org site, which is about as clear as this complicated topic can get. The Education Department’s site is worth a thorough look, too, as is the New America Foundation’s income-based repayment calculator. I’ve stuffed the Web version of this column with links to these and other pertinent information sources.

Trying to pinpoint the scope of the looming tax issue starts to get more complicated pretty quickly. Not all eligible students will sign up for income-based repayment, since some will not hear about it, will ignore it when they do, will assume or be told (incorrectly) that they can’t qualify or will worry that there is some kind of catch. For those who sign up, it’s awfully hard to predict how many will eventually have some debt forgiven a couple of decades from now.

But Jason Delisle, who has written extensively about the income-linked repayment programs as director of the federal education budget project at the New America Foundation, points to an Office of Management and Budget effort that took a stab at it. The O.M.B. assumed that 400,000 borrowers from 2012 through 2021, each with a beginning average loan balance of about $39,500, would each eventually receive loan forgiveness of about $41,000. Yes, you read that right. The forgiven debt will be more than the original balance, albeit many years later.

At $41,000 of loan forgiveness, the federal tax bill could easily be over $10,000 depending on your tax bracket. There are also state income taxes to contend with, depending on where you live.

But the numbers can go much higher. Stephanie Day earned her bachelor’s degree in her 40s after a divorce, intending to enter the field of social work. She finished in the depths of the recession and could not find work, so she returned to school to get a master’s in psychology to bolster her credentials.

Even then, the jobs available near her home in Seattle were slim, so she moved to a town on the border of New Mexico and Texas for a position there. One home invasion and 12 months of misery at being apart from her children later, she’s now back in Seattle and paying just $30 each month on her $80,000 or so in debt via the income-based repayment plan.

Ms. Day has run the numbers and can foresee a situation where the government will forgive more than $100,000 of her debt, given that her unpaid balance keeps growing thanks to the low payments. And while she expressed dismay that so few people were aware of the tax bill in their future, she does not necessarily mind paying it. “I think it’s perfectly fair,” she said. “I guess I’m old school.”

Mr. Delisle, of the new America Foundation, however, would like to see student loan debt forgiveness become a tax-free event for everyone, and not just people who have worked as teachers or in public service jobs. “Think about it practically,” he said. “You forgive someone’s loans, then you stick them with a tax bill that’s equivalent to making three or five or 10 more years of payment on the loan.”Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, has tried and plans to continue to try to get a law passed that will take away the tax burden, according to his spokesman. The odds of this happening anytime soon, however, are probably pretty low in the current political environment.

That said, Mr. Delisle has also expressed alarm about how professionals with reasonably high incomes — but a couple of hundred thousand dollars in graduate or professional school debt — could benefit disproportionately from forgiveness a few decades from now.

Some people see opportunity in that fact. A company called the Advantage Group in San Diego is teaming up with investment advisers and insurance agents to advise high-debt individuals on how to maximize the benefits of income-based repayment. Its business model is to take a cut of whatever those financial professionals earn, say through commissions, when those professionals persuade their debt-laden clients to set aside money to pay the eventual tax bill. The commissions would come from those professionals’ selling investments to the people who have set the money aside.

Jantz Hoffman, who started the Advantage Group after a veterinarian friend with more than $200,000 in federal student loan debt sought his help, says he thinks that plenty of people could see a tax bill of tens of thousands of dollars one day.

“Let’s say your debt has grown to $180,000 over 20 years, and by that point, you’re making $120,000,” he said. “If $180,000 is being forgiven, then you’re looking at paying taxes on $300,000 in total income in one year. At that point, you’re over the $250,000 income category, my friend.”

It’s wise to be a bit wary of anyone aligned with insurance agents pitching investments. And worries about a tax bill a couple of decades from now shouldn’t scare you away from signing up for the income-based repayment plan if you need it. But however the numbers turn out, anyone enrolled in the plan ought to be thinking hard about salting away some money, somewhere, for the eventual tax bill.

After all, no matter how high the bill, there are severe penalties for not paying it right away. The Internal Revenue Service, alas, does not have an income-based repayment program.
387 2012-12-15 The statement said the two overcharged for the services of a private courier company operating between Moscow and the city of Yaroslavl. It said that Oleg obtained a contract from a commercial enterprise, which was not specified other than to note it was partially foreign-owned, to ship parcels along this route. He worked through a company registered by Aleksei in 2008.

Over three years, this company billed the client for 55 million rubles, or almost $1.8 million, the statement said.

Investigators subsequently appraised the shipping cost for this quantity of parcels over this distance at 31 million rubles, or about $1 million, and said the brothers had knowingly overcharged for the service.

The investigators said a portion of the profits, 19 million rubles, or almost $619,000, was subsequently laundered through a wicker basket weaving enterprise owned by their parents.

“Hey you in the Investigative Committee! Have you gone crazy?” Mr. Navalny wrote in a Twitter post after reading the statement on Friday morning. In an interview, he denied wrongdoing and said the link to the planned protest on Saturday was obvious.

“I did not steal your packages, you goats,” he wrote in another Twitter post.

The police on Friday searched Mr. Navalny’s office, the office of his brother at the postal service and the basket factory owned by his parents.

Mr. Navalny has been under investigation since 2010. The police are looking into whether he gave bad advice to a timber company several years earlier, when he worked as an adviser to a regional governor.

That case is pending; the maximum sentence is 10 years in prison. It is unclear what sentence he could receive under the new charges.

Mr. Navalny has also been questioned as a witness in an investigation into violence at a protest on Bolotnaya Square in March.

This month, protesters had wanted to lay flowers on a stone in Lubyanka Square commemorating victims of secret police repression. After weeks of talks, the city offered a permit for a rally in a different location and a day later, on Sunday.

Previous large protests in Moscow had been permitted, even as masses of riot police officers and Interior Ministry troops staged in buses on nearby streets, hinting at the prospect of a showdown.

On Friday, the Moscow Police Department said in a statement carried by Interfax that it would prevent any “unsanctioned gatherings.” The police have been issuing specially marked yellow vests to journalists who intend to cover the protest, suggesting anybody without one risks arrest.
388 2012-12-15 For a bond investor, there are two things that can go wrong. The first is credit quality, when bonds either default or at least fall in market value because a default seems more likely. The second is interest rate risk — the risk that market interest rates will rise significantly.

Mr. Shaoul said he thought investors in emerging market bonds were more likely to run into credit problems, while American bond buyers were more likely to face interest rate problems as the American economy improved.

“Five years down the road,” he said, “you are likely to have significantly higher interest rates.”

For a bond market investor now, the choice is to stick to shorter-term bonds, and get very low yields, or to move to longer-term ones that pay higher interest rates but that could lose market value if the interest rate offered on new bonds rose.

Much of the recent issuance in bonds has been because of refinancing, in which companies repay existing bonds with money borrowed on better terms. For holders, it can seem the worst of both worlds: if rates rise, they have old bonds that have lost value. If rates fall, their old bonds are redeemed by the company, depriving them of the yield they expected.

As can be seen in the accompanying graphic, corporate bond issuance in the United States has risen to record levels this year, and the average interest rate on high-yield bonds, also known as junk bonds because they are rated below investment grade, has fallen even more rapidly than have rates on higher-quality bonds.

Martin Fridson, the chief executive of FridsonVision and a veteran high-yield market analyst, said he thought high-yield investors were likely to lose money in 2013, as declines in prices offset the interest income realized from the bonds.

His model says the yield spread between the Bank of America Merrill Lynch High Yield Master II index and similar Treasury securities should now be around 6.5 percentage points, based on historical spreads as well as economic conditions, current default rates and the relative availability of bank credit. The actual difference, as shown by the chart, is about 5.3 percentage points, which he thinks is not enough to offset the risk.
389 2012-12-15 In the consumer price report, priced ticked up 0.1 percent in November, excluding the volatile food and gas categories. Core prices have risen 1.9 percent in the last year, below the Federal Reserve’s annual target of 2 percent. Higher rents, airline fares and new cars pushed up core prices last month. The cost of clothing and used cars fell.

“In simplest terms, inflation is not a problem,” Jim Baird, chief investment strategist at Plante Moran Financial Advisors, said. Lower inflation “is a real positive that should provide modest relief for households dealing with limited income growth.”

High unemployment and slow wage growth have made businesses reluctant to raise prices, for fear of driving away customers. That has helped keep inflation tame.

Gas prices have fallen sharply in the last two months after spiking in the late summer. A gallon of gas cost an average of $3.29 nationwide Friday. That’s 15 cents less than a month ago and 50 cents less than in mid-October.

The increase in food prices was smaller than many economists expected. This summer’s drought in the Midwest, which scorched corn and soybean crops, has pushed up food prices, but not sharply. Food costs have risen 1.8 percent in the past 12 months.

The cost of milk, cheese and other dairy products, however, have risen 0.8 percent in each of the last two months. That could reflect the higher cost of animal feed, which usually includes corn and soybeans. Cereals and baked goods rose 0.3 percent last month.

But prices for the broad category of meat, chicken, fish and eggs fell in November after a big gain the previous month.

Shoppers may face further increases soon. Wholesale food costs jumped 1.3 percent last month, according to a separate report Thursday, the most in nearly two years.

Beef prices jumped the most in four and a half years, and vegetable costs rose sharply. Grocery stores may pass on some of those costs in the coming mons.

With inflation in check, the Fed said on Wednesday that it now planned to keep the short-term interest rate at nearly zero until the jobless rate fell to at least 6.5 percent, as long as inflation was not expected to top 2.5 percent.

It was the clearest sign yet that the Fed will keep rates low even after unemployment falls further and the economy picks up.
390 2012-12-15 “We have never changed our position and will not change it,” Mr. Lukashevich said. He rejected a comment made by a State Department spokesman on Thursday that Moscow had “woken up” and changed its position as dynamics shifted on the battlefield, saying, “We have never been asleep.”

All six Patriot units deployed in Turkey will be under NATO’s command and are scheduled to be operational by the end of January, according to officials in Washington.

George Little, the Pentagon spokesman, said Mr. Panetta signed the order as he flew from Afghanistan to this air base in southern Turkey, close to the Syrian border.

“The United States has been supporting Turkey in its efforts to defend itself,” Mr. Little said.

The order “will deploy some 400 U.S. personnel to Turkey to support two Patriot missile batteries,” Mr. Little added, and the personnel and Patriot batteries will arrive in Turkey in the coming weeks. He did not specify their deployment locations.

After landing at Incirlik on Friday, Mr. Panetta told a gathering of American Air Force personnel of his decision to deploy the Patriots.

He said the United States was working with Turkey, Jordan and Israel to monitor Syria’s stockpiles of chemical weapons, and warned of “serious consequences” if Syria used them, but he did not offer any specifics.

“We have drawn up plans for presenting to the president,” Mr. Panetta said. “We have to be ready.”

Turkey’s worries about vulnerability to Syrian missiles, including Scuds that might be tipped with chemical weapons, were heightened recently by intelligence reports that Syrian troops had mixed small amounts of precursor chemicals for sarin, a deadly nerve gas, at one or two storage sites, and loaded them into artillery shells and airplane bombs. “Their arsenal of chemical weapons has been configured for use at a moment’s notice,” Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who heads the House Intelligence Committee, said in an interview on Friday. Mr. Panetta, however, said this week that intelligence about chemical weapons activity in Syria had “leveled off.”

Recent Scud missile attacks by Mr. Assad’s forces against rebels in northern Syria have only added to Turkey’s concerns. The Scud missiles were armed with conventional warheads, but the attacks showed that the Assad government was prepared to use missiles as it struggled to slow rebel gains.

With the nearly two-year-old Syrian conflict entering its second winter and many thousands of people struggling for food and warmth in cities ruined by protracted fighting, the humanitarian costs seemed to be mounting.

An activist in the central province Homs, who identified himself as Abu Ourouba, said the town of Houla — where, the United Nations confirmed in May, Syrian troops had killed more than 100 people, including 32 children — was facing catastrophe.

“Houla has been besieged from all directions for the past 10 days,” he said. “Until now, not even one loaf of bread has entered Houla. The food that was available is beginning to run out very quickly. Most children don’t have milk anymore. The kids are at risk of dying from hunger.”

Shelling along access routes means that no one can walk “unless they crawl” to avoid hundreds of strikes from tanks, warplanes and rocket launchers, the activist said.
391 2012-12-15 Sidney Gilman, a top Alzheimer’s researcher, oversaw the trials for a drug developed by Wyeth and Elan that had the potential to help Alzheimer’s patients. Just days before publicly presenting disappointing results from the drug’s trial in 2008, Dr. Gilman provided the data to Mathew Martoma, a trader affiliated with SAC Capital, prosecutors say, allowing Mr. Martoma to sell the stock and avoid big losses.
392 2012-12-16 Emily Wallace Douglas and Dr. Jeffrey Thomas Neal were married Saturday at the Horticulture Center in Fairmount Park in Philadelphia. The Rev. Annie Piper, a Presbyterian minister, officiated.

Mrs. Neal, 28, is enrolled in a nurse practitioner program at the University of Pennsylvania. She graduated from Duke and received a master’s in public health from New York University.

She is a daughter of Deborah Smith Douglas and David Wallace Douglas of Santa Fe, N.M. Her father is the president of Waterlines, a nonprofit organization that offers financing and technical help to drinking-water projects in developing countries. He is also the director of Advocates for Development Assistance, an advocacy group in Washington that seeks to increase Congressional financing to fight poverty in developing countries. The bride’s mother is a writer and leads Christian retreats throughout the United States. She is the author of “The Praying Life: Seeking God in All Things” and an author, with her husband, of “Pilgrims in the Kingdom: Travels in Christian Britain.” She is on the board of Waterlines.

Dr. Neal, 26, is an intern in pediatrics at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. He graduated from Johns Hopkins, and received a medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania.

He is a son of Susan E. Neal of Cheshire, Conn., and the late Brian W. Neal. His mother is a senior program manager in the Hartford office of United Health Group, the health insurance company in Minnetonka, Minn. His father was a letter carrier for the Postal Service in Hamden, Conn.
393 2012-12-16 KerryAnne O’Sullivan, a daughter of Joan L. O’Sullivan and Robert A. O’Sullivan of Garden City, N.Y., was married Saturday to Justin Joseph Casano, the son of Joan C. Casano and Joseph T. Casano of Franklin Square, N.Y. Msgr. Thomas J. Harold, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at the Church of St. Anne in Garden City.

The couple met at Marist College, from which they graduated, and where the groom received a master’s degree in educational psychology.

Mrs. Casano, 29, is an assistant buyer for designer fashion for Bloomingdale’s in Manhattan. Her father retired as a senior vice president for bank supervision for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Her mother is a special-education teacher at the West Hempstead Middle School in West Hempstead, N.Y.

Mr. Casano, 30, is special-education and social studies teacher at Elmont Memorial High School in Elmont, N.Y. His mother is a pharmacist at Franklin General Hospital in Valley Stream, N.Y. His father, who is retired, worked in Jamaica, Queens, as a mechanical engineer for the Long Island Rail Road.
394 2012-12-16 Regina Gail Klein, the daughter of Joan D. Greenberg and Dr. Philip J. Klein of Brooklyn, was married Saturday to Noah Seth Reiss, a son of Melvyn M. Reiss of Manhattan and the late Anita Madansky Reiss. Rabbi Hanoch H. Hecht performed the ceremony at Temple Beth El in Cedarhurst, N.Y.

Ms. Klein, 26, is keeping her name. She is an occupational therapist at the Mickey Mantle School, a public school in Manhattan for students with autism or other disabilities. She graduated cum laude from SUNY College at New Paltz, and received a master’s in occupational therapy from Columbia.

Her father is a partner in a dental practice in Brooklyn. Her mother is a labor and delivery nurse and a certified lactation consultant at Staten Island University Hospital.

Mr. Reiss, 29, is an associate at Morris, Duffy, Alonso & Faley, a Manhattan law firm that specializes in insurance defense. He graduated from the University of Maryland and received a law degree from Hofstra.

His mother was a secretary at the anesthesiology department at the Hospital for Special Surgery in Manhattan. His father is a lawyer in private practice in Manhattan.
395 2012-12-16 The Knicks led by 6 points with 30 seconds left in the game. But Irving, wearing a black mask to protect a broken jaw, made a pair of 3-pointers and two free throws to trim the lead to a point with 10 seconds left. After Steve Novak made one of two free throws to give the Knicks a 2-point lead, the Cavaliers had a chance to win the game with a 3-pointer.

Jason Kidd said the Knicks would not have allowed Irving, who finished with a game-high 41 points, to take a game-winning shot. On the final possession, the ball ended up in Anderson Varejao’s hands, and he was fouled in the lane by J. R. Smith with one second remaining.

“We didn’t play our best game,” said Raymond Felton, who finished with a team-high 25 points. “I did not want this game to go into overtime.”

It almost did. Varejao made the first of two free throws but missed the second. Smith’s rebound sealed the win.

“We gave ourselves the chance to win, and we fought back and made a run to get back into the game,” Varejao said, referring to the 10-point lead the Knicks built early in the third quarter, their largest lead of the game.

The Knicks gathered at center court after the game, realizing how close they came to losing the game, even if they were playing without Anthony and Rasheed Wallace, who also missed the game with lingering foot injury.

“When one guy goes down, another guy has to step up,” Chandler said.

The Knicks might just be resting Anthony and Wallace ahead of Monday’s game against the Houston Rockets, which will be Jeremy Lin’s first game in New York since he left the Knicks in the off-season.

Nonetheless they needed someone to fill the void, and on Saturday it was Chris Copeland. An undrafted rookie, Copeland did not know he was starting until Coach Mike Woodson told him a few hours before the game. Copeland, 28, spent five years playing in Belgium, Germany and Spain before signing with the Knicks. But he admitted to feeling some nerves before the game. After all, he would be filling the spot of Anthony, who is averaging 27.9 points; Copeland was averaging 3.3 heading into Saturday.

Copeland contributed early, making all three of his first-quarter shots. He finished with 11 points in 19 minutes, and was one of five Knicks players to score in double digits.

“I’ve always been a scorer; that’s what I do,” Copeland said. “I’m not comparing myself to Melo or anything like that.”

Before the game, Copeland spoke to reporters as a pink Disney knapsack hung in his locker, a gift of sorts from his teammate Marcus Camby. As a rookie, Copeland is required to carry the bag, which he uses for socks and other personal items, to all games. It has four princesses on the back: two blondes, one brunette and one redhead.

“It’s silly, but I got to do it,” Copeland said, adding that filling in for Anthony was not as tough as carrying the bag.

Woodson said he did not know whether he would need to turn to Copeland again, or if Anthony would be available for Monday’s game against the Rockets.

“You know, it’s just kind of day to day,” Woodson said of Anthony. “He’s getting treatment, and we’ll see where he is come Monday.”

Anthony sprained his left ankle during the third quarter of Thursday’s victory over the Los Angeles Lakers, when he drove to the basket and landed awkwardly after being fouled by Dwight Howard. The play resulted in a sore ankle, knee and hip.

The Knicks are already without several players because of injuries, including Amar’e Stoudemire, Iman Shumpert and Camby. But Anthony has been the team’s soul this year. Saturday’s win was a reminder of this, as well as how much other players must be ready to help out.

“We’ve played short-handed before,” Novak said. “Guys have to step up but not do too much. And I think we did tonight.”
396 2012-12-16 Investors need only look to the current year as an example. The domestic economy has grown at an annual pace only slightly above 2 percent, subpar by historical standards. Overseas, the picture is worse: Japan is teetering on the brink of yet another recession, large parts of Europe’s economy are contracting and China’s pace of growth has slowed uncomfortably.

Yet against this bleak backdrop, United States stocks have returned 15 percent, on average, this year, while those in Europe have gained 18 percent and Asian stocks are up more than 12 percent.

“If, at the beginning of 2012, you got a preview of all the headlines for the coming year, would you have believed the markets would be up this much?” asks Pat Dorsey, president of Sanibel Captiva Investment Advisers.

Roger Aliaga-Díaz, senior economist at the Vanguard Group, says investors shouldn’t be surprised about the seeming disconnect between basic economic variables and stock market performance.

He and his colleagues at Vanguard recently studied equities’ returns going back to 1926, looking specifically at the predictive power of important variables.

Those include market price-to-earnings ratios, growth in gross domestic product and corporate profits, consensus forecasts for gross domestic product and earnings growth, past stock market returns, dividend yields, interest rates on 10-year Treasury securities, and government debt as a percentage of G.D.P.

Their conclusion was that none of these factors — which investors often cite when explaining their moves — come remotely close to forecasting accurately how stocks will perform in the coming year. “One-year forecasts of the market are practically meaningless,” Mr. Aliaga-Díaz says.

Even over a 10-year time horizon, considered by many investors to be long term, only P/E ratios had a meaningful predictive quality.

Since 1926, those ratios, based on 10 years of averaged earnings — a gauge popularized by the Yale economist Robert J. Shiller — explained roughly 43 percent of stocks’ performance over the following decade. Of course, “that means about 55 percent of the ups and downs in the market can’t be explained by valuations,” Mr. Aliaga-Díaz says.

What about economic fundamentals like G.D.P. and corporate earnings growth? Over the course of a decade, those factors had even less predictive power over future returns.

No, Mr. Aliaga-Díaz says. He notes that information about historical trends, like those for G.D.P. and earnings, is already widely known on Wall Street. That means these trends are priced into the market before stock prices start to move over the next year or decade.

As for earnings and economic growth projections, “those forecasts tend not to diverge too much from the consensus,” he says. “And consensus estimates for future growth are also already priced into the market.”

THAT may help explain why, despite all the storm clouds hanging over this economy, professional investors appear willing to look past the poor data. In fact, money managers say they are more bullish about domestic blue-chip stocks than about stocks in emerging markets or the rest of the developed world, according to a recent survey by Russell Investments.

John S. Osterweis, chairman and chief investment officer of Osterweis Capital Management, says that the economic head winds notwithstanding, several long-term trends could support a new leg to the bull market in domestic stocks.

Among them are a possible rebound in the housing sector, a potential revival of domestic manufacturing as wage growth accelerates in China, and the tail wind that could arise from the boom in domestic energy production.

Mr. Dorsey at Sanibel points to yet another possible tail wind. “Think about what uncertainty causes,” he said. “It causes low expectations. And when is typically a good time to buy an asset class? When expectations and valuations are low.”
397 2012-12-16 A new and long-awaited report from the Department of Energy has concluded that the government should quickly begin easing restrictions on the export of natural gas to take advantage of the vast new discoveries of a fuel that only a decade ago was in relatively short supply in this country.

Exporting natural gas is a controversial issue, with powerful forces on both sides. But we are persuaded by the report’s core finding that the benefits of selling gas to other countries would more than offset the modestly negative impact of higher prices for domestic users of the fuel.

The United States has traditionally maintained tight control over the export of natural gas, a fuel that it once imported, allowing it to be sold only in cases deemed to be in the “public interest.” But those restrictions have become anachronistic.

Production from shale gas fields has swelled American reserves and driven down prices by two-thirds since 2008. American natural gas is now among the cheapest fuels anywhere in the world and costs as little as one-fourth of what the fuel sells for in Europe and Asia.

There will be trade-offs to lifting the export restrictions. On the plus side, the report says that exports of gas in liquefied form could provide a $47 billion boost to the economy by 2020, including the construction of gas terminals. While the report dwells largely on economic issues, exports would also help to lower emissions linked to global climate change by giving countries like India, China, Japan and Germany access to a cleaner energy source than coal.

Greater gas exports could also factor into American foreign policy. By offering countries like India and China access to cheap American gas, Washington could make it more palatable for them to join in supporting sanctions against Iran, for instance. And it could give the United States new leverage in trade negotiations.
398 2012-12-16 But, he added, “as we move on from what happened here, what happened to so many people, let us not let it turn into something that defines us.”

On a day of anguish and mourning, other details emerged about how, but not why, the devastating attack had happened, turning a place where children were supposed to be safe into a national symbol of heartbreak and horror.

The Newtown school superintendent said the principal and the school psychologist had been shot as they tried to tackle the gunman in order to protect their students.

That was just one act of bravery during the maelstrom. There were others, said the superintendent, Janet Robinson. She said one teacher had helped children escape through a window. Another shoved students into a room with a kiln and held them there until the danger had passed.

It was not enough: First responders described a scene of carnage in the two classrooms where the children were killed, with no movement and no one left to save, everything perfectly still.

The gunman, identified as Adam Lanza, 20, had grown up in Newtown and had an uncle who had been a police officer in . The uncle, James M. Champion, issued a statement expressing “heartfelt sorrow,” adding that the family was struggling “to comprehend the tremendous loss we all share.”

A spokesman for the Connecticut State Police, Lt. J. Paul Vance, said investigators continued to press for information about Mr. Lanza, and had collected “some very good evidence.” He also said that the one survivor of the killings, a woman who was shot and wounded at the school, would be “instrumental” in piecing together what had happened.

But it was unclear why Mr. Lanza had gone on the attack. A law enforcement official said investigators had not found a suicide note or messages that spoke to the planning of such a deadly attack. And Ms. Robinson, the school superintendent, said they had found no connection between Mr. Lanza’s mother and the school, in contrast to accounts from authorities on Friday that said she had worked there.

Dr. Carver said it appeared that all of the children had been killed by a “long rifle” that Mr. Lanza was carrying; a .223 Bushmaster semiautomatic rifle was one of the several weapons police found in the school. The other guns were semiautomatic pistols, including a 10-millimeter Glock and a 9-millimeter Sig Sauer.

The bullets Mr. Lanza used were “designed in such a fashion the energy is deposited in the tissue so the bullet stays in,” resulting in deep damage, Dr. Carver said. As to how many bullets Mr. Lanza had fired, Dr. Carver said he did not have an exact count. “There were lots of them,” he said.

He said that parents had identified their children from photographs to spare them from seeing the gruesome results of the rampage. He said that 4 doctors and 10 technicians had done the autopsies and that he had personally performed seven, all on first-graders.

“This is probably the worst I have seen or the worst that I know of any of my colleagues having seen,” said Dr. Carver, who is 60 and has been Connecticut’s chief medical examiner since 1989.

He said that only Mr. Lanza and his first victim — his mother, Nancy Lanza — remained to be autopsied. He said he would do those post-mortems on Sunday.

Officials said the killing spree began early on Friday at the house where the Lanzas lived. There, Mr. Lanza shot his mother in the face, making her his first victim, the authorities said. Then, after taking three guns that belonged to her, they said, he climbed into her car for the short drive to the school.

Outfitted in combat gear, Mr. Lanza shot his way in, defeating a security system requiring visitors to be buzzed in. This contradicted earlier reports that he had been recognized and allowed to enter the one-story building. “He was not voluntarily let into the school at all,” Lieutenant Vance said. “He forced his way in.”

The lieutenant’s account was consistent with recordings of police dispatchers who answered call after call from adults at the school. “The front glass has been broken,” one dispatcher cautioned officers who were rushing there, repeating on the police radio what a 911 caller had said on the phone. “They are unsure why.”

The dispatchers kept up a running account of the drama at the school. “The individual I have on the phone indicates continuing to hear what he believes to be gunfire,” one dispatcher said.

Soon, another dispatcher reported that the “shooting appears to have stopped,” and the conversation on the official radios turned to making sure that help was available — enough help.

“What is the number of ambulances you will require?” a dispatcher asked.

The answer hinted at the unthinkable scope of the tragedy: “They are not giving us a number.”

Another radio transmission, apparently from someone at the school, underlined the desperation: “You might want to see if the surrounding towns can send E.M.S. personnel. We’re running out real quick, real fast.”

Inside the school, teachers and school staff members had scrambled to move children to safety as the massacre began. Maryann Jacob, a library clerk, said she initially herded students behind a bookcase against a wall “where they can’t be seen.” She said that spot had been chosen in practice drills for school lockdowns, but on Friday, she had to move the pupils to a storage room “because we discovered one of our doors didn’t lock.”

Ms. Jacob said the storage room had crayons and paper that they tore up for the children to color while they waited. “They were asking what was going on,” she said. “We said: ‘We don’t know. Our job is just to be quiet.’ ” But she said that she did know, because she had called the school office and learned that the school was under siege.

It was eerily silent in the school when police officers rushed in with their rifles drawn. There were the dead or dying in one section of the building, while elsewhere, those who had eluded the bullets were under orders from their teachers to remain quiet in their hiding places.

The officers discovered still more carnage: After gunning down the children and the school employees, the authorities said, Mr. Lanza had killed himself.

The principal, Dawn Hochsprung, 47, and the psychologist, Mary Sherlach, 56, were among the dead, as were the teachers Rachel D’Avino, 29; Anne Marie Murphy, 52; and Victoria Soto, 27. Lauren Rousseau, 30, had started as a full-time teacher in September after years of working as a substitute. “It was the best year of her life,” The News-Times quoted her mother, Teresa, a copy editor at the newspaper, as saying.

Ms. Soto reportedly shooed her first graders into closets and cabinets when she heard the first shots, and then, by some accounts, told the gunman the youngsters were in the gym. Her cousin, James Willsie, told ABC News that she had “put herself between the gunman and the kids.”

“She lost her life protecting those little ones,” he said.

School officials have said there are no immediate plans to reopen Sandy Hook Elementary. Staff members will gather at the high school on Monday to discuss what happened, and students will be assigned to attend other schools by Wednesday.

Dorothy Werden, 49, lives across the street from Christopher and Lynn McDonnell, who lost their daughter Grace, 7, in the rampage. Ms. Werden remembered seeing Grace get on a bus Friday, as she did every morning at 8:45. Shortly afterward, she received a call that there had been a lockdown at the school — something that happens periodically, she said, because there is a prison nearby. It was only when she saw police cars from out of town speed past her that she knew something was seriously wrong.

Like the rest of the nation, she said, local residents were struggling with a single question: Why?

“Why did he have to go to the elementary school and kill all of those defenseless children?” Ms. Werden asked.
399 2012-12-16 Afterward, in her government-owned Prius, Ms. Schmidt confided that she was worried. “What happens when this baby’s born and her mom tells her she’s doing something wrong? Elizabeth says she doesn’t want it to get physical, but that it can get physical. She’s very strong-willed. I’m going to ride it out.”

Her face showed her further concern: In a home with physical violence, little money or resources, with a nonsupportive father, what sort of life prospects would Ms. De la Rosa’s baby have?

“I know these girls because I come from the same background as they do,” Ms. Schmidt said, adding that of the young women she visited, Ms. De la Rosa had one of the more stable home situations. “There were a few times when I found myself on the streets,” Ms. Schmidt said — “no apartment, I was cut off of welfare, living from place to place. I lived out of my car for a while. With my son.

“So my story is very much these girls’ story. And it just takes one person, one person, to just say, ‘You are worth it. You’re not a terrible person for the mistakes and the things you’ve done in the past. You may have gone through whatever, but there’s a way out.’ ”

She did not need to say that for her clients, 15 at any time, she intended to be that one person.

Joanne Schmidt is a nurse for the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, in a program called the Nurse-Family Partnership, which matches specially trained nurses with low-income first-time mothers, starting during pregnancy; they meet at the mother’s home every week or two until the child’s second birthday. She is also a daughter of the soul singer Sam Moore, of Sam and Dave — a quick-eyed woman with freckles and a Rochester accent that adds a Midwestern flavor to mild oaths like “jeez Louise” or “shut the front door.”

Raised mostly by her maternal grandmother and aunt, she was not told until age 8 who her father was, or why she looked different from her German relatives.

After high school, she said, “that’s kind of when my life went — ” she made a screeching sound like a rocket veering out of control. “I didn’t realize I was following my mother.” For years she was by her description a “groupie” on the hip-hop scene; now she is a Christian, a PTA president, a mother to a 16-year-old and a partner with his father. And a nurse.

Her unit takes the hard cases: mothers in foster care, homeless shelters or Rikers Island.

The program, which was started in upstate New York in the 1970s and has been adopted in 42 states, is one of the rare public initiatives that have shown consistent and rigorously tested benefits for the mothers and children, as well as significant savings for taxpayers.

In different studies on different demographic groups, women in the program have had fewer premature deliveries, smoked less during pregnancy, spent less time on public assistance, waited longer to have subsequent children, had fewer arrests and convictions, and maintained longer contact with their baby’s fathers. Their children have had fewer language delays and reported less abuse and neglect, slightly higher I.Q. scores, fewer arrests and convictions by age 19, and less depression and anxiety.

A 2011 study of New York City’s Nurse-Family Partnership program, which currently has 91 nurses serving 1,940 families, projected that by the time a child in the program turns 12, the city, state and federal governments will have saved a combined $27,895, with additional savings thereafter — more than twice the program’s cost per child. The study was conducted by the Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation using data from the Nurse-Family Partnership’s research at three locations, then extrapolated to New York.

This fall, I attended a dozen home visits, all in the Bronx, with five nurses — three from the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, which contracts with the city to provide service in the Bronx, and two, including Ms. Schmidt, with the health department’s Targeted Citywide Initiative, which tackles the most at-risk cases. The nurses’ styles and backgrounds varied; the families’ needs and challenges even more so. Each mother participated voluntarily and at no cost.

The problems were many: violence on the street, abuse in the women’s past, illness, anger, obesity, insecure housing or financial circumstances. Most of the women had the poor luck to have been born in poverty. Like their middle-class counterparts, none came into the world knowing how to raise a baby.

At the Andrew Jackson Houses in the South Bronx, Rose Mendoza and her nurse, Susan Spadafora, were discussing Ms. Mendoza’s plans for the next week. She had a doctor’s appointment for her son, Mason, who is about 17 months old, and an appointment to get an assessment from her psychiatrist, so she could receive counseling for her longstanding temper problems. Previous attempts to get this assessment had failed, often ending with Ms. Mendoza in a tantrum.

“If she’s not there,” Ms. Mendoza said of the psychiatrist, “I’m going to be mean.”

“You don’t have to be mean,” Ms. Spadafora said. She commended Ms. Mendoza, 26, for her progress in controlling her temper since the baby’s birth.

“She’s always late,” Ms. Mendoza said. “And I get frustrated to have to wait.”

Patiently, Ms. Spadafora, 52, who works for the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, walked her client through steps they had discussed for dealing with unresponsive clinic staff members without blowing up. Several times, the nurse has gone along on appointments to demonstrate ways to ask questions and elicit better treatment. Part of her work, she said, lies in modeling good habits.

“Susan’s changed a lot for me,” said Ms. Mendoza, who dyes her hair flaming red and has a gold stud by the corner of her mouth. “A lot. Like how to deal with things, how to think before you speak. Don’t just blurt it out.”

Most of Ms. Mendoza’s friends had children as teenagers, but she did not become pregnant until she was 24, with her long-term boyfriend, David. They both left high school in their senior years.

Hers was not an easy pregnancy. Ms. Mendoza weighed as much as 380 pounds and had diabetes and dangerously high blood pressure. Early tests showed that she was pregnant with triplets. One died in the womb, then a second. The third fetus and Ms. Mendoza were both in danger of not surviving.

On a late-November morning, Mason stared alertly at the action around him and babbled. He ambled from one part of the apartment to another.

Ms. Mendoza’s goal is to move out. Two people have been killed in the building since Ms. Spadafora started visiting, including one man who was shot in the daytime; Ms. Mendoza heard him screaming on the sidewalk at the pain, waiting for an ambulance that arrived too late.

During two visits I attended, Ms. Mendoza was adamant that she was going to get her G.E.D., study to become a pastry chef, apply for housing, get an apartment with David — “he’s a great father,” she said — and begin a new life with her new family. But she has been making such plans since pregnancy, Ms. Spadafora said.

“She seems to put roadblocks in front of herself,” the nurse said. “She’s registered for six or seven G.E.D. review courses. Always the obstacles seem real, but she can exaggerate them. Success can be as scary as failure. There’ll be more expectations if she gets a degree.”

Like other nurses I talked to, Ms. Spadafora finds herself trying to counteract certain practices of the babies’ grandmothers — like putting cereal in a baby bottle, which can lead to overfeeding. “Everybody wants a fat baby,” Debra Rivera-Oquendo, who works for the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, told me.

Though childhood obesity is not high on the national Nurse-Family Partnership agenda, it is a major concern in New York and especially in the Mendoza household, where obesity and diabetes are rampant. At 295 pounds, Ms. Mendoza was greatly slimmed down but still no waif. Her mother, who is also obese and diabetic, pushed back against the nurse.

“We’re trying to make tiny breakthroughs with the baby,” Ms. Spadafora said. “I’ll ask, ‘What things did your mother do that might have contributed to your obesity?’ She knows what her mother did wrong, and doesn’t want to do that with the baby. Rose is doing better with the baby than with herself.”

The visiting nurse program, though, is not for everyone. It makes demands on both nurses and clients, not least the demand for data, which means constant reporting and paperwork.

More than half of the mothers drop out before their child turns 2 — some because they successfully move into work or school, but others because they lose interest. In the original trials, 60 percent of mothers finished the program, but the rate fell to 42 percent as the program expanded — another impetus for more data-gathering.

For Joanne Schmidt, whose team has a far lower graduation rate because of the mothers’ challenges going in, each patient who drops out becomes an unsolved mystery.

“I wonder what happens to some of them,” she said. “I wonder if they went to school. I wonder if they’re out of jail. I try hard not to take it personal. They have their own life to live, and I made it through on my own with no help. A lot of these girls are tough. They know how to use their resources.

“It sounds cold, but I have to remember that this is my role. I can’t save the world. If someone drops, you wrestle with that for a second, then it’s, ‘all right, got to pick up the next client.’ That’s part of being a nurse, knowing you’re going to have clients that die on you. You have babies that die, you have clients that die. It’s sad to see, but it’s part of why you do what you do, and part of the reason everyone can’t be a nurse.”

The Monday after Ms. Schmidt’s visit to Ms. De la Rosa, the baby had still not arrived. The nurse was hoping the birth would fall on her own birthday, Dec. 12. She needed some good news. One of her patients, a 5-month-old boy born a month early, was in the hospital with respiratory syncytial virus, or RSV, an illness that can be fatal to premature infants. Another patient, who was born two months prematurely, was sick and not receiving treatment.

The two families were lined up back-to-back on her Monday morning schedule, along with a mother and her 3-month-old son who were living at Inwood House, transitional housing for homeless youths who are pregnant or have children. The mother, Nicola Brown, 19, said she had been physically and emotionally abused as a child, and verbally abused by the baby’s father.

Ms. Brown was the day’s first appointment, and she had good news: in part thanks to Ms. Schmidt, she had finished her training to become a home health aide. This after getting her G.E.D. in August.

Ms. Schmidt beamed at her. “Do you feel proud of yourself?” she said. “You should.”

Ms. Brown said she wanted to work for a while, then go to nursing school. She was seeing a mental health clinician because of lingering effects of her past abuse, she said.

Ms. Schmidt was her second nurse in the program. She had not gotten along with the first, whom she described as loud and obnoxious. “Joanne has an upbeat personality, and it’s easy to trust her,” she said, adding that she did not easily trust people.

The meeting was the easiest part of Ms. Schmidt’s day. At the next appointment, in the Eastchester neighborhood, Natasha Pennant and her boyfriend, Aaron Pelzer, had a sick child, a new apartment, problems with Medicaid and stress from Ms. Pennant’s mother, who recently had shoulder surgery, and who relied on her daughter for help raising four foster children. Their daughter, Azalea, was born at 30 weeks, weighing one pound, 14 ounces.

“I feel everything is on me,” Ms. Pennant said. “With my mom and Azalea, and trying to find a steady job.” She was too busy with her mother to reapply for Medicaid, she said. Without the coverage, she did not have money to take her daughter to the pediatrician.

Ms. Schmidt asked how she was coping with the stress.

“Honestly, I’m going back to smoking,” Ms. Pennant said. Mr. Pelzer, who is trying to start a mobile app business, sat nervously by her side.

“When you smoke, where do you smoke?” Ms. Schmidt asked.

Ms. Pennant told a story about Ms. Schmidt’s visiting her in the hospital just after Azalea was born. For two days, Ms. Pennant was unable to go to her daughter in the neonatal intensive care unit because of a pounding headache, which the floor doctors were not treating. Ms. Schmidt pushed the nurses on the floor to have a doctor look into it. Finally, a doctor said that the pain was a side effect of spinal anesthesia and prescribed treatment. Ms. Pennant was able to see and hold her child.

“It was all because of Joanne,” she said.

Now Ms. Schmidt urged the couple to take Azalea to the pediatrician or the emergency room ASAP. “They cannot refuse to see you based on your inability to pay.” Because Azalea had been premature, Ms. Schmidt feared RSV, and was especially worried about delaying treatment. “I just went through this with someone, and the outcome is not going well,” she said.

The last visit of the day was the hardest: At Montefiore Medical Center’s Wakefield campus, a weary Stephanie Velez-Rivera, 23, lay with her son, Elisha, on her chest, trying to ease his weak cough. After eight days in the hospital and a week of illness before, he had lost half a pound and wasn’t eating or sleeping. The night before, he had rolled off his mother while she slept and onto the floor; in the morning, she said, the medical staff had interrogated her as if she had dropped her baby.

Now she worried that when her husband learned of the baby’s fall, he would be upset with her. During Ms. Schmidt’s last visit, Ms. Velez-Rivera’s husband had rejected a suggestion of couples counseling.

Ms. Schmidt did not criticize the husband. “His personality isn’t able to handle some of the things you can,” she said.

Ms. Velez-Rivera, who has sickle-cell anemia, said that she had been raised in an abusive home, “physically, emotionally, verbally,” and that she was determined to make a better home for Elisha; the boy’s needs, she said, came before hers or her husband’s.

Ms. Schmidt had no easy answers. The child was very sick, the marriage was fraught, the mother was pushed beyond exhaustion — and still it was not too early to discuss birth control, so Ms. Velez-Rivera would not become pregnant again right away. The nurse promised to bring information at their next visit, and to check back in a few days.

Ms. Schmidt’s birthday came and went without Ms. De la Rosa delivering her baby. Instead of celebrating, the nurse went to a holiday party for the mothers and babies in the program. She asked her clients not to mention her birthday, saying the party was for them, not her.

By week’s end everything was still up in the air. Ms. De la Rosa’s doctor said he would wait until Dec. 18 before inducing labor. Ms. Velez-Rivera was fighting to keep Elisha in the hospital, saying he was still not eating well enough to be safely discharged.

Ms. Schmidt put away her work cellphone for the weekend, then picked up a message anyway.

“All my girls have a lot going on,” she said. “That’s their everyday life. I know that they’ll be O.K., and that the decisions they make will become the road they have to take.”

She took a deep breath. “I have to hang up my cape at some point,” she said. “You let it go, then you pick it back up.”
400 2012-12-16 In a hubbub of bright color and clangorous geometry, Stuart Davis’s late-’50s masterpiece “Combination Concrete #2” tells you everything you need to know about the recent reopening of the Yale University Art Gallery. “NEW!” it bellows in big block letters. “GO SLOW.”

The painting, along with more than 1,000 other recent acquisitions and some 3,000 older items from the gallery’s permanent collection of 200,000 works, is newly installed in renovated digs that have almost doubled the size of the museum, stretching its exhibition space across three buildings and adding a rooftop aerie and outdoor sculpture terrace for temporary exhibitions.

“Go slow” is good advice, since the artworks now on view come from every corner of the globe and span thousands of years of civilization. Shimmering textiles from Indonesia, inlaid floors from ancient Rome and jewel-like miniature portraits from colonial America join the art world’s marquee names —

Monet, van Gogh and Picasso, among others — in reconstructed galleries strung along one and a half blocks of Chapel Street. Works from 11 curatorial departments, including new displays of photographs and coins, two period rooms, and art from Africa and Asia, are connected by airy spaces that reveal striking views of the Yale campus on one side and the streets of New Haven on the other.

The expansion and renovation, 14 years in the making, unites the 1953 museum building by Louis Kahn, the 1928 Old Yale Art Gallery and the 1866 Street Hall into a single treasure chest. The cost was $135 million; admission remains free.
401 2012-12-16 I would drive miles out of my way for a bowl of aush at Afghan Kabob Fusion, a place that is easy to miss in the allée of strip malls along Route 27 in central New Jersey. The version of the soup that I had there included lamb, noodles, vegetables, house-made yogurt sauce, cilantro, mint, chickpeas and kidney beans. It was a deeply flavorful antidote to the cold.

This halal restaurant — still under a marquee that bears the name of a previous tenant, Choopan Grill — is a solid and interesting addition to this corridor between Princeton and New Brunswick that is home to regional Indian, Pakistani, Thai and Vietnamese restaurants.

Inside, there’s a sense that someone has taken care with the setting while on a budget. The dining room holds a mix of tables and banquettes, with a large window that dominates the far wall looking into what seems to be a staging area for the kitchen. Though the prefab nature of the place comes through, the windows — with a view to the sidewalk, parking lot and highway — are softened by generous swaths of blue and white fabric.

The owner, Fawad Yousufzai, said in a conversation after my visits that he opened the restaurant in October, just before Hurricane Sandy, when it lost power for four or five days. His mother, Mazifa Yousufzai, who took him and four siblings from Afghanistan to Pakistan in 1985, then to the United States in 1989, is cooking the small menu. A cousin’s husband, Akbar Sherzad, is helping out; on my second visit, when we asked for help with a corkscrew, he pleasantly but firmly told us no alcohol was allowed.

Appetizers and main dishes are somewhat interchangeable, with several foods offered in both categories (most of the main dishes came with salad and rice). All also show culinary influences from the ancient Silk Road. A standout was the bolani, a hot fried turnover nearly the size of a flattened football, with a translucent, light brown, blistered pastry revealing one of two fillings: rings of scallions or creamy white mashed potatoes flavored with coriander seed and cilantro. Served with pale green yogurt-cilantro sauce, the dish juxtaposed crunchy and smooth, hot and cool. It was delicious.

Bonjon borani, available either as an appetizer or as a main dish, was its equal, a platter of hot fried eggplant slices beneath a house-made tomato-based sauce flavored with coriander seed, cloaked with yogurt and dotted with dried mint and cilantro. And making it a three-way tie was the Afghan salad, a sassy mix of mild red onions, tomato, cilantro and parsley (think of tabbouleh without the wheat), dressed with fresh lemon juice.
402 2012-12-16 “I feel like he’s bridging the gap between a therapist and a personal assistant,” said Isaac Burg, 15, a second-year student from Brooklyn at Bard High School Early College in Manhattan, who sees his tutor about 20 hours a week for help with everything from math to Chinese.

“The tutor is not just a tutor anymore,” said Dr. Sandi Ayaz, the executive director of the National Tutoring Association in Lakeland, Fla., which certifies tutors. “We’re certifying more and more academic coaches. They dig deeper with goal-setting, more critical thinking, with cultural awareness and the emotional intelligence of the student. They help the student look at careers and write essays. They’re dealing with the entire life of the student.”

Some tutoring agencies have psychologists on staff to help determine the best ways to help students. “The psychologist helps us to become more aware of each student’s learning style, teaches us how to motivate him or her to learn best, and instructs us how to most effectively apply our learning techniques and strategies under testing conditions,” said Phillip Ernst, the founder of Ernst Tutors in Manhattan, adding that about half the families he works with request an appointment with the psychologist.

According to Ms. Ayaz, tutoring is a $50 billion to $70 billion industry, with anywhere from 30 million to 50 million tutors worldwide. She estimates that the industry has more than doubled from a decade ago, attributing the boom to the rise of dual-income households, as well as increased pressure to get into a top-notch college.

Daniel C. Levine, 40, a Broadway actor, started Big Apple Tutoring as a side project in 1997, offering help with organic chemistry, physics and calculus. Today, he charges from $100 to $150 an hour.

In the beginning, “It was a mom calling and saying, ‘My sophomore needs help with chemistry,’ ‘My 7-year-old really needs help with reading,’ ” Mr. Levine said. Within a few years, however, he noticed that parents weren’t requesting tutoring in one area, but seeking someone who could oversee a range of subjects, in addition to SATs and college essay preparation.

That tutor became a constant in the student’s life, a trusted elder and guide, and “an integral part of the family,” said Suzanne Rheault, the founder and chief executive of Aristotle Circle in Manhattan. “They are part of any discussion with parents, teachers and students to help a student reach academic milestones and feel good about themselves in the process.”

Ms. Rheault believes any stigma associated with tutors has pretty much disappeared, since they are no longer just for the academically challenged but also for those who simply want “enrichment,” as she put it.

Hannah Speer, 19, who attended St. Andrews, a private school in Boca Raton, Fla., never hid the fact that she had a tutor, partly because “you were lucky if you had one,” she said, and partly because many of her friends shared the same one.

Some families use tutors as often as five days a week, saying it reduces stress while smoothing the educational trajectory of their children. “I stopped having to say: ‘Did you write that paper? Did you do your math homework? Why not?’ ” Melanie Barnes said. “It takes that piece out of it, and then mom can be like, ‘Oh, honey, you’re tired? I made cookies, have one.’ ”

Frances Evans, a retired registered nurse, also knows about this. Ms. Evans decided to home-school her 12-year-old-son, Elliott, who dances with the American Ballet Theater. But instead of doing it herself, she enlisted the help of Kevin Rosenberg, who works with Big Apple, because “I didn’t want that headache,” she said. Big Apple devised a curriculum for her son that was approved by the New York Department of Education’s home-school division. Mr. Rosenberg spends four to five days a week with Elliott, in addition to five other clients, one as young as 4.

“Kevin is very nurturing, hands on,” Ms. Evans said. “He directs Elliott. He keeps it structured. Kevin is part of the family. He’s like an uncle.”

Mr. Rosenberg, 32, said that he takes such responsibility seriously. In the two years since he has been tutoring, he has helped a 13-year-old student who came out as gay cope with severe bullying at school. He has also unofficially counseled two children whose parents were going through a vicious divorce.

The children, a 14-year-old who was his student, and his 8-year-old brother, “would absolutely talk to me about it all the time,” Mr. Rosenberg said. “I would be there every day for two or three hours, so you’re a part of their lives. If one parent were screaming at the other parent on the phone, we’d all hear it. My student might say, ‘God, this is awful.’ My parents got divorced when I was the same age, so there was a lot of sharing. I made sure he knew it wasn’t about him and not something he could control. It felt like a mentorship.”

The lines between trusted mentor and family member can be murky. Mr. Levine has received requests for tutors to travel with families. He also has two tutors who are on call to “manage the entire college career” of the scions of two high-profile families. “The students were very used to having a tutor and assistants throughout their entire life,” he said, “and the family was very nervous about sending the kid to college without help.” The tutors make sure the students are awake in the morning, help them with papers and update their parents on their academic progress.

Elan Naveh, the director of programs at Bespoke Education, which has offices in Los Angeles, Paris and New York, and charges from $150 to $295 an hour for tutoring, spent six weeks living with a family in the Hamptons last summer. But while his official job was to tutor an eighth-grade student in reading and SAT preparation a few hours a day, “I was also his driver and his chaperon in many instances,” said Mr. Naveh.

He did get to drive a Mercedes S500, and lived in a two-bedroom pool house, but the role was confusing. “I wasn’t really part of the family,” he said. “There was still that distinction between family members and friends and the hired help. But when the mom wanted to go out with her friends, I would hang out with the kids, I would take him to a movie, I would hang out with his friends. And then I would also work with him.”

Not every tutoring agency believes that it’s wise to give charges so much attention.

“You have to think about what this kid actually needs,” said Joshua Brown, the chief executive of Brownstone Tutors, whose services range from $200 to $400 an hour. “There are certain kids for whom that constant mentoring and presence is a great thing. But if you have a pretty competent kid who may not be getting all A’s but who is capable and doesn’t hate school, then you want to think twice before you pile up on tutoring.”

Mr. Brown believes a tutor who comes once or twice a week can be more effective than a live-in one, because it makes each session an event.

“Ultimately, the goal of all education is to prepare someone to be an adult and handle the world on their own,” Mr. Brown said. “You can help someone all you want, but if you create a dependence, then you’ve done the kid a disservice, because it’s going to be that much harder for them to navigate the world on their own. I see the job of a tutor is to make themselves unnecessary, like any therapist or helping person.”

Mr. Levine stresses that he runs a tutoring agency and “not a nanny agency.” But, he said: ”When a tutor e-mails mom and dad at 11:30 at night because the student’s mom called frantically, ‘I don’t remember if the report is due tomorrow,’ it’s a fine line. When a teacher calls the tutor rather than the parents because they know that’s the first line of communication, it’s a fine line. But this is what’s happening.”

For Katerina Barnes at N.Y.U., though, having Ms. Borbridge is only a benefit. “I’m just so much more comfortable knowing she’s there,” she said, adding that Ms. Borbridge was the first person who texted her after Hurricane Sandy. “Everyone should have someone like her in their life.”
403 2012-12-16 Even though living forever might be disastrous, this science is still worth pursuing. The key to the mystery is how the cells of the jellyfish “know” when to revert to stem cells and when to differentiate again. Learning that secret could lead to cures for cancer, heart disease, congenital defects and other diseases. Our bodies could be reprogrammed to fix faults and mistakes in aging. This does not realistically mean immortality in a romanticized way. But it does mean higher quality of life and extension of life for those who would otherwise fall victim to the whims of cell reproduction and genetic defects. KIMBERLY KOLB, Ph.D. candidate, Rochester Institute of Technology, posted on nytimes.com

In his tale of the Turritopsis, Nathaniel Rich makes a great deal out of the fact that this jellyfish retains its organism in perpetuity. According to him, the jellyfish is, consequently, “immortal.” But mortality or immortality does not depend on the vagaries of your organism. They depend exclusively on your sense of individuality, i.e., your “consciousness.” As Turritopsis hasn’t presumably got one, we (or itself) cannot really say whether it is mortal or immortal. We humans are in the same situation. We do not know, and cannot know, whether our sense of individuality is real or illusory. We die, and somebody else is born. If we wish, we can also consider ourselves “regenerated.” In other words, we are just as immortal as the Turritopsis. MAURO LUCENTINI, New York

As a marine biologist, I was impressed by how your article portrayed Shin Kubota, the scientist who studies the “immortal jellyfish.” From my understanding of Kubota’s lifestyle, you could have portrayed him as a “mad scientist.” But you didn’t. Although I would not consider myself nearly as dedicated to my own work as Kubota is to his, I felt that your article portrayed well what drives a biologist: sometimes the tedious daily tasks that consume your life are part of a bigger picture, a bigger goal, no matter how small a part you play in that goal or ideal. LAURIE C. HOFMANN, PH.D. Bremen Marine Ecology — Center for Research and Education, University of Bremen, Germany

We in the jellyfish community have been amazed at how this story has popped back up after several years. . . . The idea of reverting back to a stem cell and developing anew is not exactly what people think of in terms of being “immortal.” KEVIN RASKOFF, PH.D., Monterey Peninsula College, posted on phylogenomics.blogspot.com

While I marvel at the incredible flora and fauna of this tiny planetary speck, I’ll take my humanity, death included, over immortal-jellyfish-hood any day. RICHARD L. CRANK, Lawrence, Kan., posted on nytimes.com
404 2012-12-16 Last winter was the first time both of our children were old enough. So for our very first family ski trip we went to Hunter again, and I beamed as our 6-year-old floated effortlessly down the easy trails, and giggled as our 3-year-old attempted the bunny hill.

Late in the afternoon, with the kids in ski school, we opted for a black diamond run. Hunter isn’t a particularly big or difficult mountain, but it does have a few steep drops, and this was one of them. I paused at the top, overheard a few skiers nervously sizing up the trail, and remembered 12-year-old me. And then I took off, leaving the others behind.

It was a lovely run. Not too crowded. Not too icy. I decided to really open it up and go as fast as I could. Then, suddenly, I was going faster than I had intended. No big deal, I thought. I’ll just fall. But as I fell my ski caught onto something. The binding didn’t release. My body pivoted and my leg didn’t. My A.C.L. snapped in two. It would be six months before I could walk normally. Without a new A.C.L., I would never ski again.

And this was what made writing the thank-you letter so difficult: I did this to myself. I wasn’t born with a bad heart. I didn’t need a new spleen because of some horrible car accident. Instead, a combination of bad luck and hubris tore my knee in two.

Also, never being able to ski again isn’t quite like spending the rest of your life on a heart-lung machine. There are scenarios in which it could be good letter-writing material. If I were a college student on a skiing scholarship, for example, or an Olympic hopeful. Or really anything other than a 40-year-old mom out for a fun day on the mountain.

I dragged myself to a stationery store to pick out an appropriate card, but Thank You for the Cadaver Graft isn’t something Hallmark makes. Most cards seemed too bubbly. The blank cards all felt like they had double meanings: a card with flowers on the front looked like a condolence card, which felt inappropriate. Anything involving glitter was wrong. In the end I settled on one with a picture of the Brooklyn Bridge. I live in Brooklyn, and I liked the idea that the card would convey a little piece of me without over-sharing.

I went home with the card and carefully copied the words from the sample letter onto it. (I am writing to express my sympathy for your loss, it begins. Thank you for honoring your relative’s wishes or making a donor decision at an extremely difficult time, it ends.) I added my own story in between, stressing the part where I am now able to walk normally again, throwing in a bit about being able to run after my young children, and only mentioning skiing in passing.

I also checked a box allowing the donor family to contact me. I’m curious about the donor — the person who used to be attached to the tendon that is now in my body. But I also imagine that if I’d donated a relative’s body, I might want people to know something about that relative. I might want to share her story, so that she could live on in some small way. I hoped that learning that story was one thing I could do to begin to show my gratitude.

But it’s been four months since I sent the letter, and I haven’t heard back yet. Soon it will have been a year since my injury, and we’re heading back to Hunter for winter break. My son, now 7, is already talking about which runs he wants to try, and I’m looking forward to watching my family glide toward the lodge, red-faced and giddy with adrenaline. Next year, I should be able to join them. I’m told that, by then, I won’t even remember which knee is the injured one.

But I won’t forget the donor and that family’s gift — even if I didn’t say it in my letter, I’ll be thinking of them on the day I ski again.
405 2012-12-16 It was a rainy afternoon. Two 4-year-old girls played on the kitchen floor, coloring either end of a long accordion of paper. Glorious pastels and autumn tones materialized on the adjoining rectangles until they came together in the middle. The two girls held up their joint creation with glee. Until, that is, one mother arrived to pick up her daughter, who refused to budge without her half of the book. She asked for scissors, but her host, who happens to be my daughter, shook her head no and crawled under the kitchen table. One wailed for her half; the other wailed to keep the whole book.

My friend carried her sobbing daughter off as we tried not to laugh, or even attempt to mediate. After they left, my daughter still wouldn’t come out. And when I sat on the floor, she covered her face in shame. “That’s how wars start,” I told her. “One side wants to divide the land. Another wants all of it. No one can agree. So they start shooting.” My daughter burst into even louder sobs.

It was a slightly exaggerated claim. I felt bad as soon as I said it. But after more than a decade as a war correspondent, I’m pretty sure my words held some truth. I’m also pretty sure my daughter will have similar if not the same fights several more times before she sorts out the compromised beauty of compromise. (Both girls forgot about the book almost immediately.) And, as if to confirm this belief, two new children’s books about war, or really about the absurd birth and life of war, landed on my desk, Olivier Tallec’s “Waterloo & Trafalgar” and Michel Streich’s “Grumpy Little King.” What struck me from this side of the Atlantic is how much both books are shaped by the terrible history of European conflict in the authors’ countries of origin: Tallec is French and Streich German.

“Waterloo & Trafalgar” takes the names of two of the most famous French defeats in the Napoleonic wars and bestows them upon a pair of squat enemy soldiers in identically oversize tin helmets, squaring off behind their telescopes. Waterloo is robin’s-egg blue and has a Vichy mustache à la Claude Rains in “Casablanca.” Trafalgar is pumpkin-­colored and cleanshaven. They spy on each other through rain and snow and storms, battles and colds and boredom. Soldiering is, after all, quite tedious nonsense most of the time. Tallec draws eloquent, silent stories out of nature’s quotidian happenings. One day, along comes an orange snail that enlivens Trafalgar’s lonely space. Then off the snail goes. Trafalgar sheds a tear, mopes.

Meanwhile, on the other side of no man’s land, Waterloo roasts the little orange (enemy) snail, feasts upon his escargot in French fashion, bib et tout, then kicks the empty shell across the field and onto a snoozing Trafalgar, who awakens in horror. Outrage, shouting, guns are drawn. Tallec’s line drawings of the two with their tiny clenched fists and charging feet and wide furious mouths are irresistible to young children. And it’s not lost on them — the silliness of it all — as the pages unfold and Waterloo brushes his teeth, unfurls his sleeping mat and drifts off to dream.
406 2012-12-16 In life and fiction, technology obsolesces the moment we acquire it. In Stieg Larsson’s novel “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” Lisbeth Salander is a hacker. Her superpower is an ability to uncover anything about anyone using her Powerbook, a laptop produced by Apple from 1991 to 2006. When Larsson wrote the novel, Powerbooks were advanced. Today, they are relics. Larsson spends an inordinate amount of time detailing hardware specifications, but this information doesn’t have the desired effect. Our smartphones have more computing power than Salander’s Powerbook. The way to write about technology does not reside in exhaustive technical description.

But represent it we must. Our lives are mediated through technology. Our devices and gadgets hold an illimitable dominion over us. Technology has become so entwined with our lives there is a term, nomophobia, for the fear of losing or being separated from one’s phone. And then there are books, an enduring technology. Despite regular lamentations about its demise, the book perseveres. In “The Anxiety of Obsolescence,” Kathleen Fitzpatrick notes: “New media repeatedly threaten to take the place — or the audience — of old. But none of these media, according to the popular wisdom, is more threatened than the book.” We take an arrogant pleasure in the notion we might be the generation that renders so ancient a technology obsolete. “Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore,” by Robin Sloan, dexterously tackles the intersection between old technologies and new with a novel that is part love letter to books, part technological meditation, part thrilling adventure, part requiem.

Clay Jannon, an unemployed Web designer, takes a job working the graveyard shift at a 24-hour bookstore, owned by the strange Mr. Penumbra. The store is just as inscrutable, with two kinds of customers — random passers-by who stop in so rarely Clay wonders how the store is able to stay open and a furtive “community of people who orbit the store like strange moons. . . . They arrive with algorithmic regularity. They never browse. They come wide-awake, completely sober and vibrating with need.” These customers borrow from a mysterious set of books, which Clay has been warned not to read. He surrenders to his curiosity and discovers that the books are written in code. With the help of his roommate, a special effects artist; his best friend, a successful creator of “boob-simulation software”; and his romantic interest, Kat Potente, who works for Google in data visualization, our likable hero goes on a quest. He solves the Founder’s Puzzle, the origins of which are never clearly explained, using data visualization and distributed computing and stumbles upon an even bigger mystery: Mr. Penumbra has disappeared. Clay tracks him to New York, and in the city, the friends locate the Unbroken Spine, headquarters of a secret society.

They match wits with the Unbroken Spine as both groups try to decipher a text; the secret society using old, rigorous research methods, while Clay and his friends harness the power of current technology. In the end, both are right and wrong. Working together is the only way they will find a solution.

“Mr. Penumbra’s 24-Hour Bookstore” is eminently enjoyable, full of warmth and intelligence. Sloan balances a strong plot with philosophical questions about technology and books and the power both contain. The prose maintains an engaging pace as Clay, Mr. Penumbra and the quirky constellation of people around them try to determine what matters more — the solution to a problem or how that solution is achieved.
407 2012-12-16 WITH the holidays upon us, families are crisscrossing the country to visit one another. The likelihood of all this family togetherness devolving into discord is so great it’s become a Hollywood trope. Judith Martin, the arbiter of etiquette known as Miss Manners, dispenses words of advice on how to avoid such scenarios. Below are edited excerpts from a conversation with her on how to be a gracious host and a well-mannered house guest.

Q. What tips can you offer a host entertaining family?

A. Give a specific invitation, with dates. The problems come out of very well-intended but vague ideas, such as “Come for the holidays.” What holidays? “Shall I come at Thanksgiving and leave after Easter?” It’s much easier to tell someone when to leave when you’re being gracious and inviting them than it is after they’ve been in your house so long you’re ready to scream.

Then give people a good idea what to expect and what to pack. “We’re going to opening night at the opera.” “Well, that’s good to know; I’ll pack my tiara.” And give some idea of what’s feasible. Rather than say, “What would you like to do?” you say, “Would you like to go to the museum, or look around town?” You’re relieving stress on the guest’s part by setting limits.

Q. What should a house guest keep in mind?

A. Not to make yourself at home. It’s a very sweet idea from the host, but the guest who behaves as if he were at home, making free with other people’s possessions, is likely to be at home for the next holidays.

Fall into what the hosts are offering you, and be flexible. A grown child returning home or parents visiting their children’s home are still guests, even though particularly favored ones. The nightmare parent rearranges the household, and the nightmare child abdicates acting like either a guest or a member of the family who would have chores. Both should realize that the other has been living without you fairly comfortably for a while, and you’re supposed to go along with that.

Offer your help, though that can be tricky. When a host refuses it, you have to be able to sense whether the negative answer is sincere or not.
408 2012-12-17 A selection of chic cases that aptly balance form and function....
409 2012-12-17 If Ms. Bigelow leaves some of this to your imagination, it is because, I assume, she knows that the viewers for a movie like this one have been following the news for the past decade. They have read the articles, books and legal arguments about the C.I.A.’s use of what was called “enhanced interrogation” and that others have condemned as torture. Trusting the audience in this fashion is gutsy and all too rare in a movie released by a major studio. But it is an article of faith in “Zero Dark Thirty” that viewers are capable of filling in the blanks, managing narrative complexity and confronting their complicity. This is unusual territory for American moviegoers habituated to an industry that preaches simplified morality even as it turns torture into entertainment.

The scenes of Ammar in the C.I.A.’s medieval chamber of horrors are broken into two separate time frames and occur during the first 25 minutes. And while they take up 15 of the movie’s 156 minutes, they linger, casting a long, dreadful shadow over everything that comes after. The openings of movies are always significant (“Rosebud”), and the key to understanding this one is grasping what occurs during its introductory passages. The movie actually begins with a prelude: a brief stretch of black screen accompanied by a disturbing collage of voices from Sept. 11. The first of the two interrogations with Ammar follows immediately after, a juxtaposition that asserts a cause and effect relationship between the void of Sept. 11 voices and the lone man strung up in a cell.

The abuse scenes are crucial to “Zero Dark Thirty” because they serve as a claim — one made cinematically rather than with speeches — that these interrogation methods are unreliable when it comes to producing actionable information. The second session ends with the screaming, babbling, weeping Ammar insisting that he doesn’t know about a coming attack as he is sealed in the box. The final moment is shot from his point of view, and what follows is a scene of a terrorist attack in Saudi Arabia. This juxtaposition of the abuse and the massacre suggests, in cinematic terms, that torture does not save lives. It is only later, when Dan and Maya lie to Ammar, sit across from him at a table, talk to him like a human being and give him food and a cigarette, that he offers them a potential lead.

That valuable clue is a false name, Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti (Tushaar Mehra). Called a “needle in a haystack” by one character, he becomes the lead that Maya chases over the next eight years and for much of the next hour or so of the movie. Along with her colleagues, including the equally tough Jessica (an excellent Jennifer Ehle), Maya unearths good and bad intelligence, stumbles into dead ends, unearths glimmers of hope. and endures, both at a distance and in close, frightening proximity, further terrorist attacks. She also interrogates suspects, sometimes violently (a man slaps a suspect at her command), until the political climate abruptly changes. “You don’t,” Dan cautions her, “want to be the last one holding a dog collar when the oversight committee comes.”

The glibness of Dan’s comment is shocking, but one of the movie’s most radical, unpleasant themes — radical because it is so unpleasant, especially for an American fiction film — is that these are employees doing a job. In reality there were those who objected to the way that detainees were handled. But this isn’t a movie about those who protested. This is about those who did not protest, who went along and who — while searching for a needle in a haystack — interrogated detainees deemed “enemy combatants” in what the former Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld described as “a war like none other our nation has faced.” The movie shows the dark side of that war. It shows the unspeakable and lets us decide if the death of Bin Laden was worth the price we paid.

“The Obama administration has claimed that torture played no part in tracking down bin Laden,” Mark Bowden writes in his 2012 book “The Finish: The Killing of Osama bin Laden,” but “in the first two important steps down the trail, that claim crumbles.”

In his 2012 book, “Manhunt: The Ten-Year Search for Bin Laden from 9/11 to Abbottabad,” Peter L. Bergen asks, “Did coercive interrogations lead to Bin Laden?” Mr. Bergen reasons that “since we can’t run history backward, we will never know what conventional interrogation techniques alone might have elicited from” four important prisoners. However unprovable the effectiveness of these interrogations, they did take place. To omit them from “Zero Dark Thirty” would have been a reprehensible act of moral cowardice.

There is much else to say about the movie, which ends with the harrowing siege of Bin Laden’s hideaway by the Navy SEALs (played by, among others, Joel Edgerton and Chris Pratt), much of it shot to approximate the queasy, weirdly unreal green of night-vision goggles. Ms. Bigelow’s direction here is unexpectedly stunning, at once bold and intimate: she has a genius for infusing even large-scale action set pieces with the human element. One of the most significant images is of a pool of blood on a floor. It’s pitiful, really, and as the movie heads toward its emphatically nontriumphant finish, it is impossible not to realize with anguish that all that came before — the pain, the suffering and the compromised ideals — has led to this.

“Zero Dark Thirty” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Extreme violence.
410 2012-12-17 The Weinstein Company canceled the Los Angeles premiere of the Spaghetti western and instead will hold a private screening for industry insiders and the cast....
411 2012-12-17 Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman were found guilty on charges that they participated in a conspiracy that made more than $70 million illegally trading technology stocks....
412 2012-12-17 According to an updated privacy policy and terms of service, you could star in an advertisement without your knowledge, and the only way to opt out is by deleting your account....
413 2012-12-17 Even a strict and comprehensive ban on the sale of new guns would do nothing to diminish the (astonishingly large) existing supply....
414 2012-12-17 With the revised Oscars schedule, voting on nominations has begun, weeks earlier than usual....
415 2012-12-17 A large study of 968,432 initially healthy men and women has found that drinking coffee is associated with a reduced risk of death from oral cancers....
416 2012-12-17 A student in an M.B.A. class recently asked me what my five-year plan was. I wanted to answer that it was to try to make payroll next week....
417 2012-12-17 One campaign that gets the window regularly — the Heart Truth initiative for women’s heart health, known for its red dress symbol and sponsored by the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute — appears there because EHE has been supporting the campaign for many years.

The organization selected for the window in December — when foot traffic is multiplied as visitors come to see the Christmas tree at Rockefeller Center — is typically related to children and children’s health; they include the National Partnership for Immunization and Toys for Tots.

This month, the window has been turned over to the Arms Wide Open Childhood Cancer Foundation. The window carries entreaties like “Give the gift of hope” and “Pediatric cancer: Help us find a cure.”

EHE has had the window since the early 1990s, says Deborah McKeever, president of EHE, when the company moved to Rockefeller Center from an office at Madison Avenue and 50th Street.

The landlord “threw the window in with the lease,” she adds, adding that EHE recently renewed the lease for 25 years.

Initially, EHE “had our own messaging” in the window, Ms. McKeever says, related to the company’s status as “the largest physical exam provider in the nation.”

After a while came the realization that “we can talk about physical exams all day,” she adds, “and then what are you going to say?” From that came the idea of “giving a gift” of the window display space to organizations that “could otherwise not afford it,” Ms. McKeever says.

EHE works with a public relations agency in New York, Danielides Communications, on the applications from the organizations to use the window. The organizations can have professional assistance to decorate the window or take care of it themselves.

For instance, says Joan Shey, president at the Light of Life Foundation in Monroe Township, N.J., which had the window last month, she worked with Barb Salzman of the Hatch Creative Studio in New York.

The window for the Light of Life Foundation, which is devoted to helping those with thyroid cancer, brought to life its long-running public service campaign, which carries the theme “Check your neck.”

The window included a clock with the legend “Time to check your neck for thyroid cancer” and, in a Dali-esque touch, rows of mannequin heads with clock hands attached to the upper parts of their necks.

Ms. Shey started the foundation in 1997 when she was being treated for thyroid cancer.

“After two years of feeling alone and isolated, I woke up one night and said that if I save one person from this, I will have made a difference,” she says.

Ms. Shey says she appreciates having the window in November because of all the visitors drawn to Rockefeller Center by the Christmas tree, which was on display before being lighted on Nov. 28.

“There’s always a zillion people outside the window,” Ms. Shey says approvingly, describing EHE as “so generous to donate this incredible space, and I’m very grateful.”

The foundation also received a month in the window last year, Ms. Shey says, also in November. She says she believes the foundation was originally selected to take part in the effort to counter a “negative front-page article” in The New York Times in 2009 that questioned how beneficial screening tests for cancer really are.

The Arms Wide Open foundation learned about the existence of the window, says Dena Sherwood, president of the foundation based in Marlboro, N.J., through a board member, Courtenay Hall, who is familiar with EHE. Ms. Sherwood met with executives at Danielides Communications in March, she recalls, and found out last month that the foundation had been chosen to have the window in December.

“It was a blessing,” says Ms. Sherwood, who started the foundation in 2009 as her son, Billy Sherwood Jr., was being treated for neuroblastoma, a rare form of childhood cancer. “It really was a blessing.” (Billy Jr., now 5, completed his treatments in October 2011 and has “no evidence of disease,” she reports.)

And to have the window during the month that so many visitors come to see the Christmas tree “was even more amazing,” Ms. Sherwood says. “We are just so thankful to EHE for giving us the opportunity.”

The Arms Wide Open foundation worked on the window with Designojo in Brooklyn and its owner, Stephen Pannone, who is “a dad to a child who’s a childhood cancer survivor as well,” she adds. Stephen and I went there for the installation” on Dec. 4, Ms. Sherwood says, and “it worked out perfectly,” particularly because “our foundation launched a documentary three days after, on YouTube, called ‘The Truth 365,’ about childhood cancer awareness.”

“With awareness, the funding will come” to fight pediatric cancer, she adds. “The children have such strong spirits; all they want to do is live.”

Ms. Sherwood says she plans to visit the window again this month, bringing along Billy Jr. and her daughter, Sydney, 10, when she delivers Christmas trees to the inpatient pediatrics unit at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center as part of her work with the Ronald McDonald House.

If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. And read coverage anytime of advertising, marketing, television, print, movies and new media on the Media Decoder blog at mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com.
418 2012-12-17 Just as Marina Litvinenko's long campaign to secure a hearing for her dead husband seems to be nearing a climax, her funding has dried up....
419 2012-12-17 Chrysalis, part of the Havas Media division of Havas, won the 2012 Out of Home Media Plan of the Year Award from the Outdoor Advertising Association of America, for its work on a campaign for Hennessy Cognac that included bus shelters, digital billboards, kiosks and street murals.

Jaime Diskin joined the Milwaukee office of Cramer-Krasselt as vice president and creative director. He had most recently been creative director at AKQA, San Francisco, part of WPP.

Stephen Dove joined Medialets, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for product. He had most recently been chief digital officer at Prisa TV, a Spanish media company.

Paul George joined Porter Novelli, part of the Omnicom Group, effective on Jan. 1, as global director for health and leader of the health care practice of the agency’s New York office. He succeeds Susan Hayes, who left in the fall to join the Obama re-election campaign, the agency said. Mr. George had been senior vice president and partner at TogoRun, part of the Fleishman-Hillard unit of Omnicom.

Sandy Gingerich, senior partner at Eric Mower & Associates, was also named to lead the agency’s Buffalo office. She assumes those duties from Doug Bean, who had been partner in charge of the Buffalo office; he continues as chief operating officer at Mower and remains based in Buffalo. Ms. Gingerich will also continue to lead the New Moms Group unit at Mower.

Thomas Hartman joined Networked Insights, New York, in a new post, senior vice president for sales and marketing. He had most recently been senior vice president for corporate sales at Condé Nast Publications, New York, part of Advance Publications; his post was eliminated in July as part of a reorganization at the corporate sales area of Condé Nast.

Alana Horinko joined Zapwater Communications, Chicago, as a vice president. She had been a group manager at Weber Shandwick, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Jonathan Isaac joined the Barbarian Group, New York, part of the Cheil Americas unit of Cheil Worldwide, as head of strategy. He succeeds Chet Gulland, who left to join Droga5, New York, as head of digital strategy. Mr. Isaac had most recently been head of global planning at LBi, which is being acquired by the Publicis Groupe.

Allie Savarino Kline joined the Advertising.com Group unit of AOL as chief marketing officer, a new post in a reorganization. She had been chief marketing officer at 33Across. The hiring is separate from the recent departure of Jolie Hunt, who had been chief marketing officer at AOL.

Andrea Levy joined the Alliance for Audited Media, New York, formerly the Audit Bureau of Circulations, in a new post, director for advertiser/agency business. She had been interactive director at the Packet Media Group.

NBCUniversal, New York, part of Comcast, has made additional changes on the advertising side, the most recent in a series of shifts that are coming under Linda Yaccarino, president for advertising sales. The changes include an expansion of duties for Scott Schiller, who had been executive vice president for digital ad sales at the entertainment and digital networks and integrated media division. Mr. Schiller, who becomes executive vice president for digital ad sales at NBCUniversal, will now also oversee digital ad sales for units like bravotv.com, nbc.com, syfy.com and usa.com. Similarly, the duties of Krishan Bhatia, who had been executive vice president for digital strategy and operations at the division, are being expanded as he becomes executive vice president for digital strategy and operations at NBCUniversal. Also, John Shea, executive vice president and chief marketing officer for integrated media, will join the ad sales division of NBCUniversal, where Catherine Balsam-Schwaber will serve under him as she is promoted to senior vice president for the NBCUniversal integrated media group. Mr. Shea will report to Ms. Yaccarino and Lauren Zalaznick, chairwoman for the division. Other moves include the appointment of Barry Fischer, executive vice president for market strategy at NBCUniversal, as executive vice president for sales analytics, and the hiring of Mike Mayer as senior vice president for sales solutions.

Procter & Gamble, Cincinnati, consolidated its global public relations assignments for future Olympic sponsorships and other Olympic-related efforts at two agencies owned by the Omnicom Group, Ketchum and Marina Maher Communications. Billings were not disclosed. The agencies are forming a unit, MMK, that is devoted to the assignments, which will begin with the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.

Janet Rose joined DraftFCB, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, in a new post, senior vice president and group director for retail marketing strategic planning. She had most recently been vice president for strategy and planning at Saatchi & Saatchi X, part of the Saatchi & Saatchi unit of the Publicis Groupe.

Targeted Media, New York, part of the Time Inc. unit of Time Warner, was renamed Targeted Media Health to reflect its focus on pharmaceutical and health-related advertising.

Tiffany Coletti Titolo joined Translation in a new post, managing director, overseeing the agency’s operations in New York and Chicago. She had most recently been director for client services at StrawberryFrog, New York, part of APCO Worldwide.

Amy Jo Wayne joined Crown Media Family Networks, New York, part of the Crown Media Holdings unit of Hallmark Cards, as senior vice president for advertising sales. She succeeds Cindy Kelly, who joined Ion Television as senior vice president for strategic sales and solutions. Ms. Wayne had been senior vice president for advertising sales at the Adspace Digital Mall Network.

Matt Weiss joined Havas Worldwide, New York, part of Havas, as global chief marketing officer. He succeeds Naomi Troni, who recently became chief executive at the Havas Worldwide Southeast Asia division. Mr. Weiss had been chief of staff at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, and before that was chief growth officer at the McCann Worldgroup, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.

Wieden & Kennedy was named global agency of the year for 2012 by Adweek, part of Prometheus Global Media, for work for brands like Old Spice, ESPN, Heineken and Southern Comfort. Droga5 was named United States agency of the year and AKQA, owned by WPP, was named digital agency of the year.

WPP, which moved its headquarters to Dublin from London in 2008 for tax reasons, is returning to London after shareholders voted their approval for the creation of a new parent to be based in London.

YuMe, Redwood City, Calif., opened an office in Paris. The company earlier opened a European headquarters in London.
420 2012-12-17 A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors....
421 2012-12-17 Barge operators plan to blast treacherous rock formations so that traffic can proceed along the drought-plagued river....
422 2012-12-17 The Academy's shortlist of best song contenders includes the usual assortment of pop, rock and rap stars. Then there's Matthew McConaughey....
423 2012-12-17 Two lawyers who helped build the antitrust case against Microsoft in the 1990s are playing important roles in an antitrust investigation of Google. But this time, Gary L. Reback and Susan A. Creighton are on opposite sides, Steve Lohr reports on M...
424 2012-12-17 Sun Life Financial, Canada's third-largest life insurance company, announced a deal to sell its annuity and some life insurance businesses in the United States to a company whose owners include Guggenheim Partners....
425 2012-12-17 Best LinkedIn pages. Best Pinterest pages. Noteworthy Kickstarter projects. Start-up trends. And a rough week for bankers....
426 2012-12-17 The turnover comes at a time of intense focus and pressure for agencies like the Fish and Wildlife Service, which is being hit by both the 2009 Congressional act in retirement accounting and an agency-specific package this year that allows early retirements. Years of frozen budgets that started during the recession have already reduced staff and operations. The changes also come against a backdrop of sometimes heated discussion over the service’s shifting mission — how to protect wildlife as giant debates about climate change and energy exploration grip the Arctic.

The agency’s law enforcement arm, which deals with illegal animal harvests and the protection of endangered species, will have relatively few departures, officials said. But often, they said, real protection comes down to education and personal relationships in villages in remote areas — and those conversations, because of new leadership at the refuges, will change.

“This is not a good thing for us,” said David C. Raskin, a former president of the Friends of Alaska National Wildlife Refuges, a group that works with and supports the agency’s work. “We have contacts. We know who to call.”

In terms of pure head count, the numbers could look trivial. About 55 or so mostly senior managers, scientists and wildlife experts out of a work force of 600 at the Fish and Wildlife Service, spread across Alaska’s vast terrain, have indicated that they will take the retirement package. At the National Park Service, 36 of about 500 employees have said they plan to leave — though the number could change as people reconsider before the end of the year. The driving force pushing people out is that if they stay into next year, they will have to work a year or more to get the full retirement benefits under the new law.

If talks in Washington fail to avert the automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1 — the so-called fiscal cliff, or sequestration — the effect of the retirements would be compounded, Fish and Wildlife Service officials said, by the question of what positions could then be refilled at all.

“With sequestration, there’s an 8 percent reduction,” said Doug Alcorn, an assistant regional director who is among the retirees. “Managers would have to prioritize.”

But the impact is not just in the number of people who are going.

At the Fish and Wildlife Service, for example, retirees will take with them more than 1,000 years of cumulative institutional wisdom and conservation experience. At the United States Forest Service’s Recreation, Lands and Minerals Office, for example, four top leaders, including the senior minerals geologist, are departing.

And many of these people were shaped by a perspective formed in a very different time in Alaska and the nation — mostly the 1970s, when the environmental movement was young and bursting with muscular and sometimes hippie-tinged enthusiasm.

Alaska, back then, was a magnet for wildlife biologists and seekers of a life at the frontier. The bush was “back to the land” at its most extreme — a force fueled by what one retiring refuge supervisor, Mike Boylan, called “the John Denver effect.”

“Everybody coming out of college wanted to go to the woods, into the wild,” Mr. Boylan said. “Alaska was the big one, if you could get up here.”

Alaska is also different than the other areas affected by the federal retirement rule changes in that the federal role here is pervasive and overwhelming. About 226 million acres, almost the size of Texas and Wyoming combined, is federal property in Alaska.

“Alaska was almost written in my destiny,” said Bill Larned, 64, a biologist and pilot who started at the Fish and Wildlife Service in 1976 after working as a pack outfitter in Wyoming.

Environmental groups and agency officials also say the retirement wave is momentous in what happens next: new blood coming in at a time when some elements of the old Alaska — doughty homesteaders, trappers and subsistence hunters — are fading. And while environmental groups like the Sierra Club might have once focused on endangered species, climate change — hitting the Arctic with significant effect — is now the focus and the pressure point in dealing with federal land agencies.

“We’re making sure that we’re protecting the land and animals that are part of the Arctic,” said Lindsey Hajduk, an Arctic organizer at the Anchorage Sierra Club office. “But it’s in the larger context of climate change.”

Some critics of the federal government’s role in Alaska — a tension that dates back to territorial days — said they hoped new blood would be an improvement.

“The loss of knowledge is going to be hard,” said Doug Vincent-Lang, the acting director at the wildlife conservation division of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. But Mr. Vincent-Lang said he thought the Fish and Wildlife Service had “fallen away” from its traditional mission of wildlife counts, which were long part of Alaska’s culture of hunting. “Maybe they’ll come back to it,” he said.

Some retiring workers said that as technology has become more and more a tool of landscape study and protection, younger, more tech-savvy leadership might also be good for the wild lands.

“The younger people coming up have such a better handle on how new forms of technology can be used in conservation,” said Paul Liedberg, 59, the manager at Togiak National Wildlife Refuge in southwest Alaska, who plans to retire after 36 years. “I cannot even imagine it the way they can.”
427 2012-12-17 More than 700 members of the N.H.L. Players’ Association began voting Sunday on whether to give the union’s executive board the authority to file a disclaimer of interest, a move that would effectively dissolve the union and allow individual players to file antitrust suits against the N.H.L.

The electronic vote runs until Thursday, with a two-thirds majority needed to grant the 30-member board the authority to dissolve the union.

The N.H.L. responded to Friday’s announcement of the vote by filing suit in federal court in New York to confirm the legality of the lockout called by Commissioner Gary Bettman on Sept. 16. It also filed a charge with the National Labor Relations Board, alleging that the union’s vote “constitutes bad-faith bargaining.”

The maneuvers, which followed two days of failed negotiations in the presence of federal mediators, have fueled fears that the N.H.L. is less than a month away from canceling the season.

In last season’s N.B.A. lockout, a similar series of events preceded a settlement.

The basketball players union formally disbanded through a disclaimer of interest Nov. 14. Antitrust suits against the N.B.A. were filed within days, but on Nov. 26, the two sides reached a tentative deal, ending the lockout.
428 2012-12-17 “Let’s Gang Up on Killer Bugs,” by Carl F. Nathan (Op-Ed, Dec. 10), wisely urges new antibiotics discovery. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention affirms that “almost every type of bacteria has become stronger and less responsive to antibiotic treatment when it is really needed,” listing antibiotic resistance as one of its top concerns.

To address this threat, we need to put a stop to inappropriate, nonmedical antibiotic uses causing resistance.

One of the biggest and most surprising threats to antibiotics is the misuse of antibiotics in industrial livestock and poultry operations. Today, 80 percent of all the antibiotics sold in America are used in livestock, not humans. The vast majority of these drugs are fed routinely to animals that are not sick, spawning antibiotic-resistant “superbugs” that have jumped from feedlots to humans.

The Natural Resources Defense Council’s recent victories in federal court require the Food and Drug Administration to confront this root problem, but still the agency fails to take real action.

Antibiotics are not needed to produce livestock, but they are essential to modern medicine. Preserving the efficacy of antibiotics and protecting human health cannot be optional for the government.
429 2012-12-17 The Muller Quaker Dairy products are currently sold only between Boston and Washington, D.C., and in the Great Lakes region.

That has led some to worry about oversaturation, but Mr. Ulukaya said there is still plenty of room for growth. “Americans still eat far less yogurt than people in other parts of the world,” he said.

He said some retailers are even increasing the amount of refrigerated shelf space they allot to yogurt to accommodate all the new brands and varieties that are popping up.

Chobani plans to take advantage of that with more product lines manufactured in its new plant. The biggest breakthrough is the Chobani Champions Tube, just over two ounces of low-fat Chobani Greek yogurt with fruit purée packed into a tube that requires no spoon.

“Natural, with no preservatives, no coloring, nothing ugly in there, perfect for lunch bags, with Chobani’s thickness and creaminess,” Mr. Ulukaya said. “Moms are going to love it, and I’m afraid I’m going to be eating it that way all the time from now on.”

The new plant also will turn out the Chobani Bite, a small cup of yogurt, 100 calories or less, sold in a cluster of four and intended for snacking. “I’m going to keep the flavors of these a surprise,” Mr. Ulukaya said, but they “will have some kind of a bite to them.”

The third new product the plant will be responsible for is the Chobani Flip, a square package with one corner containing nuts, granola, dried fruits or other ingredients that can be added to the yogurt.

The plant will supply those products to the entire country and traditional six-ounce and larger containers to the West, while the New York plant will continue to supply the traditional products in the East.

“I can still remember packing the first 300 cases in the fall of 2007,” Mr. Ulukaya said. “It took us all night to do it because the filler didn’t work very well, just me and Kyle, who’s now the executive vice president of sales,” he said, referring to Kyle O’Brien. “It’s been an amazing journey.”
430 2012-12-17 ¶EHarmony, Santa Monica, Calif., returned its media planning and buying account to Ocean Media, Huntington Beach, Calif., which had handled the assignment from 2002 until it was shifted in early 2011 to OMD, part of the Omnicom Group. Billings were estimated at more than $55 million.

¶Unilever consolidated the worldwide creative account for its Persil detergent brand, which is also sold under the Omo brand name, with Lowe & Partners, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spending was estimated at more than $10 million. Lowe, which already creates campaigns in Asia, will add the creative duties in markets like Europe and Latin America, which had been handled by Bartle Bogle Hegarty, part of the Publicis Groupe. The London office of Lowe, called DLKW Lowe, will lead the work for European markets. Bartle Bogle Hegarty continues as the global lead creative agency on another Unilever detergent brand, Surf.

¶Snyder’s-Lance, Charlotte, N.C., named BFG Communications, Hilton Head, S.C., as digital agency of record for its Lance Sandwich Crackers brand. Billings were not disclosed. There had been no previous agency for the assignment.

¶Matt Williams, general manager at the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was promoted to chief executive, effective Feb. 1. Mr. Williams, who is 45, will assume those duties from John Adams, who continues as chairman. Mr. Adams had been chairman and chief executive since 1995, and Mr. Williams had been general manager since July 2011.

¶Bessie Lee, chief executive of the GroupM China unit of GroupM, part of WPP, was named to lead the WPP operations in China as chief executive at WPP China, a new post.
431 2012-12-18 Judge Lee L. Holzman did not fire an appointee who had taken unauthorized fees from the estates of people who had died without wills....
432 2012-12-18 Two dozen musical bands so far have agreed to march in President Obama's inaugural parade....
433 2012-12-18 With the slowdown in once-hot emerging markets, the tide is going out on foreign investing, baring all of the problems and issues associated with global deal-making....
434 2012-12-18 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
435 2012-12-18 So many Americans end up in prison for so long, and sometimes find little or no support after they are released.

A recent Times editorial called for measures that would reduce spending on prisons. A series of letters to the editor followed up with proposals for sentencing reform.

Now Room for Debate is asking: Given that most inmates will one day be released, how should incarceration change to prepare people to rejoin the outside world? How can a prison sentence change a person for the better?
436 2012-12-18 The convictions of Anthony Chiasson and Todd Newman in a lucrative insider trading case may well send a message to Matthew Martoma, the former SAC Capital portfolio manager, about the risks he runs if he fights recently filed charges....
437 2012-12-18 John Ridding, the current chief executive of the newspaper, will run the FT Group, a subsidiary of Pearson that includes the newspaper and half of The Economist magazine....
438 2012-12-18 The inaugural commissions will go to Thomas Bradshaw, Samuel D. Hunter, and Sharyn Rothstein; a fourth commission will be shared by Adam Bock and Justin Levine, who are developing a new musical....
439 2012-12-18 Laws on euthanasia and assisted suicide vary widely across Europe. With a new report out on Tuesday, France is set to become the latest state to consider allowing the terminally ill to decide when to end their lives....
440 2012-12-18 An original oil painting by Celia Giménez, depicting only a rustic scene and no holy figures or primates, has been sold on eBay for about $1,400....
441 2012-12-18 A Massachusetts chemist accused of faking test results on drug samples in criminal cases was indicted Monday by a grand jury on 17 counts of obstruction of justice, 8 counts of tampering with evidence, 1 count of perjury and 1 count of pretending to hold a college degree, said the state attorney general, Martha Coakley. The allegations of misconduct by Annie Dookhan, 35, led the state police to shut down a state lab in Boston used by police departments to test drugs in criminal cases. Since the lab was closed in August, judges have released about 200 defendants from prison and put their cases on hold while their lawyers challenge their convictions.
442 2012-12-18 Mary Griggs Burke, who amassed the most comprehensive private collection of Japanese art outside Japan with a meticulousness, deliberation and incisive eye that befit her subject, died on Dec. 8 at her home in Manhattan. She was 96.

Assembled over half a century and exhibited throughout the world, Mrs. Burke’s collection comprises about a thousand artifacts, including paintings, prints, sculpture, textiles, lacquerware, ceramics and calligraphy, collectively worth tens of millions of dollars.

It grew so vast that it had to be housed in its own apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, adjacent to hers, with its own curatorial staff. Students and scholars were encouraged to visit, and many did.

The collection spans five millenniums, from the art of early Japanese cultures around 3000 B.C. through that of the Edo period of the 17th to 19th centuries A.D.

Its highlights include ceramic vessels from the Neolithic Age; screens from the Momoyama period (which immediately preceded the Edo) and from the Edo itself, including “Women Contemplating Floating Fans,” a six-panel screen in russets and golds, painted in the early 17th century and rarely seen in public; bowls and other artifacts used in traditional tea ceremonies; and woodblock prints in the ukiyo-e, or “floating world,” tradition. (The collection also includes a sampling of Korean and Chinese works.)

In 2006, Mrs. Burke announced that on her death her collection would be divided between the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, with which she maintained a long association. The Met mounted an exhibition drawn from her collection in 1975 and a second, major exhibition in 2000.
443 2012-12-18 Unlike other states, where such services are often delivered by public schools, New York depends almost exclusively on private contractors to provide education for 3- to 5-year-olds with physical, learning, developmental and other disabilities. One factor in the rising costs is lax oversight, which has been exploited by contractors who cheat the system by hiring relatives for no-show jobs, paying themselves excessive salaries, or dishonestly billing the state for personal expenses like cars, vacations and home improvements.

In a series of audits since June, Mr. DiNapoli’s office has examined nearly $140 million in billings by preschool special education contractors, of which more than $13 million was disallowed. Cases involving six contractors have been referred to law enforcement agencies.

A spokesman for the Education Department, Dennis Tompkins, said the comptroller’s audit provided “some solid recommendations.” He said reform measures recently adopted by the Board of Regents, including a proposed ban on allowing new for-profit companies into the system, showed that it was moving in the right direction.

Mr. Tompkins said the Regents would also ask Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and the Legislature to provide more money to the comptroller’s office to continue auditing special education contractors.

“Our goal is to make sure that no special education funding is wasted or stolen,” Mr. Tompkins said. “Every dollar should go toward helping our children succeed.”

The new audit, however, takes aim at the Education Department itself.

It describes the department’s financial reimbursement system for contractors as cumbersome, time-consuming and all but incomprehensible. It says that rules change frequently and that too many procedures are handled manually.

Contractors frequently file their financial reports months late. Errors and overcharges that are noticed are disallowed, but no other penalties are imposed. The result, the audit says, is “not an effective means of deterring fraud and abuse.”

All told, the system leaves “substantial room for human error, as well as possible willful misrepresentation,” according to the audit.

The Education Department also fails to check on its 300 private contractors adequately, whether to identify potential problems early or to instill fear of getting caught, the audit says.

The department’s Office of Audit Services, with 17 employees, has not audited a contractor since 2007.

In addition its Special Education Quality Assurance unit, with 60 employees statewide who focus on the adequacy of services more than fiscal soundness, does nothing to ensure that all contractors are reviewed regularly. In four years, it reviewed only about one-third of them, the audit found.

The Education Department has been largely relying on the accountants who provide independent audits of preschool education contractors to guard against fraud by their clients.

But the department began only recently to refer suspect accountants to the State Office of Professions, the new audit says.

So far, the comptroller’s office said Monday, one independent auditor has been suspended and fined, and four others are under investigation.
444 2012-12-18 “We’re not here to have a discussion on whether legalizing marijuana was the right thing to do,” said Jack Finlaw, Mr. Hickenlooper’s chief legal counsel and a co-chairman of the task force. “Our job is to find ways of efficiently and effectively implementing it.”

Colorado’s Amendment 64 sets the stage for marijuana to be regulated much like alcohol. But the state will have a whole new set of variables to consider, like licensing retail facilities and determining what sort of security measures stores should have.

And Mr. Finlaw said he was not sure that alcohol could be used as a model for marijuana, given the inevitable differences in how it would be sold.

Aside from the regulatory challenges of moving from a black market to a legitimate one, there are also health issues to be considered. Dr. Chris Urbina, the executive director of Colorado’s Department of Public Health and Environment, raised the prospect that marijuana should be regulated differently depending on whether it is smoked or eaten.

“We expect this to be challenging,” said Mark Couch, a spokesman for Colorado’s Department of Revenue, which will be largely responsible for regulating the sale and use of marijuana.

“The department does have some experience with licensing and regulating products that have certain restrictions,” Mr. Couch said. “Obviously, that is complicated by the fact that federal law makes this product illegal.”

In an interview last week with Barbara Walters, President Obama assuaged the fears of marijuana proponents, saying the federal government would not pursue marijuana users in states where the drug is now legal.

But it was still unclear whether the Justice Department would permit stores in Colorado and Washington, which also legalized marijuana in November, to sell the drug, leaving it in a regulatory netherworld when it comes to federal law.

Barbara Brohl, the executive director of the state’s Department of Revenue and a co-chairwoman of the task force, said Colorado was consulting with officials in Washington State as it moved through its own process.

Christian Sederberg, a Denver lawyer who is on the task force and whose law firm helped draft Amendment 64, said he thought Colorado was well positioned to settle on new regulations, given that medical marijuana was already legal here.

Still, Mr. Sederberg said that medical marijuana rules were undergoing substantial revisions in Colorado and that there was clearly a need for distinct regulations for recreational use.

“I’m of the opinion that we have a very good base to work with on the policies Amendment 64 intended to push forward and how those policies fit in with regulations already in place,” he said.

The task force has until the end of February to make recommendations to Mr. Hickenlooper; the state attorney general, John W. Suthers; and the General Assembly. The regulations must be completed by July 1.
445 2012-12-18 The Federal Bureau of Investigation, which has more expertise in computer forensics than Connecticut’s state forensic laboratory, has been part of the effort to recover data from the computer, the official said.

A federal law enforcement official said the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives had determined that Mr. Lanza and his mother, Nancy Lanza, visited firing ranges together and separately in recent years, with one known occasion of their going together. It was not clear whether they had both fired weapons on that visit.

The White House offered no elaboration on Monday of the president’s thinking or the options he would consider; it tried to tamp down expectations of quick action.

In part, that reflected the complicated politics of gun control, as the president’s advisers weighed whether the horror of Newtown had changed the dynamics in Washington enough to make possible measures that were earlier deemed very unlikely to pass.

And in part, that reflected the reality that the president and his top aides are consumed with negotiating a potentially landmark budget bargain with Congressional Republicans to head off a fiscal crisis at the end of the year.

On Monday afternoon, Mr. Obama met with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and three cabinet officials — Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr.; Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services; and Arne Duncan, the education secretary — to “begin looking at ways the country can respond to the tragedy in Newtown,” an administration official said.

The official declined to give specifics on the state of the discussions other than to say “the work will continue.”

Several people familiar with the deliberations at the White House in recent days said the administration, for now, was pursuing a strategy of taking time to develop a holistic response that could potentially be announced all at once, an executive order and a legislative proposal, rather than rushing to put out an executive order alone.

The thinking behind that approach, they said, was that the actions the president could take by himself — ordering federal agencies like the Social Security Administration to provide information to the background check system when benefits recipients have been deemed mentally ill or when employees and job applicants fail drug tests — would have only a minor impact relative to things that Congress could do, and that issuing such an order by itself could reduce momentum for greater action.

“It’s a complex problem that will require a complex solution,” the president’s spokesman, Jay Carney, said in a news conference on Monday. “I don’t have a specific agenda to point you to today.”

On Capitol Hill, Democrats made it clear that they were ready to consider changes after years of pointedly avoiding fights over gun laws lest they face adverse political consequences in swing states and districts.

Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, who has the strong backing of the N.R.A., said Monday that there should be “stricter rules on the books” regarding guns, and he called the school shootings “a game changer.”

Representative Joe Donnelly of Indiana, who will join the Senate in January and has long advocated a strong pro-gun agenda, said in an e-mail on Monday that “all parties must come to the table” to ponder legislation.

Representative John A. Yarmuth, a moderate Democrat from Kentucky, said he had been “largely silent on the issue of gun violence over the past six years,” adding, “I am now as sorry for that as I am for what happened to the families who lost so much in this most recent, but sadly not isolated, tragedy.”

Senator Reid, who has long viewed control efforts as a political liability for his party, said, “In the coming days and weeks, we will engage in a meaningful conversation and thoughtful debate about how to change laws and culture that allow violence to grow.”

Democrats seemed to be hoping to seize on the momentum from the shooting, in which 20 first graders were killed, and the resulting outrage and despondency of millions of Americans, to gingerly build a coalition of lawmakers who might be able to create some form of compromise limits on gun sales or types.

The swift and decisive tone of lawmakers like Mr. Manchin, Mr. Reid and other gun rights supporters in Congress differed notably from reactions after other recent shootings.

Some lawmakers will introduce bills to reinstate a ban on assault weapons, and restrictions on high-capacity ammunition clips are expected to surface during the continuing lame duck session or, more likely, in the 113th Congress, which begins in January.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who has resisted some tighter gun laws, said on the Senate floor Monday that his committee would hold hearings next year “to help in the search for understanding and answers.”

Senator Dianne Feinstein of California has said she will introduce legislation that would reinstate a ban on the sale and possession of large clips of ammunition. Mr. Reid supports the efforts and has indicated to some Democrats he would seek floor time for her measure. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, said he would reintroduce his high-capacity magazine ban legislation in January.

Many Congressional Republicans would almost certainly balk at any effort to impose major new restrictions on gun sales and ownership. A spokesman for Senator Marco Rubio of Florida said Mr. Rubio “remains a strong supporter of the Second Amendment right to safely and responsibly bear arms, but he has also always been open to measures that would keep guns out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill.”

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, on Monday echoed Mr. Obama in praising the “self-sacrificing love” of those school staff members who tried to protect the attacked children. Mr. McConnell made no mention of the role of Congress.

Despite pressure to move quickly, the White House is gambling that it can wait awhile, possibly until the new year, and still have enough political momentum from the anger and grief over the shootings to overcome deep opposition to gun control. “It’s hard to imagine people in any near term somehow forgetting the rawness of what happened on Friday,” Mr. Carney said.

But others were not so sure. Other mass shootings have prompted waves of grief and resolve to take action, only to fade in relatively short order. Some advocates of gun control, like Joseph A. Califano Jr., a former adviser to President Lyndon B. Johnson and cabinet secretary under President Jimmy Carter, suggested that Mr. Obama had just a brief opportunity to press his case while public attention was focused on television images of children clutching teddy bears.
446 2012-12-18 “A lot of us fought and died for freedom of speech,” Mr. Vance said. “But it seems to me there are more respectful ways to express your political opinions. Whether you like the president or not, he is the commander in chief of the United States of America.”

In the view of some Tea Party advocates, the upside-down flag displays a palpable reflection of bitter disappointment and, perhaps even worse, a sense of irrelevance.

“We were in shock after the election,” said Dan McIntyre, the president of the DeKalb County Tea Party, insisting that many conservatives expected Mr. Obama to lose even here in his home state. “And now a lot of people have just given up hope. This was our last chance. Now Obamacare is here to stay. It’s over. There’s really no optimism that we can change the course of the country.”

For a Republican Party eager to avoid an extremist image, some political experts say, the upside-down flags are not welcome. “Things like upside-down flags and talk of secession are not helpful,” said Paul Green, a political science professor at Roosevelt University in Illinois. “The fringe — and both parties have a fringe — have a hard time understanding that politics is not religion. It’s about compromise. But these are true believers.”

Some Republicans politicians, like State Senator Dave Syverson of Illinois, defended the upside-down flags as displays that might “spark a discussion” about the “sense of frustration” among many voters.

“I don’t have a problem with it,” he said. “It’s not meant to deface the flag in any way.”

Mr. Harris, a divorced father of four daughters, a former soccer coach and referee, said he wanted to make it plain that he is “not some kind of wacko.” He believes that Mr. Obama was born in the United States. He does not believe that the president is secretly a Muslim. And he emphasized that his animus has nothing to do with race.

“I would have happily voted for Herman Cain,” he said, referring to the conservative black businessman who ran unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination.

Mr. Harris does not have cable television, so he does not watch Fox News. He works six days a week, so he cannot listen to Rush Limbaugh. He does not have the Internet, so he has no access to conservative blogs.

But he gets plenty of chances to argue about politics. He works on building sites alongside union iron workers.

“I tell them, ‘You should be on my side — we’re all working for the 47 percent who feel entitled,’ ” he said. “But they just smile at me.”

He said he planned to leave his upside-down flag hanging for the next four years. “In fact, I’m planning to get a bigger one,” he said.

But so far, it has not been the lightning rod he anticipated. The flag has elicited an exasperated shrug from his eldest daughter, Ashley, 25, he said, but not much else.

“She just kind of rolled her eyes and said, ‘Oh, Dad,’ ” he recalled over coffee on a rainy Sunday morning.

He added with a wince: “She voted for Obama.”
447 2012-12-18 Israel sees E1, only 4.6 square miles and largely rocky desert, as the stone in the arch that connects East Jerusalem, which Israel has annexed, to Maale Adumim, one of the biggest of the so-called settlement blocs, with a population of 40,000. Israel says it intends to keep Maale Adumim in any peace settlement, hoping to swap land with any future Palestinian state. In fact, it was Yitzhak Rabin of the Labor Party who in 1994 attached E1 to the municipality of Maale Adumim.

For the Palestinians, E1 is seen as essential if they are ever to achieve a viable independent state with East Jerusalem as their capital. Palestinians say they need the land to preserve a workable, practical connection between East Jerusalem and the West Bank, and to build housing for Palestinian refugees and their descendants. As important, the Palestinians contend, E1 is central to a crucial north-south route through the West Bank from Ramallah to Bethlehem.

Israeli officials argue that a system of protected roads and tunnels through E1 could allow Palestinians passage. Palestinians say that Israelis could instead use such roads to travel between Maale Adumim and Jerusalem, where many of the settlers work. Israeli officials also argue that the West Bank is not obstructed farther to the east, and that Palestinians can drive north-south closer to the Jordan River; Palestinians say that the Jordan Valley is too far out of their way and that Israel has said it will demand a security presence there in any case.

And of course the Palestinians, like the United States and most other nations, regard all Israeli settlements beyond the 1967 boundaries, including in East Jerusalem itself, as illegal or as “obstacles to peace.” They regard Israeli assertions of “consensus” on keeping three main settlement blocs in the West Bank as self-delusion. Washington, however, does accept the principle of land swaps to accommodate demographic changes on the ground, but always subject to final agreement between the parties.

E1 has been contentious for years, with Washington warning various Israeli governments not to start building there. But E1 burst back into the forefront recently after Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, won United Nations General Assembly approval to recognize Palestine as a nonmember observer state. Mr. Abbas pressed ahead despite warnings from the United States and Israel that such an action would be a unilateral step in violation of the 1993 Oslo Accords that set up the supposedly interim Palestinian Authority.

Mr. Abbas won handily in the General Assembly on Nov. 29, in a 138 to 9 vote. Even Germany, a strong Israeli ally, abstained. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel responded with a three-part riposte. He withheld taxes collected on behalf of the Palestinians to pay down their electricity debt to Israel. He announced final approval for the construction of 3,000 more housing units in East Jerusalem and existing settlement blocs — beyond the 1967 borders, but within current settlement lines. And finally, he accelerated planning for the construction of up to 3,400 housing units inside E1.

The decision set off a critical reaction, especially in Washington and Europe. Many countries called in Israeli ambassadors to complain. But there was confusion, too, with some critics presuming that construction would go ahead in E1.

Israeli officials explained later that any construction in E1, if it happened at all, was many years away, and that the move on E1 was “symbolism against symbolism” — a symbolic response to a symbolic recognition of statehood. But the new planning for E1 is also “a warning to the Palestinians that E1 is now in play if they do further outrageous acts,” one senior official said. “We don’t exclude the possibility that E1 moves from symbolism to something real — the prime minister has raised the stakes and put E1 back on the table.”

Mr. Netanyahu himself told the German newspaper Die Welt that “as far as our future action is concerned, it depends on the Palestinians.” He added: “In any case what we’ve advanced so far is only planning, and we will have to see. We shall act further based on what the Palestinians do. If they don’t act unilaterally, then we won’t have any purpose to do so either.”

But he has also argued that there is a political consensus in Israel that E1 should be used for more Israeli settlement, that previous governments agreed with him, and that the Labor Party, under Mr. Rabin, authorized E1.

E1 is also not the only contested plan. On Monday, a planning committee gave final approval to build 1,500 units in the East Jerusalem settlement neighborhood of Ramat Shlomo — the development that was announced as Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. visited Jerusalem in 2010.

For now, the only significant Israeli construction in E1, which is largely state land, is a regional police station. Built in 2008 high on a hill, it overlooks the village cemetery where Yusra al-Qaisi, believed to be 75, was buried last week.

Khaled al-Saidi, 33, was among the mourners. He is a Bedouin whose family has lived on this land, he said, for more than 80 years; more important, and unlike most of the Bedouins here, his family bought the land in the 1990s. Still, he has been told by the Israelis to move; the house of his brother, Ali, has already been destroyed, because it was supposedly in the path of a future security zone.

“Here I’m on the edge of the security zone and there I’m also in the way of your settlement,” he said. “Where do I go? I just want a place for my sheep to go.”

On the opposite hill, near the police station, the authorities of Maale Adumim set up a Hanukkah menorah, their efforts to light a candle defeated by the wind. But the mayor of the settlement, Benny Kashriel, said that he believes that after 18 years of delay and hesitation, the Israeli government might finally be ready to authorize construction in E1.
448 2012-12-18 President Obama should move swiftly to avoid a repeat of the unspeakable tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School.

Before the end of this year, he should appoint a national commission to review our country’s gun laws. The commission should be made up of experts from the fields of law enforcement, school safety, mental health, academia and sociology and include a representative from a respected hunting organization. In short, a group of people with no political agenda who can quickly review the available data and recommend a course of action for Congress to take by the spring of 2013.

The commission should study, among other things, the prospect of prohibiting interstate transportation of guns, requiring background criminal and psychiatric checks before gun purchases at gun shows, a ban once again on automatic weapons, and on high-capacity ammunition magazine — all of which could be approved by Congress and not violate the Supreme Court’s interpretation of the Second Amendment.

We formed a commission after 9/11, one of the last times our country’s conscience and faith were shaken. I urge the president not to let this incident pass without his strong action.
449 2012-12-18 Small ceramic indoor stoves, such as those sold by women in AIDS self-help groups in Africa, do save fuel and cut down on eye-irritating smoke, a new study has found — but they do not save children from pneumonia.

The study, published in The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, compared 168 households in rural Kenya that used either “upesi jiko” stoves or traditional three-stone indoor fires. The former — the name means “quick stove” in Swahili — has a locally made ceramic firebox that sells for $3. Clay and mud must be built up around it to insulate it and support the pot.

Since it uses less wood, it saves local forests. But it has no chimney, so the smoke stays indoors.

Biweekly visits by researchers found that children in both the stove and open-fire homes got pneumonia equally often. Pneumonia is a leading cause of death for infants in poor countries, and a 2008 study showed that the fine particles and toxic gases in cooking smoke inflame their lungs, doubling the pneumonia risk.

Two years ago, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton committed $50 million in American aid to help the Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves get 100 million efficient stoves into households by 2020. But experts are still divided over which stove to pursue; chimneys do not solve all the problems, and stoves with fans burn more cleanly but are expensive and fragile.
450 2012-12-18 Dr. Watson, known in academic circles as “the mistletoe guy,” had long suspected that his favorite plant was a keystone species, meaning it punches above its weight, ecologically speaking, but even he was unprepared for the results. He had supposed that creatures that fed or nested on mistletoe would be affected by its removal. Instead, he found that the whole woodland community in the mistletoe-free forests declined.

Three years after the mistletoe vanished, so had more than a third of the bird species, including those that fed on insects. Bird diversity is considered an indicator of overall diversity. Where mistletoe remained, bird species increased slightly. It was a similar story for some mammals and reptiles, but, in another surprise, particularly for those that fed on insects on the forest floor.

Analysis showed that species of mistletoe play an important role in moving nutrients around the forest food web. That has to do with their status as parasites.

Nonparasitic plants suck nutrients out of their own leaves before they let them fall, sending dry containers to the ground. But because the vampiric mistletoe draws water and nutrients from the tree stem or branch it attaches to, it is more nonchalant about leaving that nutrition in falling leaves. That means the fallen leaves still contain nutrients that feed creatures on the forest floor.

Not only that, but mistletoes make and drop leaves three or four times as rapidly as the trees they live off of, said Dr. Watson. As evergreens, they also do it throughout the year, even when trees are dormant. It is like a round-the-calendar mistletoe banquet.

While no similar mistletoe excision experiments have been performed in North America, where fossil pollen grains suggest the plants have lived for millions of years, scientists in the United States say they, too, have noticed its positive effect on forest life.

David Shaw, a forest health specialist at Oregon State University in Corvallis, pointed to the van-sized “witches’ brooms” formations in old-growth Douglas fir trees in the northwest United States produced by dwarf mistletoe parasites. At onetime, foresters would have pruned those away. Today, they are trying to protect the brooms because they are important nesting sites for the endangered northern spotted owl.

Dr. Watson said it was possible that introducing mistletoe into a damaged forest could help restore it to health.

But introducing mistletoe onto trees could prove controversial. While the parasites are like Robin Hood, stealing from rich trees to feed the forest poor, they can spoil individual trees for lumber. That is especially true of the deforming dwarf mistletoe. Mistletoe is still widely known as the “thief of trees.”

“We’re still in transition in the U.S. from looking at mistletoe as a big pest, a big parasite and damaging to trees,” said Robert Mathiasen, who teaches forest ecosystem health at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff.

Still, Dr. Watson’s findings add a touch of science to the folkloric view of mistletoe as a tantalizer, inducing people to wait under it for a kiss at Christmas. The custom stems from the ancient Druids, who believed mistletoe could work magic because it grew high in bare oak trees in midwinter where nothing else did, seemingly out of thin air. They cut it down with golden sickles, never letting it touch the ground, and hung it in homes to foster fertility.

The Australian study suggests that the plant does seem to work ecological magic of a sort.
451 2012-12-18 “We believe the planets are aligned for G.T.L.,” Mr. Louw said during a recent tour of the Oryx plant. “Other players — much bigger players — will follow.”

Perhaps. So far, however, the record for converting gas to liquids is spotty.

The newest and largest plant in operation, Royal Dutch Shell’s giant Pearl plant, also in Qatar, cost the leviathan sum of $19 billion, more than three times its original projected cost, and has been plagued with unexpected maintenance problems. BP and ConocoPhillips built and briefly operated demonstration plants in Alaska and Oklahoma, but stopped short of full development of the technology. Exxon Mobil and ConocoPhillips announced plans to build giant plants in Qatar, but backed out, putting their capital instead into terminals to export liquefied natural gas.

Today only a handful of gas-to-liquids plants operate commercially, in Malaysia, South Africa and Qatar. Together they produce only a bit more than 200,000 barrels of fuels and lubricants a day — equivalent to less than 1 percent of global diesel demand.

“The reason you see so few G.T.L. plants is the economics are challenged at best,” said William M. Colton, Exxon Mobil’s vice president of corporate strategic planning. “We do not see it being a relevant source of fuels over the next 20 years.”

Many analysts and industry insiders say the technology makes sense only when oil and gas supplies and prices are far out of balance, as they are today in Qatar and the United States. When oil and gas come into alignment, gas-to-liquids ventures will become white elephants, these skeptics say. Environmentalists also say that the huge energy inputs required to transform natural gas into diesel or other fuels negate any greenhouse gas benefits.

Until recently, the method used to convert natural gas or coal to liquid fuel — known as the Fischer-Tropsch process after the Germans who invented it — had been used only by pariah nations desperate for transportation fuels when they had little or no oil available. For decades, South Africa defended its system of apartheid from international oil embargoes by producing synthetic oil from its rich coal resources. Nazi Germany did the same to fuel its military machine in World War II.

But with North Africa and the Middle East chronically unstable and natural gas cheap and plentiful in the United States, some say the technology is now an enticing option to produce various fuels without importing a drop of oil.

Shell may soon announce a tentative site for a gas-to-liquids plant on the Gulf Coast of the United States. Given what the company learned from its Qatar plant, executives say it would reduce costs in any new one by using different types of valves and alloys.

But Ken Lawrence, Shell’s vice president for investor relations in North America, said the company was still two years away from a final decision on an American plant.

That leaves Sasol in the forefront of the gas-to-liquids effort.

Sasol is building a gas-to-liquids plant in Uzbekistan with the Malaysian oil company Petronas. It is working with Chevron to build another plant in Nigeria. The company says that a plan to build a plant in Canada has been shelved until after the Louisiana project, which could cost $11 billion to $14 billion, the largest single investment proposed in the state.

“It can be a game-changer,” David Constable, Sasol’s chief executive, said in an interview. He said the United States was a logical place for gas-to-liquids to take off because of the availability of cheap gas, the proximity of large markets and the availability of trained labor, modern industrial shops and friendly state governments along the Gulf Coast.

The American plant will build on knowledge the company acquired at the Oryx plant in Qatar.

The heart of the Oryx plant is a pair of 164-foot reactor towers that contain a patented system for transforming purified natural gas into so-called long-chain carbon compounds that can be refined into liquid fuels.

“Gas bubbles up through a cobalt slurry bed, and out comes the good stuff — the sellable products,” said Etienne Rademeyer, chief operations officer at the Oryx plant.

The process is challenging and complex. First a synthetic gas is made from pure oxygen and methane, the main component of natural gas, which is cleansed of sulfur, metals and other impurities, under intense pressure and heat. Then the synthetic gas is put in giant reactors that make a synthetic crude through the Fischer-Tropsch process. The process essentially forces heated synthetic gas to react with a catalyst, typically cobalt, to convert into a liquid hydrocarbon. Finally that liquid is refined into one fuel or another.

The process is far more complex than that at a typical refinery, so the plant is much more expensive to build and operate. Alfred Luaces, a refining specialist at the consultancy IHS, said a conventional oil refinery could be built for $50,000 per barrel of capacity, less than half of what Sasol says it is willing to spend on the proposed Louisiana plant.

The plant here is a maze of refining towers, reactors, evaporators, pipes and storage tanks. It employs about 120 workers from more than 30 countries to produce about 32,000 barrels of liquid fuel a day, less than a third of the amount it hopes to produce in Louisiana.

Rick Manner, a vice president at consultancy KBC Advanced Technologies who has contributed to gas-to-liquids studies for Sasol and other companies, estimated that the projects must keep capital costs at $100,000 for every barrel a day of production capacity to be worthwhile economically at current prices of about $100 a barrel for oil and $4 per thousand cubic feet for natural gas.

By that formula, Shell needed to cap costs at its plant in Qatar, which can make up to 140,000 barrels a day, at $14 billion. Instead, the project has cost at least $19 billion, which suggests that it will need a sustained crude price of about $125 a barrel, or lower natural gas prices, to be economic, Mr. Manner said. “There’s not a big future in it,” he said.

Shell executives said they could make money in Qatar, though they would not be more specific except to estimate that the Pearl plant, including its adjoining liquefied natural gas facility, can generate $4 billion in annual cash flow from operations at an oil price of $70 a barrel, which determines at what price the refined products can be sold. “It’s a good solid project,” said Marvin E. Odum, president of Shell Oil Company. “We’re very pleased with it.”

Mr. Louw, Sasol’s Qatar president, said that the Oryx plant was designed to be profitable with oil at $25 a barrel. That implies a very low long-term price for the natural gas feedstock. He would not specify what Sasol pays its Qatari partner for gas, but he said it was “not zero.”

Outside gas-rich Qatar, natural gas and diesel prices can be unpredictable, and if enough companies build gas-to-liquids plants or find other uses for natural gas, gas prices could rise with demand.

And environmental concerns exist. A 2008 Carnegie Mellon study estimated that plants in Qatar and Malaysia produced fuels that generated 20 to 25 percent more carbon emissions than conventional petroleum-based liquid fuels because the production process consumed so much energy.

“We’re not talking about an environmental solution to the carbon problem,” said Simon Mui, a scientist at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “G.T.L. will likely make the problem worse, unless the industry adopts effective safeguards on drilling and additional pollution controls on these refineries. Those are big ifs.”
452 2012-12-18 “It is very important to me, as a minority female, that Congressman Scott earned this seat,” Ms. Haley said. “He earned this seat for the person that he is. He earned this seat for the results he has shown.”

Mr. Scott, who served on the Charleston County Council for 13 years and in the South Carolina House for two years before he was elected to Congress, noted that he has a different background than many of his future Senate colleagues. Raised by a single mother, he described himself as a lost child who struggled with school and life until a Chick-fil-A franchise owner embraced him as a protégé and taught him conservative principles.

“I am very thankful to the good Lord and a strong mom who believed that sometimes love has to come at the end of the switch,” Mr. Scott said with a smile, pointing to his mother in the audience. “And she loved me a lot.”

His rise to the Senate represents another turn in the turbulent political history of South Carolina. Mr. Scott first earned his Republican credentials by serving as a campaign co-chairman in 1996 for Senator Strom Thurmond, a onetime segregationist, in his final campaign. In 2010, Mr. Scott defeated Mr. Thurmond’s son Paul in his bid for Congress.

Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, one of the Democratic Party’s senior black leaders, offered his congratulations to Mr. Scott while noting that they “don’t see eye-to-eye on most political issues and more often than not cancel out each other’s votes.”

“I believe he is the personification of South Carolina’s motto, ‘While I breathe, I hope,’ ” Mr. Clyburn said. “The historic nature of this appointment is not lost on me, and I am confident Tim Scott will represent South Carolina and the country honorably.”

Ms. Haley considered several contenders, aides said, including Jenny Sanford, the ex-wife of former Gov. Mark Sanford, who supported Ms. Haley in her own race two years ago. She also considered Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina.

In appointing Mr. Scott, the governor selected a lawmaker with a proven conservative voting record who holds very similar views to Mr. DeMint on policies involving taxes, guns and social issues. He has built some of the highest ratings from conservative groups that rank members of Congress and their votes.

Mr. DeMint announced on Dec. 6 that he would leave two years into his second Senate term to run the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group in Washington. He attended the announcement at the Statehouse in Columbia and praised Mr. Scott.

“I can walk away from the Senate knowing that someone is in this seat that is better than I am that will carry the voice of opportunity conservatism to the whole country in a way that I couldn’t do,” Mr. DeMint said.

The remarks from Mr. DeMint underscored his frustration at his inability to recruit staunchly conservative candidates for the Senate. His abrupt departure came at the end of an exasperating election cycle, in which several of his preferred candidates lost and Republicans failed to win control of the Senate.

An early look at the competing forces in the Republican Party is likely to come over the next two years in South Carolina, where Mr. Scott will be a statewide candidate for the first time and Senator Lindsey Graham, the senior senator, faces re-election. Ms. Haley, who has tangled with her fellow Republicans throughout her first term, is also planning to run again.

Republicans have far fewer women and members of minority groups in Congress than Democrats do, but in January they will be able to claim the only black member of the Senate, as well as two of the three Latino senators. Mr. Scott will be not only the first black senator in his state’s history, but also the first black senator from any Southern state since Blanche Bruce of Mississippi, who served from 1875 to 1881.

“This is a day,” Mr. Graham said, “that has been long in the making in South Carolina.”
453 2012-12-18 The changes in water-tank construction over the past 100 years, Mr. Hochhauser said, have amounted to little more than the introduction of power tools, and perhaps the movement to sell the cedar from the discarded old tanks (they last about 30 years) to hip furniture makers specializing in reclaimed wood.

Water tanks for buildings can also be made of steel, but they are less recognizable because they are mostly enclosed — imagine how hot a steel vat would get on a rooftop in August, or how quickly it might freeze on a January night.

“Wood does very well outside,” said Steven Silver, a president, and a third-generation Silver, at American Pipe and Tank, which entered the wooden tank market about 30 years ago. “That is where it’s designed to be.”

And incidentally, the wooden tank seems to offer a bit more romance than its metal cousin.

“You can’t imagine how many people are just so interested,” Scott Hochhauser, David’s brother, said of the emblematic towers.

“Some are interested in the history; a lot of artists like them for the beauty; and there are people who are into the mechanics of them,” he added. “But I don’t get too many people call up to say, ‘Hey, tell me about those steel tanks.’ ”

After graduating from Vanderbilt University, Mr. Rosenwach started training to join the family business in earnest. He spent a year tailing his father, Andrew, and is now working a two-year stint with a commercial real estate company, the kind of business that buys his family’s products, which also include cooling towers and furniture.

But of course, the subtle indoctrination into the family ways begins much earlier than formal training.

Scott Hochhauser said his two daughters, now in college and in high school, used to join him frequently in the office and on rooftops when they were younger. Mr. Silver of American Pipe and Tank recalls popping his elder son, Jason, into a stroller and zipping him over to job sites. His wife, Helen Silver, director of client relations at the company, laughs when she describes a picture of their younger son, Matthew, as a 3-year-old, standing in the center of a tank and brandishing a hammer.

When the brothers were asked if they planned to follow the family tradition, Matthew piped up.

“I think I might,” he said slowly. “But ——”

His mother quickly interrupted. “College comes first,” she said.

Among the three Hochhausers who run Isseks, there are five children, and while none have officially taken the baton, Scott and David Hochhauser say they are confident they will find a taker.

“As a college kid, water tanks aren’t sexy,” David Hochhauser said, at the company’s offices on Broome Street. Stacks of lumber are piled on the ground floor, and the high school portraits of each of the three owners, with gloriously feathered hair and adorned in 1970s polyester, hang on the second story.

“But as you get a little bit older, and you’ve worked for other people,” Mr. Hochhauser continued, “the concept of a small family-owned business, and the flexibility to maybe go to the doctor or the dentist at some point, that becomes a little more appealing.”

Besides, as the young Jason Silver said of the family tanks, they are “a landmark of Manhattan.”
454 2012-12-18 On Monday, the first day of stock trading after the completion of the auction, shares of KPN fell nearly 15 percent in Amsterdam, the steepest drop in more than a decade. Shares of Vodafone were down 1.7 percent by the close of the day in London. Shares of Deutsche Telekom, the parent company of T-Mobile, fell 0.3 percent in Frankfurt, and shares of Tele2 declined 1 percent in Stockholm.

“The money raised in the Dutch auction was a lot more than investors were expecting,” said Phil Kendall, an analyst at Strategy Analytics in Milton Keynes, England. “The concern now is that the sums will now be so great the technology will be unprofitable.”

Mr. Kendall said mobile operators were eager to obtain additional spectrum because extensive bandwidth had become increasingly critical to handle the explosion of mobile Internet data, which is testing the capacity of some carriers’ grids and causing overloading.

“Really, for many operators, the only way they will be able to differentiate themselves from other operators is by having enough spectrum to manage the demand on their services,” Mr. Kendall said. “That is why there is such intense interest in buying more frequency.”

More radio spectrum, or wireless network capacity, is crucial to delivering the high speeds advertised for LTE, which theoretically can produce download rates of up to 300 megabits per second on a wireless connection. Such speeds and the expanded capacity of the networks are considered essential to support the rapid expansion of the wireless Internet, as well as the increasing use of mobile grids for robotic communication between devices.

Speeds on the first generation of LTE networks activated in Germany, South Korea, Sweden and the United States have averaged much less, generally 10 to 25 megabits per second, in part because operators do not have enough spectrum to exploit the technology’s full potential.

The Dutch auction also raised the specter of another costly round of infrastructure fees on the cellphone industry similar to those in 1999 and 2000, when operators paid billions for the first European 3G mobile licenses.

Investors were concerned that the Dutch prices could set a precedent for auctions planned in Britain and perhaps Poland next year, as well as others that will be held across Europe over the next five years, as bandwidth is freed up and sold by national governments to wireless carriers. Germany, which held its latest spectrum auction in 2010, has indicated that it may hold another in 2016.

Those license sales in 1999 and 2000, engineered in most cases by governments to extract the maximum from mobile operators, led to large profit write-downs by operators including Vodafone and Telefónica, which owns the carrier O2.

With completion of the Dutch auction, the focus will now shift to Britain, where the sector’s regulator is planning to begin its spectrum auction in January.

All four British mobile network operators are expected to bid: Everything Everywhere, the venture of Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom; Vodafone; O2 U.K.; and 3, a unit of Hutchison Whampoa. The former landline monopoly BT has not ruled out a potential bid, which could further raise the stakes.

Matthew Howett, an analyst at Ovum, a research firm in London, said the British auction could raise £2 billion to £4 billion, or $3.2 billion to $6.5 billion.

“The £2 billion to £4 billion range that is widely touted is based on similar auctions elsewhere in Europe,” he said. “There is nothing to suggest that the U.K. should be any different. It’s possibly the most competitive market in Europe and all existing operators will want to make sure they walk away with spectrum to feed the almost insatiable appetite we in the U.K. now have for data.”
455 2012-12-19 Since 2008, the Camaro has been manufactured at a plant in Oshawa, Ontario, which is also home to General Motors Canada....
456 2012-12-19 The strike forced the cancellation on Wednesday of opening night of Berlioz's "Roméo et Juliette" with choreography by Sasha Waltz....
457 2012-12-19 House Democrats called on House Speaker John A. Boehner to bring a ban on high-capacity ammunition magazines to a vote by Saturday as a first step in a broader effort to reign in guns next year....
458 2012-12-19 Have you tried any services like these? If so, what worked for you?...
459 2012-12-19 Our live help line with a veteran college counselor will take place on Wednesday, at 8 p.m. Eastern time, on The New York Times's main Facebook page....
460 2012-12-19 The marketing of our beater to potentially naïve customers made me uneasy. Yet an upbeat ad actually served my interests, as well as those of the charity. A good price for the car would have increased our contribution to the Juvenile Diabetes Res...
461 2012-12-19 TimesCast: Winter descends on Aleppo as it slips into disaster. | Syrian refugees struggle to survive. | The Times’s C.J. Chivers follows fighters from the Free Syrian Army.
462 2012-12-19 Ahead of the EU-Russia summit on Thursday, activists are calling on European leaders to put muscle behind their criticism of Vladimir Putin's crackdowns on Russian freedoms....
463 2012-12-19 The United States blacklisted two senior leaders of the M23 movement, a Congolese rebel military force, accusing them of recruiting child soldiers and obstructing peaceful resolution of the chronic conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Under sanctions imposed by the Treasury Department, any property held by the two, Col. Baudoin Ngaruye and Col. Innocent Kaina, that is within jurisdiction of the United States government is frozen, and no Americans can conduct transactions with them. The Treasury’s action reflects increased international pressure on the M23 group and its leadership, which has been implicated in widespread rights abuses by investigators at the United Nations. And according to Reuters, the United Nations reported that the Lord’s Resistance Army, commanded by Joseph Kony, was responsible for more than 180 attacks and that rebels had committed some 126 rapes in an eastern town.
464 2012-12-19 Nicholas D. Kristof (“It’s a Smart, Smart, Smart World,” column, Dec. 13) cites the new book by James R. Flynn on the world’s rising I.Q. scores. Serious education scholars have long abandoned the I.Q. test as a measure of intelligence. Instead, Howard Gardner, the Harvard psychologist, has pre-empted the dialogue on intelligence.

For more than 28 years, we in education have been confronted with Dr. Gardner’s theory of multiple intelligences. He states that there are eight intelligences, of which I.Q. constitutes but two, language and math. Others include spatial (art) and music.

Jackson Pollock and Charlie Parker transformed art and music, but they may not have done especially well on the I.Q. test.

The writer is scholar emeritus at Old Dominion University and the co-author of “The End of School Reform.”
465 2012-12-19 Hundreds of millions of dollars in tax losses in these deals have been disallowed for Gramercy’s clients.

Sean F. O’Shea, a lawyer who represents Gramercy, called the tax cases against the firm “stale and meritless.” He added: “No court or regulator in over 10 years has found any merit whatsoever to any allegations raised against Gramercy in connection with these cases.”

Robert S. Koenigsberger, founder and chief investment officer of Gramercy Funds Management, was a principal at Gramercy Advisors, regulatory filings show. He declined to comment, but according to the firm’s Web site, he started Gramercy in 1998 and “led Gramercy’s efforts in conceiving, organizing and facilitating the successful restructuring of Argentina’s defaulted debt,” in 2010.

An article in The Financial Times that year said Gramercy was believed to be the largest investor in Argentine debt securities.

The Gramercy investments that created tax problems for its clients were known as Distressed Asset Debt deals or DADs. They involved the purchase of old and uncollected Brazilian consumer debt obligations belonging to several retailers. According to the I.R.S., the obligations were purchased by Gramercy clients at a price far in excess of their worth and at a value determined by Gramercy. When the debt was subsequently sold at market value — for pennies on the dollar — the clients using the investment strategy reported sizable tax losses.

The deals were made in the early 2000s. But after the I.R.S. ruled that the shelters did not have an economic purpose other than to generate a tax benefit, back taxes and penalties were levied. About 50 investors in the Gramercy Global Recovery Fund were affected.

Some of these clients have sued the firm. One complaint with fraud accusations was filed against Gramercy by two investors in New York State Supreme Court in September 2011.

Echoing the I.R.S.’s assessments, the investors contend that Gramercy’s investment strategy involved false valuations of worthless instruments; they also say the deals generated illegitimate profits to the firm. The judge heard arguments on a motion to dismiss the matter several weeks ago. She has not yet ruled.

The federal government also took action last year against Gramercy Advisors for failing to provide 1,300 pages of documents subpoenaed in a case related to dubious tax deals like those arranged by Gramercy.

“Gramercy was caught withholding relevant and responsive documents,” the government said in an April 2011 filing. “The transaction the United States is requesting documents for is not an ‘investment’ but an elaborate scheme to claim artificial tax losses for the sole purpose of avoiding large tax liabilities owed by its clients,” the government said.

J. Robert Young, Gramercy’s managing director for accounting, testified that the firm had “sold ‘tax solutions’ to multiple clients to generate approximately $700 million in false losses” for 2002 alone, the government’s filing noted.

Mr. O’Shea, the Gramercy lawyer, disputed the government’s statement. “Mr. Young has never given that testimony and Gramercy has never sold tax solutions, period,” he said.

A lawyer for the government overseeing that case said Gramercy had produced the documents it requested after a United States magistrate judge in Connecticut ordered it to do so.

Gramercy’s role in the Argentine dispute does not involve the kind of tax shelters that have drawn I.R.S. scrutiny. Instead, Gramercy is one of the firms holding debt that was exchanged in the post-default restructuring by Argentina. In 2005, some 91 percent of $82 billion in bonds were exchanged for new debt worth 25 percent to 29 percent of the original value.

But some investors did not agree to the restructuring. Known as the holdouts, they include thousands of Italian pensioners and two large hedge funds, Elliott Management and Aurelius Capital Management. The hedge funds have sued Argentina to try to secure payment of what they are owed.

Judge Griesa in New York federal court sided with the holdouts this year, ruling that the terms of Argentina’s debt require it to pay them when it pays interest on the restructured bonds.

Gramercy is leading the charge to overturn the judge’s ruling, which has been stayed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In court filings, Mr. Koenigsberger stated that his firm owned significant amounts of the nation’s restructured debt on behalf of clients like public pension funds, charitable organizations and foundations.

Investors holding the restructured debt have argued that they will be hurt if Argentina pays the holdouts.

Gramercy sent a letter last month to clients announcing the introduction of a new fund. It also said in the letter that its Distressed Opportunity Fund, which invested in troubled corporate and sovereign debt, generated a compound annual return of 14 percent for the three years ending last March. The fund is returning capital to clients, the letter said.

The Argentina debt imbroglio has rattled the market for the nation’s debt. And the uncertainty will continue for several months. Gramercy and others appealing Judge Griesa’s ruling must file their arguments with the court by Dec. 28. Oral arguments in the case are scheduled for Feb. 27.
466 2012-12-19 ATHENS (AP) — The Standard & Poor’s ratings agency upgraded Greece’s credit grade by six notches on Tuesday, lifting the country out of default but leaving its devalued bonds in junk status.

The agency said the upgrade to B-, the highest grade it has given Greece since June 2011, reflected its view that the other 16 European Union countries using the euro are determined to keep Greece in the currency union.

It also gave Greece a stable outlook, meaning it is less likely to change its rating again soon.

“The stable outlook balances our view of euro zone member states’ determination to support Greece’s euro zone membership and the Greek government’s commitment to a fiscal and structural adjustment against the economic and political challenges of doing so,” the agency said in a statement.

Greece’s finance minister welcomed the upgrade. “It’s a decision that creates a mood of optimism, but we are well aware that we still face a long uphill course ahead,” the minister, Yannis Stournaras, said. “We are not relaxing in our efforts.”

An upgrade was expected since S.& P. this month had temporarily lowered Greece’s rating to the bottom of its scale — “selective default” — because the country was buying back its own debt. The agency said that because the buyback had not forced any investors to sell their bonds back — which would have constituted a default — it was raising the rating back up.

The bond buyback was successfully completed last week, and will reduce the country’s debt by about $26 billion.
467 2012-12-19 On Sunday, a former education secretary, William J. Bennett, indicated on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that he would support such measures. “I’m not so sure I wouldn’t want one person in a school armed, ready for this kind of thing,” said Mr. Bennett, who served under President Ronald Reagan.

With national sentiment starting to move in favor of stricter gun laws, Gov. Rick Snyder of Michigan vetoed a bill on Tuesday that state lawmakers had passed just a day before the shootings in Newtown, allowing registered gun owners to carry concealed weapons in schools. But also on Tuesday, a legislator in South Carolina introduced a similar bill that would allow school employees to carry guns in schools.

The question of whether to place trained security guards with guns in schools is left up to local districts. These officers are charged with protecting students not just from intruders but also from each other. They often conduct classes in preventing gang violence or bullying, as well as handle more prosaic tasks like issuing traffic tickets.

According to the Council of the Great City Schools, cities including Albuquerque, Baltimore, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami and St. Louis have armed officers in schools, either contracting with local police forces or recruiting their own dedicated security staff. Other cities, including Boston and New York, place unarmed security officers in schools. Sandy Hook Elementary did not have a security guard on campus.

In Texas, the tiny, one-school Harrold Independent School District, about 150 miles northwest of Dallas, enacted a policy five years ago to allow teachers and administrators who have gun licenses and agree to additional training to carry concealed weapons in school.

After the mass shootings at Virginia Tech in 2007 and in an Amish community in Pennsylvania in 2006, David Thweatt, the Harrold superintendent, decided that since the school was too small to afford a security guard, its employees needed to be able to protect students on their own.

“I looked around for solutions, and the only solutions are to have some kind of defense,” Mr. Thweatt said. He added that having several staff members with concealed weapons was more effective than one security guard.

While supporters of gun control oppose allowing teachers or school administrators to carry guns, some are sympathetic to schools that want trained, armed security officers, given the recurrence of mass shootings. “Until we get a handle on that,” said Josh Horwitz, executive director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, “I certainly understand school districts” wanting armed officers.

In Richland County, S.C., which includes Columbia and surrounding suburbs, the sheriff’s office has placed what it calls school resource officers in every middle and high school in the county’s three school districts. Among the elementary schools, one officer covers two schools. All are armed.

“If they’re not armed, they’re no different than a janitor with a broom or a teacher with a piece of chalk,” said Leon Lott, sheriff of Richland County. “A bad guy is going to need to be confronted with someone who is on equal footing.”

Mr. Lott added that the presence of these officers, whose salaries are shared by the sheriff’s office and the school districts, was a deterrent to would-be violent offenders. “If someone drives by and sees a sheriff’s car on campus, they are going to keep going because they’ll think, ‘I’m not going to be able to do what I want to do. There’s going to be a cop there to stop me,’ ” he said.

Sharla Benson-Brown, an education consultant and mother of three children, one of whom attends a public middle school in Richland County, said she felt comfortable with an armed officer being at the school but was not sure he could prevent an episode like the tragedy at Sandy Hook. “With a school being so big, there’s only so many places he can be at one time,” she said.

Constrained school budgets are likely to prevent any mass hiring or arming of security officers. But even if districts could afford to hire more armed guards, education and safety experts say that might not be desirable, especially if it made schools feel more threatening to students.

Larry Johnson, executive director of school security for the Grand Rapids, Mich., district and president-elect of the National Association of School Safety and Law Enforcement Officials, said violence prevention should start with counseling and social work, not weapons. His office has the authority to arm school security officers but has decided against it.

“We think we should concentrate more on the heart than the hardware,” Mr. Johnson said.
468 2012-12-19 So Percussion, a Brooklyn ensemble, prepares its “Where (we) Live,” a work that includes mood cues from a prompter....
469 2012-12-19 A terrible writer and test-taker, Mr. Close used art to make it through school. Instead of handing in a paper, he told the children, “I made a 20-foot-long mural of the Lewis and Clark trail.”

Starting in Pace’s large central gallery, where his giant portraits of other artists like Philip Glass, Paul Simon and Laurie Anderson looked on, Mr. Close told the group that “everything about my work is driven by my learning disabilities.”

Born with prosopagnosia, a condition that prevents him from recognizing faces, Mr. Close explained that the only way he can remember a face is by breaking it down into small “bite-sized” pieces, like the tiny squares or circles of color that make up his paintings and prints.

“I figured out what I had left and I tried to make it work for me,” he said. “Limitations are important.”

With Mr. Close were a few other members of the President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, which helped develop the Turnaround program. One of them, Damian Woetzel, a former principal dancer with the New York City Ballet who is a mentor to two other Turnaround schools, picked up on his theme.

“In dance we limit ourselves, as well,” he said. “There are five positions and everything comes from that,” he added, quickly demonstrating the basic ballet poses.

Filling out the cultural spectrum were the Broadway producer Margo Lion, a chairwoman of the committee, and the musicians Cristina Pato, Shane Shanahan and Kojiro Umezaki, all members of the Silk Road Ensemble, an international collaboration founded by the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, who is also a committee member and a mentor. One by one, they entered from different doors, startling the students with an impromptu concert featuring a tambourine, a gaita (a Spanish bagpipe) and a Chinese flute.

Clapping and stamping in time to the music, Mr. Woetzel soon turned the gallery’s open space into a dance floor. A couple of students whipped out phones to record the proceedings, while others raced across the room to avoid getting pulled in as participants. One reluctant dancer, captured by Rachel Goslins, a filmmaker and the executive director of the president’s committee, rolled his eyes and mouthed “Oh my God” as she circled him around the floor. Other students joined hands and began dancing as Ms. Lion and the school principal, Tania Kelley, her head flung back, swung each other around.

Mr. Close swerved through the crowd in his wheelchair.

“I never danced before,” Carolyn Smith, 13, said excitedly when the music stopped. “Usually I sing.” Carolyn was the lead in the school’s production of “The Wiz” last year. A brain tumor had caused her to miss so much school that her literacy teacher initially wanted her to turn down the part and focus on catching up, Ms. Goslins said. But being in the play — and reading and memorizing the script — helped her reading skills so much, Ms. Goslins said, that the literacy coach later told her, “I’m a believer.”

The afternoon offered a series of firsts for many of the students. Most had never seen such instruments, heard of Mr. Simon or Mr. Glass, or even visited Manhattan.

“It’s pretty cool to be in New York,” said David Morales, 14, who later asked Mr. Close about his technique, explaining, “I like how he makes it, how it comes all together.”

David, like the other Roosevelt students, had studied Mr. Close’s work in class and met him when he visited the school last month. So Mr. Close patiently answered questions.

“Is it easy to make these pictures?” (Well, it can take a while, Mr. Close replied.)

“How do you know what colors to use?” (Trial and error.)

“There is no artist who enjoys what he does every day more than I do,” Mr. Close told the group, setting off applause from the students. Repeating advice he often gives to young artists, he said: “Inspiration is for amateurs. The rest of us just show up for work.”

When the bus arrived for the return trip, Ms. Pato and Mr. Shanahan again took up their instruments, this time to lead a parade of clapping students and teachers out the door.

Carolyn Smith, a pink rose in her hair, paused at the doorway and turned to Mr. Close. “I had a blast,” she called out. “Bye, Chuck. See you later.”
470 2012-12-19 The subpoenas went to, among other companies, Acxiom of Little Rock, Ark., one of the world’s largest information resellers, which manages customer databases for major banks, automakers and retailers; eBureau, a company in St. Cloud, Minn., which, on behalf of clients like credit card companies, lenders, insurers and educational institutions, evaluates and scores online consumers in the market for those companies’ products; Intelius, a company in Bellevue, Wash., which offers people-search look-up services and background checks; and Peek-You, a company that analyzes social media sentiment.

“We are going to get a huge amount of data,” David C. Vladeck, the director of the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the F.T.C., said in a phone interview on Tuesday. “We are going to get answers.”

In an e-mail, Jennifer Barrett Glasgow, the chief privacy officer of Acxiom, said the company had not yet received the F.T.C.’s letter, but was looking forward to cooperating with the inquiry. “We consider this request as an avenue to promote a better understanding of why what we do is vital for the American economy as it creates enormous value for people and businesses while respecting and protecting consumers’ interests,” she wrote.

Gordon Meyer, the chief executive of eBureau, wrote in an e-mail that the consumer scoring company “welcomes the opportunity to describe, to the F.T.C., its practices and the benefits we provide to businesses as well as consumers.”

Representatives of other companies did not return e-mails seeking comment.

Companies and organizations in the United States spend more than $2 billion a year on third-party data about individuals, according to a report last year on personal identity management from Forrester Research, a market research firm. That figure does not include spending on market research and customer data analytics, the report said.

Industry representatives argue that their practices benefit consumers. Data brokers, they say, collect information about individuals’ purchasing histories, estimated salaries, property ownership, family size, leisure pursuits — and sometimes also their race or ethnicity, age, gender, health concerns, online browsing history and social networks — to help marketers tailor pitches to a person’s demonstrated tastes. When these bespoke ad systems work properly, the companies argue, marketers can identify male Southern Californians who surf and show them ads for board shorts even as they avoid sending coupons for ski vacations to people who prefer Alaskan cruises.

But, as consumers conduct more of their personal and commercial lives online, that type of data collection has been steadily increasing, fueled by new online surveillance techniques and more sophisticated analytics. Some companies, for example, have compiled several thousand different pieces of information on a majority of adults in the United States. Regulators say they are concerned that such comprehensive data collection could be used to profile, score or segment consumers, with the potential to unfairly limit the kinds of financial, insurance, health, education or other marketing offers certain consumers receive.

Mr. Vladeck of the F.T.C. offered one possibility he worried about: a hypothetical consumer who buys a deep-fat fryer online may get typecast by data broker systems as a health risk, and then is passed over for marketing pitches for insurance or other services.

“Data brokers aggregate huge amounts of data on individuals and have the capacity to create powerful profiles combining information about what you do offline and online,” Mr. Vladeck said. “We worry that this information may be used in ways that could be harmful to consumers.”

Industry representatives disagreed, saying that their ethics guidelines prohibited companies from using consumer marketing data for eligibility decisions like credit, insurance or employment. Targeted marketing pitches based on data collection about an individual, they added, do not limit a consumer from seeking out financial, insurance or other services on their own.

“It changes what comes to you, what you will see in a banner ad or an ad along the side of your Web searches,” said Jerry Cerasale, senior vice president for government affairs at the Direct Marketing Association, an industry trade group. “But it doesn’t create a barrier for you to look elsewhere.”

In March, the F.T.C. issued a report on consumer privacy, calling on data brokers to make their practices clearer to the public. Some legislators and regulators say they are taking a harder look at the industry because of practices that are opaque to consumers.

Unlike consumer reporting agencies, for example, which are required by federal law to show consumers their credit reports and allow them to correct errors in their own records, data brokers who collect and sell consumer information for marketing purposes are not required to give individuals access to the records those companies hold about them. In a report earlier this year, the F.T.C. asked Congress to consider enacting regulations to give consumers some rights to data collected about them.

Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who opened an examination of the industry in July, along with Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, said the investigations would help legislators and regulators develop a system of oversight, giving consumers more access to and control over data collected about them.

“Consumers should have the right to know what is being collected about them, notice that the information is going to be used for purposes other than originally intended, and the right to say no,” he said. “ ‘Knowledge, notice and no,’ that has always been my motto.”
471 2012-12-19 The Obama administration has begun an initiative with nine communities, most of them big cities, to seek out those between 18 and 24 who are without a consistent home address. New York, , , Cleveland and are among the cities included in the effort.

“One of our first approaches is getting a more confident estimate,” said Ms. Poppe, whose agency is coordinating the initiative.

Those who provide services to the poor in many cities say the economic recovery has not relieved the problem. “Years ago, you didn’t see what looked like people of college age sitting and waiting to talk to a crisis worker because they are homeless on the street,” said Andrae Bailey, the executive director of the Community Food and Outreach Center, one of the largest charitable organizations in . “Now that’s a normal thing.”

Los Angeles first attempted a count of young adults living on the street in 2011. It found 3,600, but the city had shelter capacity for only percent of them.

“The rest are left to their own devices,” said Michael Arnold, the executive director of the Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority. “And when you start adding in those who are couch surfing and staying with friends, that number increases exponentially.”

Boston also attempted counts in 2010 and 2011. The homeless young adult population seeking shelter grew 3 percentage points to 12 percent of the 6,000 homeless people served over that period.

“It’s a significant enough jump to know that it’s also just the tip of the iceberg,” said Jim Greene, director of emergency shelters for the Boston Public Health Commission.

In Washington, Lance Fuller, a 26-year-old with a degree in journalism, spent the end of last month packing up a two-bedroom apartment he can no longer afford after being laid off. Mr. Fuller said he had been unable to keep a job for more than eight months since graduating from the in 2010.

“Thankfully, I have a girlfriend who is willing to let me stay with her until I get back on my feet again,” said Mr. Fuller, who writes a blog, Voices of a Lost Generation. “It’s really hard for people in my generation not to feel completely defeated by this economy.”

Mr. Taylor, the fast-food worker in Seattle, said he felt lucky when he could find a coveted space at Roots, a shelter for young adults in a church basement. Such shelters are rare.

For generations, services for the homeless were directed to two groups: dependent children and older people. There was scant attention focused on what experts now call “transitional age youth” — young adults whose needs are distinct.

“I see them coming back day after day, more defeated, more tired out, wondering, ‘When will it be my turn?’ ” said Kristine Cunningham, executive director of Roots. “And it’s heartbreaking. This is the age when you want to show the world you have value.”

They need more than just clean clothes and shelter to move into a secure adulthood, experts say. “They want a way out,” said Ms. Poppe, whose agency is also gathering evidence on what kinds of programs and outreach work best. “They want an opportunity to develop skills so they are marketable in the long term.”

“A more individualized approach seems to work,” she added.

But two obstacles stand in the way: young adults, eager for independence, are reluctant to admit that they need help and housing. And shelters designed with young adults in mind — those with career and trauma counseling, and education and training programs — are usually small.

Roots holds only 35 people, and a nightly lottery decides who gets a spot, which includes meals, laundry services and counseling. It is expanding to 45 beds.

Anna Wiley, 20, and her boyfriend, Bobby Jollineau, 24, spent several nights at Roots two weeks ago, but were unable to get in one night in November. “We ended up sleeping outside,” Mr. Jollineau said. “I have a sleeping pad and a really warm sleeping bag. There’s a couple of nooks and crannies that are safe around here, but you have to be careful. It can make for a rough night.”

Asked whether she could go to her parents’ home, Ms. Wiley said that her father is unemployed and that her mother works in a deli, making about as little as she does.

“I don’t like relying on other people too much, anyway,” she said.

Across town, Roman Tano, 20, woke up recently at YouthCare’s James W. Ray Orion Center, another shelter for young adults that offers training programs. In October, its capacity grew to 20 beds from 15.

Two months ago, Mr. Tano gave up an apartment in his native after losing his job. He sold his and sought opportunities in the .

He rented a room and set out with his résumé (expertise: fund-raising). But when his $2,000 in savings withered to nothing, “I ended up sleeping on the street for the first time in my life,” he said. “I just kind of had to walk around and try to stay warm.”

Mr. Tano found the YouthCare shelter online, and has been staying there for a month. He has a new job as a canvasser for an environmental organization.

“Coming into it, I was, like, completely out of my element,” he said of YouthCare. “But in the time I’ve been here, it’s a pretty diverse group of people. There are a lot of people just trying to work to get out of this.”

“After I get my paycheck,” he said brightly, “I should be on my way.”
472 2012-12-19 “The scope of what was withdrawn precisely matches the area in which the European Commission has been investigating,” said Florian Müller, a patent consultant in Germering, Germany. “It’s not just that the plot is thickening; in my view, there can be no other plausible view than that there is pressure from Brussels.”

The commission previously said that it was concerned about possible abuse of patents like the ones at issue in the Apple-Samsung injunction request, which cover technologies needed for a device to function. Without some of these “standard essential patents” from Samsung, for example, phones cannot connect to high-speed wireless networks.

“Regulators have been saying, if the patent holders try to abuse these patents, then they are going to get in trouble,” Mr. Müller said.

The commission declined to comment directly on whether there might be a link between Samsung’s announcement on Tuesday and the antitrust case in Brussels. “We take note of this development,” said Antoine Colombani, the spokesman for the European competition commissioner, Joaquín Almunia. “Our investigation is ongoing.”

Samsung said that it could not comment on the proceedings but that it was “fully cooperating with the European Commission.”

“Samsung remains committed to licensing our technologies on fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms, and we strongly believe it is better when companies compete fairly in the marketplace, rather than in court,” it said in a statement.

There has been speculation that Samsung and Apple have been in talks to reach a settlement, though the broad scale of the litigation between the two companies, with lawsuits seeking sales bans or damages continuing on several continents, could make that challenging.

“We cannot comment on details of ongoing legal proceedings, but we believe a commercial resolution is achievable,” Samsung said in a statement.

The announcement by Samsung did not end litigation between the two companies in Europe. Samsung said it planned to pursue lawsuits seeking damages from Apple for what it contends is patent infringement.

Apple and Samsung have also been battling over other patents, covering nonessential features of their devices, like design.

Apple, too, has previously secured bans on the sale of certain Samsung products. Last year, for example, a court in Düsseldorf ruled that Samsung could not sell one of its Galaxy tablet devices in Germany because it bore too close a resemblance to the iPad 2 from Apple.

While some analysts cited regulatory pressure as a possible reason for Samsung’s decision on Tuesday, others said the company might have decided that the lawsuits were simply a distraction. Samsung’s phones, especially its Galaxy S3, have been selling well.

In the third quarter, the S3 surpassed the iPhone 4S to become the world’s best-selling smartphone, according to Strategy Analytics, a research firm.

“Maybe the market was telling them that they were succeeding and their time was better spent promoting sales of their product,” said Charles Golvin, an analyst at Forrester Research.
473 2012-12-19 The presiding judge, Sterling Johnson Jr., scheduled a hearing for Wednesday to announce whether he will accept the agreement. If he does, a broader settlement and as many as 11 whistle-blower lawsuits would be made public, some containing accusations beyond those to which Amgen pleaded guilty.

In court on Tuesday, prosecutors charged that Amgen had promoted the use of Aranesp to treat anemia in cancer patients who were not undergoing chemotherapy, even though the drug’s approval was only for patients receiving chemotherapy.

A subsequent study sponsored by Amgen showed that use of Aranesp by those nonchemotherapy cancer patients had actually increased the risk of death, and the off-label use diminished.

The federal charges also say Amgen promoted using larger but less frequent injection of Aranesp than stated in the label as a way of making the drug more attractive to doctors and patients than Procrit, a rival anemia drug from Johnson & Johnson.

Amgen eventually tried to obtain approval for the less frequent dose, but the F.D.A. turned down its requests, saying the company’s studies were inadequate. Nonetheless, according to the federal charges, Amgen continued to promote the off-label dosing, relying on the same studies the F.D.A. had deemed inadequate.

Roger Burlingame, a federal prosecutor, told the judge Tuesday that “in certain instances, Amgen employees were so thoroughly indoctrinated to sell the drug for off-label uses that they did not, in fact, know that the drug had not been approved for the use for which they were selling it.”

A document summarizing the charges says that while sales representatives were not supposed to initiate discussions of off-label uses, they were trained to elicit questions from doctors. Such questions would provide the “necessary cover” for the sales representatives to provide the doctor with studies supporting the off-label use. Amgen referred to this as “reactive” marketing, the document said.

Amgen also managed to list the unapproved uses in a reference called a compendium. Medicare is required to pay for off-label uses of cancer drugs listed in an approved compendium. The compendium system is intended to make drugs more easily available to cancer patients, but critics say the compendiums do not adequately review the evidence.

Amgen issued a statement Tuesday acknowledging the guilty plea and noting that 14 months ago the company announced that it had set aside $780 million for the settlement of federal, state and whistle-blower complaints. Amgen’s stock fell 21 cents, to $89.29.

While doctors are allowed to use drugs for unapproved uses, companies are not supposed to promote such uses. The government has collected billions of dollars from pharmaceutical companies in recent years for off-label marketing.

The Amgen settlement is fairly large, but several have exceeded $1 billion. In July, GlaxoSmithKline agreed to pay $3 billion, in part for promoting antidepressants and other drugs for unapproved uses.

Critics say that fines alone do not deter such behavior because executives are not held personally responsible.

Mr. Miller said that the evidence in the Amgen case was not sufficient to charge individuals. However, he said, Amgen agreed to sign a corporate integrity agreement that requires executives and board members to personally certify compliance with regulations. That would make it easier to prosecute individuals should violations occur again, he said.

A decision two weeks ago by the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan held some off-label promotion was protected as free speech. That ruling could make it harder for the government to pursue such cases in the future. But Mr. Miller said that case involved speech by a sales representative while the Amgen case involved a plan by a company. “It’s a very different type of prosecution,” he said.

Aranesp was once Amgen’s biggest product, with sales of more than $4 billion a year. Sales have declined since 2007 because studies show that high doses can lead to blood clots and the worsening of cancer. Global sales of Aranesp in the first nine months of this year were $1.55 billion, down 12 percent from the first nine months of 2011.
474 2012-12-20 The takeover of the New York Stock Exchange’s owner illustrates starkly how trading in commodities and derivatives has become much more lucrative than trading in corporate shares....
475 2012-12-20 One theme that emerges is that many binding early decision and nonbinding early action programs continue to record double-digit increases in applicants when compared with the previous year....
476 2012-12-20 One theme that emerges is that many binding early decision and nonbinding early action programs continue to record double-digit increases in applicants when compared with the previous year....
477 2012-12-20 By holding only two official inaugural balls this year, compared with 10 in 2009, President Obama has demonstrated that he prefers a scaled-down celebration....
478 2012-12-20 NYSE Euronext shareholders may wish they could still collect the extra $3 billion that rival suitors were offering last year. But the firm's chief knew it was time to take ICE's offer, the author writes....
479 2012-12-20 A government watchdog's report estimating Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's Libor losses lays out an easy-to-follow road map for others....
480 2012-12-20 To settle a rate-rigging case, the Japanese securities subsidiary of UBS pleaded guilty to a charge of felony wire fraud as part of a settlement that was structured to keep the potential fallout from the plea to a minimum....
481 2012-12-20 Putting two of the biggest market operators in the world together requires a fair amount of work. In the case of the IntercontinentalExchange's $8.2 billion takeover of NYSE Euronext, that fell on 18 -- yes, 18 -- advisers....
482 2012-12-20 President Francois Hollande did not apologize for France's actions in Algeria. But he could not ignore the thirst among many of his supporters of Algerian descent for some kind of acknowledgement of the painful past....
483 2012-12-20 For a growing number of pets there is a diagnosis of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, or E.P.I., a mysterious illness that fortunately can be treated....
484 2012-12-20 The Day: The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's fare raises were as unstoppable as the Earth's rotation, as was Joseph J. Lhota's decision to leave the authority after a mere 14 months....
485 2012-12-20 New York City’s experiment in subsidizing ferry service on the East River has been such a smashing success that city officials are preparing to continue it for at least five more years.

The New York City Economic Development Corporation intends on Thursday to start seeking bids from ferry operators interested in running the service and possibly expanding its operations beyond the seven landings it regularly makes in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.

The city has been subsidizing the service as a pilot project since June 2011, at a cost of about $3 million per year. But ridership has easily exceeded projections, leading city officials to believe that they may be able to reduce the subsidy significantly.

Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the development corporation, said the city had anticipated 1.3 million passengers during the three-year pilot, but the actual ridership had already surpassed 1.6 million. “As it turns out, our expectations weren’t matched; in reality, they were exceeded,” Mr. Pinsky said.

The ferry service, which charges $4 for a one-way ticket, has been popular with tourists and weekend shoppers. But a vast majority of the riders (85 percent) are city residents, and at least two-thirds use the ferries to commute to work, according to surveys conducted for the city.
486 2012-12-20 They also say that as a self-defense weapon, the AR-15, which is based on the military’s M-16 and M-4, has its limits: It cannot be carried in public, and in the home it is potentially less accurate than a shotgun.

Mr. Knox, 28, praised the gun’s light weight and relatively gentle recoil.

“If I’m going to be out hunting or I want to get a young person interested in hunting,” an AR-15 is his choice, he said. “It’s a very user-friendly gun.”

What most owners seem to appreciate about this type of firearm is the pleasure of target shooting with a long-range weapon that fires bullets semiautomatically, or each time the trigger is pulled. They also like the detachable magazine that can hold a lot of bullets. High-capacity magazines have been singled out by gun control advocates as accessories that should be illegal.

Arnie Andrews, the owner of an auto body shop in Crown Point, Ind., who shoots his Olympic Arms AR-15 rifle a few times each summer at a shooting range, uses a 20-round magazine, which is the former military standard. (It has been updated to include 30 rounds.)

“It’s a challenge to see how well you can do,” Mr. Andrews, 58, said of target shooting. “It’s like bowling or any other kind of sport. You want to see if you can do it better the next time.”

Although gun dealers say the AR-15 style is the most popular rifle in the country, a number of gun enthusiasts disdain them.

Kent Carper, a former police chief and current president of the Kanawha County Commission in West Virginia, owns many guns but said he has never wanted what he called an assault rifle.

“I never bought one of those extender clips, which I don’t understand at all,” he said. “You’ve seen too many tragedies now with assault rifles and extender clips.”

“The argument is you have a constitutional right to keep and bear arms, so you have an absolute right to have a clip with as many bullets as you want,” Mr. Carper said. “If you follow that to its logical conclusion, you can have bullets like missiles.”

Some owners described the pleasure they took from shooting as akin to a thrill sport. Every couple of months, when Patrick Mason has saved enough money for 500 rounds of ammunition, he drives into the desert outside Las Vegas with a friend or two, a barbecue grill and a haul of fruit for target practice.

“I don’t want to shoot holes in pieces of paper, I want to watch a watermelon be destroyed,” said Mr. Mason, 23, an assistant manager at a yoga studio in Las Vegas.

“It’s fun and it makes you smile but it’s a skill, its own art form,” he said. “I don’t want to make it sound weird, but it’s almost like holding a live animal. You’ve fired the thing, and it’s kicked around, and there’s the smell.”

Mr. Mason does not hunt and does not consider his shooting to be a sport. It gives him an electrical charge of excitement, he said. “When I put 20 rounds downrange, I’m like, man, I need a burger, yes!”

While some AR-15 owners use their guns for hunting, others believe that using a semiautomatic weapon is not sporting. “Hunting is taking one shot. It’s not pumping round after round,’” said Bill denHoed, who, with a brother, owns Den Hoed Wine Estates in Prosser, Wash.

Mr. denHoed, 54, who has owned a Colt AR-15 rifle for a quarter-century, confines its use to a shooting range on a family vineyard near the Columbia River.

But he acknowledged that a semiautomatic weapon could have a place in hunting pests, which in his part of the Pacific Northwest include coyotes.

“There’s a lot of ranchers in the outskirts of the valley where they run cattle,” he said. “Come February when they calve, the coyotes love to eat the calves. Some ranchers give permission to folks to hunt coyotes. A lot of them use that very particular gun that’s raising all the awareness now, the Bushmaster.”

Its ability to shoot rapidly, Mr. denHoed said, makes it easier to thin a pack of predators.

AR-15 owners dismissed the argument that taking their weapons off the market would limit mass shootings.

They did so without vehemence, partly, it seemed, because they shared the collective horror over the Connecticut massacre, in which 20 young children died, and partly because they believed that this latest effort to reduce violence by reducing citizens’ access to guns would be futile.

They did not believe that a renewed ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, as President Obama has signaled he will press for, beginning in January, would hamper future mass murderers like Adam Lanza, who authorities said used a Bushmaster version of an AR-15 in last week’s shootings.

“If I thought banning weapons would solve this, I’d probably be for it,” said Everett Wilkinson, a Marine Corps veteran who lives in Palm Beach County, Fla., and owns several AR-15 style guns. “But the issue we have is not banning weapons, it’s crazy people.”

Other gun owners shared his view. “They’ll use something else, a bomb next time or who knows what,” Mr. Andrews said. He has a permit to carry a concealed handgun and has taken courses in how to respond to a gunman.

“Honestly, if you were in a bad situation, you’d want me to be there,” he said.
487 2012-12-20 The United States Patent and Trademark Office has dealt a blow to Apple in its legal battle with Samsung Electronics over smartphone patents, declaring that a patent that helped Apple win $1.05 billion in damages against Samsung in a jury trial should not have been granted.

The patent office’s action this week was made public by Samsung in a filing on Wednesday in Federal District Court in San Jose. In the court document, Samsung, the Korean electronics giant, said the action should be weighed in evaluating its petition for a new trial and its challenge to the damages award.

Apple is expected to appeal the patent office’s ruling, so the patent has not been invalidated yet.

The patent, No. 7,844,915, is one of six that a jury in August found that Samsung had infringed. It covers usability software that distinguishes between single-touch and multitouch gestures on a smartphone or tablet screen.

The patent is widely known as the “pinch to zoom” patent, but the software is actually narrower in scope. Apple’s legal documents refer to it as controlling a “scroll versus gesture” feature.

Of the six patents that were the basis of the ruling against Samsung, this is the second that the patent office has concluded, on re-examination, should not have been granted.
488 2012-12-20 That woman, it turns out, is also Ms. Vandlen, but almost 50 pounds lighter — and radiant. Voice quavering, the thinner Ms. Vandlen says, “This is all you.”

Her two versions, thanks to crafty editing, face each other in the same frame and appear to converse in real time.

Heavier Ms. Vandlen: “I never thought I could look like that. Thank you.”

The commercial, which closes with the tagline, “Become yourself,” is by Solve, an independent advertising and branding agency in Minneapolis. It will be introduced on television and online on Jan. 1, along with spots featuring two other Medifast dieters — another woman and a man — conversing with thinner versions of themselves.

Aimed primarily at women aged 35 to 64, the commercials will run widely on networks including A&E, Lifetime and the Food Network. Print ads will appear in publications including People, Better Homes & Gardens and Cooking Light.

“We just feel like people don’t connect as much with celebrities,” said Brian Kagen, chief marketing officer of Medifast. “Because they know that perhaps the celebrities also may have had a personal trainer or a personal chef, which normal people don’t have.”

Medifast, which declined to reveal how much it would spend on the campaign, spent $25.5 million on advertising in the first nine months of 2012, behind Jenny Craig, with $39.5 million; Weight Watchers, with $200 million; and Nutrisystem, with $208.4 million, according Kantar Media, which is owned by WPP.

The new campaign was set in motion in the fall of 2011, when the agency, with the help of a casting director who specializes in finding nonactors for commercials, began seeking consumers who wanted to lose weight.

Along with compensation, the brand offered free Medifast portion-controlled food products, which are integral to the program, along with the telephone and online consultations with dietitians and nutritionists available to typical Medifast customers.

Four people were selected, and were first filmed before they started the Medifast diet at a private home in Studio City, Calif., in January 2012. All were filmed speaking to a Medifast nutritionist, and were directed to converse with the nutritionist as if they were speaking with their future, thinner selves.

Of the four subjects, the three that lost the most weight were called back to the same house in September. Right before filming began, each was for the first time shown footage from the interview recorded in January.

“They put the computer in front of me, and I said, ‘I can’t believe you’re going to do that,’ ” Ms. Vandlen said in a recent interview, recalling seeing the footage of her prediet self.

“I broke down in tears,” she said, “because I remember ‘that’ girl, and I remember how badly she was feeling and not wanting to get up from the couch or play with my daughter because my knees would ache or ankles would ache.”

When the cameras began rolling, she and the nutritionist swapped places, and this time the nutritionist fed Ms. Vandlen her own words back to her so that she was, effectively, having a conversation with her heavier self.

All of the commercials were shot and edited to leave no trace of the nutritionist, only the dieter at different weights.

“Some of it was hard to watch,” said John Colasanti, the chief executive of Solve, about being on the set. “To watch these people bare their souls, you felt like kind of a voyeur.”

Mr. Colasanti added that, while the weight loss was certainly evident in the commercials, the dieters were chosen based on their passion for trimming down for health and emotional reasons beyond vanity.

“To think about weight loss as something that’s going to be added to your life rather than deducted from it was sort of the germ of the idea,” Mr. Colasanti said. “It isn’t what you lose, it’s what you gain.”

Jay Jacobs, who lost 181 pounds competing on the 11th season of “The Biggest Loser,” and who is also a managing partner of the Shurn Group, a wellness branding firm, reviewed the new Medifast commercials and was impressed.

“I think they’re brilliant because they feel authentic,” Mr. Jacobs said. “They didn’t feel staged, they didn’t feel trite — they were all very believable, and that’s what’s going to make them resonate with people.”

John LaRosa, research director of Marketdata Enterprises, a market research company in Tampa, Fla., lauded Medifast for ignoring what he called the “follow the leader” mentality of celebrity marketing by weight loss companies.

Mr. LaRosa reviewed the new campaign, which he called clever.

“It’s going to be a campaign that gets some notice and gains some traction,” Mr. LaRosa said of the new Medifast commercials. “And it cost them a hell of a lot less because they don’t have to pay celebrities millions of dollars.”
489 2012-12-20 The governor of the Cayman Islands on Wednesday appointed Juliana O’Connor-Connolly as the new premier of the British territory. The former premier, W. McKeeva Bush, was ousted Tuesday by the Legislative Assembly, a week after his arrest in a corruption investigation.  Ms. O’Connor-Connolly, a former teacher and lawyer, became the first female minister of the Caymans in 1997, heading the Ministry of Community Affairs, Sports, Women, Youth and Culture.
490 2012-12-20 Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, said on Wednesday that she would amend a proposed change to campaign finance laws that spurred concerns about a flood of unregulated spending by unions and advocacy groups in New York City’s coming elections.

The proposal, introduced last week, was an attempt by Ms. Quinn’s office to assuage concerns from advocacy organizations about a recent ruling by the Campaign Finance Board. The ruling, these groups argued, would hinder their ability to communicate about political matters with their members, who are often influential voting blocs in municipal elections.

But the proposed legislative fix, which was supported by many unions, was described by government watchdog groups as overreaching, and the Campaign Finance Board fiercely criticized it, saying it would create a “gaping loophole” in the city’s stringent campaign rules.

Ms. Quinn’s office delayed a hearing on the bill and went into negotiations with the parties involved. The compromise, unveiled on Wednesday, involves a watered-down bill and a pledge by the Campaign Finance Board to clarify its original ruling — the root of the uproar — to “allay these concerns” expressed by advocacy groups.

“Both sides blinked,” said Dick Dadey, the executive director of Citizens Union, a nonpartisan civic group that was involved in the discussions.

The new legislation is still expected to have an effect on campaign finance law. According to Ms. Quinn’s office, the bill would ensure that political communications among the members of advocacy groups would not have to be disclosed to the Campaign Finance Board.

The resolution allows Ms. Quinn to claim a victory for the unions that had pushed for the legislation, groups that she is cultivating ahead of a presumed mayoral run next year. And by excising the more controversial parts of the bill, her office also addressed concerns from some critics about a potential breach of the city’s campaign finance system.
491 2012-12-20 For months New York City business executives and civic leaders have fretted about a possible change in the direction of local government after one of their biggest boosters, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, leaves office at the end of 2013.

Now, one notable group, the Rockefeller Foundation, has decided it cannot sit on the sidelines.

The foundation announced on Wednesday that it would award the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce a $100,000 grant to come up with ways to compel the candidates in next year’s race for mayor to pay more attention to business issues.

The chamber will consider asking the candidates to sign a “bill of rights” for small businesses, based on an assessment of employers’ needs. It will also discuss hosting Democratic and Republican campaign forums at which candidates would be asked to address business concerns.

The Rockefeller Foundation, a nonprofit group, does not engage in overt political activity, but it hopes the grant to the Chamber of Commerce will draw attention to business issues and help influence the discussion in a wide-open mayor’s contest that has been dominated, thus far, by Democrats who have not always been friendly to business. The tone of the race could also change if Joseph J. Lhota, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, steps into the campaign as a Republican.

Neither the foundation nor the chamber could recall another instance in which a major institution had offered a grant aimed at influencing a municipal election.
492 2012-12-20 While the European crisis has made the French acutely aware of the need to modernize the economy, the country may be running short on time. And there are mixed signals on whether the Hollande government is willing to heed the advice.

As details of the report leaked, the French news media went into a frenzy over whether their country was prepared for such upheaval.

Mr. Hollande quickly provided an answer: a competitiveness “pact” between business and government would better suit French society.

As Mr. Hollande’s finance minister, Pierre Moscovici, hastened to explain, “A shock causes trauma, whereas a pact reassures.”

But many observers say reassurance may no longer be an option.

Even the Germans are alarmed: Behind closed doors, Chancellor Angela Merkel and officials in her entourage are said to be worried that a failure by Mr. Hollande to improve competitiveness could ricochet back to the weakening German economy, further stalling what had long been twin engines of growth for Europe.

“The concern is not just that France could be the next candidate affected by turbulence” from the euro crisis, said Lars P. Feld, an economics professor at the University of Freiburg and an adviser to the German government. “The fear is that it doesn’t manage to cope with the loss of competitiveness and therefore produces little growth or perhaps even stagnation for the next few years,” Mr. Feld said. “And that after that, it could become the new sick man of Europe.”

France still has much working in its favor. Second only to Germany as Europe’s biggest economy, and the fifth-largest in the world, France is a wealthy country with a high savings rate, large foreign direct investment and world-class research and development capabilities.

And the interest rate on French 10-year bonds is only about 2 percent. That is much closer to Germany’s rate than to those of the euro zone’s staggering giants, Italy and Spain, which are above 4 percent and 5 percent respectively, as they struggle to clean up their economies.

Yet, last week the French central bank warned that growth would shrink 0.1 percent in the last three months of 2012, after stagnating for most of the year. Last month Moody’s Investors Service followed Standard & Poor’s in stripping France of its triple-A credit rating, saying the government was failing to ignite competitiveness fast enough.

Meanwhile, an ambitious effort Mr. Hollande began shortly after his election in May to cut the deficit to 3 percent next year from 4.5 percent through tax increases and spending cuts may dampen growth further and ratchet up unemployment, which recently neared 11 percent, twice the rate in Germany.

Taxes on businesses are rising, and a 3 percent dividend tax recently sent money fleeing the country. A plan to lift the capital gains tax to 60 percent from 19 percent sparked a revolt among e-commerce entrepreneurs.

Amid the turmoil, Mr. Hollande seized on the Gallois report. The day after its release, the government announced a €20 billion, or $26.6 billion, payroll tax break for business and endorsed a handful of other recommendations, including trying to compel bosses and union leaders to agree on more labor market flexibility.

Those moves fanned hopes that France might finally be becoming more friendly to business. But the message was soon muddied.

Within a few weeks, Mr. Hollande’s administration was in a showdown with a major employer, the Luxembourg-based steel giant ArcelorMittal, over a plan to cut about 630 jobs at two mothballed blast furnaces at a production complex in Florange. The jobs at issue were but a small fraction of the 20,000 the company employs in France, and the Hollande government’s threat to nationalize the Florange plant over the matter sent a shudder through foreign multinationals doing business in France.

The International Monetary Fund recently urged France to curb government spending, which at 56 percent of output is among the highest levels in the euro zone. Belgium, Denmark and Finland are in a similar range, according to the European data agency Eurostat.

The I.M.F. also called for France to tame bureaucracy, cut taxes and make labor markets more flexible. France’s “significant loss of competitiveness” is the main hurdle to growth and job creation, the fund added, indicating that those problems would very likely grow worse if France “does not adapt.”

Creating the political momentum to achieve that is not easy. Culturally, France and many of its leaders are wedded to the idea that a social safety net — despite its expense — is needed to protect society from the ravages of laissez-faire economics. Economists say a pullback would have to happen to enhance competitiveness, something Mr. Hollande is aware of but has so far treaded lightly around.

In other countries, “people roughly understand what modern economics are about — if you say competitiveness, it’s not a dirty word,” said Pascal Lamy, the director general of the World Trade Organization, who is also a rare member of the French Socialist Party who favors open markets.

The hurdle to modernizing the French economy, he added, is that the state “is still considered a magic wand to cure every illness.”

Meanwhile, Mr. Gallois, a sober but energetic man who was once nicknamed God by his former employees at the French national railroad company for imposing hard decisions, has largely maintained a public silence since releasing his “competitive shock” report — despite being tailed for weeks by news cameras.

Recently, in his first interview since the report’s release, Mr. Gallois, sitting in his gilt-trimmed office in central Paris and wearing the red-cross Légion d’Honneur pin he received for his past business contributions to France, acknowledged that his choice of language posed a challenge to the government. “They did not want to use the word ‘shock,”’ he said. “I was only focused on industrial competitiveness, and they were also focused on employment.”

At least his report, unlike many before it, was not left to gather dust. “For the first time, I had the feeling that people were not trying to put their heads in the sand,” he said. Because of the European crisis, “public opinion was ready to welcome change,” he added; even militant union leaders were ready to listen.

But change can take years in France. While the €20 billion payroll tax credit will help, Mr. Gallois said, France still needs to do much more to make entrepreneurs feel welcome. A thicket of regulation must be cleared, he said, so that more small and midsize firms can grow and create jobs.

A hostile climate between workers and management must also be replaced with dynamic dialogue, he said, as was done in Germany in the mid-2000s, helping turn that country into an industrial powerhouse.

“In France, there is not actually agreement that companies must be competitive to create value,” Mr. Gallois said. “We need to create that consensus first, and after that people can fight over sharing the benefits of competitiveness.”

He paused and looked at a large photo on his wall of an Airbus A380 soaring above the clouds — a symbol of what French industrial might can achieve.

Mr. Gallois’s type of straightforward thinking is relatively common in corporate boardrooms. But getting an entire nation to sign on to a new way of doing business is a challenge.

“People have to understand that France is a special animal,” Mr. Gallois said. “We could be more business-oriented, but only if we ensure justice and fairness for everybody.”
493 2012-12-20 But French bankers and officials including the Bank of France governor, Christian Noyer, had argued forcefully that Mr. Hollande’s original plans would have put the country’s financial firms at a competitive disadvantage to foreign rivals. Expectations for the bill had been ratcheted down in recent months.

“This isn’t reform for the sake of the banking lobby,” Mr. Moscovici said after he presented the proposal to the cabinet. “It preserves the French universal banking model that has stood the test of time.” The bill represents, he said, a campaign promise Mr. Hollande has kept.

The French Banking Federation said in a statement that the bill would “create new constraints and additional charges at an inopportune moment, when the banks must make considerable efforts to adapt to the Basel III capital rules.”

But analysts played down the significance of the measures, and shares of the biggest French banks — BNP Paribas, Crédit Agricole and Société Générale — rose in Paris on Wednesday.

“It’s all mirrors and smoke,” Christophe Nijdam, a banking analyst at AlphaValue in Paris, said. “In blunt terms, this is not banking reform.”

As evidence, Mr. Nijdam estimated the proposal would require BNP, the largest French lender, to segregate activities that represented just 0.5 percent of its net banking income. In contrast, he said, the Liikanen proposal would require BNP to segregate activities that represented an estimated 13 percent of that income. The difference is important, because if the riskier activities were separated, their financing costs would rise, reducing profitability.

The bill also calls for the creation of a guarantee fund, paid for by a levy on financial institutions, that could be called on to help pay for any banking disaster.

It also gives the government greater reach. The existing Prudential Supervisory Authority would be given the power to wind up any faltering banks. A new agency, the Financial Stability Council, would be charged with anticipating systemic risks to the banking sector, and have the power to order banks to raise capital or take other measures when they encountered difficulties.

Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research institute in Brussels, said the new resolution authority might turn out to be the most important element in the bill. “France has long had a tradition that banks don’t fail,” he said, “and this represents a significant step away from that.”

The banking bill was adopted by the cabinet but must still obtain parliamentary approval. It must also be brought into conformity with emerging European Union rules.

“I was always skeptical that France could do it alone,” Mr. Véron said, adding that it was “not suitable” for the government to be pushing for integration at the E.U. level through a banking union while pushing for a different policy at the domestic level.

On a day when Mr. Hollande was making headlines on a state visit to Algeria, it also fell to Mr. Moscovici to warn that further pension overhauls might be necessary — a revelation that carries political risk for the government.

Mr. Moscovici told RTL radio that changes to the retirement system would have to be considered, despite fixes made in 2010 by Nicolas Sarkozy, Mr. Hollande’s conservative predecessor. Mr. Sarkozy’s changes, including an increase in the retirement age by two years, to 62, were to have kept the system solvent until 2018. But a new study by a government body, the Conseil d’Orientation des Retraites, estimates the retirement plans would have a combined deficit of €18.8 billion, or $23.8 billion, in 2017, up from €15 billion last year.

The study, first reported this week in Le Monde, proposed several means of addressing the gap, including an increase in payroll deductions, a reduction in the average pension, or adding six months to the retirement age.

Mr. Moscovici also sought to play down suggestions of policy differences among members of Mr. Hollande’s government, saying it was natural that ministers would express themselves differently even though they agreed on overall direction.

Referring to the recent dispute with ArcelorMittal, in which Mr. Hollande’s governmentthreatened to take over one of the company’s steel plants, Mr. Moscovici said that temporary nationalization could be “useful” when strategic interests were in play, but could not be an end in itself. He spoke after the industry minister, Arnaud Montebourg, told Le Monde that “temporary nationalization is the solution of the future.”

“Temporary nationalization is a part of the future, not the entire future,” Mr. Moscovici said.
494 2012-12-20 College of New Jersey, The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art (N.Y.)
495 2012-12-21 The effects of slashed budgets have pummeled the country’s fragile economy, leaving scars that are likely to take years to heal....
496 2012-12-21 A European Parliament delegation's visit to Bahrain this week was big news in the kingdom's state news media; calls by the delegates to free "prisoners of conscience" got less attention....
497 2012-12-21 Maikel Nabil, an Egyptian blogger who was jailed for eight months last year by Egypt's military for expressing his views on politics and religion, began a tour of Israel this week....
498 2012-12-21 The N.H.L. Players' Association voted overwhelmingly in favor of giving its executive board the power to effectively dissolve the union, the latest step in the increasingly damaging 97-day lockout....
499 2012-12-21 News Corporation’s regulatory filing gave potential investors a peek at the challenges facing the new entity....
500 2012-12-21 The publishing rights to 30,000 songs were said to sell for $90 million. And BMG is said to be in the advanced stages to buy Mute Records, a one-time independent label whose catalog includes albums by Depeche Mode and Moby....
501 2012-12-21 Microsoft Office can automatically save your open files for you as you work, but you can increase or decrease the frequency of the saving....
502 2012-12-21 "All Hands on Deck," published Friday as an e-book, gathers recipes from local food and drink purveyors to benefit storm relief efforts....
503 2012-12-21 If the $8.2 billion sale falls apart on antitrust grounds, ICE will owe NYSE Euronext a breakup fee of $750 million. That's about a 9.1 percent breakup fee, on the high side for major deals....
504 2012-12-21 The hoods on the Chevrolet Colorado and the GMC Canyon pickups could open unexpectedly, blocking the driver’s view....
505 2012-12-21 Regulators in Britain should have the power to split up banks, a government-commissioned report concluded, and changes being proposed do not go far enough to prevent a future crisis....
506 2012-12-21 The $8.2 billion deal for the New York Stock Exchange showed how the power base in finance has shifted. | Bernard L. Madoff's brother and former chief compliance officer is headed to prison for his role in aiding the Ponzi scheme. | The F.B.I. arr...
507 2012-12-21 General Electric agreed on Friday to buy the Italian aerospace company Avio for $4.3 billion, acquiring a long-time partner in its jet engine business....
508 2012-12-21 An admissions officer advices students to tackle "dangerous questions" in their essays, "questions that require you to stake out a position, to have an opinion and to express something of substance."...
509 2012-12-21 Two no-nonsense realists — a tough record producer (Brad Garrett) and Douglas’s roughneck father, Pat (James Gandolfini, wonderful as ever), a first-generation Italian immigrant — lecture him about how success comes through “10 percent inspiration and 90 percent perspiration.” Those are not words a young rocker anticipating overnight stardom wants to hear.

The movie’s tracking of the decade’s cultural calendar is almost obsessively punctilious. It recalls that the time separating John F. Kennedy’s burial and the release of the Beatles’ “I Want to Hold Your Hand” was only a few weeks. Vintage television clips from “The Twilight Zone” and of the Rolling Stones on “The Hollywood Palace,” along with a stream of radio hits heard in the background, are not just markers of the years. They resurrect a media era when radio wasn’t so corporatized and segmented and when pre-cable television was monolithic.

The homogeneity of mass culture promoted instantaneous seepage of popular culture into the body politic. Shots of Douglas and his peers studying album covers to absorb the looks and attitudes of musicians are a reminder that rock, in its hold on the young, was once the equivalent of today’s social media and technology.

Douglas’s story unfolds as a narrative montage in which cultural shock and conservative family values repeatedly clash. It distills the all-too-real generation gap in a stinging father-son confrontation as Douglas, sporting bushy Bob Dylan-like hair and Cuban boots that his father calls “heels,” baits Pat by announcing, “Vietnam is ridiculous.” Father and son come to blows. But as Pat absorbs the changes and faces his own health crisis, his rage subsides.

Pointedly unglamorous scenes show the coalescing of a youth counterculture of clandestine pot smokers and would-be hippies. With his scruffy rock ’n’ roll look, Douglas attracts a former high school classmate and beauty, Grace (Bella Heathcote), from a well-to-do-family. Their occasionally stormy relationship is a precise portrait of young lovers struggling to adapt to the more relaxed rules of the sexual revolution.

“Not Fade Away” turns darker in later scenes that find Douglas at a party in Los Angeles where the guests, insensate from drugs, mill aimlessly around a swimming pool, and word circulates that Mick Jagger and Charlie Watts are on the premises. Douglas, who has lost track of Grace, finds himself hitchhiking on a nearly empty street. But when a car pulls over and he is invited in, the driver and his female companion in sinister white makeup appear so fiendish that he recoils. You think of Charles Manson.

Has the rock ’n’ roll revolution spun out of the control, leaving Douglas behind in the dust of a scary urban wasteland? Is this what it has all led to?

Earlier in the film the illusion of a West Coast paradise is wittily acknowledged as Pat watches a film clip of the song “Bali Hai” from the movie version of “South Pacific” on television.

Evelyn’s sudden appearance in the middle of the empty street ends “Not Fade Away” on a disturbing note.

“I had to write a term paper, and I wrote about how America has given the world two inventions of enormous power,” she says. “One is nuclear weapons. The other is rock ’n’ roll. Which one is going to win out in the end?” Looking over her shoulder, she dances away.

Is it a dumb statement by a spaced-out hippie or a riddle worth pondering? Like the final moments of “The Sopranos,” the ending here leaves it for us to answer that question and to decide what’s next. The outlook is not promising.

“Not Fade Away” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has sexual situations and drug-taking.
510 2012-12-21 Regulators on Thursday voted to reopen about 5,000 square miles of protected waters off the coast of New England to new applications from commercial fishing interests. The move drew concern from environmental advocates and praise from fishermen who hope access to the waters will boost the ailing industry.

The “groundfish closed areas” were set aside, for the most part, in the 1990s to preserve habitat along the seafloor and give critical species like cod and haddock a safe place to spawn. While recreational fishing and some limited commercial fishing have been allowed in these areas, environmental advocates and scientists say the restrictions are needed to help older female fish that help to increase stocks.

But commercial fishermen say the implementation of a quota-based protection system in 2010 made the conservation areas obsolete, and called on the New England Fishery Management Council, the regulating body, to renew access to the waters.

“Many of the existing closures greatly hinder fishermen’s ability to access and harvest their available allocation of healthy stocks,” said Nick Brancaleone, a spokesman for the Northeast Seafood Coalition, an industry group.

The move was welcomed by fishermen who fear 2013 will bring drastic quota cuts to groundfish like cod, haddock and yellowtail flounder. The council voted Thursday to delay decision-making on cuts to some of those species until January to give its members more time to examine data on fish stocks.

Jud Crawford, the science and policy manager for the Pew Environment Group’s Northeast Fisheries program, said the decision to reopen protected waters could have dire consequences.
511 2012-12-21 “But it would be short-term euphoria followed by a long hangover that would be difficult for us to recover from,” said Mr. Norton, who is president of the New York Farm Bureau. “I don’t think customers and food processors are going to pay double what they are paying now for dairy products.”

The Senate passed a farm bill in July. A House version of the bill made it out of committee, but House leaders have yet to bring its version to the floor.

Under the current program, the government sets a minimum price to cover dairy farmers’ production costs. If the market price drops below that, the government buys dairy products from farmers to buoy prices and increase demand. Since milk prices have remained above that minimum price in recent years, dairy farmers usually do better by selling their products commercially rather than to the government.

But if 1949 rules go into effect, the government would be required to buy dairy products at around $40 per hundredweight — roughly twice the current market price — to drive up the price of milk to cover dairy producers’ cost.

“It would be bad for consumer demand in the long run,” said Chris Galen, a spokesman for the National Milk Producers Federation, which represents more than 32,000 dairy farmers.

Mr. Galen and others in the dairy industry said reverting to 1949 policies could probably force the makers of butter, cheese, yogurt and other dairy products to look for cheaper alternatives, like imported milk from countries like New Zealand.

Most dairy companies declined to discuss plans to buy dairy supplies from abroad if they are forced to pay higher prices for milk.

But Land O’ Lakes, a dairy company based in Arden Hills, Minn., said the 1949 law could be potentially disruptive for dairy industry operations.

“Congress needs to pass a comprehensive farm bill that helps farmers continue to feed the world, keeps food prices affordable and provides farmers some financial stability in the very unpredictable profession of farming,” said Rebecca Lentz, a company spokeswoman.

In a conference call with reporters on Thursday, Tom Vilsack, the agriculture secretary, said the department was exploring all its options to deal with the possibility of the 1949 law going into effect.

“We will do whatever we are legally obligated to do,” said Mr. Vilsack, who declined to say what specific steps the department would take to prepare for what dairy lobbyists and industry officials are calling the “milk cliff.”

Among the options: the agriculture secretary could drag his heels on the milk purchases until Congress passes a new farm bill or an extension of the 2008 one that expired in September, said Vincent Smith, a professor of agriculture at Montana State University in Bozeman.

“This is a totally antiquated law that has nothing to do with farming conditions today,” Professor Smith said. “It was put as a poison pill to get Congress to pass a farm bill by scaring lawmakers with the prospect of higher support prices for milk and other agriculture products. Letting it go into effect for even a few months would be particularly disastrous for consumers and food processors. “
512 2012-12-21 Mr. Walker declared a state of emergency, called in more than 100 members of the National Guard in heavy vehicles and snowmobiles, and closed state facilities in 22 counties.

In some places, major roads were closed and smaller ones were cluttered with motorists who had spun out, been blown off the road or had pulled over to wait out the storm. In Iowa, which issued a statewide “no travel” recommendation, drifting snow left some drivers unable to see even a single car length in front of them. About 80 Iowa National Guard members in Humvees helped rescue stranded motorists, including a family of five on Wednesday.

“I’ve lost count,” Annette Dunn, the winter operations administrator for the Iowa Department of Transportation, said of the number of wrecks across that state. “Many times, we’re just opening the road back up and we’ll get another accident.” In the largest single accident in Iowa, 25 cars were involved in a chain-reaction crash along Interstate 35 that left two people dead.

As holiday travelers were setting out for extended breaks, hundreds of flights were canceled or delayed here at O’Hare International Airport, as well as at smaller airports around the region. The problems appeared likely to create a backlog of travelers just as the real rush was soon to begin; about 266,000 passengers were expected to pass through Chicago’s airports on Friday, which was projected to be the holiday period’s busiest travel day.

School was canceled Thursday in parts of states including Minnesota, Iowa and Nebraska, where the storm arrived overnight on Wednesday. Multiple accidents, including overturned semitrailer trucks, led to the closing of nearly 400 miles of Interstate 80 from Lincoln, Neb., almost to the Wyoming border.

“Everything here was white,” said Mary Jo Oie, spokeswoman for the Nebraska Department of Roads. “You can’t see.”

Heavy snow and downed trees weighed on power lines across the Midwest, leaving some without power — and with the knowledge that temperatures, which had been relatively warm this season, were expected to continue sinking. Around Omaha, about 41,000 homes were without power on Thursday morning, and repair crews were slowed by the dismal conditions.

The storm was unlikely to have much effect on the drought that has troubled the Midwest for months. “Yes, the moisture is welcome, but it’s just not going to amount to a tremendous amount of moisture in the end,” said Brian Fuchs of the National Drought Mitigation Center.

In parts of the region, the blizzard ended what had been record stretches with no measurable snowfall. Last year’s entire winter was so remarkably mild and relatively snowless that numerous Midwestern towns used only a small fraction of their street salt supply.

In Chicago, a place that is accustomed to getting — and stoically coping with — more than its fair share of snow, on Thursday it had been 290 days since the last snow, the longest period on record. Some 200 city snowplows waited at the ready on Thursday afternoon, even before the falling temperatures were forecast to turn rain into snow.

Some here seemed unconcerned, even excited at the prospect.

“We’re supposed to have snow,” said Gina Walker, 42, who was visiting an outdoor holiday market downtown and said her two young sons had long been asking when snow would come. “We’re built for it.”
513 2012-12-21 But whether minorities and moderate Hindus in the rest of India will forgive or forget the government failures during the 2002 riots is very much of an open question.

Indeed, some leading members of the Bharatiya Janata Party have resisted Mr. Modi’s rising prominence because they fear that he will cost the party votes among religious minorities.

Nitish Kumar, the powerful chief minister of Bihar in the northeast, has promised to withdraw his support for the Bharatiya Janata Party if it selects Mr. Modi as its prime ministerial candidate for 2014. That would reduce the party’s chances of gaining a majority in the national Parliament, but whether Mr. Kumar would follow through on his threat is uncertain.

Mr. Modi’s role in the 2002 riots has long been a concern for governments in the West. The United States refuses to provide Mr. Modi with a visa.

But as he grows into a national political figure, more Western countries may rethink their refusal to talk with him in an official capacity. In October, Britain ended a 10-year diplomatic boycott of Mr. Modi when its high commissioner met with him for 50 minutes.

India’s religious, caste and regional differences have increasingly splintered the country’s politics. Since Hindus represent 80 percent of the electorate, they could dominate national politics if they managed to overcome the caste differences that divide them. But caste has long been the dominant nexus of Indian politics. The Bharatiya Janata Party has led the national government for only one period, from 1998 to 2004.

Leaders of the party said that Mr. Modi had solidified his place as one of India’s most important politicians, although top party officials refused to speculate on whether he would be its candidate for prime minister in 2014.

“This shows the people’s confidence and trust in the B.J.P. and Narendra Modi’s leadership,” said Dhansukh Bhanderi, a top party official.

Mr. Modi’s opponents played down the importance of his victory. Palaniappan Chidambaram, India’s finance minister and a leader of the governing Indian National Congress Party, said in a televised interview that he thought it had done well on Thursday because Mr. Modi had not managed to expand his political dominance in Gujarat.

In a related political development, it was announced Thursday that the Congress Party had defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party in state assembly elections in Himachal Pradesh, a hilly state in the Himalayas. The victory was an important balm to the Congress Party, which has been buffeted in recent years by corruption allegations and the rise of regional parties.

The election in Himachal Pradesh was between two political leaders who have traded control over the state between them for decades. Virbhadra Singh, 78, of the Congress Party, is now expected to become the state’s chief minister, a post he has already held four times. Prem Kumar Dhumal, 68, will resign after having served two nonconsecutive terms as chief minister.
514 2012-12-21 On Thursday, though, Favor Hamilton made one more personal revelation about a secret life. In postings on Twitter, Favor Hamilton wrote that she began “escorting” because it provided “coping mechanisms” and “escape” from a life in which she continued to feel depressed and struggled with her marriage.

“I realize I have made highly irrational choices and I take full responsibility for them,” Favor Hamilton wrote. “I am not a victim here and knew what I was doing.”

She added: “I do not expect people to understand, but the reasons for doing this made sense to me at the time and were very much related to depression. As crazy as I know it seems, I never thought I would be exposed, therefore never hurting anybody.

“I have been seeking the help of a psychologist for the past few weeks and will continue to do so after I have put things together. I cannot emphasize enough how sorry I am to anyone I have hurt as a result of my actions and greatly appreciate the support from family and those closest to me. I fully intend to make amends and get back to being a good mother, wife, daughter, and friend.”

During her career, Favor Hamilton posted five of the nine fastest 1,500-meter times by an American woman. But her girl-next-door glamour was complicated by a troubling aspect of competition. In the interview with The Journal Sentinel in July, Favor Hamilton described herself as a “pleaser and perfectionist” who struggled with the pressure to win and with “demons in your brain telling you you’re not good enough, you’re not fast enough, you need to be better.”

After finishing second at a national high school cross-country championship in the mid-1980s, Favor Hamilton told the newspaper, she developed an eating disorder, apparently believing that she could run faster if she were lighter. Eating problems persisted into her freshman year at Wisconsin. Eventually, she had a spectacular college career, then competed in three Olympics but never challenged for a medal, seemingly ill-equipped to run events that required multiple rounds.

At the 1992 Barcelona Games, Favor Hamilton did not advance beyond the first heat of the 1,500 meters. She was also eliminated in the first round of the 800 at the 1996 Atlanta Games, a result that was devastating for someone who felt a need for perfection.

“Your whole life, you’re told how great you are, from your coaches to your friends to your parents’ friends,” Favor Hamilton said in the July interview. “I had to be the perfect child, in my mind. It wasn’t anybody’s fault. I never blamed anybody. It’s just the way society is.”

The 2000 Sydney Games gave Favor Hamilton one final chance to win an Olympic medal and escape a reputation that she was not reliable in major international competitions. Entering the Olympics, she had the fastest 1,500-meter time in the world that year. She led the final with 150 meters remaining. She was running in honor of her brother, Dan Favor, who had committed suicide a year earlier. But she began to struggle to breathe and her legs grew heavy. Other runners passed her. Then Favor Hamilton fell to the track after the final turn without colliding with another runner.

Years later, after therapy, she admitted she had fallen on purpose after realizing she could not win.

“I wanted that gold so bad,” Favor Hamilton told The Journal Sentinel. “I thought that was the only way to true happiness in my life. It was unbelievable how I let my brain get so out of perspective.”

In recent years, she began to speak openly about her career during motivational speeches. She told the Milwaukee newspaper that she ran now simply for fun and fitness and that she hoped her struggles would encourage other troubled athletes to speak up.

“I just know I’m happier than I’ve ever been,” Favor Hamilton said. “My life just keeps getting better.”

It can be problematic for athletes in sports like track and field to transition into daily life after devoting their careers to a rarely held event like the Olympics, which often provides only a glimmer of attention and no prolonged financial safety net, said Jordan D. Metzl, a sports physician at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York.

“It can be a difficult psychological proposition to put an entire life’s focus into one week and then drift into obscurity,” Metzl, who has treated Olympic athletes but not Favor Hamilton, said in a telephone interview Thursday. “That’s a lot of pressure.”

Last December, using the alias Kelly Lundy, Favor Hamilton began working for an escort service, she said. She told The Smoking Gun that it was “exciting,” though her husband disapproved.

“He tried to get me to stop,” Favor Hamilton told the Web site. “He wasn’t supportive of this at all.”

Favor Hamilton said she revealed her true identity to some of her clients and suspected that one of them eventually called a reporter.

“I’m owning up to what I did,” Favor Hamilton said. “I would not blame anybody except myself. Everybody in this world makes mistakes. I made a huge mistake. Huge.”
515 2012-12-21 WASHINGTON — Chuck Hagel, the former Nebraska senator on President Obama’s short list for defense secretary, came under fire again on Thursday, this time for his record on gay rights and remarks he made 14 years ago about an openly gay nominee for a diplomatic post.

Since Mr. Hagel’s name emerged as a candidate for the Pentagon last week, he has been sharply criticized for his record on Iran, Israel and militant groups like Hamas and Hezbollah, as well as comments he made about pro-Israel lobbying groups in Washington. The new round of criticism is focused on comments Mr. Hagel made in an interview about James C. Hormel, a San Francisco philanthropist nominated by President Bill Clinton to be ambassador to Luxembourg in 1997.

Mr. Hagel, a Republican and a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was approached by his fellow Nebraskan in the Senate, Bob Kerrey, on behalf of Mr. Hormel, whose nomination was being held up by conservative Republicans.

Mr. Hagel did not oppose the nomination when Mr. Hormel came before the panel. But he later spoke out against it, saying that an “openly, aggressively gay” man should not represent the United States.

“They are representing America,” Mr. Hagel said in an interview with The Omaha World-Herald. “They are representing our lifestyle, our values, our standards. And I think it is an inhibiting factor to be gay — openly, aggressively gay like Mr. Hormel — to do an effective job.”
516 2012-12-21 In an interview at his office here this week, Mr. Fayyad described Israel’s refusal to transfer the tax revenues as an “assault” on the Palestinians’ livelihood, immediately affecting one million Palestinians — more than 150,000 government employees and their dependents. He explained the boycott call as a logical response because the tax revenues are accrued on Palestinian trade with Israel.

“The reason Israel owes us money each month is because we import goods from Israel,” Mr. Fayyad said. “So it becomes a legitimate question for me to ask how to minimize the amount of our money that will be subject to Israel’s capricious behavior.”

But a boycott is unlikely to have any major impact on Israel’s finances, statistics show. According to a 2010 study by the research department of the Bank of Israel, a significant share of Israeli sales to the Palestinian economy in 2008, which amounted to around $3.2 billion, consisted of the transit trade of goods imported into Israel, including fuel, or goods with low added value to Israel’s economy.

Mr. Fayyad acknowledged that the boycott could, on the other hand, backfire against the Palestinians if, for instance, Israel decided to retaliate by banning Palestinian exports, which mostly go to Israel. So he has been treading carefully, emphasizing that the call is for a voluntary boycott, not a ban on imports, and it applies only to products that have a local alternative.

“This is a response in kind; it is meant to send a signal,” Mr. Fayyad said. “The right way to do things is to do them in a measured way.” He added, “As things stand right now, we could be exporting much more to Israel if it were not for the Israeli restrictions.”

Israel has withheld transfers of Palestinian tax revenues at least five times before, sometimes for weeks and, after the outbreak of the intifada in 2000, for two years. But this is the first time that Israel has used the money, which constitutes about two-thirds of the authority’s income, to pay off Palestinian debts without the consent of the authority.

Israel is engaged in a delicate balancing act since it does not have an interest in seeing the Palestinian Authority collapse, officials there have said. Decisions regarding the transfer of tax money in the coming months are pending, according to Israeli officials. In the weeks before the United Nations bid, they said, Israel advanced money to the Palestinian Authority in response to calls for help and to provide some relief ahead of a Muslim holiday.

Now Palestinian officials are pinning their hopes on the emir of Qatar, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, who is expected to make a rare visit to the West Bank in the coming weeks. When he visited Gaza in October, he pledged $400 million for projects in the area, which is controlled by Hamas, the Islamic militant group that rivals Fatah, which governs in the West Bank.

Despite the ire that boycott calls from abroad usually raise in Israel, Mr. Fayyad’s call seems so far to have gone barely noticed there, unlike two years ago, when Mr. Fayyad declared a ban on goods produced in Israeli settlements in the West Bank. Then, Israel’s deputy foreign minister, Danny Ayalon, said that images of Mr. Fayyad and others burning Israeli products on bonfires reminded him of darker periods in Jewish history.

Asked about the latest boycott call, Mark Regev, a spokesman for the Israeli government, said: “Boycotts are not going to solve anything. The reason for the current impasse in the peace talks is the Palestinian decision to boycott Israel and the negotiating table. What we need is not more boycotts, but more engagement.”

In the current climate of distrust, and with Israel’s recent announcements of plans for more settlement homes, many politically engaged Palestinians are already making a point of buying Palestinian, or at least not Israeli.

At a Christmas dinner hosted by Palestinian officials for diplomats and journalists in the West Bank town of Beit Jala this week, the local chicken and vegetables were accompanied by yogurt from Al Juneidi dairy in Hebron and Yanabee mineral water produced by the Palestinian Rural Development Company in the village of Beita, near Nablus.

Boycott advocates say that in the past few years, the number of Palestinian products available has proliferated. Aside from dairy products there are local lines of cleaning products, soaps and pharmaceuticals. High-end products like mozzarella are also being imported from other countries like Turkey.

Nour Odeh, a spokeswoman for the Fayyad government, attributed the growth in locally produced goods to the government’s fiscal and security policies.

“The commitment of the government to law and order has encouraged people to plan ahead,” she said. “Over time, it has produced a sense of stability.”

Yet at the Diamond Supermarket in central Ramallah, most of the products lining the shelves this week were Israeli or foreign. Many shoppers were skeptical about the boycott call, saying that the Palestinian products were limited and of inferior quality.

“When I buy I look for good quality products,” she said. “There is no good alternative.”
517 2012-12-21 Nike reported second-quarter results on Thursday that topped analysts’ forecasts, citing strong demand in North America.

Orders for Nike-branded shoes and clothing scheduled for delivery from December 2012 through April 2013, known as futures orders, were up 14 percent in North America, Nike’s most mature market. Its volume of orders also indicated steady worldwide demand for its products.

“In North America, we created great momentum. This is somewhat counterintuitive to some, given this market size and assumed maturity. But I see tremendous growth potential in North America,” Mark Parker, Nike’s chief executive, said in a call with analysts.

Worldwide orders for Nike, based in Beaverton, Ore., were up 6 percent, the same as last quarter.

“The biggest driver of this stock is usually futures orders. Last quarter, futures orders were lower than expected. This quarter they came in line, and North America was stronger than expected,” said Brian Yarbrough, consumer discretionary analyst for Edward Jones.

For the second quarter ended Nov. 30, the company earned $384 million, or $1.14 a share, from continuing operations. Analysts, on average, were expecting the company to earn $1 a share, according to Thomson Reuters.

Nike had been caught with excess inventory in important markets like China and was finding it difficult to tackle intense competition, while distributors and retailers remained wary in an uncertain economy.
518 2012-12-21 A Brief History of the New York Stock Exchange
519 2012-12-21 Although the study did not determine that the negative results were because of niacin, the conclusions will probably further call into question whether patients should continue to be prescribed long-acting niacin, which is most commonly sold in the United States as Niaspan, made by Abbott. Niacin is a type of B vitamin that is considered a drug when it is taken in higher doses.

Last year, a study of more than 3,000 patients by the National Institutes of Health found that Niaspan offered no benefit over the use of statins alone.

“The failure strongly suggests that niacin simply does not improve outcomes for patients,” said Dr. Steven Nissen, chairman of cardiovascular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, who was not involved in the Merck study. He said he would continue prescribing niacin to patients who were already on it and faring well, but would probably not prescribe it to new patients until he could see more details about Merck’s trial.

Another cardiologist, Dr. James A. de Lemos, said he would now recommend to patients using niacin that they stop taking it. He said that the study poked another hole in the once-promising theory that raising HDL, or “good” cholesterol, would lower a patient’s risk of heart disease.

“This is the death knell for niacin, for sure, but it really raises questions about the whole HDL hypothesis,” said Dr. de Lemos, a professor at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, who was also not involved in the study.

Two experimental drugs that raised good cholesterol levels failed to prevent heart disease in earlier studies. Merck and Lilly are testing two other medicines that raise HDL more sharply than niacin, which works differently in the body.

Pam Eisele, a spokeswoman for Merck, said the results from the Tredaptive study have no impact on the outlook of anacetrapib, Merck’s experimental drug. “We continue to believe that anacetrapib has the potential to be a significant innovation in lipid management,” she said.

Dr. Nissen, who heads the trial for Lilly’s drug, also cautioned against drawing overly broad conclusions. Each of the HDL-raising drugs works differently, he said. “HDL is exceedingly complex,” he added. Sales of Niaspan were $634 million in the first three quarters of 2012, a 12 percent decrease over the same period in 2011, according to Abbott’s quarterly report.

A spokeswoman for Abbott said the company was not familiar with the details of Merck’s study but that it would evaluate results as they became available. “Physicians are best placed to determine the appropriate use for the product as they know the needs of their individual patients,” said the spokeswoman, Tracy L. Sorrentino.

Merck, whose shares fell more than 3.4 percent in Thursday trading, said sales of Tredaptive were about $13 million over the first three quarters of this year.
520 2012-12-21 WASHINGTON — Forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad of Syria have resumed firing Scud ballistic missiles against rebel positions in recent days, American officials said on Thursday.

“We’ve been clear that we have seen the regime in Syria use Scud missiles against its own people, and that continues,” a senior State Department official said.

American officials said that was no indication that the missiles were armed with chemical weapons. They had no information on possible casualties.

Contacts inside Syria said that one Scud attack took place on Thursday near Marea, a town in a rebel-held area north of Aleppo near the Turkish border. The missile appeared to have missed its target, and the initial accounts were that nobody was hurt. American officials, who have been monitoring Mr. Assad’s military actions via aerial surveillance and other methods, did not corroborate those details but disclosed that the Scud firings, which they first reported last week, had resumed.

“We know they’ve been firing Scuds and continue to fire them,” said a Defense Department official.
521 2012-12-21 Asian shares and United States stock index futures fell sharply in early trading on Friday after a Republican proposal to fend off a fiscal crunch failed to get enough support, deepening uncertainty over prospects for negotiations to avert automatic spending cuts and tax increases set to start in January.

“Markets dislike signs of further delay in talks, with the risk that a deal may not be reached by the end-of-the-year deadline,” said Yuji Saito, director of foreign exchange at Credit Agricole in Tokyo. “It clearly hit risk sentiment.”

Assets that carried a risk of devaluation were sold off, from stock shares to oil to currencies like the Australian dollar and the euro, which fell while the Japanese yen rose slightly.

Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500- stock index fell 1.5 percent on worries over the breakdown.

Earlier on Thursday, global shares rose as lawmakers in Washington continued in their budget negotiations, but gold prices tumbled to their lowest level since August on a burst of year-end selling.

Wall Street rebounded from early losses, after the House speaker, John Boehner, said he would keep working on a solution to the budget negotiations. Republicans in the House pushed ahead with their own plan to avoid a series of tax increases and spending cuts expected next month, complicating negotiations with the White House. President Obama has vowed to veto the plan, which would raise taxes only on the wealthiest Americans.
522 2012-12-21 “For those who say having a timetable on our efforts in Afghanistan is counterproductive, the simple truth is this is our nation's longest war. We need to put the government and people of Afghanistan on notice that our present level of involvement will not continue indefinitely. While our withdrawal is ultimately conditions-based, conditions will never be perfect, and it is also useful to note that a date certain for withdrawal proved successful in Iraq.”  Op-ed in Foreign Policy, Sept. 4, 2012

“There is no right answer with Syria, but as we learned with Iraq, there could be a wrong answer with respect to what to do next, leading to dire consequences. It is unclear what will happen there, but whatever that may be, the United States is in a good position to help shape events in a way that will create conditions for a more stable and politically open Syria without Bashar al-Assad.”  Op-ed in Foreign Policy, Sept. 4, 2012

“The fact is, most Israelis and Palestinians still recognize that a two-state solution remains the only workable solution, and the only just solution. The demographics in Israel simply demand a two-state solution if it is to remain a Jewish democracy. Israelis are troubled by what they see as growing efforts to delegitimize Israel around the world. And while many Israelis are understandably gravely concerned about the existential threat posed by Iran – and the danger of a rearmed Hezbollah and Hamas – nothing will do more to undermine extremists and rejectionists than real progress towards peace with the Palestinians.”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing, March 4, 2010

Mr. Kerry has delivered mixed messages on the newly salient issue. “Nothing will do more to make clear our seriousness about turning the page than demonstrating – with actions rather than words – that we are serious about Israel freezing settlement activity in the West Bank.”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing, May 14, 2009 “I was opposed to the prolonged effort on the settlements in a public way because I never thought it would work and, in fact, we have wasted a year and a half on something that for a number of reasons was not achievable.” He continued, “The key is to get to the security and borders definition, and if you can get the borders definition you’ve solved the problem of the settlements.”  U.S.-Islamic World Forum, April 12, 2011

Attack on U.S. Mission in Benghazi “So balancing our values and our interests with the risks inherent in 21st-century diplomacy is sort of fundamental to the questions raised by the events in Benghazi, by what we’re here to talk about today. To paraphrase Ambassador Ryan Crocker, ‘We need to be in the business of risk management, not risk avoidance.’ So there are costs, but that’s no reason to retrench from the world, and it is I think a reason to honor the memory of Ambassador Stevens and the others who were deeply committed to a strong American role in the world. That’s why he was out there.”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing, Dec. 20, 2012

“We need to make certain we are not penny-wise and pound-foolish when it comes to supporting America's vital overseas interests. Adequately funding America's foreign policy objectives is not spending — it's investing in our long-term security, and more often than not it saves far more expensive expenditures in dollars and lives for the conflicts that we failed to see or avoid.”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee Hearing, Dec. 20, 2012

“China is an important partner of the United States in a lot of ways. It's also a major investor in the United States. So I don't think that we're here to rupture that relationship. I think we're here to send a message to the Chinese about the urgent need to repair it. We want a mutually beneficial partnership, an equitable partner that will pay dividends for both countries, and I believe if we listen to each other and work in good faith we can make that happen, and we can enter into a better framework of cooperation that inures to the benefit and the stability and the leadership demands of both of our countries.”  Senate floor speech on a bill on Chinese currency, Oct. 6, 2011

“It’s no secret that last year was a very challenging one in our relationship in the U.S.-Pakistan axis. Many Pakistanis believe that America will simply once again abandon the region as we did after the fall of the Soviet Union, which is one reason why Pakistan continues to hedge its bets and rely on certain insurgent groups for strategic depth. ... Despite many of our frustrations and setbacks, serious policy makers on both sides understand that we have more to gain by finding common ground and working together on areas of mutual concern — and those are clearly from fighting terrorism to facilitating economic development.”  Senate Foreign Relations Committee hearing, July 31, 2012
523 2012-12-22 Pictures From the Week in Business
524 2012-12-22 A federal judge on Friday blocked a new state law requiring insurers to offer policies excluding birth control coverage because it conflicts with a federal law mandating such coverage. Judge Audry G. Fleissig of Federal District Court issued a temporary restraining order against the law, which was enacted in September when the Legislature overrode a veto by Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat. The law requires insurers to issue policies without contraception coverage if birth control runs contrary to the beliefs of an individual or an employer. The law appeared to be the first in the nation to directly rebut an Obama administration policy requiring insurers to cover birth control at no additional cost. The judge said there “appears to be an irreconcilable conflict” between the state and federal laws.
525 2012-12-22 Sexual assaults reported by students at the three military academies jumped 23 percent last school year, underscoring what Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta said was a persistent problem that required a “strong and immediate response” from the services. Eighty cases of sexual assault were reported by cadets and midshipmen during the 2011-12 academic year, compared with 65 the previous year, the Pentagon said on Friday in its annual report on sexual harassment and violence at the academies. Four of the victims were men. It was the third straight year of increases, from a low of 25 in 2009. Before that, reported sexual assault cases had fallen regularly from 42 in 2006, when the Pentagon first began tracking such reports. Mr. Panetta said he had asked the services to identify ways to advance a climate of “dignity and respect” and report to him by the end of March. The findings drew concern from lawmakers and interest groups that track the issue. Representative Niki Tsongas, Democrat of Massachusetts, said that while the increase could be attributed partly to improved conditions that encourage the reporting of assaults, it also showed that the problem persists.
526 2012-12-22 “Judges Needed for Federal Courts” (“The Second Term” series, editorial, Dec. 13) correctly observes that the federal judicial selection process is broken and that Republicans have primary responsibility for delayed confirmations, especially of well-qualified consensus appellate and district court nominees. The difficulty has been G.O.P. departure from traditions honored as recently as the George W. Bush administration.

Republicans have slowly entered agreements for Senate floor votes and abandoned the longstanding practice of bundling together packages of numerous qualified uncontroversial district nominees for votes immediately before Senate recesses. Since August 2009, there have been at least 70 and as many as 110 vacancies.

The G.O.P. can begin to rectify this situation by agreeing to up-or-down votes on the 14 qualified appellate and district nominees, most of whom received Judiciary Committee approval with minimal substantive opposition. These have languished on the floor for months. For his part, President Obama should assign selection higher priority and continue submitting well-qualified nominees in a timely manner that facilitates expeditious Senate consideration.

The writer is a professor of law at the University of Richmond.
527 2012-12-22 What he’s been saying is that Samsung has surpassed Apple as the leading handset maker; apps have become more important than the devices that carry them; and handsets are increasingly being evaluated on their ability to access the cloud and interact with other devices — trends that he believes put Apple at a long-term disadvantage.

“When I predicted Samsung would be the market leader in unit sales, people wanted to sue me for slander,” Mr. Zabitsky said. “But Samsung has not only surpassed Apple in sales, it’s out-innovating Apple. Have you seen the new Galaxy Note II? It’s amazing.”

And Apple’s stumble over its maps application for the iPhone 5, which led to a rare apology in September, illustrated both the growing power of apps and the company’s fallibility. Mr. Zabitsky said he didn’t fault Apple for developing its own maps app, but criticizes its decision to supplant Google Maps on the iPhone 5. “It wasn’t ready for prime time,” he said of Apple’s version. (Google said iPhone users downloaded 10 million copies of Google maps app for the iPhone in just 48 hours after it became available last week.)

Of course, the recent slide in Apple’s shares could turn out to be a rare buying opportunity, a mere blip in the stock’s rise to new heights. Fifty of 57 analysts still rate it a strong buy or buy, and Mr. Zabitsky remains the lone analyst with a sell recommendation. His target price is $270, unchanged since February. “The trends I’ve mentioned still haven’t played out,” he said. “I know people don’t want to hear that, but my job as an analyst isn’t to make people feel good.”

‘THE VOICE’ There were plenty of skeptics when NBC introduced its singing competition “The Voice” in April 2011. No wonder: NBC was the long-struggling fourth-place network, and the reality-competition juggernaut “American Idol” on Fox was firmly ensconced at the top of the ratings, with Simon Cowell’s hotly anticipated “X-Factor” waiting in the wings.

“The Voice” proved a surprise hit, displacing “Idol” last March as network television’s No. 1 show. But even then, critics dismissed it as a fluke that benefited from the halo effect of the Super Bowl, which ran on NBC. And some TV executives ridiculed NBC’s decision to use “The Voice” as a lead-in for a new dramatic series, “Smash,” about the making of a Broadway musical, which they deemed too sophisticated to appeal to a broad network audience. NBC executives were cautious. “We’re not going to move to second place, let alone first, just on this show,” Steve Burke, NBCUniversal’s chief executive, told me in March.

“The Voice” completed its latest season with a two-hour live installment on Tuesday and delivered an average of 14.1 million viewers, a record for the show’s finale. Against long odds, and thanks in large part to “The Voice,” NBC was the No. 1 network during the November ratings sweeps for viewers 11 to 49 years old, the group most sought-after by advertisers. NBC had a 23 percent gain in viewers compared to a decline at every other network. NBC has now been the top network for viewers 11 to 49 for 10 of the last 12 weeks, something that hadn’t happened in nearly a decade.

NBC executives are pinching themselves. “We were a distant fourth last year,” Bob Greenblatt, the chairman of NBC Entertainment, told me just before “The Voice” finale. “We would have been happy to be a solid No. 3. To be No. 1 or tied for No. 1 every week, that’s almost unbelievable.”

NBC has made the most of “The Voice’s” visibility to introduce new shows. The critically acclaimed “Smash” is returning for a second season in February after defying skeptics and emerging last season in a tie for the top-rated drama in its 10 p.m. time slot. And NBC has used “The Voice” to expose audiences to its shows “Revolution” and “Go On,” which are this season’s No. 1 new drama and comedy. Two other new shows, “Chicago Fire” and “The New Normal,” have also performed well. “ ‘The Voice’ has done exactly what we hoped for and more,” Mr. Greenblatt said.

Can NBC sustain its newfound success? Next year the network is producing two cycles of “The Voice,” leading to concerns about overexposure. And because of scheduling issues, it’s tampering with the formula, shuffling its popular hosts and adding the pop stars Usher and Shakira to the lineup. But Mr. Greenblatt is confident the show’s producer, Mark Burnett, a reality TV legend, can pull off the balancing act. “We’re very mindful that we don’t want to kill the goose,” Mr. Greenblatt said.

REPLACEMENTS LTD. Bob Page, the gay North Carolina entrepreneur who transformed an interest in flea markets into an $80 million-a-year used-tableware business, Replacements Ltd., had despaired of ever being able to marry in his home state. After his company openly opposed a state constitutional amendment banning gay marriage — the only company in North Carolina that did — angry customers wrote e-mails and letters and said they would never buy from his company again. Others at the company worried about his safety. In May, North Carolina voters overwhelmingly approved the ban, now enshrined in the state’s constitution.

But since word of his stand and the hostile reaction spread, Mr. Page said, he has received over 5,000 e-mails and letters, nearly all of them positive, and has replied to almost all of them. “I’ve been amazed,” he said recently. “We’ve literally had responses from all over the world, as far away as Hong Kong. People have written to say they’re leaving their china and silver to us in their wills. A woman in San Francisco, who isn’t gay, placed a $20,000 order.” Even a best-selling novelist took up the cause: “Anne Rice put us on her Facebook page, and she has over 600,000 followers. Our sales had been a little lackluster, but now business is up substantially.”

Even so, “life isn’t about money,” Mr. Page said, adding that he’s “elated” over the nationwide advance of the cause he supported. In November, voters in four states backed gay marriage. In contrast to what happened in North Carolina, major corporations like Amazon, Starbucks and Nike backed the campaigns. In May, President Obama became the first president to support gay marriage. Mr. Page, his partner, Dale Frederiksen, and their twin sons were invited to a White House Christmas party. And this month, the Supreme Court agreed to hear cases challenging the federal Defense of Marriage Act, which deprives married gay couples of federal benefits and recognition, and Proposition 8, which bans gay marriage in California.

“I’m thrilled and I’m scared to death,” Mr. Page said of the Supreme Court’s decision to hear the cases. “I’ve done a lot of reading and in my heart, I think Justice Kennedy will do the right thing.” (Justice Anthony Kennedy is widely perceived as a potential swing vote on the issue.) “He wrote the opinion that overturned the anti-sodomy laws, and that gives me great hope.”

Should the Supreme Court rule that state bans on gay marriage are unconstitutional, it might mean that Mr. Page and Mr. Frederiksen can be married in North Carolina. “That may be too much to hope for,” Mr. Page said. “But the country is moving forward. I know we’ll get there.”
528 2012-12-22 WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency on Friday issued long-delayed new air pollution standards for industrial boilers, incinerators and cement kilns. The rules provide significant concessions to industry and allow several additional years for full compliance in an effort to minimize job and economic impacts, officials said.

The new standards for the first time set numerical limits on emissions of mercury, acid gas and small-particle pollution for a small subset of the nation’s 1.5 million industrial boilers. The agency, which has come under withering criticism from Congressional Republicans for what they contend is regulatory overreach, emphasized that the standards were drafted after extensive consultation with industry groups and local officials.

The agency said that the rules would affect fewer than 1 percent of industrial boilers, and that the others either would not be covered by the regulations or can meet the standards by performing routine maintenance.

The agency said that the rules would prevent as many as 8,100 premature deaths and 52,000 asthma attacks a year by limiting emissions of lung-scarring particles and toxic pollutants. The agency is giving boiler operators at least three years to meet the standards.

The boilers are generally small-scale power and heat plants found at refineries, chemical plants, manufacturing facilities, hospitals, universities and paper mills.
529 2012-12-22 Now that the college football bowl season has kicked off — four games down, a mere 31 to go — we should all pause, put down our Bud Lights and reflect on what this annual ritual reveals about our nation’s soul.

Let’s start by considering the dozens of brand names being spray-painted onto fields and beamed onto television screens, including BBVA Compass, GoDaddy.com, Gildan, AdvoCare V100, R+L Carriers, TaxSlayer.com, Vizio and Belk. I have no idea what any of those things are, or what they do, or why I should want to pay money for them. I’m at least slightly familiar with a few of this year’s bowl sponsors, including Allstate, Tostitos, AT&T, Little Caesars, AutoZone, Bell Helicopter, Kraft, Sheraton and Chick-fil-A. I’m making an undereducated guess that Beef ‘O’ Brady’s and Buffalo Wild Wings have something to do with pub grub, and I’m fairly sure that Capital One and Discover provide the kind of cutting-edge financial services guaranteed to make my wallet thinner. The only sponsors that spell it out in plain English are the San Diego County Credit Union, Meineke Car Care and Franklin American Mortgage.

Many fans of college football, those quaint dinosaurs known as purists, bemoan this tsunami of commercialism. They pine for the good old days when there were only a handful of bowl games, and they fed off long-standing rivalries between powerhouse teams, and they were named for actual physical things that had some regional association, things like roses, cotton, sugar, oranges and the bluebonnet — Texas’ state flower, not the margarine. Nowadays, these dinosaurs complain, the selling of sponsorship rights to corporations for obscene sums has turned the bowl season into a tossed salad of generic, mysterious and ever-changing ingredients. To top it off, universities that send their teams to the less prestigious bowls frequently lose money or barely break even.

This branding binge is telling us a couple of things. On a metaphorical level, it’s telling us we’re no longer a nation that grows tangible things like cotton and sugar; we’ve instead become a nation of marketers seeking to grow vaporous things known as brands. And on a linguistic level, it’s telling us that people in the world of branding have a funny way of talking.

As I’d suspected, this year’s Buffalo Wild Wings Bowl, pitting Texas Christian (7-5) against Michigan State (6-6) — yawn — is being sponsored by a Minnesota-based chain of sports-themed restaurants. The company, which has nearly 900 locations in 49 states and Canada, has an employee called the executive vice president for global marketing and brand development. Her name is Kathy Benning. As she told The Phoenix Business Journal when the company announced the sponsorship deal last summer: “We look forward to entering the college bowl arena as the title sponsor of this progressive property. It aligns our growing brands and provides tremendous opportunity to interact with our guests, who we know are passionate about football.”

And here’s Frank Muir, chief executive of the Idaho Potato Commission, explaining his group’s decision to take over sponsorship of the game in Boise now known as the Famous Idaho Potato Bowl: “We’ve got a national campaign pounding the fact that potatoes are good for you.”
530 2012-12-23 Amar'e Stoudemire, who had surgery on his left knee seven weeks ago, will not play Sunday when the Knicks host the Timberwolves....
531 2012-12-23 Food was important to my mother, and I grew up eating Ouefs à la Neige and celebrating Christmas with bûche de Noël. So why do I serve my children corn dogs?...
532 2012-12-23 Jimmy McCracklin, a blues singer and pianist who by his count composed nearly a thousand songs and recorded hundreds, including the 1950s hit “The Walk,” died on Thursday in San Pablo, Calif. He was 91.

Mr. McCracklin’s music spanned decades and eras of rhythm and blues, from up-tempo jump blues of the 1940s to soul of the 1960s and ’70s. Though his music eventually reached a national audience, he was most identified with the West Coast blues scene — so much so that his obituary appeared on the front page of The San Francisco Chronicle on Friday.

His best-known record is probably “The Walk,” a jubilant dance number he recorded for Checker Records while he and his band, the Blues Blasters, were in Chicago. The song was his first national hit after more than a decade of recording. He performed the song on Dick Clark’s “American Bandstand” television show, and it reached No. 7 on the Billboard pop chart in 1958.

Considered a rock ’n’ roll classic, “The Walk” has been recorded by a number of musicians, including the Beatles, whose brief, unreleased version was made during the sessions in early 1969 that eventually yielded the “Let It Be” album.

Mr. McCracklin was not a one-hit wonder, though. He released more than 20 albums and wrote and recorded popular tunes like “Think,” “Just Got to Know,” “Shame, Shame, Shame” and “My Answer.”
533 2012-12-23 Nonetheless, Mr. Kramer acknowledged the need for new water sources and for a private sector role.

Private entities have become increasingly active in selling groundwater to public suppliers. In the most prominent such deal, Mesa Water signed a deal last year to sell $103 million of groundwater rights in the Panhandle to the Canadian River Municipal Water Authority, which provides water to Lubbock and Amarillo. The water authority needed new supplies as Lake Meredith, a reservoir north of Amarillo, dried up.

But the Tomlin partnership — with the Angelina & Neches River Authority, a public entity that manages water supplies for a swath of East Texas — is highly unusual for handling surface water, according to Ronald A. Kaiser, who heads Texas A&M University’s water program. Whereas groundwater can be pumped and sold by private landowners with relative ease, surface water projects are costly and time-consuming, which is why they have traditionally been built by governments at all levels.

The Lake Columbia deal, announced last month, allows Tomlin to put up 47 percent of the cost of building a reservoir in exchange for the rights to 47 percent of its water. Tomlin plans to pull in an additional financial partner, which would share in the water rights.

Construction costs are projected at $330 million for the reservoir, which would provide water for 150,000 Dallas-Fort Worth area households and some industrial users.

“We haven’t seen large-scale private investment in infrastructure like this,” Professor Kaiser said. “Lake Columbia is really an unprecedented development.” (Texas A&M University is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)

The Lake Columbia partnership and other forays by the private sector into municipal water development come as cities’ water supplies, and financing, are running dry.

“The fiscal condition the country is in, down to municipality X, Y and Z, makes it very difficult for traditional funding to happen,” said Bill West, general manager of the Guadalupe-Blanco River Authority, a water district based in Seguin. “There’s no way for the state to finance all the water infrastructure it needs.”

The river authority is considering its own public-private partnership for a plant along the gulf coast that would desalinate seawater and produce power. The Brazos River Authority and the City of Odessa are two examples of public entities interested in similar partnerships to build plants to desalinate either brackish groundwater or seawater. The expense of developing these new water sources — often hundreds of millions of dollars — makes local utilities eager for private capital. The private groups, for their part, are interested in profits and also in the water.

Kelley Holcomb, general manager for the Angelina & Neches River Authority, said that tight budgets made navigating expensive and lengthy permit processes for a reservoir impossible under traditional financing arrangements. Mr. Holcomb added that a final administrative step for the Lake Columbia project — a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers — could cost up to $13 million. “Local folks just don’t have the cash for that,” he said.

But the high costs can also be a barrier for private firms. Professor Kaiser said that even as private entities known as water marketers rush to sell groundwater to cities, public entities still typically build the expensive pipelines that carry the water.

Private water groups have long occupied another niche in Texas: selling water to rural communities. Recently, those companies have come under scrutiny from the Legislature for their rates. David Burghard, a Hays County resident, told a legislative committee last month that his water rates rose more than 200 percent in February and that he was concerned there would be “no limits.” The private companies counter that they are pouring millions of dollars into upgrading water infrastructure.

Some experts say concerns about private sector transparency are overstated. Tom Pankratz, the editor of Global Water Intelligence, a publication covering the international water market, said a public-private partnership in areas like desalination “doesn’t mean the private sector owns the water rights and can hold them hostage. The contracts are written specifically to protect both the city and private interests, but especially the city.”

Control over water sources is not the only issue critics raise against the private sector. Increased costs are also a concern. According to Mr. West, of the Guadalupe-Blanco River Authority, the authority recently considered two other public-private partnerships, but refused to do so because the firms involved wanted a higher profit margin than the public was willing to pay.

“I think there is a role for the private sector in water development,” he said. “But in my opinion, they have to realize a reasonable rate of return for mayors and municipalities may not be the same as it is for businesses.”

Gabriel Eckstein, the director of the International Water Law Project and a professor at Texas Wesleyan University School of Law, said consumers may need to adjust their expectations about water costs. Water rates in most places are “dirt cheap,” he said, and when rates are raised, it is often to offset the enormous costs associated with water development.

“We don’t consider water at its true value and the true costs to bring it to the tap,” Professor Eckstein said. “I agree water has a special character — it’s the main ingredient for life — but it still costs.”
534 2012-12-23 If people already rationally expect these tax increases, this signal would do neither good nor harm, but perhaps such an approach would nudge political expectations closer to reality without draining the economy.

With such a deal, President Obama would get much of what he wants, which many Republicans find objectionable. Still, the Republicans are in any case unlikely to win this round of budget negotiations. The positioning suggested here would highlight the major weakness and, indeed, an evasion in the Obama administration’s fiscal stance — namely, the president’s campaign pledge to protect the middle class from income tax increases. It is commonly agreed that raising taxes on the wealthy alone will close only a small part of our fiscal gap over the next 10 years; an estimate of 15 percent is optimistic.

It could also be agreed that taxes could come back down in the future, but only if politicians found matching spending cuts.

Think of this stance as a first step toward the explicit pairing of spending and taxes, toward a goal of more responsible fiscal decisions. Although taxes would go up for now, this could lead to a smaller, more effective government than our current mismatch of taxes and spending would produce.

Economic conservatives often stress the connection between low taxes and smaller government. But that observation, as an argument for lower current taxes, looks weaker as the years pass. Keeping taxes low doesn’t stop the growth of government spending and, indeed, makes spending taste like a free lunch, because the bill is paid much later. The conservative strategy has long been to hold the line on taxes now, but it would be better to encourage the public to more readily grasp and internalize the costs of government spending.

There is something to be said for “pricing” big government by making an explicit connection to taxes, much the way utilities explicitly price water and electricity. And higher tax revenue now will decrease the extent to which interest on the debt consumes future budgets — and that probably means lower taxes in the future. Counterintuitively, raising tax rates sooner rather than later may be the true “low-tax policy” because it may increase the chance of limiting future taxes.

In the minds of many moderate and independent voters, the Republicans are currently identified with dysfunctional politics. But this proposal would let them take a credible stand against obstructionism. If the president didn’t like such a deal, he would be the naysayer, and the resulting publicity would shine a bright spotlight on the tax-and-spend mismatch. Suddenly, it would be the Republicans emphasizing the classic American line that “we are all in this together.”

OF course, the notion of tolerating — and especially endorsing — any tax increase is anathema to many of President Obama’s opponents. But keep in mind that possible alternatives, like another debt-ceiling debacle or an agreement that panders to our fiscal illusions, would probably be worse for both the economy and the longer-term reputation of the Republican Party.

In our country, the typical approach to fiscal deadlines is to kick the can down the road. But that assumes we are kicking a can, not a grenade. It’s time for at least one party — and why not the electoral loser? — to do something just a little shocking. It can give in on much of the negotiations, but insist that both sides start stressing the fiscal truth.
535 2012-12-23 Perhaps this is not surprising, given that almost no one in the private sector has been held responsible for misdeeds during the mania. But regulators should operate with a higher sense of duty to the taxpayers they serve. When they fail in that regard, there should be consequences.

SOLVE THE RATINGS MESS Why not ensure that investors get all the information they need to conduct extensive due diligence before agreeing to buy complex securities? This may be the only way to blunt the credit ratings agencies’ power or, better, make them disappear.

Five years after investors suffered billions of dollars in mortgage losses owing to the incompetence of Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s, it is beyond frustrating that these agencies still conduct their businesses as usual. And while the Dodd-Frank law was supposed to reduce the government’s reliance on credit ratings, that goal has not been achieved. Reform of the industry seems to have stalled.

The ratings agencies have also managed to continue hiding behind the defense that their ratings are opinions and subject to First Amendment protection from litigants. Being subject to lawsuits for their failures would surely encourage these companies to be more diligent. Maybe some of the ratings-agency suits inching through the courts will get rid of this free speech fiction once and for all.

MAKE LEADERS LEAD Finally, wouldn’t it be nice if executives acted like leaders and accepted responsibility for the actions of their companies and their employees?

This dream came to mind while reading a deposition of Angelo R. Mozilo, the founder of Countrywide Financial. His testimony took place in June 2011 but was filed two weeks ago with the New York State court that is hearing a suit brought against Countrywide by M.B.I.A., the mortgage insurer.

Mr. Mozilo is rarely heard from these days. So his views on the collapse of his company and industry are of interest.

Early in the deposition, the lawyer for M.B.I.A asked this of Mr. Mozilo: “After all the foreclosures and ruined lives and lawsuits, including the losses to M.B.I.A., do you have any regrets about the way you ran Countrywide?”

An excellent question, given the carnage that Countrywide left behind.

But not to Mr. Mozilo, who answered with a version of history that is his alone. “This is a matter of record,” he said. “The cause of the problems of foreclosures is not created by Countrywide, nor M.B.I.A. This is all about an unprecedented, cataclysmic situation, unprecedented in the history of this country. Values in this country dropped 50 percent.”

He continued by noting the financial misery at many banks, as well as at companies like A.I.G. and institutions like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.

“This is not caused by any act of Countrywide or by any act of M.B.I.A.,” he said. “It was caused by an event that was unforeseen by anyone, because if anybody foresaw it, you would never have insured it, we would never have originated the loan. And it spread across the world. So that’s the issue. All these lawsuits is — was created by nothing that anyone did, any one company did. Any judgment made on a foreclosure — on a loan being made is because values deteriorated.

“And for the first time in the history of this country, people decided that they were going to leave their homes because the value of their home was below the mortgage amount,” Mr. Mozilo said. “Never in the history of this country did that ever happen, and that could never have been assessed in the risk profile. These people didn’t lose their jobs. They didn’t lose their health. They didn’t lose their marriage. Those are the three factors that cause foreclosure. They left their home because the values went below the mortgage. That’s what caused the problem.

“So I have no regrets about how I — how Countrywide was run. It was a world-class company,” Mr. Mozilo went on. “So your tirade about foreclosures and lawsuits is nonsensical and insulting. Countrywide did not cause this problem. We made no loans in Greece. We made no loans in Ireland. We made no loans in Portugal. This is a worldwide financial crisis that was totally a shock to the system.”

Mr. Mozilo’s state of denial is pretty breathtaking. He did a fine job. That’s his story, and he’s sticking to it. Shareholders of Bank of America, who have shouldered billions of liabilities in its acquisition of Countrywide, might feel a bit differently.
536 2012-12-23 Melissa Hamilton is an Irish ballerina who is currently dancing the role of the Sugar Plum Fairy in The Royal Ballet’s production of “The Nutcracker” in London.

READING When I was rehearsing last month for the young sister in “Las Hermanas,” I read Federico García Lorca’s play “The House of Bernarda Alba,” as this is what the choreographer, Kenneth MacMillan, based the ballet on. I find it helpful when building a character to go to the literature. The story ends in catastrophe and the young sister kills herself. I actually wanted to do the hanging but another member of the company has to stand in for me because if I had to hang myself, I wouldn’t have been able to be onstage for the curtain calls.

Like all the other females around the world, I was also reading “Fifty Shades of Grey.” I thought it was terribly written — really awful in terms of the literature, but it was entertainment. And I just started reading “The Great Gatsby,” and find I’m quite drawn to the story line. It would be a fantastic ballet.

LISTENING In the dressing room before performances, we tend to put someone’s iPod on and let it shuffle through. We play Rihanna a lot. We’re all big fans. I’m addicted to Flo Rida’s “Wild Ones” at the minute. I tend to latch onto a song and listen to it over and over and then won’t be able to ever listen to it again. If I’m feeling down, I’ll listen to the album “Sawdust” by The Killers or “O” by Damien Rice.

WATCHING I’m hopeless when it comes to the television series “The Vampire Diaries.” And the last film I saw at the cinema was the last of “The Twilight Saga.” So it’s safe to say I am a fan of the whole vampire craze. Maybe it’s the fact that they never grow old and they’re kind of untouchable. It’s dark but kind of sexy at the same time. I also watch a lot of ballet on YouTube. It’s the best way to see what is going on in the world of ballet and be inspired, not only from the present day but from the talent that has been in the past.

WEARING I did a film project which celebrated Matthew Williamson’s 15 years in the fashion industry, and as a thank-you got to choose an item from his Bruton Street store. I saw his Neon Blossom Weave shoes and immediately fell in love. I love heels. I think because our feet are such an important part of our career, dancers kind of like to wear a really nice shoe that may be totally outrageous or extravagant. We’re showing off our tool in a way.
537 2012-12-23 “These cats are so well taken care of,” he said, “but because there is a book, and this book tells us that exhibited animals need to be kept this way, we have been put through this.”

Mr. Marowski is pondering whether to appeal to the .

In his view, the tale of the Hemingway cats is nothing more than federal regulation run roughshod over the myriad local and state laws that govern domesticated animals. The cats, most of which bear the names of famous people, have long received weekly veterinarian visits, and a vast majority are spayed or neutered.

The cats eat well, are free to lounge on Hemingway’s furniture (because it is also their house), and even have their own cemetery near the , where lies buried within arms’ reach of Zsa Zsa Gabor and where is one sultry glance from Mr. (it is Key West, after all).

In fact, when the Agriculture Department sent People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals to assess the situation in 2005, the group’s investigator concluded: “What I found was a bunch of fat, happy and relaxed cats. God save the cats.”

The appellate court agreed that “the museum has always kept, fed and provided weekly veterinary care for the Hemingway cats.” In their ruling, the three judges even injected a dose of understanding.

“We appreciate the museum’s somewhat unique situation, and we sympathize with its frustration,” the ruling states. “Nevertheless, it is not the court’s role to evaluate the wisdom of federal regulations.”

At the moment, the museum is unaffected by the ruling. That is because it reached a settlement with the department in 2008 that granted the museum an exhibitors’ license so long as it extended the height of the fence, added a few special bowls designed to drown bugs and upgraded its cat shelters.

But Mr. Marowski said that did not mean the fight was over. The museum, he said, would be subject to any changes in regulation, any one of which could upend the museum and the cats.

“We are now at the whim of the agency,” said his lawyer, Cara Higgins.

David Sacks, a spokesman for the Agriculture Department, said the agency was simply following the law, which also covers team mascots, for example, and is meant to ensure proper daily care. Cruelty is not the threshold, he said. The agency must also track things like toxic peeling paint or rodent infestation.

“If the animal is covered by the act, we don’t draw distinctions,” he said. “We regulate them.”

The dispute began in 2003 after a museum volunteer and cat lover filed a complaint with the department after an aggressive cat wandered from the property. The agency concluded that the museum needed to follow federal regulations on exhibiting animals. But the museum argued that the cats are born and bred at the house, that they seldom wander beyond the grounds and that it is Mr. Hemingway’s legacy — not the cats — that serve as the main attraction.

“If we had a six-toed cat zoo, we wouldn’t get those numbers,” Ms. Higgins said.

But the agency disagreed. It sent in an animal behavioral specialist to index the cats and analyze the situation. Undercover agents were then sent in 2005 and 2006 to observe the cats and surreptitiously photograph their movements. One photo shows a gray cat sitting on the pavement. It carries the caption: “Picture of six-toed cat taken in restaurant/bar at end of Whalton Lane and Duval. May or may not be a Hemingway Home and Museum cat.”

“It’s silliness; it just got insane,” Ms. Higgins said. “This is what your dollars are paying for. The agents are coming down here on vacation, going to bars and taking pictures of cats.”

At one point, the agency recommended a night watchman for the cats. It later threatened to confiscate them. A federal judge in the case even led an impromptu field trip to the museum; federal marshals cleared a path of tourists for the suit-wearing contingent. The legal back-and-forth filled six boxes.

The rumpus has caused no consternation in the lives of the Hemingway cats (and there is a question as to whether Hemingway ever even owned a six-toed cat, but that is another story).

One recent afternoon, a furry Lionel Barrymore nibbled on kibble then hopped off a rock and sauntered away. Hairy Truman sprawled languorously on the patio table, soaking up rubs. And Francis, named for a 2004 hurricane that hit Key West, nestled comfortably on Papa’s pillow as guests oohed and aahed.

Some took as much delight in the Hemingway cats as they did in Hemingway lore.

“Hemingway gets you here the first time,” said Elizabeth Zettler, 28, who visits every year from , Fla., as she zoomed her lens in tight on Francis. “But the cats keep us coming back.”
538 2012-12-23 Credit: Piotr Redlinski for The New York Times
539 2012-12-23 Every time you’re ready to declare a new movie a “masterwork,” go back and take another look at “Sunrise” or “The Rules of the Game” and ask yourself whether that appellation is in fact justified. The thing about great movies (or great paintings or great novels) is that they’re so few and far between that their accidental discovery makes the whole process of moviegoing eminently worthwhile. And I use the word “accidental” advisedly: not even all of Murnau’s work was great, nor all of Renoir’s. And certainly not all of Spielberg’s. STU FREEMAN, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com

Most people these days are not interested in much beyond their little hand-held blue screens. Going to a movie has become unenjoyable — I am distracted everywhere by those little rectangular fireflies. I have started to retreat to my private world in which I can enjoy film as I remember it from my youth: dark, quiet and solitary. I can marvel at the last scene in “Throne of Blood” knowing that those arrows were not propelled by any C.G.I. team or that Burt Lancaster did all of his own stunts in “The Train.” Harrison Ford still has what it takes to be an action star as Indiana Jones. Who needs therapy when I have “A Day at the Races” or “The Music Box”? DONALD WAITS, New Orleans, posted on nytimes.com

Cable is already obsolete. Rather than paying exorbitant fees for a service that many don’t fully utilize, it makes more sense to view the programs à la carte over the Internet. Young people know this, even if not all of us oldsters do. The real danger is that the Internet monopolies, which are the same as the cable monopolies, will try to recapture their profits and maintain their monopolies through bandwidth caps. They have already positioned themselves to do this by imposing caps so high that few customers are affected; now all they need to do is tighten the limits. It is urgently important that the government treat these companies as regulated monopolies and ban them from placing limits on bandwidth. Content providers should offer good shows for a reasonable fee — and people will pay for these. But if the monopolists keep the price too high, the black market in pirated shows will thrive. JOSHUA P. HILL, New London, Conn., posted on nytimes.com

I used to be one of those 20-somethings who scoured the Internet for free torrents. But the pain of downloading viruses, dummy files and the annoying pop-ups has made me gladly go to Amazon and pay $1.99 an episode. I wish Showtime and other networks would give you an option to pay or subscribe directly to episodes through their Web sites. I imagine the bandwidth/server costs will be expensive at first, but folks like me are game. I don’t want to commit to paying for cable. But for instant self-selected gratification, I’m willing to pay by the episode and season directly to the networks. SHARENCARE, Boston, posted on nytimes.com

Chuck Klosterman claims that knowingly patronizing a business that employs illegal immigrants is not unethical. Although Klosterman admits illegal immigrants may take jobs from American workers, he asks, “Who is to say citizenship is a moral justification for employment?” He seems not to realize that businesses exploiting illegal immigrants can outcompete law-abiding businesses. The weight of all that should be sufficient to make knowingly patronizing such businesses unethical. DAVID C. HOLZMAN, Lexington, Mass.

If you examined the ethics (and morals) of every business you patronized, I think you’d find almost all of them do something or believe in something that you object to. Why does Chick-fil-A’s stance on gay marriage matter in terms of whether we should eat their chicken? I’m not sure, but to some it most certainly does matter. BOBBY CALISE, New York, posted on nytimes.com

At the end of Andrew Goldman’s interview, Dinesh D’Souza says, “Imprudent is not the same thing as wrong.” Oh, that may be so true! But in this case, it’s surely the same thing as knuckleheaded. NANCY DONNELLY, Washington, D.C.
540 2012-12-24 “Parental Guidance,” a new comedy with Billy Crystal, is about a minor-league baseball announcer who, after he’s canned for being an old shtick in the mud (he doesn’t tweet), develops a new relationship with his daughter and grandkids. Actually, he teaches everyone a lot of lessons — it’s revenge of the geezer — allowing him to have his curmudgeonly cake and eat it too. Mostly, though, “Parental Guidance” is what families who are desperate to get out of the house over the holidays and need to bridge the generational divide will see after they’ve seen “Les Misérables.”

It could be worse, and would be without Bette Midler or Marisa Tomei. Ms. Midler plays Diane, the saint married to Mr. Crystal’s Artie Decker. The kooky Diane is first seen, halfheartedly and fully clothed, working a stripper pole in her living room alongside her gal pals. (They seem to have brought their own.) Before Artie’s early retirement can kick in, their daughter, Alice (Ms. Tomei), phones and asks if Grandma and Grandpa can baby-sit her three children while she and her husband, Phil (Tom Everett Scott), take a trip. Diane is delighted, Artie dubious, but they pack up and descend with inappropriate gifts (Artie gives out bobblehead figures of himself), life lessons and a hands-on parenting philosophy that encompasses criminal negligence and Dr. Spock-style common sense.

Written by Lisa Addario and Joe Syracuse, and directed with snap by Andy Fickman, “Parental Guidance” hits its familiar buttons hard and often. Alice and her family live in a so-called smart house that comes with a talking computer that turns on appliances, greets the family and serves as a strained metaphor for what ails this brood. Alice and Phil have delegated, or perhaps surrendered, some of the basic chores of life to the computer, an early signal that these Apache helicopter parents have created a somewhat inauthentic life for their children. Diane and especially Artie (who’s so technologically clueless he has trouble answering a phone) respond to this newfangled alienation by plying the tots with sugar, a round of kick-the-can and the unaccustomed sound of the word “no.”

Does it work? You betcha. There are smiles and tears, love and affirmations, a few funny jokes and a lot of easy sentimentality. At one point Artie and Diane sing a song, delighting the children and suggesting that more tunes would have been a nice idea here. Any time Ms. Midler is around, it’s smart to have her sing. She and Ms. Tomei are sympathetic, likable screen presences, but there isn’t much for them to do except smile indulgently at, and be upstaged by, men and children alike. And while this may nominally be a family affair, don’t be fooled for a second: this is Mr. Crystal’s show from opening to close, and he is not especially good about sharing.

“Parental Guidance” is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested). But not really required.
541 2012-12-24 The chef plans to open a bar just a few doors down from his Pok Pok Ny....
542 2012-12-24 As free third-party messaging services make the cellphone text message seem old-fashioned, Facebook is testing a pay service that allows people to send messages directly to strangers....
543 2012-12-24 For certain health problems, body mass index, derived from the ratio of height to weight, is the best overall predictor, a new study says....
544 2012-12-24 As with past programs presented by the Ars Nova Play Group -- see "The Wikipedia Plays," "The Urban Dictionary Plays" and "The Wii Plays" -- "The Netflix Plays" takes inspiration from another aspect of modern technology and Internet culture: the r...
545 2012-12-24 Citing the changing regulatory environment, the London Stock Exchange Group said on Monday that it had revised the terms of its takeover proposal for LCH.Clearnet, cutting its offer to 15 euros a share....
546 2012-12-24 Some thoughts on smoothing the human journey amid polarized debate and spiking appetites....
547 2012-12-24 KAMPALA, Uganda — The United Nations said Sunday that the shooting down of one of its helicopters in South Sudan last week was just the latest in a series of attacks or threats against its peacekeeping mission by South Sudan’s military.

A spokesman for the United Nations in New York said the peacekeeping mission in South Sudan had “shared all flight information” with South Sudanese authorities on Friday before the helicopter was shot down over the region of Jonglei, where the South Sudanese military is fighting an armed rebellion. All four Russian crew members on board were killed.

South Sudan has said that it contacted the United Nations about a helicopter in the area, and that the United Nations said it had no flights there. The military, known as the Sudan People’s Liberation Army, then shot down the helicopter, saying it suspected that it was supplying weapons to rebels.

The United Nations said Sunday that there had been similar episodes in the past.

“Since September of last year, there have been repeated incidents by the S.P.L.A., including shooting at U.N. aircraft, as well as some direct threats to U.N. peacekeepers,” said Kieran Dwyer, a spokesman for the United Nations peacekeeping division in New York. “If the U.N. peacekeeping mission is going to be able to fulfill its mandate, such as in vast areas as in Jonglei, we must be able to fly our aircraft.”

Mr. Dwyer said the peacekeepers’ Russian Mi-8 helicopter was on a reconnaissance mission to look for new landing areas.

South Sudan originally denied that it had shot down the helicopter. Later, a military spokesman said that South Sudan had told the United Nations and aid groups that certain parts of the country’s airspace were problematic because of rebel activity, including the area where the helicopter was shot down.
548 2012-12-24 Credit: Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times
549 2012-12-24 “One man came with his grandson. He told me, ‘The last time, I was the little hand holding the big hand. Now I’m the big hand holding the little one.’ ”

Saratoga Sweets holds and is renewing a trademark on the Peppermint Pig, although the candy is sold online and through popular catalogs, as well as in about 200 museum shops and retail stores primarily on the East Coast.

Dawn Oesch, the owner of the Candy Company in Saratoga Springs, said she can tell Christmas is nearing when orders for the pigs start coming in.

“I’d say we go through a few thousand,” she said. “We usually run out of them. We have so many visitors. They all want a piece of Saratoga, and it brings you good luck. Who doesn’t want good luck?”

As the pigs enjoy their 25th Christmas this year, sales are expected to top 130,000. The pigs, which are packaged with a small red pouch and the hammer, come in different sizes — none of them particularly large. But for those who may now want a whole pig, bite-size pieces of pink “poop” are also offered.

The candy is essentially made the same way it was a century ago, with the identical ingredients and copies of the original molds. Batches are boiled up in small quantities, using teakettles — five pigs to a kettle — to ensure quality control. After cooking, the pink liquid is poured into aluminum alloy molds and left to cool. Each pig takes about 90 minutes to make.

The hot, steaming kitchen is like a peppermint-scented sauna. “You leave here candy coated,” a cook, Blaine Serven, said.

The pigs’ popularity led Mr. Fitzgerald to move to a larger space in nearby Halfmoon about a decade ago.

Catherine King Eddy, who was born and raised in Saratoga but lives in New Britain, Conn., said she buys Peppermint Pigs for friends and loved ones each year.

“The farthest I have sent one is to Pakistan,” she said. “I started buying them when my mom told me about the renewed tradition in the early 1990s. Depending on when we can all get together, we will break it after a meal anywhere from Thanksgiving through New Year’s, but we try to do it on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day because the little ones always look forward to it.”

Parking spaces at Saratoga Sweets are lined in pink, and there’s a Pig Wall of Fame filled with porker paraphernalia. The newest addition to the store is Willie, Mr. Fitzgerald’s live Kunekune pig who greets customers at the front door. The 9-month-old pig is celebrating his first Christmas this year.

“He’s getting a new sweater and boots,” Mr. Fitzgerald said. “I had to get two pair of boots because he’s got four feet. It’s not like buying shoes for your aunt.”
550 2012-12-24 Of course, people and businesses have long added game elements to parts of regular life. Parents reward their children for household work with gold-star stickers. pump their fists when they hit elite traveler status on an airline.

But digital technologies like smartphones and cheap sensors have taken the phenomenon to a new level, especially among adults. Now, game concepts like points, badges and leader boards are so mainstream that they have become powerful motivators in many settings, even some incongruous ones. At a time when games are becoming ever more realistic, reality is becoming more gamelike.

“We have a tendency to be dismissive about games, but what we’re learning is that games in general are wonderfully powerful tools that can be applied in all sorts of serious contexts,” said Kevin Werbach, an associate professor at the Wharton School at the , who teaches a course on how businesses can use games and recently wrote a book on the subject.

The adoption of games has found particular resonance in the workplace, where games are no longer just a way to goof off.

Employers like Reed , the publishing company, are using a Web-based game service from a company called Keas that encourages workers to stay healthy by grouping themselves into teams of six and collecting points for achieving mental and physical fitness goals. Among the challenges Keas assigns: laughing randomly for 30 seconds. The members of winning teams at Reed each get $200 gift cards.

Restaurants are using a service from a start-up company called Objective Logistics to rank the performances of waiters on a leader board, rewarding the good ones with plum shifts and more lucrative tables. The company plans to add “karma points” that waiters can earn for picking up shifts from colleagues or otherwise being good teammates.

Even the Defense Forces has embraced the concept as it tries to rally global support for its operations. Recently it raised eyebrows with a system that awards points and badges to visitors to its Web site if they share its messages on social networks, passing along blog posts like “How Does the I.D.F. Minimize Harm to Civilians?”

Some tech bloggers criticized the system when they discovered it after the beginning of Israel’s recent military confrontation with , saying war and games did not mix.

Capt. Eytan Buchman, a spokesman for the I.D.F., said the game system was introduced in July, months before the conflict. It was intended to “expand the vibrant community of followers who are actively engaged in sharing and promoting I.D.F. content,” he said.

Doling out badges and points has its skeptics. Ian Bogost, a game designer and professor of interactive computing at the , says the increasing use of games is little more than a fad promoted by marketing hucksters.

“It’s a concept being invented and mastered by speakers, conference organizers and business consultants in order to provide them with a short-lived burst of success,” said Dr. Bogost, who last year wrote an essay that, in its off-color title, bluntly dismissed gamification.

Gabe Zichermann, a gamification consultant and conference organizer, says he likes Dr. Bogost but, unsurprisingly, has a different point of view. He says making activities more like games is a kind of “homeopathic remedy” that, for example, can engage children who might otherwise be distracted by traditional video games.

“Games have made it hard for kids to focus to some extent and to do things like their chores,” Mr. Zichermann said. “We use game concepts to get them to focus on things.”

Kyle Kroll fits that description. After graduating from high school, Mr. Kroll said, he was unhappy, overweight, living at home and playing World of Warcraft at least six hours a day. He turned things around after starting to work out at a gym regularly with the help of a fitness app on his iPhone called Fitocracy, in which badges are awarded by a robot named Fred.

Mr. Kroll, who has lost about 75 pounds, says he plays video games less frequently now, but he still enjoys the gamelike challenges that the app sets for him at the gym. He said the game gave him “the same satisfaction of getting points and leveling up” that he gets from games.

Sheli Snawder and her 9-year-old daughter, Emma, also know how well embracing games can work. Ms. Snawder signed up for a service called Zamzee to encourage Emma to be more physically active.

Throughout the day, Emma wears a small motion sensor that records her activity level and rewards points for a brisk walk, an impromptu dance party in the living room and any other activity that gets her pulse thumping.

In her home in Salem, Ore., recently, Emma showed off the digital treats that the service’s Web site uses to inspire her, including a Persistence badge and Level 3 bronze medal status.

She can also use the virtual currency that she earns through exercising to get tangible rewards, like a video game system, from the site. “It’s very, very effective,” said her mother, who is studying to be a nurse.

Jesse Schell, a game designer and assistant professor of entertainment technology at , said game ideas were creeping into “every nook and cranny of everything” because reward systems are satisfying. “Our affluence has allowed us to move to a place where we tend to make things pleasurable, as opposed to efficient,” he said.
551 2012-12-24 Darwin himself suggested what is almost certainly the correct answer. He was puzzled by a phenomenon that seemed to contradict his most basic thesis, that natural selection should favor the ruthless. Altruists, who risk their lives for others, should therefore usually die before passing on their genes to the next generation. Yet all societies value altruism, and something similar can be found among social animals, from chimpanzees to dolphins to leafcutter ants.

Neuroscientists have shown how this works. We have mirror neurons that lead us to feel pain when we see others suffering. We are hard-wired for empathy. We are moral animals.

The precise implications of Darwin’s answer are still being debated by his disciples — Harvard’s E. O. Wilson in one corner, ’s Richard Dawkins in the other. To put it at its simplest, we hand on our genes as individuals but we survive as members of groups, and groups can exist only when individuals act not solely for their own advantage but for the sake of the group as a whole. Our unique advantage is that we form larger and more complex groups than any other life-form.

A result is that we have two patterns of reaction in the brain, one focusing on potential danger to us as individuals, the other, located in the prefrontal cortex, taking a more considered view of the consequences of our actions for us and others. The first is immediate, instinctive and emotive. The second is reflective and rational. We are caught, in the psychologist Daniel Kahneman’s phrase, between thinking fast and slow.

The fast track helps us survive, but it can also lead us to acts that are impulsive and destructive. The slow track leads us to more considered behavior, but it is often overridden in the heat of the moment. We are sinners and saints, egotists and altruists, exactly as the prophets and philosophers have long maintained.

If this is so, we are in a position to understand why religion helped us survive in the past — and why we will need it in the future. It strengthens and speeds up the slow track. It reconfigures our neural pathways, turning altruism into instinct, through the rituals we perform, the texts we read and the prayers we pray. It remains the most powerful community builder the world has known. Religion binds individuals into groups through habits of altruism, creating relationships of trust strong enough to defeat destructive emotions. Far from refuting religion, the Neo-Darwinists have helped us understand why it matters.

No one has shown this more elegantly than the political scientist Robert D. Putnam. In the 1990s he became famous for the phrase “bowling alone”: more people were going bowling, but fewer were joining bowling teams. Individualism was slowly destroying our capacity to form groups. A decade later, in his book “American Grace,” he showed that there was one place where social capital could still be found: religious communities.

Mr. Putnam’s research showed that frequent church- or synagogue-goers were more likely to give money to charity, do volunteer work, help the homeless, donate blood, help a neighbor with housework, spend time with someone who was feeling depressed, offer a seat to a stranger or help someone find a job. Religiosity as measured by church or synagogue attendance is, he found, a better predictor of altruism than education, age, income, gender or race.

Religion is the best antidote to the individualism of the consumer age. The idea that society can do without it flies in the face of history and, now, evolutionary biology. This may go to show that God has a sense of humor. It certainly shows that the free societies of the West must never lose their sense of God.
552 2012-12-24 One big reason for the lack of fireworks is that the triumph of e-books over their physical brethren is not happening quite as fast as forecast.

“The e-book market isn’t growing at the caffeinated level it was,” said Michael Norris, a Simba Information analyst who follows the publishing industry. “Even retailers like Amazon have to be wondering, how far can we go — or should we go — to make our prices lower than the other guys if it’s not helping us with market share?”

Adult e-book sales through August were up 34 percent from 2011, an impressive rate of growth if you forget that sales have doubled every year for the last four years. And there have been more recent signs of a market pausing for breath.

Macmillan, the only publisher that has not settled with the Justice Department, said last week as part of a statement from John Sargent, its chief executive, that “our e-book business has been softer of late, particularly for the last few weeks, even as the number of reading devices continues to grow.” His laconic conclusion: “Interesting.”

Mr. Norris said Simba, which regularly surveys e-book buyers, has been noticing what it calls “commitment to content” issues.

“A lot of these e-book consumers aren’t behaving like lab rats at a feeder bar,” the analyst said. “We have found that at any given time about a third of e-book users haven’t bought a single title in the last 12 months. I have a feeling it is the digital equivalent of the ‘overloaded night stand’ effect; someone isn’t going to buy any more books until they make a dent in reading the ones they have already acquired.”

Another, more counterintuitive possibility is that the 2011 demise of Borders, the second-biggest chain, dealt a surprising blow to the e-book industry. Readers could no longer see what they wanted to go home and order. “The print industry has been aiding and assisting the e-book industry since the beginning,” Mr. Norris said.

It is possible that Amazon, which controls about 60 percent of the e-book market, is merely holding back with price cuts for the right moment.

The next few weeks are when e-book sales traditionally take a big jump, as all those newly received devices are loaded up with content.

Amazon declined to comment beyond saying, “We have lowered prices for customers from the prices publishers set on a broad assortment of Kindle books.” Barnes & Noble declined to comment on its pricing strategy.

The question of the proper price for e-books has shadowed the industry ever since Amazon introduced the Kindle in late 2007 and created the first truly popular portable reading device. Amazon had a natural impulse to build a market and was an aggressive retailer in any case, so it took best sellers that cost $25 in independent bookstores and sold them for $9.99 as e-books. Consumers liked that. E-book adoption soared.

In a typical ebullient forecast, James McQuivey, a Forrester analyst, wrote two years ago that digital book sales would be $2.8 billion by 2015, up from a mere $169 million in 2009. “A very altered publishing world is about to emerge,” his report said. (He said last week that he was not tempering his forecast.)

Publishers, however, did not want to see their product sold so cheaply by Amazon, which would accelerate the shift away from the printed books they still depended on. With the help of Apple, they introduced a new system that gave them greater control over prices, which went up. The Justice Department found this to be illegal collusion and in April, sued.

After the suit was filed, Amazon said it looked forward to lowering prices. The industry braced itself. The Authors Guild predicted the end of the physical bookstore. “Amazon is committed to capturing the U.S. book market by forcibly moving it online, where it can more easily eliminate its competitors,” the guild wrote. Paul Aiken, the guild’s executive director, did not return calls for comment last week.

As the summer wore on and publishers negotiated with the government, Amazon customers began asking why they did not immediately notice a change. “It seems to me that the Kindle books have gone up,” D. Amick wrote in a typical comment on an Amazon forum.

Some say they never expected a price war at all. “The pricing war hasn’t happened because Amazon can’t afford it,” said Nate Hoffelder of the Digital Reader, a site devoted to e-book news and opinion. “The money Amazon lost on e-book discounts in 2008, 2009 was covered, at least in part, by the high price of Kindle hardware,” he said. “Now that the Kindle is being sold so cheap, Amazon no longer has the hardware income to act as a cushion.”

This is debatable — Amazon has always devoted itself to market share rather than profitability — but it is undeniable that the cost of e-readers has plunged much more than the cost of e-books. When the Kindle made its debut it was a big hit at $399. The cheapest model is now $69. Barnes & Noble is selling its cheapest Nook for $79, discounted from $99.

Even as prices fall, though, the dedicated e-reader is losing steam. The market peaked last year, with 23.2 million devices sold, IHS iSuppli said in a report this month. This year, sales will be 15 million. By 2016, the forecast is for seven million devices — as opposed to 340 million tablets, which allow for e-reading and so much more.

Jordan Selburn, senior principal analyst for consumer platforms at IHS, said the migration from e-readers to tablets puts Amazon in “an interesting position” with e-book prices.

“Amazon does not make much off the hardware,” he said. “Its goal is to sell you content. When they sell you a Kindle Fire tablet, they are not just selling you books but movies, diapers, garden hose. It’s a portal into their entire store.”

But one day, Amazon must try to make a profit. “In the era of the tablet, the difference between a book and diaper disappears,” the analyst said.

Perhaps there will be loss leaders, but more likely each product will have to carry its own weight. In other words, this might be as cheap as e-books will ever be.
553 2012-12-24 On Sunday, in a nearly three-hour news conference, Mr. Monti tried to use a new political language, going beyond the old categories of right and left. “I think that the axis in the coming years can be framed as ‘will to change’ and ‘Europe’ more than left and right,” he said.

Indeed, he appears to be laying the groundwork for a civic-minded, Catholic centrist movement, which Italy has not had since the Christian Democratic Party, which governed Italy during the postwar period, collapsed in a bribery scandal in the early 1990s. His involvement could divide the political center.

The grouping that has been courting Mr. Monti includes a veteran centrist party, the Union of Christian Democrats, and a civic movement led by the president of Ferrari, the carmaker, Luca Cordero di Montezemolo. A handful of former Berlusconi loyalists have also indicated their support for Mr. Monti, including Gianfranco Fini, a former speaker of Parliament.

The centrists are also allied with Andrea Riccardi, the minister of cooperation — who is effectively the minister of intercultural relations — in the Monti government and a co-founder of a liberal Catholic group, the Community of Sant’Egidio, a sign that Mr. Monti enjoys strong support from the Roman Catholic Church. The church remains a powerful political force in Italy. Still, polls indicate that even with Mr. Monti’s blessing, these centrists would most likely not win more than 15 percent of the vote.

Mr. Monti called Pier Luigi Bersani, the leader of the Democratic Party, “a legitimate candidate for prime minister of a coalition.”

Mr. Bersani, whose party has been undercut by Mr. Monti’s de facto candidacy, issued a terse statement, saying: “We need more change, more equality, more work. And so we need a political majority that isn’t ‘strange’ but that is real and coherent, strongly pro-Europe and strongly reform-minded.”

For his part, a furious Mr. Berlusconi, who has been striking an increasingly populist line in order to draw votes to his collapsing party, took to the airwaves to hammer Mr. Monti. “Last night I had a nightmare, I woke up screaming — there was still a Monti government,” he said on state-run television.

Mr. Monti on Sunday offered a witheringly ironic critique of Mr. Berlusconi, saying he had difficulty “following his line of thought.” He noted that Mr. Berlusconi had called his government a disaster, then asked him to lead a center-right coalition, an offer he said he refused.

Mr. Monti was also cleareyed about the mixed record of his government, which raised taxes and the retirement age but was unable to carry out significant structural changes because the parties supporting the government sometimes undermined its efforts.

He said that the right, namely Mr. Berlusconi’s party, had blocked changes to the judicial system. “It’s better to pass laws that are ‘ad nationam’ rather than ‘ad personam,’ ” implicitly criticizing Mr. Berlusconi’s tendency to want laws that protect his own interests.

And he said that the hard left — especially the C.G.I.L. labor union, which has more retirees than workers among its membership and is a key constituency of the Democratic Party — had blocked more aggressive changes to Italy’s labor laws. “They find it difficult to evolve, and this harms Italian workers,” Mr. Monti said.
554 2012-12-24 The Waterways Council, a group that lobbies on behalf of inland carriers, operators and ports, had initially warned that traffic would come to a halt by Monday. But so far, the water levels have dropped more slowly than expected, in part because of small water releases by the corps. A coalition of businesses involved in trade along the Mississippi and sympathetic lawmakers have asked President Obama to order the water released.

“It would cripple our national economy to shut down the Mississippi River,” said R. D. James, a Missouri farmer and a member of the Mississippi River Commission, which manages uses of the river with the corps.

But without action from the president, Congress or the courts, the water will stay behind the reservoirs of the upper Missouri.

“When they get a little water in those reservoirs,” Mr. James said, “they don’t want to give it up.”

It could soon be too late to prevent a partial closing. Water takes two weeks to make its way from the upper Missouri River reservoirs, and predictions released by the corps over the weekend suggest that without substantial rainfall, the water levels could dip below nine feet by Jan. 11.

With the threat of a shutdown ahead, farmers might decide to hold their grain instead of shipping it in a more expensive manner, said Gregory L. Guenther, a farmer and corporate consultant. Since farmers tend to pay for the coming year’s supplies like fertilizer with those sales, they will have to borrow instead, and “that means paying interest on it.”

Transporting goods by rail is a less attractive option, Mr. Guenther said, because shipping and storage facilities that use the river are not necessarily near rail lines, and rail capacity is limited. Altogether, shifting transportation modes would drive up prices, he said, adding, “Rail is not the answer.”

Rick Calhoun, the president of Cargo Carriers, a part of Cargill, noted that carriers were already loading barges to a lighter weight to deal with the water depth, which also ends up raising costs.

“We put less product in the barge, it takes longer to get there, and we use more fuel per barge,” Mr. Calhoun said, adding, “We’re going to be running into very difficult issues.”

Col. Christopher G. Hall, the commander of the St. Louis district of the corps, said, “We’re doing everything that we possibly can to keep that channel at the authorized depth so that they can continue to operate.”

Intense dredging, tweaks and luck have helped push the crisis “to the right” on the calendar, Colonel Hall said, but it is unclear how long that will last.

The low water conditions could persist into the spring, when it generally rains more.

Steven L. Stockton, the director of civil works for the corps, said, “The only long-term solution is more rain.”
555 2012-12-24 To some experts, this latest chapter in the long-running Greek drama is another reminder of how private investors have outmaneuvered European officials at various stages of the debt crisis. And they caution that each time it happens, future debt workouts in the euro zone will become even more costly.

“I just don’t understand why they did this,” said Mitu Gulati, a sovereign debt specialist at Duke University School of Law, who argues that Europe could have saved up to 2 billion euros. “This would have been an easy transaction to do, and still the hedge funds would have come out with a hefty profit.”

Opportunistic hedge funds have profited handsomely from the euro zone crisis, be it by speculating in Greek bonds or by buying up the senior debt of failed Spanish banks. They have successfully bet that Europe, ever fearful of Greek-style contagion, will prefer taxpayer-financed bailouts to forcing concessions from the private sector.

In Greece this year, so-called vulture funds like Dart Management were paid back in full after refusing to take the losses that most other private bondholders grudgingly accepted as part of the 100 billion euro Greek bailout that Athens and Europe agreed to in March.

The big winners this time, according to bankers and investors, were American and European hedge funds like Greylock Capital, Fir Tree, Brevan Howard and Third Point, all of which snapped up Greek debt last summer as warnings grew that Greece might leave the euro and default on its debt. Many have booked gains of 100 percent or higher.

They largely have the financial lobby to thank — in particular the Institute of International Finance, which is based in Washington and represents the interests of more than 450 banks, hedge funds and other financial institutions around the world. The institute played on fears in Brussels, Rome and Madrid that a hard-line approach to the hedge funds would create another round of market chaos.

The warning was blunt: If Athens set off legal mechanisms in the bond contracts known as collective action clauses, forcing bondholders to accept lower prices, investors would stop buying the bonds of struggling European countries. That would be bad news for Spain and Italy — to say nothing of Portugal and Ireland when they return to global bond markets in 2013.

Countering this pro-hedge-fund argument was a small circle of bankers, lawyers and policy advocates, the most prominent of whom was Mr. Wohlin, the Deutsche Bank executive who sent the e-mail. Another was Adam Lerrick, a former investment banker now affiliated with the American Enterprise Institute.

They argued that collective action clauses have a legitimate function: to help near-bankrupt countries reach debt restructuring agreements with a majority of their bondholders, with a minimum of legal fuss from investors holding out for a better deal. All euro zone countries that issue debt next year will have such clauses in their bond contracts, and proponents say there is scant evidence that they cause market turmoil.

“If you use these features within the rules, they should not cause any disruption,” said Jeromin Zettelmeyer, a sovereign debt specialist at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.

Mr. Wohlin, who was the lead financial adviser to Greece in the buyback, said he was not authorized to discuss communications with clients. That includes his e-mail to Mr. Rehn, the European Commission’s senior economic official, parts of which were reviewed by The New York Times.

He said that while he strongly believed that using collective action clauses in a buyback could achieve maximum debt reduction, such an effort would have required a financial commitment that Europe was not willing to make.

“The price Greece paid was a very fair one,” Mr. Wohlin said. “And kudos should go to the official sector, which executed a deal that was fair for the taxpayer and did not upset the market.”

For collective action clauses to kick in, two-thirds of investors must agree to the offer price, and European officials say there was no certainty that this would have happened. A buyback was only going to work if enough investors holding Greek bonds could be persuaded to sell — and in the early summer, when it looked as if a Greek default and departure from the euro zone might be imminent, that prospect seemed ludicrous.

But when Greek bonds trading on the open market hit a low of 12 to 13 cents on the euro over the summer, some investors started to ignore the doomsaying on Greece and scoop up the country’s debt on the cheap.

Among those investors was one of Citigroup’s in-house hedge funds, which piled into Greece even as the bank’s lead economist, Willem H. Buiter, was estimating a 90 percent probability of Greece leaving the euro.

By the fall, Greek bonds had become one of Europe’s most popular high-risk bets. But as demand sent the price soaring to 25 cents on the euro, some money managers began to worry about how they might leave their positions.

At the same time, it was becoming clear to Greece’s official European creditors that the country would miss debt-reduction targets set in its March bailout program. A quick solution was needed.

But there was a problem. Seventy-five percent of Greece’s debt was now owed to European governments, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank — none of which would accept a loss.

So attention turned to the 62 billion euros of debt held by the private sector.

The conditions for a buyback seemed propitious: the debt was trading at a 75 percent discount, there was a pool of holders ready to sell and, most crucially, the bonds were blessed with collective action clauses expertly tailored by Lee C. Buchheit of Cleary Gottlieb, the foremost legal authority on how to reel recalcitrant bond investors into a restructuring deal.

In the face of stiff opposition, Germany embraced the concept. In his e-mail to Mr. Rehn, Mr. Wohlin of Deutsche Bank argued that there was nothing to fear in using collective action clauses.

On the contrary, he wrote, such clauses are used in most debt restructuring exercises, and investors “would expect Greece to use it.”

To some degree, Mr. Wohlin was right. As the hedge funds’ bond stakes grew, their lawyers prepared arguments to counter the strategy.

Also swinging into action was Charles H. Dallara, the departing managing director of the Institute of International Finance, the investors’ lobbying group. Mr. Dallara flew to Athens in mid-November to tell the government that invoking the clauses would be disastrous for Greece and the euro zone. He also made calls to, as he put it, “the highest levels in Europe.”

There would be no use of collective action clauses, and bankers were told to fashion a voluntary plan. As word seeped out that the exchange would be a friendly one, hedge funds pressed their advantage.

“I won’t even answer the phone for anything less than 35 cents,” one large holder said in late November.

On Dec. 3, the terms of the buyback were announced.

To the market’s pleasant surprise, instead of the average price of 28 cents agreed to earlier, the offer was made at an average price of around 33 cents.

One week later, the deal was done.
556 2012-12-24 SEOUL, South Korea — South Korean technicians scrutinizing the debris of the North Korean rocket launched this month have found evidence suggesting the rocket’s military purposes and the North’s technological ties with Iran in its efforts to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile, South Korean officials said Sunday.

North Korea insists that its Unha-3 rocket, launched Dec. 12 to put an earth-observation satellite in orbit, was part of its peaceful space program. But intelligence officials and rocket scientists affiliated with the South Korean Defense Ministry said Sunday that through the rocket launching, North Korea was testing a ballistic missile that could fly more than 6,200 miles, with a warhead of about 1,100 to 1,300 pounds, putting the West Coast of the United States in range.

They spoke to the news media after analyzing the rocket’s flight data and the debris of its oxidizer tank, which was recovered in waters off South Korea two days after the rocket launching.

Over the weekend, the South Korean Navy also salvaged the remnants of the rocket’s fuel tank and part of its engine, which the officials hoped would provide more clues to the North’s rocket technology.

The officials said they had concluded that the rocket’s first-stage engine was made of four North Korean Rodong missile engines latched together, and that the North Koreans used their Scud-type missile engine for the rocket’s second-stage booster.
557 2012-12-25 A Bronx jury acquitted a friend of Bernard B. Kerik, the former New York police commissioner, on Monday of a charge involving perjury to a grand jury in 2006 over renovation work to Mr. Kerik’s apartment.

The not guilty verdict for the friend, Frank DiTommaso, 53, came after the same jury on Friday convicted Peter DiTommaso, 52, his brother, on two counts of perjury. Peter DiTommaso will face up to seven years in prison. His lawyer could not be reached for comment.

The case against the DiTommasos stems from a 2006 grand jury investigation of Mr. Kerik. The brothers told the grand jury that their company, Interstate Industrial Corporation of New Jersey, had not paid for renovations to Mr. Kerik’s apartment while he was a city official.

Later that year, Mr. Kerik contradicted the brothers’ testimony when he pleaded guilty to receiving $165,000 in free renovations from “the Interstate companies or a subsidiary.” That plea to a misdemeanor charge saved Mr. Kerik from a state prison sentence but led to the prosecution of the DiTommasos.

Mr. Kerik, 57, pleaded guilty in 2009 to eight federal crimes, including tax fraud and lying to White House officials when he was being vetted for a position with the Department of Homeland Security. He is serving a four-year sentence.

The charges against the DiTommasos lingered for over six years while Mr. Kerik fought his federal case. Mr. Kerik was called as a reluctant witness, appearing to struggle to undo some of the trouble that he had brought to the brothers while not adding to his legal problems by contradicting previous statements.
558 2012-12-25 MIAMI (AP) — Bill McBride, a Florida Democrat who defeated former Attorney General Janet Reno for the party’s 2002 nomination for governor but then lost to Gov. Jeb Bush in the general election, died on Saturday while visiting his family in Mount Airy, N.C. He was 67.

The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Alex Sink, who was the Democratic nominee for governor in 2010 but lost to Rick Scott.

Mr. McBride, a Tampa lawyer who had been managing partner at Holland & Knight, left his legal career to challenge Mr. Bush, Ms. Sink said.

“He just believed our state was going in the wrong direction under Jeb Bush,” she said. “He ran a campaign based on supporting public education, supporting teachers and investing more money in education.”

Ms. Sink, a former state chief financial officer, said she often sought Mr. McBride’s advice during her unsuccessful campaign against Mr. Scott, a Republican. The couple, who married in 1987 and have a son and a daughter, made their home in Thonotosassa, outside Tampa.

Mr. McBride was born on May 10, 1945, in Belleville, Ill., and grew up in Leesburg in Central Florida. He entered the University of Florida on a football scholarship but gave up the sport because of a knee injury. He temporarily dropped out of law school to volunteer with the Marines in Vietnam, where he earned a Bronze Star.
559 2012-12-25 “People haven’t been fascinated by this book because the translation is mellifluous or beautiful,” said Michael F. Suarez, a professor of English at the University of Virginia who directs the Rare Book School there. “People haven’t been attracted to this book because the presswork is beautiful. It’s not.”

He added: “Here is this Puritan community that arrived and began to forge an identity for themselves. This book plays a role in the American story as almost no other book does.”

One of the church’s copies is part of the Thomas Prince library, an extensive repository of Colonial books left to Old South Church by Mr. Prince, a learned congregant. The church cannot sell items in that collection, but a 1978 probate court ruling found that the second psalmbook is not a part of it, which most likely means that the church is allowed to sell it.

Valuable objects are practically part of the furniture at Old South, which has a fabled history dating to 1669. Now part of the United Church of Christ, it first formed as a breakaway congregational parish and then moved to an 1875 church overlooking Copley Square, a busy thoroughfare. Church leaders say the century-plus-old building is in need of major repairs.

Its senior minister, Nancy Taylor, hoisted a massive Bible from underneath a coffee table in her wood-paneled office one recent afternoon and pointed to an inscription on the back made when Samuel Adams attended an ecclesiastical council here in 1793. “So Sam Adams did that, isn’t that fun?” she said.

Old South counts Adams, Benjamin Franklin and the African-American poet Phillis Wheatley as members, and over the years it has embraced progressive causes like the American Revolution, abolition, civil rights and, in more recent years, equal rights for gays and lesbians. Today, the church supports more than two dozen nonprofit organizations.

For Ms. Taylor, the sale of the Bay Psalm — as well as 19 pieces of silver, currently housed at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, that the congregation also empowered the trustees to sell — is a proper use of historic assets to help continue its legacy and mission.

“We want to repurpose them to carry out ministries today,” Ms. Taylor said. “I adore and cherish this congregation’s history. We collect up these stories and we carry them with us, but we don’t have to carry the book with us, or the silver with us, to learn from it, to be inspired by it, to be made brave by it.”

Ms. Taylor says the building needs about $7 million in deferred maintenance projects, including upgrades to the heating and sprinkler systems, that would be impossible to finance without a major cash infusion.

“Across this country, urban churches are going under, they’re fading away, because their buildings are too heavy a drag on them,” Ms. Taylor said. “This sale would position us to be a church that doesn’t do that.”

Some members and observers have questioned the necessity of such a sizable capital infusion. The church’s endowment is currently about $18 million, and its members, Ms. Taylor said, give the church about $1 million a year, up from $400,000 10 years ago.

“If you were a church that was going down, crashing or something like that — we are clearly not in that circumstance,” said Robert Wulff, a retired lawyer who has been a member of the church for more than 35 years.

Mr. Makholm, who calls the building upgrades “vanity projects,” said the church’s leadership has created a false choice between its past and its future. “Central air-conditioning? This Bay Psalm Book for central air-conditioning?” he asked. “We’ve turned from an iconic church to a mission church, and I thought to myself, Old South has always been both.”

But when the congregation gathered this month, it voted overwhelmingly to empower the trustees to figure out how to sell the book and the silver.

“We’re a living church, we’re not a library or a museum — that’s not really where our treasure lies,” said Bob Kosturko, the creative director for a publisher in Boston. “As rare and as valuable as this book is, I just don’t think that it’s a critical item to our identity.”

Estimates for the Bay Psalm at auction range from $10 million to $20 million. “I think it’s going to go high,” said Mr. Suarez, the rare-books expert. “The book community is abuzz with the news. There’s a lot of joking in the rare-book community: Hey, have you saved up enough to buy the Bay Psalm Book?”
560 2012-12-25 Human Rights Watch said Monday that armed Palestinian groups in Gaza had violated the laws of war by firing hundreds of rockets toward population centers in Israel during eight days of fighting in November. Three Israeli civilians, a soldier and a civilian contractor at a military base were killed by the rocket fire. The group said that two Palestinians were killed, apparently by rockets that fell short, and that the militants endangered Gaza civilians by firing from densely populated areas. More than 150 Palestinians were killed by Israel airstrikes and shelling. A spokesman for Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls Gaza, rejected the report as biased, telling Reuters that the Palestinians were defending themselves. Human Rights Watch, a nongovernmental group based in New York, has criticized Israel for what it called unlawful attacks on a house that killed 12 people, and on Palestinian journalists during the conflict. Israel has insisted that it fired on legitimate targets.
561 2012-12-25 The memo said agents discussed “past and upcoming meetings” of the movement, and its spread. It said agents should contact Occupy Wall Street activists to ascertain whether people who attended their events had “violent tendencies.”

The memo said that because of high rates of unemployment, “the movement was spreading throughout Florida and there were several Facebook pages dedicated to specific chapters based on geographical areas.”

The F.B.I. was concerned that the movement would provide “an outlet for a lone offender exploiting the movement for reasons associated with general government dissatisfaction.”

Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the F.B.I. has come under criticism for deploying counterterrorism agents to conduct surveillance and gather intelligence on organizations active in environmental, animal-cruelty and poverty issues.

The disclosure of the F.B.I. records comes a little more than a year after the police ousted protesters from Zuccotti Park in November 2011. Law-enforcement agencies undertook similar actions around the country against Occupy Wall Street groups.

Occupy Wall Street has lost much of its visibility since then, but questions remain about how local and federal law-enforcement officials monitored and treated the protesters.

The records were obtained by the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund, a civil-rights organization in Washington, through a Freedom of Information request to the F.B.I. Many parts of the documents were redacted by the bureau.

The records provide one of the first glimpses into how deeply involved federal law-enforcement authorities were in monitoring the activities of the movement, which is sometimes described in extreme terms.

For example, according to a memo written by the F.B.I.’s New York field office in August 2011, bureau personnel met with officials from the New York Stock Exchange to discuss “the planned Anarchist protest titled ‘Occupy Wall Street,’ scheduled for September 17, 2011.”

“The protest appears on Anarchist Web sites and social network pages on the Internet,” the memo said.

It added: “Numerous incidents have occurred in the past which show attempts by Anarchist groups to disrupt, influence, and or shut down normal business operations of financial districts.”

A spokesman for the F.B.I. in Washington cautioned against “drawing conclusions from redacted” documents.

“The F.B.I. recognizes the rights of individuals and groups to engage in constitutionally protected activity,” said the spokesman, Paul Bresson. “While the F.B.I. is obligated to thoroughly investigate any serious allegations involving threats of violence, we do not open investigations based solely on First Amendment activity. In fact, the Department of Justice and the F.B.I.’s own internal guidelines on domestic operations strictly forbid that.”

But Mara Verheyden-Hilliard, executive director of the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund, said the documents demonstrated that the F.B.I. had acted improperly by gathering information on Americans involved in lawful activities.

“The collection of information on people’s free-speech actions is being entered into unregulated databases, a vast storehouse of information widely disseminated to a range of law-enforcement and, apparently, private entities,” she said. “This is precisely the threat — people do not know when or how it may be used and in what manner.”

The records show little evidence that the members of the movement planned to commit violence. But they do describe a discussion on the Internet “regarding the Occupy Wall Street movement about when it is okay to shoot a police officer” and a law-enforcement meeting held in Des Moines because “there may potentially be an attempt to stop the Iowa Caucuses by people involved in Occupy Iowa.”

There are no references within the documents to agency personnel covertly infiltrating Occupy branches.

The documents indicate, however, that the F.B.I. obtained information from police departments and other law-enforcement agencies that appear to have been gathered by someone observing the protesters as they planned activities.

The documents do not detail recent activities by the F.B.I. involving Occupy Wall Street.

But one activist, Billy Livsey, 48, said two F.B.I. agents visited him in Brooklyn over the summer to question him about planned protests at the Republican National Convention in Tampa, Fla., and about plans to celebrate the first anniversary of Occupy Wall Street in September.

The agents, Mr. Livsey said, told him they knew he was among a group of people involved in the Occupy Wall Street “direct action” group that distributed information about the movement’s activities.

He said he felt unnerved by the visit.

“It was surprising and troubling to me,” Mr. Livsey said.
562 2012-12-25 Now, Wall Street is watching to see what comes next.

Some players are creating portfolio contingency plans if a deal doesn’t materialize and stocks plunge. Others are reducing their exposure to stocks that could be particularly vulnerable like financials or energy companies. A faction of opportunists are drawing up buy lists, figuring that bargains will emerge.

“The laptop this week becomes your American Express — you don’t leave home without it,” said Larry Peruzzi, senior equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets. “This Congress — if it’s taught us nothing else — has taught us you’ve got to be prepared. Because when you think you’ve figured them out, they’re going to do something else and surprise you.”

On Monday, the floor of the New York Stock Exchange was busy for a Christmas Eve, as traders ate free bagels and gathered to sing “Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie,” an annual tradition.

Jonathan Corpina, who works on the floor for Meridian Equity Partners, said that on half days like Monday, traders are usually on cruise control, with no big movements. This year, he said the floor was “a little louder today than it normally has been,” given the negotiations in Washington. “There are more people who have given up their end of the year vacations,” he said.

While trading volume remained light, stocks edged lower, building on market declines that started Friday. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended the day at 1,426.66, off 0.24 percent, or 3.49 points. Even so, the S.& P. 500 is still up over 13 percent for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 51.76 points, or 0.39 percent, to 13,139.08, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 8.41 points, or 0.28 percent, to 3,012.60.

Interest rates were steady. The Treasury’s benchmark 10-year note fell 1/32, to 98 21/32, as the yield rose to 1.78 percent from 1.77 percent.

If the weakness persists, the markets may not provide their usual holiday boost for investors. Since 1950, equities have risen an average of 1.5 percent in the days after Christmas, what’s referred to by the Stock Trader’s Almanac as the Santa Claus rally. The atmosphere is reminding some of August 2011, when negotiations in Washington over the debt ceiling forced traders to cancel their summer plans. Trading activity picked up as the deadline drew closer and stocks dropped significantly.

Many expect that politicians will come up with a short-term solution to avert the fiscal cliff. But the announcement may not come until the last minute, keeping Wall Street on edge until then.

“What the market is expecting at this point is a stopgap measure,” said Ms. Krosby. “Market activity suggests that investors believe there will be some sort of announcement.”

In the meantime, investors and traders are assessing their portfolios. With taxes on capital gains likely to rise next year, some wealthier individuals are selling winning positions to lock in the current rates.

“Usually people are doing anything they can to avoid locking in gains,” said Oliver Pursche, president of manager at Gary Goldberg Financial Services. “It’s the exact opposite this year.”

Mr. Pursche said he usually takes a vacation between Christmas and New Year’s. This year, he plans to be in the office on Wednesday so that he can be ready to act on any announcements out of Washington.

His firm currently has 15 percent of its assets in cash. If politicians do not reach an agreement and the markets drop, Mr. Pursche plans to use half the money to buy stocks. In Mr. Pursche’s view, concern over the budget impasse has distracted investors from recent indicators that the American economy is actually strengthening. He points, in part, to the falling unemployment rates and the rise in personal income.

But not everyone is so sanguine. David Rovelli at Canaccord Genuity said his firm has hashed out lengthy instructions for clients, detailing what stocks to sell under different outcomes.

On Monday, Santa Claus rang the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange with the jazz trumpeter Chris Biotti offering a rare moment of holiday cheer for the markets. It was the worst pre-Christmas trading day for stocks since 2006.
563 2012-12-25 From “Chemcraft” to the “Midgetlab,”  chemistry sets flourished from the early through the mid-20th century, featuring everything from gender-specific kits to tabletop labs complete with “Atomic Energy.”...
564 2012-12-25 A large measles epidemic is spreading in Central Africa, endangering the lives of thousands of children, the medical charity Doctors Without Borders warned last week.

Since October, the charity has vaccinated more than 226,000 children in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The organization has also treated nearly 13,000 Congolese for the effects of the disease.

Measles is very contagious. In places where many children are malnourished and vitamin-deficient, it kills 1 percent to15 percent of those who don’t receive medical care, Doctors Without Borders estimated. (Even in the United States in the 1990s, although cases were rare, the fatality rate was 0.3 percent, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In AIDS patients, the rate is 30 percent.)

The eastern Congo basin has serious shortages of medical workers and of drugs. While there is no treatment for measles itself, antibiotics can save those who develop pneumonia, meningitis or other secondary infections. Measles can also cause blindness by scarring the eyeball.

The outbreak is taking place despite enormous success against the disease worldwide. According to a study released earlier this year, deaths from measles have dropped by almost 75 percent since 2000.

Most of the lives saved were in Africa and India. Measles shots are often cited as one of the chief reasons that deaths of children under age 5 around the world have fallen steadily.
565 2012-12-25 Catches have improved in quantity, quality and freshness, and thus price. The fish are bigger and include desirable species like grouper, red mullet and Mediterranean sea bass that were no longer present closer to land.

But the fishermen risk rapidly overfishing. “In the first few days, I caught fish worth $1,580 to $1,850,” said Yasser Abu al-Sadeq. “Today, I made around $1,050.” But the situation is still better, he said. “Before the cease-fire, I would barely catch $790.”

“It’s like when you come to a house that’s been abandoned for years and start cleaning it,” he said. “When you start cleaning, you get out a lot of trash, but when you clean daily, you get out only a little.”

He and his crew go out for 24 hours at a time, he said, cooking the small crabs and squid they catch in the nets.

He described an early trip out past the six-mile limit, when an Israeli gunboat circled his boat, shaking it in the wake, and ordered him back toward shore.

He remembers a golden time, before the second Palestinian intifada in 2000, when he could go out as far as 12 nautical miles, where he could find sardines and what he called guitarfish, a small ray. “There, it’s a reserve protected by God,” he said.

The fishermen say they estimate their distance, since most of them lack precise navigational systems, but there is usually one indicator.

“When we were allowed within 3 miles, the gunboats would attack us at 2.5 miles,” said Monzer Abu Amira, as he repaired his green nylon nets. “Today, they hit us when we are at 5.5 miles.”

The Israelis generally use loudspeakers and water cannons, but sometimes they shoot live ammunition at fishing gear, the motor or the boat itself. Gazans in principle can apply for compensation if boats are damaged or destroyed, but in practice few do.

A senior Israeli official said that there had never been an official announcement that the fishing limit had been extended to six miles from three, but he confirmed that six was the new reality. Israel is continuing to negotiate indirectly with Hamas, the Islamist movement that rules Gaza, with Egypt as an intermediary, to turn the cease-fire agreement into something more permanent, the official said.

“We have an interest in prolonging the longevity of the quiet,” the official said. “We understand that relaxation of some of the restrictions is conducive to that goal. Quiet is in our interest. So we have an interest in showing flexibility where we can, and to show the Egyptians that we’re serious.”

There were problems immediately after the cease-fire, the Israeli official said, because “some in Gaza were interested in testing the limits and pushing the envelope,” and because the expansion of the fishing zone meant deploying more Israeli resources to cover more sea.

“But if people don’t exceed the six-mile limit, it’s O.K.,” he said.

The Israelis are not interested in the smuggling of “Kalashnikovs and bullets,” he added, but in preventing Iran from resupplying longer-range missiles and preventing Hamas from smuggling in foreign experts to aid them in missile development and technology. “The important thing for us is to prevent Hamas from rearming,” he said.

There have been other cases besides Mr. Bakr’s of Israelis shooting on fishing boats, especially in the first 10 days after the cease-fire, according to the Palestinian Center for Human Rights. The center says that on Nov. 29, Israeli sailors intercepted a fishing boat five nautical miles from shore, detaining and questioning the six people on board, including a child. At least two other fishing boats were fired upon or stopped, and their crews questioned, sometimes in the Israeli port of Ashdod, before being released.

On Dec. 17, Israeli naval forces wounded a Palestinian fisherman, Mas’ad Bakr, who they said was beyond the six-mile limit and was “injured by shrapnel” when they fired on the boat to halt it because it had failed to respond to orders to stop. He was brought to an Israeli hospital. Nezar Ayyash, head of the Gaza fishermen’s union, said that boat had been within the six-mile limit.

Mushir al-Masri, a Hamas official, said that Israel was to blame for violating the cease-fire agreement, which he said allowed the expansion of the fishing limit. “We follow up any violations with the Egyptian sponsors of the truce,” he said.

The expansion of fishing has not immediately changed the buying habits of restaurateurs here, who have gotten used to buying cheaper farmed fish smuggled through the tunnels from Egypt. The fisherman say smuggled fish is often bad, since keeping it consistently cold on its journey is difficult.

For Rafiq Balaha, 38, a fishmonger selling his wares near the port, Egypt remains an important source. “There is not enough fish in Gazan waters,” he said. “I bring in sea bream,” known locally as denise, which are grown in Egyptian and Israeli fish farms. “People here love this kind of fish,” he said.

Hatem Bakr, who runs a seafood restaurant here, was examining the day’s catch. “Now we can buy red mullet and sea bass,” he said. “Here people prefer to buy local fish, not Egyptian fish, because they like the taste.” He believes that fish will stay expensive, however, at least until the fishermen can go out at least 10 nautical miles.

Fishermen are trying to feed their families, Mr. Abu Amira said. “He fights in the sea so he can feed his children, not in order to cause trouble between himself and the Jews.” Like fish, he said, when fishermen are taken from the sea they die.

“The sea is everything for us — our hobby, our work, our pleasure, our income,” Mr. Abu Amira said. “We don’t know anything on the land. If we leave the sea, we get lost.”

That is where Khader Bakr is now, sitting on shore, at the small Gaza City port, bemoaning his boat. “Now I’ve lost everything,” he said. “I’ve got nothing to fish in.”
566 2012-12-25 Justice Scalia’s recollection of the case, from 1989, was understandably a little hazy. It involved 3-year-old twins, and their adoptive father had died by the time the case was decided.

But he had the main point right. In various ways, the 1978 law he cited makes it hard to remove American Indian children from their parents, their tribes and their heritage.

The case that troubled Justice Scalia now has a sequel, and at their private conference next week, the justices will consider whether to hear it.

The new case involves a South Carolina couple who were ordered to turn over a 27-month-old girl they had cared for since birth to her biological father, an Indian, whom the little girl had never met.

The South Carolina Supreme Court, saying it did so “with a heavy heart,” ruled for the father even as it acknowledged that the adoptive couple, Matt and Melanie Capobianco, were “ideal parents who have exhibited the ability to provide a loving family environment.” He works as a technician at Boeing; she has a doctorate in developmental psychology.

Under South Carolina law, the child, Veronica, would have stayed with the Capobiancos. Under the federal law, she was sent to live with her biological father, Dusten Brown, a member of the Cherokee Nation.

The federal law was a reaction to a dark history of abusive child welfare practices involving Indian children and was sensitive to distinctive aspects of Native American culture. But the Capobiancos and their supporters say the law may have gone too far, by intruding on domestic decisions traditionally governed by state law and by putting a thumb on the legal scale based on the race of one of the parties.

The central question for the justices, the Capobiancos say, is whether an absent father should have the right to thwart a mother’s wishes about the fate of her child simply because he happens to be an Indian. The vote in the State Supreme Court was 3 to 2, and the dissenters were not impressed with Mr. Brown. According to one dissenting judge, Mr. Brown had “turned his back on the joys and responsibilities of fatherhood at every turn.” Another said Mr. Brown’s “vanishing act triggered the adoption in the first instance.”

Here is a piece of evidence that may color your view of Mr. Brown: before his daughter was born, he renounced his parental rights by text message. In fairness, the child’s mother also used text messages to break off their engagement and to ask for child support.

Mr. Brown changed his mind when he heard that his former fiancée, who is not an Indian, had put their daughter up for adoption. He invoked the 1978 law, and he has so far succeeded in blocking the adoption, despite opposition not only from the Capobiancos but also from the girl’s biological mother and the girl’s court-appointed guardian.

Family courts ordinarily base their decisions on the best interests of the child before them. But the 1978 law says other factors must be considered. “The tribe has an interest in the child which is distinct from but on a parity with the interest of the parents,” Justice William J. Brennan Jr., writing for himself, Justice Scalia and four other justices, explained in the 1989 decision, Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield. This was, Justice Brennan added, “a relationship that many non-Indians find difficult to understand.”

Justice Brennan recognized that the law sometimes produced heartbreak. “Three years’ development of family ties cannot be undone,” he wrote, “and a separation at this point would doubtless cause considerable pain.” But the 1978 law, he said, required that the tribal court make the decision.

The questions in the new case, Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, No. 12-399, concern other parts of the law. But the larger issue is similar, and how it is answered could affect thousands of adoptions every year.

In the 1989 case that Justice Scalia discussed with Mr. Rose, there was, though the justice did not seem to know it, something of a happy ending. The tribal court allowed the children to remain with their adoptive family, saying that “it would have been cruel to take them from the only mother they knew.” At the same time, the court ordered that the children stay in contact with their extended family and tribe.

There does not seem to be such a middle ground in the new case, and it is not clear whether the justices will want to take on the burden of a decision with the potential to weigh on them for decades.
567 2012-12-26 Credit: Meridith Kohut for The New York Times
568 2012-12-26 A two-bedroom crescent-shaped house outside Tokyo is on the market for $2.1 million....
569 2012-12-26 TPG-Axon Capital Management sent a blistering letter to SandRidge’s board, demanding that it investigate whether the chief executive and his son engaged in self-dealing....
570 2012-12-26 Digicel, the telecommunications giant, and Marriott International recently broke ground on a $45 million hotel in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, that is to open in early 2015....
571 2012-12-26 Harman has released the JBL OnBeat Micro speaker dock, which features the must-have Apple Lightning connector, but not much else....
572 2012-12-26 Dennis Lehane, the author of novels like "Mystic River" and "Gone Baby Gone," said he would name a character in a coming book after the person who helps return his beagle, Tessa, who went missing on Monday....
573 2012-12-26 A sampling of some of the best small-business writings that we linked to this year....
574 2012-12-26 When it comes to enterprise software for the cloud, Google is gaining ground on Microsoft....
575 2012-12-26 TOKYO — Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda resigned Wednesday ahead of a vote in Parliament to return former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to power, ending the country’s three-year break from decades of near-constant rule by the conservative Liberal Democratic Party.

The change in prime ministers is the seventh in six years, a high turnover that is a sign of Japan’s inability to escape its long economic funk. Mr. Abe faces not only industrial decline but also the challenge of an increasingly assertive China.

An outspoken nationalist, Mr. Abe, 58, has vowed to defend Japan’s control of islands in the East China Sea that are also claimed by China. However, since his party’s landslide Dec. 16 victory, he has played down confrontation with Asian neighbors, and instead focused his agenda on lifting Japan’s faltering economy out of recession ahead of upper house elections next summer.

Mr. Abe has vowed to move quickly to spur growth by offering 10 trillion yen, or about $120 billion, in public works and other emergency stimulus spending.

He has also promised to force the central bank to move more aggressively to combat deflation and to weaken the value of the yen, which would offer relief to beleaguered export industries by making Japanese products cheaper abroad.
576 2012-12-26 Isabella Neibel, 11, a sixth grader who had attended Scholars’ Academy, a public school in Rockaway Park, recalled how her mother had weathered the storm on the high ground of the Breezy Point Cooperative’s offices where she worked, while the rest of the family had evacuated to relatives in Bay Ridge. Isabella said she had been worried. Then she suddenly covered her face with her hands and sobbed. Two new schoolmates comforted her, and soon they, too, were weeping. A moment later, in the ways of an 11-year-old, Isabella was giggling at her outburst.

On the Monday after the storm, St. Patrick School reopened with 325 children, 50 of them displaced. About half of those extra students came from other parochial schools in the Rockaways and 25 from public schools, mostly from Public School/Middle School 114 in Belle Harbor, which serves Breezy Point’s year-round residents. The P.S./M.S. 114 students were originally reassigned to other public schools in Queens, some 12 miles away.

But their parents were now living doubled up with relatives or friends in Bay Ridge or had rented temporary apartments there. They wanted a school nearby where their children might recognize other students and where relatives could pick them up afterward, Andrea D’Emic, St. Patrick’s principal, said.

“Parents felt more comfortable in a small setting that they had a connection to rather than in a big school they had no connection to,” she added. “They wanted their children to be in a secure environment so the parents could take care of whatever else they had to take care of.”

Some parents, heartsick about their own losses and frustrated in their dealings with insurance companies, utilities and government officials, were quickly beguiled by St. Patrick’s intimate sense of community. Megan Doherty, 36, a mother of three, recalled how her two-story house in Breezy Point had been swamped by a tide that reached four feet up the first floor, forcing the family to gut the building.

“We didn’t know where to go or what to do,” she said.

Her family moved in with an aunt in Bay Ridge, where she had grown up. Though she believed that P.S./M.S. 114 was an exceptional school, it closed for a month. St. Patrick restored the comfortable routines of school for her sons, Aidan, 9, and Nolan, 5.

“It’s a saving grace they took us in,” Ms. Doherty said, wiping away tears. “They opened their doors. They waived tuition. They donated uniforms. Now the boys are very happy.”

When classmates ask her sons what happened, she said, “they tell them water washed away everything.” But she likes to tell her children: “Home is not a building. It’s where we are, with Mommy and Daddy.”

St. Patrick has taken the extra students in stride, Ms. D’Emic said, with longtime Catholic school parents helping to register shellshocked families and teachers whose classrooms would now be more crammed offering nothing but welcome.

“It was a very emotional morning for all of us,” Ms. D’Emic said of the first school day after the storm. “Children of all ages had lost their homes, their schools, were living with relatives, with just the clothing on their backs, and they were starting a new school. By 9:15 we had every child in a class. When the children were settled in, some parents burst into tears.”

Guidance counselors were assigned. As Msgr. Jamie J. Gigantiello, the diocese’s vicar for development, pointed out, “Some of the children feel they can’t break down before their parents.” Still, for the parents it was a relief to see at least one aspect of their lives return to something approaching normal.

The school will not be reimbursed by the city’s Education Department for instructing the public school students, Monsignor Gigantiello said.

Weeks after the storm, many parents have decided to keep their children at St. Patrick, trying to sustain some stability. They did not doubt their decision when they learned that some P.S./M.S. 114 parents complained that its reopening had been too soon and that there was still an odor of sewage and possibly traces of mold, though the Education Department said tests showed the air was safe.

Many of the reassigned students’ parents plan to keep them in St. Patrick for the rest of the year, if not for the remainder of elementary school, reversing decisions they had made years ago — often for financial reasons — to have their children attend public schools. About a dozen public school students have applied for scholarships so they can attend next year; tuition is $4,300 for one child and $7,300 for two.

Joseph Mortellaro, 37, a parent and sanitation worker whose home in Rockaway Park was severely damaged, said he was so pleased by how “everybody opened their arms to us” at St. Ephrem School in Dyker Heights, Brooklyn, that there was a possibility he would permanently switch his two children, Joseph, 9, and Nikki, 6, to St. Ephrem from P.S./M.S. 114 next year, though cost was still a concern.

For now, the diocese hopes to cover the extra costs for the displaced students with donations. About 75 public schools students still attend Catholic schools in Brooklyn.

Linda Addonisio, principal of St. Anselm School in Bay Ridge, said the “transition has been seamless” for her four public school students. “They’ve been here long enough to get a progress report,” she said, “and they’ve done well academically.”
577 2012-12-26 Murphy Holloway scored 18 points to lead Mississippi to an 81-66 win over Hawaii in the fifth-place game of the Diamond Head Classic in Honolulu. Nick Williams and Marshall Henderson scored 16 points each, and Aaron Jones added 10 points for the Rebels (10-2), who closed the game with a 12-3 run. No. 3 Arizona faced No. 17 San Diego State later Tuesday in the championship game.
578 2012-12-26 A disruption at one of Amazon’s Web service centers hit users of Netflix’s streaming video service on Christmas Eve and was not fully resolved until Christmas Day, a Netflix spokesman said on Tuesday.

The disruption affected Netflix subscribers across the United States, Canada and Latin America and blacked out various devices — including video game consoles and DVD players — that enable users to stream movies and television shows, the Netflix spokesman, Joris Evers, said.

Mr. Evers said the issue was the result of a failure at an Amazon Web Services cloud computing center in Virginia and started at about 3:30 p.m. Eastern time on Monday and was fully restored Tuesday morning, although streaming was available for most users late on Monday.

“We are investigating exactly what happened and how it could have been prevented,” Mr. Evers said.

“We are happy that people opening gifts of Netflix or Netflix-capable devices can watch TV shows and movies and apologize for any inconvenience caused last night,” he added.

A disruption at Amazon Web Services knocked out sites like Flipboard and Foursquare in October, and a storm in June similarly affected services like Netflix, Instagram and Pinterest.
579 2012-12-26 The basic plot of “Child Bride” is evident from its title, and this soap about an under-age wife is also a top-rated show — under-age marriage is still prevalent enough to wedge its way into the family hour. More shocking, perhaps, is that in more recent episodes the in-laws accept the young heroine as their own and — brace for it — encourage her to leave her husband (he’s a philanderer) and find a better match.

That may be a fantasy, but matriarchal interference (call it guidance) is marriage Indian-style. When Indian women discuss the need to “adjust” to matrimony, they don’t just mean adapting to a new husband. They mean moving in with his parents, grandparents and siblings, a custom that is still the norm, even in prosperous families. In a country with 1.2 billion people, about 148 million households have television and that amounts to as many as 600 million viewers. In the slums of Mumbai even sections without running water sport satellite dishes on corrugated roofs. Almost everywhere, Indians gather in front of the family television and the mother-in-law controls the remote.

“Women like to see their favorite characters express their own feelings, so the mother-in-law identifies with the mother-in-law, the daughter-in-law with the daughter-in-law,” is how Ekta Kapoor explains soap opera transference. Ms. Kapoor, a 37-year-old television and film producer who currently has five shows on the air, became queen of the Indian soap world with her breakthrough series, “The Mother-in-Law Was Once a Daughter-in-Law, Too,”one of the all-time hits of Indian television that ran from 2000 to 2008.

Male children are favored in Indian society, and wives join the husband’s family at the low end of the pecking order, often relegated to kitchen drudge work while the mother-in-law rules over the grandchildren. “We live with our parents until we are married, then we live with someone else’s parents,” Ms. Kapoor said. “There is pressure to give everything to the son. It’s a source of conflict in so many homes.” (Ms. Kapoor, the daughter of well-known actors, is single and owns her own house but lives with her parents in their home anyway.)

The family structures — and tensions — on soap operas mirror those of the audience with one glaring difference. In many series yearning and betrayal play out in marble mansions. Women are draped in silk and encrusted in jewels, a fantasy of wealth that has grown all the more seductive since the rise of India’s billionaire class. The formula has lasted for more than a decade because it puts identifiable characters into aspirational settings.

The yearning isn’t for “Dynasty” décor or even the real-life luxury lofts of India’s new rich. The sets of houses look like a maharajah’s palace; the costumes are so lavish and vivid, they would stand out in a Bollywood wedding scene. Social dynamics, on the other hand, look more like middle-class life in overpopulated Mumbai or New Delhi. Even in vast mansions family members gather in tight clusters; no dispute, no matter how personal, breaks out without bystanders. A lover’s quarrel takes place in a crowd.

The classic Indian soap opera shot has two characters at odds. One says something shocking, or slaps the antagonist’s face, and the camera slowly pans a circle of men and women frozen in horror and dismay, as chords of dramatic music rain down.

Privacy, even on a soap opera, is not at a premium. As Aarti Gupta Surendranath, a film and television producer, put it, “In India giving someone his space is just rude.”

The television landscape is just as dense. There are many hundreds of channels, and regional television is booming. The most popular soaps are translated into several languages, and many regions, from Punjab to Tamil Nadu, have their own channels and programs. Television is a bigger industry now than Bollywood, and Bollywood actors are beginning to do television; the field is destined to keep growing. The Internet is not yet siphoning away the nation’s television-viewing youth.

MTV is here, and so are shows like “What’s With Indian Men?” a youth-oriented travel show on Fox Traveller, a channel owned by to News Corporation. It stars two saucy young Indian women who travel the country, sampling local sites and cheekily interviewing local men.

But there are dozens of soap operas on the air at the moment, and they are popular. Reversing the economics of American TV, they are also cheaper to produce here than game shows like “Who Wants to Be a Millionaire.”

At the family hour touchy social issues like divorce, suicide or infanticide are filtered through a thick gauze of sentimental tales of love and courtship — and mothers-in-law.

There are growing numbers of single career women in India, and in Bollywood romantic comedies, but mainstream television is not yet ready to celebrate their independence. After recently testing a pilot about a group of single Indian women living together, Sony, one of India’s leading networks, dropped the experiment. “An Indian ‘Friends’ just won’t work here,” said Sneha Rajani, a senior Sony executive in charge of programming. “A family unit is essential for success.”

On their own time Indian network executives in cosmopolitan Mumbai watch “Homeland” and “Grey’s Anatomy” and say they itch to create comparable niche shows. But right now there’s too small an audience. India is in the middle of making the switch from analog to digital, but premium cable is still in the future.

Some producers are ready to take the risk anyway, notably the Bollywood star Anil Kapoor, familiar in the West as a star of “Slumdog Millionaire.” He bought the right to adapt “24” and intends to play the superagent Jack Bauer. (Mr. Kapoor played a moderate Muslim leader in Season 8 of “24.”) That Fox series was a hit here, especially with men; it was shown on weekends, when matriarchs hand the remote over to husbands, who turn on cricket and the Indian police procedural “C.I.D.”

It’s not just the high-tech action sequences of “24” that are daunting to adapt. Government conspiracy and Islamic terrorism are treacherous topics in a country where corruption is widespread and Hindu-Muslim tensions acute. Raj Nayak, the chief executive of Colors, the network behind “Child Bride” that has also teamed up with Mr. Kapoor, said the creative team hasn’t figured out how to navigate the political and religious sinkholes. “It’s very sensitive,” he said. “We’ll have to find a way to Indianize it Bollywood-style.”

The issue of India’s Muslim minority is so fraught that until recently soap operas ignored it. “I would love to do a Muslim soap, but it’s just not realistic,” Ms. Rajani of Sony said.

The ZEE network took the plunge in December, with “I Do,” a family saga with a love triangle about Zoya, a young Muslim woman raised in New York who returns to Bhopal and is torn between two men: Asad, the tall businessman with smoldering good looks who is disturbed by her modern ways, and Ayaan, the younger half-brother, a longhaired guitar-strumming layabout.

The look of “I Do” is distinctive, the colors deep, the sets contemporary. Characters greet one another with an Urdu salutation instead of the familiar Hindi “namaste” and sprinkle in a few words of Urdu along with a little English. (Hindi-speaking television characters often toss in English phrases like “are you mad?” and “profit margin.”)

But the themes and emotions on “I Do” are the same as in conventional soaps: love, marriage, mothers and mothers-in-law. (“Just because she wears jeans doesn’t mean she isn’t a decent girl,” Asad’s mother tells him pleadingly.)

Glossy Indian television ads for cars, motorcycles and beauty products provide some of the most modern — and westernized — images on television, and even those are careful not to offend. In an ad for “Attitude,” a skin cream, a smiling college student gets out of a car to greet her extended family, gathered for her return. Her relatives freeze when a second woman climbs out; her friend is a tough-looking young woman with Goth-style clothes and matching expression. The chill is broken when the visitor comes forward and bows respectfully at the feet of the matriarch. Everyone sighs in relief, and the family goes inside for a celebration.

Some television producers want to embed more conspicuous public service messages in their programs. “I despise soaps about kitchen politics; they are regressive,” said Ajit Thakur, the general manager of Life OK, a baby sister channel of Star Plus, a major network owned by News Corporation. Life OK has a soap opera called “Domestic Violence,” designed to focus attention on spousal abuse.

But when the channel asked viewers to call in with advice for the abused wife, Mr. Thakur was taken aback that almost half urged her to stay with her wealthy, handsome, if violently possessive husband. A lot of the older women, he said, argued, “Well, at least he really loves her.” (He ends up killing her with poison, but she is reincarnated via heart transplant and the new heroine plots his comeuppance.)

Soap opera subplots are often inspired by tales from the “Ramayana” and “Mahabharata,” epics that are the pillars of Hindu culture. Ms. Kapoor said that when she wanted to have a heroine kill a man to avenge his abuse of another woman — not a normal role for women on TV — she deliberately shot her in the pose of Kali, the Hindu goddess of death.

Religion can’t be trivialized, however. Inspired by “The Tudors” and “Rome” Ms. Kapoor tried to do a more daring series about the “Mahabharata” that humanized the gods. It bombed because it was too irreverent. Life OK is having success with its more traditional depiction of the adventures of Lord Shiva.

Family is also not to be trifled with. There are evil twins, fake deaths, comas, resurrections, time leaps, heartbreak, suicide, longing and lots of conflict on soaps — husband scolding wife, wife scolding maid, sister accusing sister, mistress threatening lover — but it is rare to see a younger person speak rudely to an elder. Heroines can be feisty, like the young woman raising her younger siblings by herself on the astonishingly titled “Hitler Didi.” (Hitler here is a metaphor for bossy.) They can sometimes be defiant, like Sia, who rebelled when her future mother-in-law, Ammaji, the village leader, incited the killing of baby girls on “Don’t Come to This Land, My Lovely Daughter,” a Colors network show that highlighted the problem of infanticide in rural areas and ended (happily ever after) this year.

But deference is essential and that’s not just made-for-TV fantasy. In real life the Bhats of Mumbai are a modern family of sorts: Durga, 26, works as a secretary in a real estate company and her husband; Sunil, 32, works in computer technology. They have a 15-month-old boy, Siddanth, and live in a tiny two-room apartment in a concrete apartment tower in an industrial area of Mumbai that happens to have a small paddock of buffalo next door. They share the space, no larger than an R.V., with Sunil’s mother, Jayshree, 53, and his sister Sheela, 28. His mother’s 78-year-old mother-in-law, Taralaxmi, sleeps nearby and spends her days in the apartment.

Both parents work hard, saving to send their son to private kindergarten. But everyone gathers at night to watch “Pavitra Rishta” (“Pure Relationship”), a top-rated soap opera, where the family, Durga said, “is like ours, a joint family.” Taralaxmi is a charmer, full of stories, and one evening before the show began, she pointed to her daughter-in-law, Jayshree. “She used to be thin,” she said cheerfully. “She put on weight after menopause.” Even in India that didn’t seem like a compliment. Jayshree kept smiling and did not reply.

“Sunil’s grandmother has her views and she loves to talk,” Durga said. “We just let her go, just as I do with my mother-in-law. You have to keep things moving when you live together in this kind of space.”

Like many a soap opera heroine Durga has learned to adjust.
580 2012-12-26 No question, it is a simpler proposition for a non-Christian like me to say bah, humbug to those who have attacked the N.B.A. for turning Christmas into basketball’s version of a “Star Trek” marathon. So let’s allow Stackhouse to counter the righteousness of the argument with an appropriate dose of realism.

“At the end of the day, when the licensing checks are rolling in, we’re all in line,” he said. “Everybody should be all in. It helps our brand.”

Seldom has it been an actual player grousing about playing and, worse, traveling on Christmas Eve to participate in what has become the league’s annual showcase, expanded to five games, beginning at noon in the East and concluding late night out West. Christmas has become to the N.B.A. what Thanksgiving is to the N.F.L., but the religious nature of the former has occasionally drawn complaints from coaches — Stan Van Gundy and Phil Jackson come to mind — along with the news media.

Most recently, Bruce Jenkins of The San Francisco Chronicle apologized for having suggested in a column that Commissioner David Stern might not understand the objections to the league’s full-court Christmas press because he is Jewish. These days, it has become a sport within the sport to pillory Stern when he locks out players to cut their revenue or stands up for the legitimacy of the league’s TV contracts, which put luxury cars in their driveways. Can critics really have it both ways?

However clichéd or unfounded it was to degrade a man with Stern’s excellent credentials on many social causes of inclusiveness, no one should minimize the opinions of those who believe that Christmas is not a day for unencumbered commercialism, even if every day leading to it is.

But people do interpret and observe religion differently, and as Celtics Coach Doc Rivers noted, a fair number of folks “do work on Christmas.” Restaurants open. People go to the movies. In the long history of N.B.A. Christmas games, no one has been forced to attend or watch on television.

Nor are other holidays as sacred and solemn as they might be. Memorial Day would no doubt qualify as one many would reserve for pause and reflection, yet long ago it became, along with other recreational activities, as much about beer at the ballpark as anything else.

First and foremost, playing on Christmas, or not playing, is a workplace issue for players and coaches, and it is up to them to fight for the day off if it means that much to them.

“Of course everyone would rather be home, so let’s start with that,” Rivers said. “But this is our job. It’s called programming.”

Rivers said he preferred fewer games on Christmas, arguing that the N.B.A.’s holiday product had become diluted. But the bigger picture invariably gives way to intramural issues. Rather than worry about a day off, Rivers could wonder why the Celtics, forever a marquee team, played their 29th Christmas game Tuesday, all but one on the road.

Then again, when the league loses your number and ignores you altogether on Christmas, that’s even worse. So Rivers got with the programming and allowed his players to bring their families to New York.

“I try to look at it the other way,” Rivers said. “It’s an honor.”

Nets Coach Avery Johnson used that word before the Nets dishonored him with a flaccid effort — especially from the seemingly uninterested Deron Williams — that did nothing to enhance his increasingly endangered job status. The good news is that only the truly heartless would relieve a man of employment on Christmas. So off to Milwaukee went the Nets after their first Christmas game since 2002.

Stackhouse was grateful that the flight was held long enough for him to scoot home and have dinner with the family. He had already celebrated the holiday and his 12th anniversary with his wife, Ramirra, on Christmas Eve.

They went to dinner on the Upper East Side, greeted at the restaurant by the famed French chef Daniel Boulud.

“That’s part of good business,” Stackhouse said. “Like we promote our business, he promotes his.”
581 2012-12-26 Microsoft’s Office suite of software, which does not include e-mail, is installed on a desktop PC or laptop. In 2013, the list price for businesses will be $400 per computer, but many companies pay half that after negotiating a volume deal.

At the same time, Microsoft has built its business on raising prices for extra features and services. The 2013 version of Office, for example, costs up to $50 more than its predecessor.

“Google is getting traction” on Microsoft, said Melissa Webster, an analyst with IDC. “Its ‘good enough’ product has become pretty good. It looks like 2013 is going to be the year for content and collaboration in the cloud.”

Microsoft has also jumped on the office-in-the-cloud trend. In June 2011, it released Office 365, and now offers its software in both a cloud version and a hybrid version that uses cloud computing and conventional servers. Office 365 starts at a list price of $72 a year, per person, and can cost as much as $240 a person annually, in versions that offer many more features and software development capabilities. Microsoft says it offers more than Google for the money, but the product has not won many converts from Google.

In a recent report, Gartner, the information technology research company, called Google “the only strong competitor” to Microsoft in cloud-based business productivity software, though it warned that “enterprise concerns may not be of paramount importance to the search giant.”

Google is tight-lipped about how many people use Google Apps, saying only that in June more than five million businesses were using it, up from four million in late 2011. Almost all these companies are tiny, but in early December Google announced that even companies with fewer than 10 employees, which used to get Google Apps free, would have to pay.

Google’s revenue from Apps, according to a former executive who asked not to be named in order to maintain good relations with Google, amounted to perhaps $1 billion of the $37.9 billion Google earned in 2011.

Shaw Industries, a carpet maker in Dalton, Ga., with about 30,000 employees, switched to Google Apps this year for communication tools like e-mail and videoconferencing. Jim Nielsen, the company’s manager of enterprise technology, calculated that using Google instead of similar Microsoft products would cost, over seven years, about one-thirteenth Microsoft’s price.

Shaw is a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway, run by Warren E. Buffett, but the close friendship of Mr. Buffett and Microsoft’s founder, Bill Gates, did not sway Mr. Nielsen. “When you add it up, the numbers are pretty compelling,” he said.

In addition to the lower price, Google has simplicity in pricing. Mr. Nielsen said he had to sort through 11 pricing models to figure out what he would pay Microsoft.

But his prime motive in choosing Google, he said, was online collaboration. “As people in their daily lives become more electronically social, they want to bring that into the office,” Mr. Nielsen said. “Video is more appealing than a written letter.”

Google, he said, is “constantly making it better for teams to work, inside and outside the company, with controlled access.”

Microsoft says it does not yet see a threat. Google “has not yet shown they are truly serious,” said Julia White, a general manager in Microsoft’s business division. “From the outside, they are an advertising company.” In 2011, 96 percent of Google’s revenue came from advertising.

Even though Microsoft sells a similar product, she said most companies did not want to depend exclusively on clouds for documents and communication. Microsoft now has some of its own workers entirely online, she said, while others use both local computers and the cloud, to get a feel for how various companies work.

Although she would not break out numbers, Ms. White said Office 365 was “on track to be our fastest-growing business.” She said that Google, to be a threat, would need to “provide a quality enterprise experience” in areas like “privacy, data handling and security.”

But according to the General Services Administration, out of 42 federal government contracts for which Google and Microsoft competed in 2012, Google won 23 deals, and Microsoft 10. The rest went to another company, Zimbra, which is owned by VMware, a maker of cloud software.

Microsoft’s biggest and most profitable sector, its business division, brought in nearly $24 billion in the 2012 fiscal year that ended in June. Almost none of that came from Office 365, but from the familiar older-style software that depends on computers located within the corporation.

As the two behemoths slug it out in the enterprise market, their cloud-computing software is changing the way businesses operate. Internet-based computing makes it easier to communicate both within and outside a company. Fixing software and adding features can be done automatically, the way consumers get the latest version of Facebook when they go to its site.

“People were looking for cheap e-mail at first, but now it’s about collaboration, calendaring and data storage online,” said Ms. Webster of IDC. Over time, her firm says, software revenue will be at least 50 percent from the cloud, which could challenge the complex way Microsoft prices and discounts its products.

Ms. White, the Microsoft manager, said Google “helped amplify a lot of the conversation around cloud productivity.” That is a far cry from last February, when Microsoft put a video on Google’s YouTube Web site lampooning Google with a parody of the old television show “Moonlighting.”

Google, the video suggested, would automatically change around a buyer’s software. But cloud-based software is supposed to issue automatic updates and feature changes. Microsoft has issued several updates to Office 365, though, unlike Google, it lets customers delay the changes for up to a year.
582 2012-12-26 “I don’t have a clue,” Gerald Wallace said afterward of the Nets’ woes, repeating a sentiment heard throughout the locker room. “I think the main thing is, we got to get our mood back to where everybody is happy about playing basketball and everything isn’t so down.”

Rajon Rondo led the Celtics (14-13) with 19 points and thoroughly outplayed Williams, who had 10 points and 6 assists and never really put his mark on the game. Johnson scored 12 points, going 4 for 14 from the field. Brook Lopez and Wallace led the Nets with 15 points each.

Moving Wallace to power forward was supposed to spark the offense, but the Nets shot 40.6 percent from the field, missed 12 of their 29 free throws and sabotaged themselves with 20 turnovers, leading to 25 Celtics points.

Boston crowded Williams and Johnson with persistent double-teams, forcing the ball out of their hands and leading, directly or indirectly, to several of those turnovers. When the ball did find an open teammate, he usually missed. Andray Blatche and Jerry Stackhouse were a combined 6 for 17 from the field.

Williams, the Nets’ star point guard, took just seven shots, making three, which hardly seems like a formula for success.

“He needs more,” Coach Avery Johnson said, “but we got to do a better job of setting screens for him — and when he’s open, getting him the ball on time and on target. When he gets trapped, we got to do a good job of making our shots.”

Nor could the Nets keep the Celtics out of the paint (46 points), being bullied repeatedly inside by Jared Sullinger (16 points). Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce combined for just 16 points, but they hardly needed to do much more.

Boston also won the rebounding margin, by 41-36, forcing the Nets to reassess their small lineup. Reggie Evans started at power forward to open the second half, but that lineup failed, too.

The mood was dim as the Nets dressed and packed for a trip to Milwaukee. Joe Johnson, who is usually genial, left without speaking to reporters.

The most striking message came 20 minutes after the final buzzer, from the Nets’ chief executive, Brett Yormark, who wrote on Twitter: “Nets fans deserved better today. The entire organization needs to work harder to find the solution. We will get there.”

What that remark might mean to the Nets’ basketball staff is not entirely clear, but the pressure and scrutiny will intensify if the team slips below .500.

“I think it’s already a concern,” Williams said of the recent failings. “There’s no way around that. We feel like we can be a good team. We feel like we had some good wins, and there’s a reason why we had those wins.”

When the Nets prevailed Nov. 28 in Boston, they did so despite the ejections of Wallace and Kris Humphries after a scuffle with Rondo and Garnett. They considered it a sign of their mental toughness.

Tempers flared again Tuesday, this time with Wallace and Garnett tangling early in the fourth quarter, with the Celtics leading by 77-60. Wallace had landed awkwardly after an offensive rebound and grabbed Garnett’s jersey to steady himself. Garnett grabbed Wallace’s wrist and held it, while Wallace appeared to bark, “Let go of me.” Garnett barked back, and Blatche leapt into the fray, triggering whistles, angry words and a double-technical foul for Garnett and Wallace.

Moments later, Sullinger was called for a flagrant foul for collaring Wallace on a fast break.

Those were the last real moments of tension in the game, which had long since slipped from the Nets’ grasp.

After a solid opening period, they fell behind by 15 in the second quarter and by 21 in the third. They rallied briefly, but the Celtics responded with a 9-0 run, extending the lead to 17 points early in the fourth.

By then, most of the life had gone out of the building, aside from a vocal contingent of Boston fans, who entertained themselves with a “Let’s go, Celtics” chant.

These teams will meet once more, on April 10. In the meantime, perhaps the Nets can rediscover the team they were on Nov. 28.

“I thought that was a turning point for us,” Wallace said, adding: “I thought that was the start of us moving up. And instead we went in a different direction.”

Kris Humphries, having already lost his starting job, is dealing with a mild abdominal strain and was placed on the inactive list.
583 2012-12-26 The movement is not going away — most Republicans in the House have more to fear from primary challengers on their right than from Democratic challengers. An unpopular budget deal could reignite the Tea Party, as the antitax crusader Grover Norquist predicts.

But surveys of voters leaving the polls last month showed that support for the Tea Party had dropped precipitously from 2010, when a wave of recession-fueled anger over bailouts, federal spending and the health care overhaul won the Republicans a majority in the House.

The House members elected with Tea Party backing in 2010 forced onto the national agenda their goals of deep cuts to spending and changes to entitlement programs, embodied by the budget blueprints of Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, who became Mitt Romney’s running mate. And some of those lawmakers led the revolt last week that prompted Speaker John A. Boehner to cancel a House vote on a plan to avert a year-end fiscal crisis by raising tax rates on household income above $1 million.

“The Tea Party put a lot of steel in the spine of the Republican Party,” said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma.

But the Tea Party activists have not been front and center in the fiscal fight. And Mr. Cole added that Tea Party leaders now excoriating Mr. Boehner for offering higher taxes in a budget deal did not recognize political reality.

“These guys want instant success,” said Mr. Cole, a member of the House Republican leadership. “If they want to see a better result, they’ve got to help us win the United States Senate. We’ve thrown away some seats out of political immaturity.”

But a number of Republican leaders said the Tea Party seemed headed toward becoming just another political faction, not a broad movement. It may rally purists, but it will continue to alienate realists and centrists, they said.

“I think the Tea Party movement is to the Republicans in 2013 what the McGovernites were to the Democrats in 1971 and 1972,” said Don Gaetz, a Republican who is the president of the Florida Senate. “They will cost Republicans seats in Congress and in state legislatures. But they will also help Republicans win seats.”

Because the Tea Party comprises thousands of local groups, it is impossible to determine whether its ranks shrank after the many electoral defeats last month, which activists said caused grief and deep frustration.

Greg Cummings, the leader of the We the People Tea Party in rural Decatur County, Iowa, said his group had picked up 12 members since the election, for a total of about 50. “If you were in a fight and someone gave you a good left hook, it doesn’t mean the fight is over,” he said.

But Everett Wilkinson, the chairman of the Florida Tea Party in Palm Beach County, said the number of active Tea Party groups statewide “has diminished significantly in the last year or so, certainly in the last couple of months,” with only a third of what there once was.

“A lot of people gave their heart and soul to trying to get Obama out; they’re frustrated,” he added. “They don’t know what to do. They got involved with the electoral process, and that didn’t work out.”

FreedomWorks, a national group that has played a crucial role in organizing Tea Party activists and backing insurgent candidates, has been riven by turmoil, leading to the departure last month of its chairman, Dick Armey, a former Republican majority leader in the House.

Mr. Armey said in news accounts that he questioned the ethical behavior of senior officials in the group, though others told of a power struggle. He was eased out with an $8 million consulting contract, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press.

FreedomWorks spent nearly $40 million on the 2012 elections but backed a string of losing Senate candidates, including Richard E. Mourdock of Indiana, Josh Mandel of Ohio and Connie Mack of Florida. Some Tea Party firebrands lost their House seats, including Allen B. West of Florida and Joe Walsh of Illinois.

One notable success for the Tea Party was the Senate victory by Ted Cruz of Texas.

Mr. Cummings, who is the Midwest coordinator for Tea Party Patriots, a national group, said a major issue he would be focusing on now was Agenda 21, a United Nations resolution that encourages sustainable development. It has no force of law in the United States, but a passionate element of the Tea Party sees it as a plot against American property rights.

Billie Tucker, an activist with the First Coast Tea Party in Florida, said she and others suspected that corruption on local election boards had led to Mr. Obama’s victory in the state. Activists want to investigate.

“Some people say it’s just a conspiracy theory, but there’s rumbling all around,” she said. “There’s all kinds of data, and no one’s talking about it, including, hello, the mainstream media.”

Another issue boiling is the “nullification” of the Affordable Care Act. Angry that Mr. Obama’s re-election means that the health care law will not be repealed, some activists claim that states can deny the authority of the federal government and refuse to carry it out.

At a Florida State Senate meeting this month, two dozen Tea Party activists called the law “tyrannical” and said the state had the right to nullify it.

Mr. Gaetz, the Senate president, a conservative Republican, said in an interview that he, too, disagreed with the Supreme Court ruling that upheld the law. But he called nullification “kooky.”

“We’re not a banana republic,” he said. It is “dangerous to the foundation of the republic when we pick and choose which laws we will obey.”
584 2012-12-26 MIAMI (AP) — Bill McBride, a Florida Democrat who defeated former Attorney General Janet Reno for the party’s 2002 nomination for governor but then lost to Gov. Jeb Bush in the general election, died on Saturday while visiting his family in Mount Airy, N.C. He was 67.

The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Alex Sink, who was the Democratic nominee for governor in 2010 but lost to Rick Scott.

Mr. McBride, a Tampa lawyer who had been managing partner at Holland & Knight, left his legal career to challenge Mr. Bush, Ms. Sink said.

“He just believed our state was going in the wrong direction under Jeb Bush,” she said. “He ran a campaign based on supporting public education, supporting teachers and investing more money in education.”

Ms. Sink, a former state chief financial officer, said she often sought Mr. McBride’s advice during her unsuccessful campaign against Mr. Scott, a Republican. The couple, who married in 1987 and have a son and a daughter, made their home in Thonotosassa, outside Tampa.

Mr. McBride was born on May 10, 1945, in Belleville, Ill., and grew up in Leesburg in Central Florida. He entered the University of Florida on a football scholarship but gave up the sport because of a knee injury. He temporarily dropped out of law school to volunteer with the Marines in Vietnam, where he earned a Bronze Star.
585 2012-12-27 The E.P.A. estimates that it will cost $467 million to $504 million and last until 2020....
586 2012-12-27 An admissions officer advices students to tackle "dangerous questions" in their essays, "questions that require you to stake out a position, to have an opinion and to express something of substance."...
587 2012-12-27 Ron Lieber, the “Your Money” columnist, discusses the implications of the fiscal deadline on personal finances.
588 2012-12-27 A New York State appeals court dismissed a lawsuit brought by hedge funds against Porsche on Thursday, handing the German automaker a big victory in the long-running legal battle over its attempted takeover of Volkswagen in 2008....
589 2012-12-27 Is a ‘Bomb Cyclone’ as Scary as It Sounds?
590 2012-12-27 The prime minister emphasized inclusive growth and improved safety for women....
591 2012-12-27 A well-known Syrian opposition activist, Rami Jarrah, has released screenshots of a conversation on Twitter with Syria's missing Foreign Ministry spokesman, Jihad Makdissi....
592 2012-12-27 The petition was signed by more than 50,000 people, leading the university to suspend use of the logo.

“It caught everybody’s attention,” said Jefferson Coombs, executive director at the Cal Alumni Association at University of California, Berkeley. “Just the number of people that were commenting, and commenting in long form, commenting in detail, commenting their opinions about the space. This was, maybe, the most active social media conversation about the university system that I’ve seen over the past several years.”

The new logo was not meant as a replacement for the traditional seal, which would still be used on diplomas, transcripts and other university correspondence, Mr. Simon said. Web sites, brochures and additional advertising would have carried the new logo, with the goal of refreshing the university’s identity after big cuts in state financing in 2009, and an executive compensation scandal that involved university administrators in 2007, he said.

“The university needed to do a better job and a more proactive job in telling its story to Californians,” he said. “One of the big things that we heard was that the University of California was still regarded as one of the greatest institutions in the world, but there were some concerns about where the university was headed.”

The short-term victory the students earned at the University of California does not change the increasingly difficult climate in which universities find themselves today, Mr. Simon said.

Many institutions undergo rebranding efforts to stay competitive in an environment where cuts in government financing require more private and corporate donations and where many prospective students may opt to take classes online instead of in traditional classrooms.

“The changing media landscape, the changing funding landscape has played into how colleges and universities are managing their visual identities and their message,” Mr. Simon said.

University brands have to look fresh and new, not only to impress prospective donors but also so they can translate well on the multiple platforms their logos will live on — including mobile phones, Web sites and tablets, Mr. Simon said. “The old standard used to be for a designer, ‘Does it fax?’ ” Mr. Simon said. “Now it’s, ‘Does it work as a Twitter icon?’ “

Elizabeth Scarborough, chief executive of SimpsonScarborough, an ad and marketing agency that works with colleges and universities, said, “A lot of schools are taking a much more corporate approach.” Referring to chief marketing officers, she said “a C.M.O. didn’t even exist on most campuses 10 years ago.”

Rebranding efforts at other universities have been met with similar reaction over the last few years. In 2010, when Purdue wanted “to raise the reputation of the institution,” it created a new branding campaign, said Teri Lucie Thompson, vice president for marketing and media at the university.

The campaign was called “Makers All,” a play on the “Boilermakers” nickname for Purdue students, alumni and sports teams, which dated back to 1891. Many students voiced their displeasure to the new slogan and its related campaign by taking to Facebook, where one page called “I’m a Boilermaker, not a Maker” had gotten more than 7,600 “Likes.” Others, including some faculty members, questioned whether it made sense to spend money on a branding campaign while budgets were being cut.

University officials said they never intended to remove the Boilermaker name and have since added the name to some of the marketing materials. The “Makers All” campaign is still active and the university has since added the tagline — “What We Make Moves the World Forward.”

Drake University also drew criticism in 2010 when it used a “D+” as the symbol for its branding campaign, meant to convey the idea of linking students with the opportunities it had to offer (Hence the “+”).

The campaign was criticized by many. University officials defended the campaign and the + is still in use on the university Web site connecting words like “History + Tradition” and “Your Potential + Our Investment.” The “D+,” however, is absent.
593 2012-12-27 United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement audited more companies for illegal immigrants on their payrolls in the 2012 fiscal year than in previous years. Audits of employer I-9 forms increased to more than 3,000 in 2012 from 250 in the 2007 fiscal year. From fiscal 2009 to 2012, the total amount of fines grew to nearly $13 million from $1 million, ICE data showed. Employers are required to have workers fill out an I-9 form that declares them authorized to work in the country. An employer needs only to verify that identifying documents look real. The audits rely on ICE officers scouring payroll records to find names that do not match Social Security numbers and other identification databases. In the 2011 fiscal year, the most recent year reviewed by The Associated Press, the median fine was $11,000. The state with the most workplaces fined was Texas with 63, followed by New Jersey with 37.
594 2012-12-27 In response to questions from The Times, Apple issued the following statement:

“Apple takes working conditions very seriously and we have for a long time. Our efforts range from protecting to empowering to improving the lives of everyone involved in assembling an Apple product. No one in our industry is doing as much as we are, in as many places, touching as many people as we do. Through years of hard work and steadfast commitment, we have set workplace, dormitory and safety standards, sought help from the world’s leading experts, and established groundbreaking educational programs for workers. Since 2008, more than 200,000 factory workers have taken free classes including college-level courses provided by Apple, and over one million employees have been educated on their rights through our worker empowerment training program.

“We believe workers everywhere have the right to a safe and fair work environment where they can earn competitive wages and express their concerns freely. Our suppliers have to live up to that if they want to do business with Apple.

“We have been upfront about the challenges we face and are attacking issues aggressively with the help of the world’s foremost authorities. We believe deeply in transparency and have demonstrated this through reporting our shortcomings and exposing violations. As the only electronics company ever to be admitted to the Fair Labor Association, our production lines are open to independent inspection by the F.L.A. at any time. We collect weekly working hours data from over one million workers in our supply chain and publish them on our Web site.

“Apple is in a unique position to lead and we have embraced this role since the earliest days of our supplier responsibility program. We do all these things out of respect for our customers and, most of all, the people who make our products.”
595 2012-12-27 Groups like the American Israel Public Affairs Committee were created to foster strong American-Israeli ties and to promote the idea that a vibrant, democratic Israel is a critical American ally in an undemocratic region — a job they have done remarkably well in recent years.

But as the debate over the best route to peace for the Jewish state has become more bitterly polarized, groups like Aipac, the A.D.L. and the A.J.C. have undercut and obscured that message by refusing to distance themselves from extremists.

Intimidated by pro-settler zealots, right-wing donors and those who liken the slightest criticism of Israeli policy to Israel-bashing (or even anti-Semitism), pro-Israel leaders are increasingly allowing the fringes of their movement to set the pro-Israel agenda in Washington.

With wealthy, far-right contributors calling the shots, Jewish groups are constantly lowering the bar for what is considered “Israel-bashing,” risking turning supporters of the Jewish state into adversaries simply because they do not support the ideology of the current Israeli government.

Ten years ago, mainstream pro-Israel groups carefully avoided the issue of West Bank settlements; today, politicians who argue that settlement expansion is an obstacle to peace — a longstanding American position — risk being tarred with the anti-Israel brush. Even though support for settlements reflects the perspective of a small minority of American Jews, it increasingly appears to be the policy stance of major pro-Israel groups.

It was precisely this sort of fringe-driven politics that accounted for the Republican Party’s dramatic electoral losses. Wild conspiracy theories about President Obama, extreme positions on popular entitlement programs and offensive remarks by candidates who spoke of things like “legitimate rape” turned voters off in droves. More moderate party leaders, fearing the wrath of the radicals in their ranks, were timid in repudiating those positions and comments, and fed the impression that they were in agreement.

Judging from the National Rifle Association’s clumsy news conference last week, the gun-rights lobby may be nearing a similar public relations cliff. By playing to zealots who reject any government restrictions on firearms, they are not lobbying for the right of hunters to keep their deer rifles, or homeowners to keep their revolvers; they are arguing for the right of anybody, including the most demented people, to own the most lethal firearms, and making the absurd claim that the more Americans who are armed, the safer we will be. As a result, the N.R.A. may soon see its support evaporate among those in the persuadable (and reasonable) middle.

Playing to the extremist fringe could produce short-term gains for pro-Israel groups by rallying the faithful and encouraging big contributions. But — as this year’s election and rising anti-gun sentiment demonstrates — it brings with it the risk of a popular backlash.

Support for the Jewish state remains strong among both parties on Capitol Hill and across the American electorate, and it won’t disappear anytime soon. But that support will wither if Aipac and other mainstream Jewish leaders don’t forcefully reject the zealots in their midst.

And, in the long run, that can only damage the interests of a vulnerable Israel.
596 2012-12-27 Yevgeny Plushenko made a triumphant comeback at the Russian figure skating championships in Sochi when he won his 10th national men’s title in his first competition in nearly a year.

Plushenko had not competed since clinching his seventh European title in January. He had a knee operation in February.
597 2012-12-27 MANCHESTER, England (AP) — With another dramatic victory, Manchester United moved to a seven-point lead in the Premier League standings as the season reached the halfway point Wednesday.

Javier Hernandez scored the winning goal in the 90th minute as United rallied from behind three times in a 4-3 victory over Newcastle.

“Once again they have proved their courage, never gave in — down three times and came back three times, and eventually deserved to win the game,” United Manager Alex Ferguson said.

The second-place team, Manchester City, lost, 1-0, at Sunderland, falling further behind United. Chelsea is now only four points behind City after Juan Mata’s goal produced a 1-0 victory at Norwich.

Tottenham, Everton and West Bromwich Albion are all two points behind Chelsea. Tottenham moved into the fourth Champions League spot, scoring four unanswered goals against Aston Villa’s goalkeeper, Brad Guzan of the United States.
598 2012-12-27 She and others involved in aiding refugees say that neglect and absence of resources add unnecessary hardship to already tattered lives and are creating a potential tinderbox for social unrest.

Italy has just 3,150 or so spots in its state-financed asylum protection system, in which refugees receive government assistance. Waiting lists are impossibly long, leaving many to fend for themselves.

“If you’re not lucky to get one of those, you’re on your own. You have to find a way to support yourself, learn the language, get a house and a job,” Ms. Boldrini said.

That has certainly been the experience of those in Salaam Palace. Some have been living in the building since early 2006, when it was occupied by a group of refugees with the help of an organized squatters’ association.

Most had fled war and other hardships in Sudan and the Horn of Africa. Nearly all have refugee status, or some form of protection, but they have been unable to find steady work in Rome. Italy’s economic crisis has made that challenge all the harder.

“We escaped one war to find another kind of war — 800 people crammed in a palazzo,” said Yakub Abdelnabi, a resident of Salaam Palace who left Sudan in 2005.

Last summer, Nils Muiznieks, the Council of Europe commissioner for human rights, visited Salaam Palace, and according to a council report issued in September, “witnessed the shocking conditions in which the men, women and children were living in this building, such as one shower and one toilet shared by 250 persons.”

Apart from volunteers, the residents had no guidance to help them find work, go to school or deal with administrative burdens, the report said. “This has effectively relegated these refugees or other beneficiaries of international protection to the margins of society.”

Local authorities can demand documents for social assistance, documents that are often impossible for the refugees to obtain. Occasional government-financed aid projects have had negligible effect, residents said.

Though immigrants are granted access to medical care, many are leery of navigating Italy’s labyrinthine national health system, which is why on a blustery December day, medical students had volunteered to provide flu shots to some residents of Salaam Palace, in a makeshift clinic amid cigarette butts and empty beer bottles.

“This is the worst time of the year, when the risk of epidemic is high,” said Dr. Donatella D’Angelo, the president of a volunteer association that provides weekly health care at Salaam Palace.

In recent weeks, she and her team of volunteers have provided more than 100 flu shots to residents. “It’s a drop in the bucket,” she said. “Look at the conditions they live in and tell me if they’re not likely to transmit the flu to each other.”

Those with health complaints are referred to state hospitals and clinics, but the doctors can do little about the psychological frailty that overcomes many.

“Depression, in various forms, is normal here,” said Dr. Marta Mazza, a volunteer.

Because of its geography, Italy is more exposed to migration from Africa, and it has called on other European Union countries to help bear the burden. Even so, the country has lagged in its own response, refugee agencies say.

“It has never invested in a system that’s structural,” said Ms. Boldrini, of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. “Every year is treated as if it’s any emergency.”

Under European Union rules, asylum seekers must stay in the country in which they entered Europe, and can be sent back if they go elsewhere. Many residents of Salaam Palace say they sought something better, in France, Britain or Germany, but found themselves back in Rome.

“No one believes that we can live like this in Italy,” said Bahar Deen Abdal, 28, a nattily dressed Sudanese man who has lived in Salaam Palace for four years. “This place, it’s like being in jail.”

Another 900 refugees in Rome live in equally, if not more, squalid conditions, according to a recent report, with one group occupying a shantytown along the Tiber.

As far as priorities go, assistance to the refugees ranks low on the government’s list of priorities when Italians are absorbed in their own economic struggles. Yet refugee agencies argue that Italy has every incentive to assist asylum seekers.

“Of course it means a financial effort,” said Christopher Hein, director of the Italian Refugee Council.” But refugees could be transformed into taxpaying citizens, Mr. Hein said. “We think the investment is worth it.”

Those at Salaam Palace try to make do. There is a canteen, run by residents, where basic needs, including injera, the Ethiopian and Eritrean bread, as well as some tomato sauce and spaghetti, can be found.

Yohannes Bereket, 35, was granted refugee status three years ago after fleeing his native Eritrea, where he had apprenticed as a shoemaker. Residents of Salaam Palace can hardly afford bespoke shoes. So today he ekes out a living mending clothes and cobbling the occasional sole.

“At least I have a place to sleep,” he said. “It’s not great, but I do what I can.”
599 2012-12-27 DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (Reuters) — Security forces in the United Arab Emirates have arrested members of a cell made up of militants from Saudi Arabia and the emirates who were planning to carry out attacks in both countries and in other states, the official Emirates News Agency said on Wednesday.

The federation of seven emirates, a major oil exporter and an ally of the United States, has had no attacks by Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups. But Islamist sentiment has risen in recent years, and Dubai, a business and tourism hub that attracts many Westerners, could make an attractive target for militants, analysts say.

The suspects had acquired materials and equipment for use in what the news agency called terrorist operations.

“The security authorities in the U.A.E., in coordination with the related security parties in Saudi Arabia, announced the arrest of an organized cell from the deviant group that was planning to carry out actions against national security of both countries and some brotherly states,” the agency said, without elaborating.

The phrase “deviant group” is often used by the authorities in Saudi Arabia to describe Al Qaeda.
600 2012-12-27 WASHINGTON (AP) — Home prices were up in most major metropolitan areas in October from a year earlier, pushed up by rising sales and a decline in the supply of available homes. Higher prices show the housing market is improving as it moves into the slow fall and winter sales period.

The Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller national home price index released Wednesday showed that prices increased 4.3 percent from October 2011, the largest year-over-year increase in two and a half years, when a home buyer tax credit temporarily increased sales.

Prices rose in October 2012 from a year earlier in 18 of 20 cities. Phoenix led all cities with a 21.7 percent gain, followed by Detroit, where prices increased 10 percent. Prices declined in Chicago and New York.

Home prices fell in 12 of 20 cities in October compared with September. Monthly prices are not seasonally adjusted, so the decreases reflect the end of the peak buying season.

Still, the broader trend is encouraging. October was the fifth straight month of year-over-year gains, after nearly two years of declines. Prices rose in mid-2010 in the final months before the tax credit expired. They had fallen sharply in 2008 and 2009.
601 2012-12-27 But the high-speed rail system has also been controversial in China. Debt to finance the construction has reached nearly 4 trillion renminbi, or $640 billion, making it one of the most visible reasons total debt has been surging as a share of economic output in China, and is approaching levels in the West.

Each passenger car taken off the older, slower rail lines makes room for three freight cars because passenger trains have to move so quickly that they force freight trains to stop frequently. But although the high-speed trains have played a big role in allowing sharp increases in freight shipments, the Ministry of Railways has not yet figured out a way to charge large freight shippers, many of them politically influential state-owned enterprises, for part of the cost of the high-speed lines, which haul only passengers.

The high-speed trains are also considerably more expensive than the heavily subsidized older passenger trains. A second-class seat on the new bullet trains from Beijing to Guangzhou costs 865 renminbi ($139) one way, compared with 426 renminbi ($68) for the cheapest bunk on one of the older trains, which also have narrow, uncomfortable seats for as little as 251 renminbi ($40).

Worries about the high-speed network peaked in July 2011, when one high-speed train plowed into the back of another near Wenzhou in southeastern China, killing 40 people.

A subsequent investigation blamed flawed signaling equipment for the crash. China had been operating high-speed trains at 350 kilometers an hour (about 218 m.ph.), and it cut the top speed to the current rate in response to that crash.

The crash crystallized worries about the haste with which China has built its high-speed rail system. The first line, from Beijing to Tianjin, opened a week before the 2008 Olympics; a little more than four years later, the country now has 9,349 kilometers, or 5,809 miles, of high-speed lines.

China’s aviation system has a good international reputation for safety, and its occasional deadly crashes have not attracted nearly as much attention. Transportation safety experts attribute the public’s fascination with the Wenzhou crash partly to the novelty of the system and partly to a distrust among many Chinese of what is perceived as a homegrown technology, in contrast with the Boeing and Airbus jets flown by Chinese airlines.

Japanese rail executives have complained, however, that the Chinese technology is mostly copied from them, an accusation that Chinese rail executives have strenuously denied.

The main alternative to trains for most Chinese lies in the country’s roads, which have a grim reputation by international standards. Periodic crashes of intercity buses kill dozens of people at a time, while crashes of private cars are frequent in a country where four-fifths of new cars are sold to first-time buyers, often with scant driving experience.

Flights between Beijing and Guangzhou take about three hours and 15 minutes. But air travelers in China need to arrive at least an hour before a flight, compared with 20 minutes for high-speed trains, and the airports tend to be farther from the centers of cities than the high-speed train stations.

Land acquisition is the toughest part of building high-speed rail lines in the West, because the tracks need to be almost perfectly straight, and it has been an issue in China as well. Although local and provincial governments have forced owners to sell land for the tracks themselves, there have been disputes over suddenly valuable land near rail stations, with the result that surprisingly few stores and other commercial venues have sprung up around some high-speed stations used by tens of thousands of travelers every day.

Zhao Xiangfeng, a farmer in Henan Province, said a plan to build a mini-mall on his and six other farmers’ land near a station had been shelved indefinitely after he and three of the other farmers refused to lease the land for any price close to what the village leadership offered. He said he worried that local leaders might try stronger tactics on the farmers to force them to lease the land and revive the project.

The 664-mile southern segment of the new high-speed rail line, from Guangzhou as far as Wuhan, has been open for nearly three years. The trains, which come every four to 12 minutes, are often packed, which could limit the number of seats available for travel to Beijing.
602 2012-12-27 Mr. Abe has vowed to encourage growth quickly by offering 10 trillion yen, or about $120 billion, in public works and other emergency stimulus spending. He has also promised to force the central bank to move more aggressively to combat deflation and to weaken the value of the yen, actions that would offer relief to beleaguered export industries by making Japanese products cheaper abroad.

The measures are intended to revive the economy ahead of the elections in June, to give Mr. Abe’s party a better chance of winning the upper house and, with it, control of Parliament. Mr. Abe will have to hurry to retain the support of Japan’s weary voters, who have shown themselves quick to turn against leaders who fail to deliver on promises of change.

Immediately after the vote on Wednesday, Mr. Abe began appointing a cabinet filled with relatively young and unknown faces. While many of these appointees are Mr. Abe’s friends, the fresh lineup is also apparently intended to emphasize that the party has changed since it was driven from power three years ago.

Among the few veterans in the cabinet is Taro Aso, 72, a former prime minister, who was appointed finance minister. The post of foreign minister went to Fumio Kishida, 55, a former minister in charge of Okinawan affairs. He is expected to try to smooth ties with the United States, which have been frayed by a dispute over an American air base on Okinawa.

Mr. Abe will face other early challenges, like bridging a rift within his party over whether Japan should join a new regional free-trade agreement led by the United States. The pact, called the Trans-Pacific Partnership, is supported by business leaders but opposed by farmers, two groups that are among the staunchest supporters of the Liberal Democrats.

Another challenge will be responding to China’s stepped-up efforts to assert its claims to the disputed islands, which Japan calls the Senkaku and China calls the Diaoyu. Chinese ships and, more recently, aircraft now make almost daily incursions into Japanese-controlled waters and airspace near the islands, with no signs of letting up.

Mr. Abe has been vague about whether he will shift his energies to his long-held desire to rewrite Japan’s antiwar Constitution to allow for a full-fledged military.

Mr. Abe and other conservatives say such a step is needed for Japan to stand up for itself in light of China’s growing strength, and to share more of the regional security burden with the United States. However, the move could also be seen as provocative by China and South Korea, two victims of Japan’s World War II-era militaristic policies.
603 2012-12-28 A bipartisan group of senators have proposed changes that could speed up the legislative process but would stop short of the most dramatic changes to the filibuster that some Democrats are demanding....
604 2012-12-28 GitHub, which encourages open-source software writers to discuss their work, has a long-term dream of taking its approach outside engineering and into all business, even government....
605 2012-12-28 Side Street: As a youth, David Shuffler constantly wanted to go to Starlight Park in the Bronx, and as an adult, he still does....
606 2012-12-28 Point guard Deron Williams said Friday that he did not quit on Avery Johnson, but he did accept some responsibility for the Nets' poor play recently....
607 2012-12-28 By 2020, the demise of the archetypal hedge fund fee structure - a 2 percent management fee and 20 percent of gains - should be at hand, the authors say....
608 2012-12-28 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority unveiled the app to provide real-time information for six of the system's numbered lines and the 42nd Street shuttle....
609 2012-12-28 Social insurance, still affordable, and more necessary than ever....
610 2012-12-28 America's political conversation today could be seen as a big argument about the nature, meaning and value of work. Do Americans, in this period of economic hardship, need to strengthen their love of work or dial it back?...
611 2012-12-28 “It’s kind of funny,” said Sam Gable, 26, from the Lower East Side. “You don’t really see people help other people in Manhattan very often.”

As with any worthy production, the participants have come to master their roles. On a recent weekday morning, an orderly line formed, stretching from the upstairs M platform, down a flight of stairs to the F, then back up a separate staircase. (Riders say this formation allows word to travel fastest when the proper train arrives.)

Some travelers heard a stirring overhead — an M train, they wondered? No, a young man instructed from the top of the staircase, peering at the platform. Hold your positions.

A breeze wafted up to the turnstiles. An F? Not yet, said a station sage, unmoving. The gust, he said, had not been stiff enough to have come from an F.

But soon the perfect rumble arrived. Eyes turned to the top of the staircase until, finally, the call rang out from on high — a subterranean Paul Revere summoning his charges. “Train!” the young man shouted, and down the line the word traveled.

On a busy morning, the station can appear to exist in a different city. Above ground, commuters intercept approaching cabs, jostling for curbside position. Below, many typical subway riders read like a cast of Seinfeldian villains. Door-blockers. Pole-huggers. Seat-hoggers.

For newcomers, the effect can be jarring, like watching a flash mob convene without any music. “I kind of ignored it,” said Kevin Sullivan, 24, who recently began riding the J train from Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn and transferring at Delancey Street to get to work in Midtown. Then he noticed the cues, and assumed they were worth following.

Lizzy Kushner, 23, from the Lower East Side, insisted “you can judge by the wind.”

“This is probably an F,” she said on a recent morning, as a train could be heard swooshing toward the station. She was right, and soon the masses converged.

Even those with a language barrier have taken to the routine. Saul Krus, 50, a diamond cutter from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, said he speaks little English, but knows to take his place in the middle of the stairs, where he can communicate to the people behind him that a signal has been given. “The people go,” he said, “so I know the train comes.”

There are, of course, other stations that separate local and express trains, including at 59th Street, where the No. 6 runs above the 4 and 5. But that station has countdown clocks informing riders of the next arrival. On a recent visit to the station, one of the system’s busiest and most sprawling hubs, there were no outward signs of coordination. Eyes were trained to the ground, or inside bags of Bloomingdale’s gifts lugged across the concourse.

Downtown C and E trains are likewise separated at 50th Street. But for whatever reason — a more sprawling station? More tourists? Occasional announcements that point riders in the right direction? — communication among travelers is rare.

Former Mayor Edward I. Koch suggested that travelers’ reluctance to help one another stemmed from a bygone era of more frequent subway crime. “The rule was, avert your eyes because eye contact meant battle,” Mr. Koch said. “Like two animals.”

Mr. Koch, who has said he often rode the subway during his tenure to ask riders how he was performing, defended the integrity of some local riders. “I’ve been offered seats by pregnant women,” he said, insisting that he always says no.

But Delancey Street is not without its delinquents. Some shirk the responsibility of being a chief informer, nearest to the M platform, slinking down the steps.

Others keep their knowledge to themselves. On a recent morning, Victor Torrez, 60, from Queens, stood at the F train platform. “Train,” someone said, and a group made its way up the steps, expecting an M. “The noise,” Mr. Torrez said quietly, pressing his index finger into his temple, “that’s a J.”

Moments later, the others had learned this for themselves and doubled back.

Far more often, though, the riders maintain a kinship. Last week, Edward Cruz, 26, from Bushwick, Brooklyn, had begun ascending the steps toward an M train, passing the news of its arrival down to the platform.

But a woman, pushing a two-seat stroller, called him back, asking if he could help carry the children up the stairs. He obliged.

“That’s never happened before,” Mr. Cruz said, slipping onto the M. “Usually it’s one kid.”
612 2012-12-28 The latest jobs reports from New York and New Jersey, for November, suggested the toll the storm took on the local labor force — New York State lost 29,100 private jobs, while New Jersey lost 8,100.

In the same month, New Jersey processed an unprecedented number of first-time claims for unemployment insurance: 138,661, surpassing the previous record of 83,518 established in December 2009, which came at the height of the recession. And in New York, 158,204 individuals filed initial claims for unemployment, nearing the record set in January 2009, also at the height of the recession.

The unemployment problem has eased a bit as “Grand Reopening” signs have popped up at mattress stores, gas stations and other businesses. And the number of people filing for unemployment for the first time has slowed significantly in recent weeks.

But there are still many people struggling to pay their bills, finding themselves out of a job at a time when the overall unemployment picture remains bleak.

“We were spared the storm, but not the repercussions,” said Hector Valle, 57, who lives on Staten Island. The hurricane left Mr. Valle’s home untouched, but dealt his family a mighty blow: His wife worked at Bellevue Hospital Center as a nurse’s assistant for the last 25 years. When the hurricane shuttered Bellevue, she was transferred to Woodhull Medical Center — a move that caused her to lose her overtime work, as well as part of her night differential pay.

The couple’s income fell to $1,400 a month from $2,200 a month.

“There’s nobody coming to my house to help,” said Mr. Valle, who has been unemployed for three years, “because they’re like, ‘You’re fine.’ We’re not fine.”

Those most affected are the people who already have trouble finding jobs: older workers, single parents with child-care concerns and immigrants who speak little English.

And the storm has further handicapped many of those looking for new work: Interview outfits lie moldy in Dumpsters; computers have been destroyed, résumé files gone forever. Many lack access to transportation. “There are a lot of barriers to employment, from no phone to no home,” said Thomas Munday, director of a city-run Workforce 1 Career Center on Staten Island.

When they do get jobs, many residents will face new, longer commutes, and fewer benefits.

At the Madelaine chocolate company this month, Jorge Farber, the president and chief executive, shuffled past ribbons of ruined Reese’s foil, wearing yellow rubber shoe covers slicked with slime. He intends to reopen, but could not estimate a date.

The company is the largest employer in the Rockaways, and normally pumps out 100,000 pounds of chocolate a day. It was started 64 years ago by two men fleeing the Holocaust, and about a quarter of its employees are Haitian immigrants. Many had family members who died in the 2010 Haitian earthquake.

Some of the laid-off employees have packaged chocolate here for decades. For them, Mr. Farber said, the company is a good provider: Line workers, many of whom do not speak English, make about $15 an hour, plus benefits. It would be difficult for them to find new jobs with the same salary and benefits.

Over nearly three decades, Mr. Colon rose to a supervisor position, earning about $900 a week.

When the storm left him without a job, he signed up for unemployment benefits. But he is getting only $325 a week, he said.

“I don’t know what I will do,” said Mr. Colon, who lives in a fourth-floor apartment in Far Rockaway with his wife, 22-year-old daughter and a grandchild. “Nobody can survive on $300.”

There is no telling when the company will be able to bring him back.

Some may find work related to hurricane recovery. New York State qualified for a federal grant that will allow it to hire 5,000 temporary cleanup workers for jobs that last about six months and pay $11 to $15 an hour. The city has already hired 788 people to fill some of those temporary jobs, according to Angie Kamath, deputy commissioner of work force development for the city’s Department of Small Business Services. And it will hire 400 more in the coming weeks, she said.

“We hope and expect that that number will continue to grow,” Ms. Kamath said. “The state has every intention to go after additional funding.”

The storm’s aftermath has also created private jobs. Areas hit by hurricanes almost always see a temporary boost in employment because of rebuilding activities, said Allison Plyer, chief demographer at the Greater New Orleans Community Data Center, which tracked employment after Hurricane Katrina. “There will be no doubt billions of dollars of private and flood insurance to rebuild homes and businesses,” she said.

But few of those jobs will last. Many will go to out-of-state contractors. And not everyone who is out of work can fill labor-intensive cleanup positions.

Ms. Plyer also cautioned against using the experience of Hurricane Katrina to predict what will happen after Hurricane Sandy.

After Hurricane Katrina, residential areas were destroyed, while New Orleans’s business district remained relatively intact. Businesses bounced back, but the housing stock and the area’s population did not, leaving employers seeking workers. “Unemployment rates sunk to their lowest level,” Ms. Plyer said, continuing: “All the McDonald’s were offering signing bonuses. You couldn’t find anyone to work for them.”

“Katrina entailed a massive population displacement that basically emptied out the city,” she added.

On Staten Island, unemployed residents inundated a city-operated career center in St. George after the storm. About 500 people showed up during two days to apply for 240 storm cleanup jobs. (Normally 350 individuals will seek employment assistance during a five-day week.)

Mr. Valle, who once worked as a customer service representative, waited outside the center hoping to land one of those cleanup jobs. He left when all the positions had been filled.

“That was like an audition for ‘American Idol,’ ” he said. “I have never been in line with 500, 600 people for a job in my life.”

His wife, he said, had been their support for the last three years. “Sandy just yanked that from under us,” he said.
613 2012-12-28 NYU Langone Medical Center opened its doors to surgical patients on Thursday, almost two months after Hurricane Sandy overflowed the banks of the East River and forced the evacuation of hundreds of patients.

While the medical center had been treating many outpatients, it had farmed out surgery to other hospitals, which created scheduling problems that forced many patients to have their operations on nights and weekends, when staffing is traditionally low. Some patients and doctors had to postpone not just elective but also necessary operations for lack of space at other hospitals.

The medical center’s Tisch Hospital, its major hospital for inpatient services, between 30th and 34th Streets on First Avenue, had been closed since the hurricane knocked out power and forced the evacuation of more than 300 patients, some on sleds brought down darkened flights of stairs.

“I think it’s a little bit of a miracle on 34th Street that this happened so quickly,” Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said Thursday.

Mr. Schumer credited the medical center’s leadership and esprit de corps, and also a tour of the damaged hospital on Nov. 9 by the administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, W. Craig Fugate, whom he and others escorted through watery basement hallways.
614 2012-12-28 Matt Barkley’s career at Southern California is over, a shoulder injury bringing a disappointing end to his four-year run as the Trojans’ quarterback. Coach Lane Kiffin announced Thursday that Barkley would not play in the Sun Bowl against Georgia Tech because of a shoulder injury sustained in U.S.C.’s second-to-last game. He started this season as the Heisman Trophy favorite and threw for 3,273 yards and 36 touchdowns in 11 games. He also had 15 interceptions.

¶ David Fales completed 33 of 43 passes for 395 yards and 2 touchdowns as No. 24 San Jose State completed its season with a 29-20 win over Bowling Green in the Military Bowl. The Spartans finished 11-2 and are in the national rankings for the first time since 1975. Bowling Green finished 8-5.
615 2012-12-28 In Chris McCaw’s haunting yet matter-of-fact photographs the moving sun has burned crispy-edged lines across the skies of spectral land- and seascapes. To make them Mr. McCaw constructs his own large-format cameras and uses military surveillance lenses. Instead of conventional film he uses sheets of photo paper ordinarily used for printing positive images from negatives. In exposures of 15 minutes to 24 hours the lens concentrates the heat of the sun into a small, inflammatory dot. As the sun travels across the sky, the hot spot moves across the photo paper burning brown lines and cutting through the surface like a welder’s torch slicing through steel. The prints have an antique look as if they were experiments by an early inventor of photography.

Mr. McCaw has pursued his enterprise with persuasive dedication, traveling to remote locations like the Arctic, the Galápagos and the Mojave Desert to document eclipses, equinoxes and other solar phenomena. For one of the most impressive works, presented as a framed, 13-sheet polyptych, he conducted a 24-hour exposure in northern Alaska during the time of the midnight sun. Across the pages, which Mr. McCaw put into the camera sequentially every hour and a half, the sun’s journey from near the horizon to its noon peak and back down again registers as a long, undulant curve. It inscribes in the viewer’s mind an arc from the mundane fact of burnt paper to imagined reaches of the earth and the cosmos.
616 2012-12-28 “Public libraries tread a fine line,” Ms. Woodward said. “They want to make people happy, and get them in the habit of coming into the library for popular best sellers, even if some of it might be considered junk. But libraries also understand the need for providing good information, which often can only be found at the library.”

Cheryl Hurley, the president of the Library of America, a nonprofit publisher in New York “dedicated to preserving America’s best and most significant writing,” said the trend of libraries that cater to the public’s demand for best sellers is not surprising, especially given the ravages of the recession on public budgets.

Still, Ms. Hurley remains confident that libraries will never relinquish their responsibility to also provide patrons with the opportunity to discover literary works of merit, be it the classics, or more recent fiction from novelists like , whose work is both critically acclaimed and immensely popular.

“The political ramifications for libraries today can result in driving the collection more and more from what the people want, rather than libraries shaping the tastes of the readers,” Ms. Hurley said. “But one of the joys of visiting the public library is the serendipity of discovering another book, even though you were actually looking for that best seller that you thought you wanted.”

“It’s all about balancing the library’s mission and its marketing, and that is always a tricky dance,” she added.

While print books, both fiction and nonfiction, still make up the bulk of most library collections — e-books amount to to less than 2 percent of many collections in part because some publishers limit their availability at libraries — building renovation plans rarely include expanding shelf space for print products. Instead, many libraries are culling their collections and adapting floor plans to accommodate technology training programs, as well as mini-conference rooms that offer private, quiet spaces frequently requested by self-employed consultants meeting with clients, as well as teenagers needing space to huddle over group projects.

Though an increase in book weeding these days — a practice long known in library parlance as deselection — might be troubling to some bibliophiles, library officials say, many books enjoy a happy life after being sold.

A recent visit to the Friends of the Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County Warehouse Sale proved to be not unlike wandering into a reader’s nirvana for Jeff Borden, 61. A writer and adjunct professor from , Mr. Borden said he and his wife, Johanna Brandon, left the November sale with shopping bags brimming with an eclectic and bargain-priced assortment of fiction and nonfiction, including the noir novel by Jo Nesbo, and “Go Down Together: The True, Untold Story of Bonnie and Clyde” by Jeff Guinn.

“The books are piling up all over the house,” said Mr. Borden, who estimated that the couple spent about $50, money that officials said will be given to the library system to finance programs including its children’s story time.

“Great fiction is still being written, as well as rotten fiction,” Mr. Borden added. “To my way of thinking, you need to get them in the door of the library first, and if someone’s search for ‘Shades of Grey’ leads them to read D. H. Lawrence, well, that’s not a bad deal.”

Gretchen Caserotti, the assistant director for public services at the public library in Darien, Conn., said, “We are terrifically excited about the sea change at libraries, and rethinking our model in a new world.”

The Darien library has a three-requests policy similar to the one in Arlington Heights.

“The library should be as they say, a third place — you have home, work or school, and then you come to the library because it is the center and heart of the community,” Ms. Caserotti said. “Our staff is 100 percent committed to hospitality, customer service and welcoming people to the library as if they were visiting our home. We need to remember it is their library, not ours, and they are paying for it.”
617 2012-12-28 Mr. Putin also brushed aside criticism that the law would deny some Russian orphans the chance for a much better life in the United States. In 2011, about 1,000 Russian children were adopted by Americans, more than any other foreign country, but still a tiny number given that nearly 120,000 children in Russia are eligible for adoption.

“There are probably many places in the world where living standards are better than ours,” Mr. Putin said. “So what? Shall we send all children there, or move there ourselves?”

United States officials have strongly criticized the measure and have urged the Russian government not to entangle orphaned children in politics. “We have repeatedly made clear, both in private and in public, our deep concerns about the bill passed by the Russian Parliament,” a State Department spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, said Thursday.

Internally, however, Obama administration officials have been debating how strongly to respond to the adoption ban, and the potential implications for other aspects of the country’s relationship with Russia.

The United States relies heavily on overland routes through Russia to ship supplies to military units in , and it has enlisted Russia’s help in containing . The former cold war rivals also have sharp disagreements, notably over the civil war in .

The bill that includes the adoption ban was drafted in response to the Magnitsky Act, a law signed by this month that will bar Russian citizens accused of violating human rights from traveling to the United States and from owning real estate or other assets there. The Obama administration had opposed the Magnitsky legislation, fearing diplomatic retaliation, but members of Congress were eager to press Russia over human rights abuses and tied the bill to another measure granting Russia new status as a full trading partner.

Mr. Putin loudly accused the United States of hypocrisy, noting human rights abuses in , Afghanistan and at , , and he pledged to retaliate. But he held his cards even as the lower house of Parliament, the State Duma, approved the adoption bill by a large margin, followed by unanimous approval by the Federation Council.

Although his decision has been eagerly awaited, Mr. Putin seemed blasé at a meeting with senior government officials on Thursday. When Vladimir S. Gruzdev, the governor of the Tula region, said, “I would like to ask: What is the fate of the law?” Mr. Putin replied, “Which law?”

Like Mr. Obama, he can now say he is signing a bill with overwhelming support from the legislative branch — though Mr. Putin holds far more sway over Russian lawmakers than Mr. Obama does over Congress.

The adoption ban set off impassioned ideological debate here in Russia, and it opened a rare split at the highest levels of government with some senior officials speaking out strongly against it.

Critics said the ban would most hurt orphans already suffering in Russia’s deeply troubled child welfare system, while supporters said Russians should care for their own and pointed at sporadic abuse cases involving adopted Russian children in the United States that have generated publicity and outrage here.

The response has been equally emotional in the United States, where three Russian adoptees, including Tatyana McFadden, 23, a medal-winning athlete who uses a wheelchair, waited in the snow and rain on Wednesday to deliver a petition against the ban to the Russian Embassy in Washington.

Meanwhile, supporters of the ban in the United States said there were more than enough American children in need of adoption, and critics of international adoption generally reiterated complaints that the process is overly profit-driven and sometimes corrupt.

But for parents with their hearts set on adopting Russian children, the political discourse has been little more than background noise to their own personal agony. Senior officials in Moscow have said they expect the ban to have the immediate effect of blocking the departure of 46 children whose adoptions by American parents were nearly completed.

Adoption agency officials in the United States who work regularly with Russian orphanages said there were about 200 to 250 sets of parents who had already identified children they planned to adopt and would be affected. The State Department has urged American families in the process of adopting from Russia to register for updates and potential assistance.

Robert and Kim Summers of Freehold, N.J., have already paid for three seats on a flight home from Russia next month. They are scheduled to pick up a 21-month-old boy whom they consider their son in the city of Kaluga on Jan. 14, after a required 30-day waiting period that began when a judge approved their adoption.

They plan to call the boy Preston, and their house is already filled with toys and clothes and pictures of him, said Ms. Summers, 49. “The stroller is in my dining room and the partly assembled crib is next to my bed,” she said.

“I’m appalled,” Ms. Summers said of news that the ban would become law. “I can’t even fathom what is happening, something so political that has absolutely nothing to do with children.”

One mother from who was in Russia on Thursday preparing to return to the United States with her newly adopted son expressed outrage that Russian officials were not adhering to a requirement in the new bilateral agreement on adoptions that called for one year’s notice if either side wanted to terminate it.

This mother, who requested anonymity out of fear that her that were family would be blocked from leaving Russia, described how the relationship between parents and children begins long before the children leave the orphanage. She and her husband adopted a boy in Russia in 2009 and returned with him last week to pick up his new brother.

“A lot of parents leave little picture albums with the children, with pictures of the new Mama and Papa and siblings and pets and bedrooms,” said the mother, who is in her 30s and works in marketing.

“Facilitators help us put labels on the pictures so that the caregivers can help the children get familiar with the new faces,” she said. “I weep to think of them holding those albums and wondering why the people that promised they would be back in a few weeks have never come back. I promised both my boys that I would be back and I have no idea what I would have done if I couldn’t have come.”

This mother said her older son, now almost 5, learned about his own adoption by watching his parents adopt again. “He actually said, ‘I’m a really lucky boy that you picked me,’ ” the mother said.

In Sea Cliff, Ms. Drewinsky, 44, and her husband, Yvan, 56, an aviation consultant, grew up in Russian families, speak Russian and belong to the Orthodox Church. They speak to Alyosha, 5, every week on the phone in Russian.

Alyosha’s birth mother, who suffers from serious psychiatric illness, left him to wander the streets when he was 3; other relatives would not take him. A judge approved the adoption and they planned to go to Russia in late January or early February to bring him home.

As the couple got to know the boy in the first of two three-day visits, he held their hands and asked, “Are you going to be my new parents?” Mr. Drewinsky recalled. “We choked up and asked him, ‘Would you like that to happen?’ He said ‘yes’ in such a lovely voice — full of hope — that we melted completely.”
618 2012-12-29 A Year After Attacks, an Amish Community Grapples With Its Future
619 2012-12-29 Walmart has become the world’s largest retailer by demanding the lowest costs from suppliers and delivering the lowest prices to consumers — while promising its customers that the billions of dollars of goods it buys from Bangladesh, and other countries are produced in safe, nonsweatshop factories. Walmart buys more than $1 billion in garments from Bangladesh each year, attracted by the country’s $37-a-month minimum wage, the lowest in the world.

But even as the deadly Nov. 24 fire at the Tazreen factory has stirred soul-searching inside and outside the apparel industry about the effectiveness of its global factory monitoring system, some nonprofit groups say Walmart has been an important obstacle to efforts to upgrade . That is partly because it has shown little interest in changing the existing practice of demanding that the factories, often operating at razor-thin margins, meet fire safety standards at their own cost.

“They are squeezing the manufacturers, and the manufacturers are happy to get away with the minimum compliance that they can,” said Farooq Sobhan, a former Bangladeshi diplomat involved in past negotiations between Bangladesh and the United States on trade policy for apparel. “It is kind of a vicious cycle.”

Walmart says it is doing everything it can to prevent factory fires. “Walmart has been advocating for improved fire safety with the Bangladeshi government, with industry groups and with suppliers,” Kevin Gardner, a Walmart spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We firmly believe factory owners must meet our supplier standards, and we recognize the cost of meeting those standards will be part of the cost of the goods we buy. We know our customers expect this of us and our suppliers.”

Walmart also insists that several of its apparel suppliers were using the Tazreen factory without its approval. Two days after the Tazreen fire, Walmart said it had “de-authorized” use of the factory, but without saying when or why; two weeks later it said it had taken the action “many months ago.”

But critics say that the inspection reports discovered in the Tazreen factory— which were obtained by from a labor advocacy group — underscore fundamental problems with Walmart’s supply chain in Bangladesh, allowing it to avoid addressing safety problems it should have dealt with.

“The Walmart system of audits and inspections is not improving the factory safety conditions here in Bangladesh,” said Kalpona Akter, executive director of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity. “They maintain this system to enable them to keep their hands clean and deny responsibility.”

Two Walmart-sponsored inspections in 2011, along with a third monitoring report in April 2012, revealed recurring violations, with the first Walmart audit report, containing a warning from a Walmart official, giving the factory an “orange,” or high risk, assessment. Under Walmart’s rules, such factories are to be reinspected within six months, and are disqualified only after failing three audits within two years — raising the possibility that workers remain exposed a year or more to serious dangers before a factory is dropped.

“It is not enough to have a system that does a checklist of problems and keeps track of what happens to those problems every six months,” said Dara O’Rourke, a labor specialist at the . “They should say, ‘We got Code Orange problems in this factory, which are putting workers’ lives at risk. What can we do immediately to solve these problems and eliminate these risks?’ ”

In February 2010, Douglas McMillon, chief executive of Walmart International, arrived in Dhaka, Bangladesh’s capital, on an unannounced visit. Walmart was already a major buyer of garments in Bangladesh but now planned to purchase far more.

Under tight security, Mr. McMillon held court in a conference room of the Radisson hotel, summoning a small delegation of industry leaders. One participant recalled even being forbidden from taking his cellphone and fountain pen. During the meeting, according to the participant, Mr. McMillon spoke out about Walmart’s commitment to corporate social responsibility and expressed sympathy when one Bangladeshi factory owner complained about the difficulty in meeting certain standards, given the low prices paid by buyers.

“They wanted to enhance their actions of corporate social responsibility,” said the participant, agreeing to speak only on the condition of anonymity because of Walmart’s influence in Bangladesh. “But it never happened.”

Walmart has long held itself out as an industry leader in pushing for safety and ethical standards at the overseas factories that supply its stores, saying it further toughened its fire safety standards this year. It boasts that monitors did 9,737 inspections at 8,713 factories last year to verify that Walmart’s suppliers were adhering to its standards. Moreover, Walmart executives have played a forceful role in industry discussions about what should be done to prevent future factory fires.

“We need to work with the industry and to find other ways to raise the bar on safety standards,” Mr. Duke said at the Council on Foreign Relations.

In the days after the Tazreen disaster, Mr. Kamalanathan, the Walmart executive who acknowledged the inadequacy of factory inspections, proposed a series of recommendations to improve fire safety. But nearly all of them put the onus on Bangladeshi authorities and factory owners.

He called on the government to conduct more inspections, tighten standards and phase out factories deemed unsafe. He suggested more rigorous fire safety training and, significantly, said factory owners should pay for any corrective actions. A copy of his e-mail was provided by an official who believes Walmart has not done enough to improve factory safety.

Many workplace safety experts say Walmart’s own monitoring system is part of the problem. A report on an inspection of Tazreen Fashions, conducted in May 2011, found that the factory had only 30 of the 66 required fire extinguishers. There were no fire alarms or fire hose pipes on the factory’s fourth and fifth floors and no smoke detectors in the room where yarn was stored. The evacuation plan was outdated, and the factory lacked a health and safety committee, as required by law. The factory’s managers said they would fix most of the problems within weeks.

The factory was again inspected seven months later, in December 2011, and again serious problems were discovered. Like the previous inspection, it was sponsored by NTD Apparel, a -based company that supplies Walmart. The inspection found an inadequate number of fire extinguishers; partly blocked exit routes; an absence of battery-powered, backup emergency lights on the work floor to help workers escape in case of a power failure; and three exit doors on the ground floor that opened inward, a feature that can prove fatal when hundreds of workers are rushing and pushing to escape a blaze.

Sajeev Jesudas, president of UL Verification Services, whose company conducted the daylong December inspection, said it did not consider itself responsible for inspecting for fire escapes or enclosed stairways. “That’s the responsibility of the local building code inspector,” he said in an interview. “We don’t have jurisdiction to inspect the building code.”

Bangladesh’s government inspectors, however, are known to be overstretched and prone to frequent lapses. Scott Nova, executive director of the Worker Rights Consortium in , said a major reason so many workers died was that yarn and fabric were not stored in a fireproof warehouse, as required by law, and that the eight-story factory did not have the external fire escapes or enclosed fireproof, smoke-proof staircases that the Walmart-backed inspector should have flagged.

“If Walmart’s audits are not ensuring that a multiple-story factory in Bangladesh has functioning fire emergency exits,” Mr. Nova said, “then they’re not really auditing for fire safety.”

Serious safety problems continued well into 2012. An inspection last April — done by a Bangladesh apparel contractor that often supplies Western companies — found numerous violations, not just continuing problems with fire extinguishers and fire alarms but also that Tazreen needed to keep aisles “free from blockage at cutting section and sewing section.”

Walmart has released only limited details of its own relationship with Tazreen Fashions. Documents found at the factory after the fire show that six Walmart suppliers had been using the factory in the previous 18 months, including two relying on Tazreen in the weeks just before the fire. Documents show that as recently as last Sept. 13, two months before the fire, 55 percent of the factory’s production was for Walmart suppliers. Two days after the fatal fire, Walmart said it had fired a supplier who it said was using the factory without permission.

Walmart says on its site that it has dropped 94 factories in Bangladesh for fire safety issues since 2010; 23 other factories moved to safer buildings.

For all the problems, though, many labor advocates do not want buyers like Walmart to simply abandon factories found wanting.

“We want buyers to stay and use their power to ensure factories treat workers decently,” said Ms. Akter of the Bangladesh Center for Worker Solidarity. “Walmart did not have to leave, because they had the power and the money to make the factory safe.”

In April 2011, an urgent meeting was called in Dhaka, bringing together 50 labor leaders, factory owners, government officials and representatives of retailers like Walmart, , and . The issue was fire safety. Two factory fires in 2010 had killed 50 workers.

On the table were two issues: how to improve safety and who should pay for it. Labor advocates and Bangladeshi officials hoped Western companies would pledge to help finance improvements in fire safety, like fire alarms and fire escapes. But according to the minutes of the meeting and several participants, Walmart took the lead in blocking the proposal.

The minutes, which were made available to The Times, state that Sridevi Kalavakolanu, a Walmart director of ethical sourcing, joined by an official from the Gap, noted that the proposed improvements would involve up to 4,500 factories and would “‘in most cases” involve a “very extensive and costly modification.”

“It is not financially feasible for the brands to make such investments,” the minutes quoted them as saying.

One participant, Ineke Zeldenrust, international coordinator for the Clean Clothes Campaign, an antisweatshop group based in , said that Walmart was the retailer that “most strongly advocated this position” and that its opposition effectively killed the proposal.

Walmart said its remarks were taken “out of context,” adding that it “has been actively developing and implementing proactive programs to raise fire safety awareness and increase fire prevention.”

But Richard Locke, a factory monitoring expert at the , questioned Walmart’s approach. “If Walmart is serious about trying to improve safety,” he said, “then the retailers need to contribute” to financing safety improvements.

Labor groups and some Western retailers are pressing Walmart to join an effort in which PVH, the parent of Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein, and Tchibo, a German retailer, have agreed to help pay for fire and electrical safety improvements at Bangladeshi factories. Under the plan, an independent international monitor would inspect factories, and the companies would promise to pay what was needed to bring the factories up to standard.

In the recommendations he e-mailed to officials at other retailers, Mr. Kamalanathan, Walmart’s head of ethical sourcing, expressed sadness about the Tazreen fire but largely attributed the problems to inadequate fire safety preparations and poor oversight by Bangladeshi agencies, which he noted were “understaffed” and “unable to adequately and comprehensively monitor all factories.” He then floated Walmart’s new plan, including recommendations that Bangladeshi government officials inspect more strictly, closing unsafe factories, while factory owners finance needed safety improvements.

Experts agree that Bangladesh’s government and factories provide inadequate monitoring and enforcement on fire safety. But many also agree that it is unrealistic to expect governments to enforce labor laws aggressively and shut down unsafe factories, given the disincentives for Bangladesh and other low-wage countries that are eager to attract apparel orders to create jobs and increase exports.

“It is disingenuous,” said Professor O’Rourke of , “for a company to blame the local government for not doing its job, when the company knows very well that part of the reason there are so many factories in this country is that local labor laws and other laws are not enforced and production costs are lower because of that.”

Mr. Sobhan, the former Bangladeshi diplomat, said that Walmart, for all its ambitions, was far less active on corporate social responsibility issues in Bangladesh than retailers like Carrefour and H&M. “They are certainly lagging well behind the others,” Mr. Sobhan said. “We’d like to see them being more proactive in doing the right thing.”
620 2012-12-29 HANOI, Vietnam (AP) — The Vietnamese police have detained a dissident lawyer, escalating a crackdown on those who speak out against Vietnam’s one-party, authoritarian rule, a state-run newspaper reported Friday.

The dissident, Le Quoc Quan, was accused of tax evasion and arrested Thursday in Hanoi, the capital, according to the newspaper, Tuoi Tre.

Neither the authorities nor Mr. Quan’s family were available for comment.

Mr. Quan, 41, maintains a blog that highlights human rights abuses and other issues off limits to the state media.

In an interview last fall, he said he was under constant surveillance and that he, his family and staff received frequent warnings from the authorities. But he pledged to keep speaking out against the government and in favor of democracy and freedom of speech and religion.
621 2012-12-29 The Food and Drug Administration on Friday approved Eliquis, an anticlotting drug that has been highly anticipated by cardiologists and is expected to be a blockbuster for Bristol-Myers Squibb, which will make the drug, and Pfizer, which will help market it.

The agency approved Eliquis for reducing the risk of stroke and dangerous blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation, a common heart arrhythmia that afflicts millions of people in the United States.

The drug, also known as apixaban, is the third anticlotting medicine to be approved in recent years and the companies are expected to aggressively compete to pitch their products as a replacement for warfarin, an older treatment that requires more careful monitoring. Warfarin is also known by the brand name Coumadin.

“The marketing games will now begin,” said Dr. Sanjay Kaul, a cardiologist at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, who was not involved in the development of any of the drugs.

He said that cardiologists would now have to sort out the differences among Eliquis and its competitors already on the market: Pradaxa, sold by Boehringer Ingelheim, and Xarelto, sold by Johnson & Johnson and Bayer.

While some experts have argued that Eliquis offers the best balance between the drug’s benefits and risks, Dr. Kaul said since there have been no clinical trials comparing the three new drugs, “it is impossible to adjudicate which of these new agents is the preferred one.”
622 2012-12-29 The displays are also, of course, no longer static. Here, in exhibits designed by Pacific Studio and Weatherhead Experience Design Group, a touch screen explores the text of the treaties made with the region’s Indians; a playful sound and light show evokes the cataclysmic Seattle fire of 1889; and a two-person video “game” means to demonstrate the injustices of the state’s 1948 hearings on “un-American activities.”

A fascinating temporary exhibition surveys the images of Seattle on film, ranging from “Tugboat Annie” to “The Fabulous Baker Boys” and recent indie projects. It ends with a re-creation of the living room of “Frasier,” along with a sampling of that sitcom’s regional quips. (“The state flower is mildew.”)

The questions being asked in such transformed historical-society museums are also different from those asked in the past: What are the peculiarities of this place? Is there a local temperament and style? Why have certain enterprises flourished, or particular political movements found resonance here? And how has the particular affected the universal, or the local influenced the national?

Here, under the guidance of the museum’s executive director, Leonard Garfield; its creative director, Ann Farrington; and its public historian, Lorraine McConaghy, those themes come to the fore. And despite some flaws, the place and its past emerge with considerable energy. You can’t miss the internal tensions of Seattle’s history, the almost opposing forces that tumultuously run through it.

The museum pays tribute, for example, to the many corporate giants that were born and thrived here, so startlingly out of proportion to the city’s modest population (now just over 600,000). There is a 1920s Model T reconfigured to look like an early truck from United Parcel Service, established as the American Messenger Company in Seattle in 1907. There are galleries devoted to Boeing and Microsoft, a tribute to Amazon, and displays about major breakthroughs in medical treatments that evolved here (including improved dialysis machines and cardiac defibrillators). Somehow the museum even has the hand-painted wooden sign that stood outside the first Starbucks in 1971. And the presence of military institutions during both world wars played a significant role in the evolution of the city and its industries.

But at the same time, the museum celebrates the dropout bohemianism of the Beat scene, the grunge rebellion of Seattle bands and decades of countercultural protest and environmental activism. The recent legalization of marijuana in Washington State is prefigured by other enthusiasms; 99 bottles of beer are mounted on one wall, each locally brewed. In a display about Prohibition, a handmade still is accompanied by a description of the many fires once seen in the nocturnal countryside, a sign of illegal distilleries so productive that the price of whiskey dropped.

It is as if a spirit of individualism had been channeled toward both technological and sociological innovation. This entrepreneurship could be both corporate and countercultural. It could also lead to political radicalism (we learn about the socialist “Wobblies” and the 1919 labor unrest in Seattle) or, in recent memory, to anarchistic protests like those that greeted the 1999 World Trade Organization conference (though we never get enough explanation here to piece together what happened and why).

But how powerful is this tradition in Seattle, compared with other American cities? It’s difficult to tell, but an informative demographic display tells us that now more than 20 percent of Seattle’s population is foreign-born; 40 percent of the city’s households contain one person; and the median age is 36 — all of which seem to suggest currents of unpredictable change.

There are, however, recurring themes outlined in these exhibits. Seattle is a place that seems to have been deliberately manufactured for the sake of manufacturing. It was established at the intersection of forest and sea in the middle of the 19th century by settlers taking the Oregon Trail from the Midwest, who initially forged friendships with local Indian tribes. They called the place New York-Alki, joining the Eastern metropolis with a Chinook word meaning “by and by”: “a little joke,” we are told, “about big dreams.” (“Seattle” came from the name of a friendly Indian chief.)

The earliest drawing of the settlement, from 1856, is here. On one end is a Methodist church with offerings for the spirit; on the other, Madame Damnable’s House with offerings for the flesh. At the center of its 20 buildings is Yesler’s wood mill, outfitted to ship lumber throughout the Pacific region.

The railroad helped build Seattle, and we learn of its construction (in an interactive display too complicated by half) and about Chinese immigrants and the racism they encountered. We learn, too, about the Seattle fire’s effects, seeing melted and fused artifacts, and how the destruction led to an ambition to reshape the city, which grew rapidly in the 1890s during the Yukon Gold Rush.

In 1909 a world’s fair was mounted here, which the designer John Olmsted said rivaled Chicago’s. The landscape architect firm run by John and his brother Frederick (whose stepfather designed Central Park) was hired by the city to design Seattle’s parks. And then we see a series of galleries that to an outsider is astonishing, demonstrating the extent to which nearly everything about Seattle is engineered. Over a period of 50 years, the region’s waterways and lakes were linked to the sea; locks were installed to adjust water level. And in remarkable photographs, we see water used to adjust land level, with water cannons cutting away steep hills in an area downtown that can still rival San Francisco.

Nature here is a powerful force, and Seattle’s history is a series of attempts to tame and master it. The environmental movement became so powerful here not just because of the damage done by industrial domination of nature (beginning in the 1950s, Lake Washington was often considered too filthy to swim in), but also because environmentalism was part of a long tradition of challenging relationships to the landscape.

There are some historical problems in these displays. The first is typical of nearly every American museum: Indian tribes before the white settlers arrived are here imagined living in a pastoral paradise, noble and enlightened, “thriving in this spirit-filled land of forest and shore,” described with formulaic pap that evokes no known culture in human history.

Other historical shortcuts are taken as well. A larger perspective might have illuminated anti-Communist excesses and prevented facile contemporary parallels. And generally the text takes on a “you are there” tone that strains to be engaging to school visitors. There is also an almost teasing reluctance to supply details that a conversation with a curator or a look at the docent scripts readily reveals.

But the spirit of the place is strong, its stance vigorous, its imagination fertile. It is Seattle in an alluring self-portrait.
623 2012-12-29 HONOLULU — No man is an island. But in Hawaii, Daniel K. Inouye sure seems like one.

After he died last week at 88, this state went into a mourning period usually reserved for monarchs and presidents. His remains were flown to four islands so people could pay their respects, like Abraham Lincoln’s cross-country journey by train after he was assassinated.

When his coffin was carried into the state Capitol, the local news stations all broadcast the live scene. And on the day he was honored at a memorial service at the veterans’ cemetery here, Honolulu city buses flashed “Mahalo Dan” on their electric displays, using the Hawaiian expression for “Thank you.”

They have good reason to be thankful.

Hawaii has had only six United States senators since it became a state in 1959. And since 1962, Mr. Inouye had been one of them, all the while heaping the federal government’s largess on his small state.

When he died, he was the senior member of the Senate, the second-longest serving member in the Senate’s history, and the chairman of the powerful Appropriations Committee, the ideal perch for directing billions of federal dollars back home.

The state ranked the highest by far in per-capita federal earmark spending, according to the most recent figures from Taxpayers for Common Sense. The $412 million spent on Hawaii in 2010, before a moratorium on earmarks went into effect, was equal to almost $320 for each of the state’s 1.3 million people. (North Dakota was second, at about $233 per person.)

Hawaii, it is often joked here, has three industries: tourism, the military and Dan Inouye.

But with his death and the retirement of the state’s other senator, Daniel K. Akaka, Hawaii will lose all of its seniority in the Senate, raising concerns here that the influence the state has accumulated over the last half-century will be greatly diminished and that federal aid will be harder to obtain.
624 2012-12-29 “Rafa Nadal suffered last week a viral condition that caused a gastroenteritis with a high fever for four to five days,” Ángel Ruíz-Cotorro, the Spanish physician who heads Nadal’s medical team, said in the statement.

Nadal, now ranked fourth, already had withdrawn from this week’s lucrative exhibition in Abu Dhabi. He also pulled out of the tour event next week in Doha, Qatar. He has not played a match since his shocking loss to Lukas Rosol in the second round of Wimbledon on June 28.

After withdrawing from the Summer Olympics in London in July, Nadal, who has struggled occasionally with tendinitis in both knees, later said that doctors had found a small tear in the patellar tendon in his left knee and diagnosed Hoffa’s syndrome, an often painful condition linked to impingement of the fat pad beneath the kneecap.

He elected to forgo surgery, but the rehabilitation process has proved lengthy. Although he continued physical conditioning and other off-court work in the early stages of his break, he did not play tennis again until late November.

“My knee is considerably better and the recovery process has gone as predicted by the doctors, but this virus means that I could not train last week or in the coming days,” Nadal said in his statement.

Some observers, including the leading coach and analyst Brad Gilbert, expressed surprise that Nadal would withdraw from the Australian Open more than two weeks before it began. But Nadal’s uncle and coach, Toni Nadal, said the issue was proper preparation after such a long break.

With Nadal unable to play next week and unwilling to wear himself out by playing a tournament the week before the Australian Open, he would have made his return to competition in a distant, best-of-five-set Grand Slam tournament known for its brutal summer temperatures. Last January, he lost in the final to Novak Djokovic in a match that lasted nearly six hours.

“It is simply not conceivable that his first event is a best-of-five-sets event; he wouldn’t be ready for that,” Toni Nadal said in a statement. “It is true we have been quite unlucky with this, but there is nothing we can do.”

The concern is whether there is more to Nadal’s problems. In an interview with The Times of London last week in Majorca, Nadal acknowledged that the “knee is still not perfect.”

“The doctors say that the images are very good, so that is a big calm for me, but I still feel something,” he said. “I need to be careful. I need to be focused on how the knee is getting better or worse every day and don’t make a mistake that can be negative for my future. Not yet do I have the feeling that I am 100 percent ready to compete, to say, ‘I’m going to go there, I will be ready to run for every ball, to play aggressive, to do what I want with my legs and then try to play my best tennis to win.’ ”

But Pérez-Barbadillo said the virus, not the knee, was the decisive factor in his January withdrawals.

“We’re not lying to people; we never lie to people; it’s not our style,” he said. “His knees are doing well, but he’s got this thing and this thing has stopped him from practice, from getting everything on track.”

Nadal said he expected to play on clay at the Masters 500 event in Acapulco, Mexico, which begins Feb. 25. But he said he could return to the tour earlier.

It is unlikely he will play in Spain’s first-round Davis Cup match, which will be Feb. 1-3 against Canada in Vancouver on a quick indoor hardcourt in a best-of-five-set format. Already committed to Acapulco, Nadal, if healthy, would be more likely to choose one of the February events nearby in South America. Possibilities include Viña del Mar, Chile; São Paulo, Brazil; and Buenos Aires. Those events are all outdoors, best of three sets and on clay, which would allow him to return on his favorite surface and put less strain on his knees than on a hardcourt.

If and when he returns, there will be doubts about his durability and ability to succeed at the highest level in an age when the game is particularly rich in talent at the top with Djokovic, Andy Murray and Roger Federer, who at age 31 is preparing to play in his 53rd straight Grand Slam tournament. The men’s game also has strength in the second tier with Juan Martin del Potro, Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, David Ferrer and Tomas Berdych.

“Let’s just say this, it’s giving more hope to other guys,” Gilbert said. “One thing about sports and tennis is that it’s like a treadmill. It just keeps going, and the longer you miss, the tougher it gets.”

That is particularly true of the men’s game. Leading women, including Monica Seles, Serena Williams and Kim Clijsters, have returned from extended breaks to win more major singles titles. But the leading men have struggled to replicate their success after a break of more than six months, and Nadal, if he returns in Acapulco, will have been out of action for eight.

Thomas Muster, who tore knee ligaments after being struck by a car in 1989, was able to return to the circuit six months later and eventually reached No. 1 in the rankings and won the 1995 French Open.

But John McEnroe, who took a six-month sabbatical in 1986 at age 27, never won another Grand Slam singles title. Mats Wilander, who was No. 1 in 1988, took the first of a series of extended breaks in 1990 and never won another major singles title.

But Nadal, unlike McEnroe and Wilander, does not appear to be struggling with motivation at midcareer.

“The guy wants to play, the guy wants to be back,” Pérez-Barbadillo said. “This is another setback, and let’s be glad that this year is over and this is our own Annus horribilis, I suppose. And hopefully 2013 will be better.”
625 2012-12-29 MOSCOW — A judge issued an acquittal on Friday of the only official to have gone to trial in Russia in the case of Sergei L. Magnitsky, a lawyer whose death in prison three years ago inspired the United States Congress to pass a law addressing human rights abuses in Russia.

The official, Dr. Dmitry Kratov, the former head of the medical service at Butyrka Prison, where Mr. Magnitsky had been held, was accused of negligence for refusing repeated requests for treatment for a life-threatening illness.

Charges against another doctor had been dismissed earlier, elevating the significance of Dr. Kratov’s trial, coming just weeks after Congress passed the Magnitsky Act, which was critical of the Russian courts for failing to prosecute any suspects in the lawyer’s death.

But far from pursuing the case, prosecutors announced at a hearing on Monday that they would no longer press for a conviction and instead asked the judge, Tatiana Neverova, to acquit Dr. Kratov.

That reversal came four days after President Vladimir V. Putin said at a news conference that Mr. Magnitsky had died of natural causes, a statement that a lawyer for the family said had sent a message to prosecutors to drop the case.
626 2012-12-30 The war in Afghanistan and worldwide counterterrorism efforts were absent from polls that ranked 2012's top stories, reflecting the scant coverage of the issues as well as the public's lack of interest....
627 2012-12-30 Spain’s 2013 Davis Cup hopes, already hit by the injured Rafael Nadal’s absence, were dealt another blow when fifth-ranked David Ferrer said he would skip the opening tie of the season, against Canada in February. “It’s purely a schedule thing,” Ferrer’s agent, Albert Molina, told Marca.com.

¶ Novak Djokovic retained his title at the World Tennis Championship exhibition tournament in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, by rallying past Nicolás Almagro of Spain, 6-7 (4), 6-3, 6-4. (AP)
628 2012-12-30 A former personal finance columnist for The Los Angeles Times, Ms. Olen uses as examples people who are desperate for help with managing their money. These include a real estate investor whose combination of bad luck, unemployment and poor decision-making left her in foreclosure. There is also a commercial pilot whose pension was cut and who invested in real estate that ended up plummeting in value.

Desperation, fear and insecurity can be a salesperson’s best friend. Ms. Olen learns how lucrative it is to sell financial services to the elderly, many of them terrified of outliving their savings. A 2009 AARP survey found that nearly one in 10 people over 55, or about 5.9 million Americans, had attended a free financial seminar in the last three years.

At the World MoneyShow, an annual event in Orlando, 80 percent of attendees were over 55. The author writes that “a panicked baby boomer is their best customer.”

And while Ms. Olen roundly attacks the myth that women are too emotional or ignorant to handle money well, she notes that they often lack confidence in their money management skills. Women also live longer than men and earn less. Saving more money, as women are exhorted to do, isn’t the issue, Ms. Olen says: “How they should do this with a lesser income that’s expected to do more goes unsaid.”

Unusual, and refreshing, is her inclusion of so many women’s voices throughout the book, such as the writer Jane Bryant Quinn; the financial adviser Manisha Thakor, the labor economist Teresa Ghilarducci, and Elizabeth Warren, recently elected to the Senate from Massachusetts.

One woman who comes in for some scathing treatment is the best-selling financial adviser Suze Orman, whom Ms. Olen criticizes as offering “financial platitudes” and making huge amounts of money by telling others to be frugal. Ms. Olen writes that “Orman’s supposed wisdom often contradicts itself,” and that her affiliations with companies like FICO and Lending Tree raise questions about the impartiality of her advice.

She criticizes many other financial gurus, saying they have provided unhelpful or confusing advice. These include Robert Kiyosaki, who in “Rich Dad, Poor Dad” referred to investments that “may have returns of 100 percent to infinity,” and the television personality Jim Cramer, whom the author describes as “a sweating and howling man” and who once declared that “Bear Stearns is not in trouble!” shortly before it collapsed.

Even good investing advice is often unhelpful, Ms. Olen says, because millions of Americans have saved so little money. For people who do have enough money to invest, the ability of financial services firms to charge high fees, unchallenged, is abetted by low rates of financial literacy. Many investors are unwilling to question glowing promises of double-digit returns or to read carefully the small print on a mutual fund statement. Our overly optimistic expectations of investment performance too often meet the reality of little professional oversight for all but the wealthiest.

While we know intellectually that we need to save and invest for our future, our ability to do so varies enormously, Ms. Olen points out.

“Between 1979 and 2007, the average after-tax income for the top 1 percent of earners in the economy soared by 281 percent,” she writes. “The top 20 percent would see their incomes increase by 95 percent. The middle fifth? A mere 25 percent.”

THE solutions offered by the personal finance world have been unrealistic, she says, contending that “the increasing problem Americans were having keeping up financially was not viewed as a social justice problem, but as a knowledge and smarts problem that could be solved on an individual basis, one investor at a time.”

She’s clear-eyed about the challenge of saving and investing when you simply have nothing to work with, and when decisions about spending are a daily quandary as prices rise and wages remain stagnant or fall.

Ms. Olen describes playing Spent, an online role-playing game in which players are asked to make decisions while earning minimum wages, like those often found in retailing, the nation’s largest source of new jobs. The goal is to get to the next pay cycle without debt.

“I’ve played Spent dozens of times,” she writes, “and I’ve never, ever made it to the end of the month.”
629 2012-12-30 In that tormented climate, Wilma Mullet concluded that her brother Johnny and other men were mistreating their wives and children and having impure thoughts about other women.

One night in early 2010, Wilma and another woman took it upon themselves, she said, to force her brother and six other husbands to rethink their ways, cutting off their beards in front of the others.

In later weeks, several other men were sheared and a few women had their hair cut back, all in the name of spiritual rebirth.

Around the same time, Mr. Mullet said, another resident, Raymond Miller, had the idea that errant men should clear their heads by sleeping in chicken coops, sometimes for two weeks at a time. Mr. Mullet insisted that he never ordered anyone to stay in a shed and that “the door was never locked.”

Mr. Mullet does take credit for another practice that scandalized other Amish. After two members got into a fistfight, he had men use wooden paddles on each other to work out their disputes.

Martha Mullet, Samuel’s wife, said that she had initially been shocked by the beard-cutting and other practices but that they “seemed right for our people.”

Federal prosecutors have described the self-deprivation and corporal punishment in more ominous terms: as ways for followers to show their slavish devotion to Mr. Mullet.

The fateful step of shearing outsiders, according to Mr. Mullet and trial testimony, first occurred as an idea to the grown children of Marty and Barbara Miller, after the Millers rejected Mr. Mullet as a cult leader and urged the children to move out.

According to testimony, in the summer of 2011 the elder Mr. Miller criticized a son for having let his beard be cut the previous year.

Then he added, in what the children apparently took as a challenge, “If God is with me, my beard will not be cut.”

That September, a dozen of the children and spouses barged into the home of the Miller parents, threw the couple down and hacked off his beard and her hair.

As the group fled, Mrs. Miller testified, a son shouted: “God is not with you! God is not with you!”
630 2012-12-30 After a flight and a drive, I spend a long night listening to a howling wind whip against my motel room while I chase cherry chocolate chip cookies with Jameson. I arrive at the trailhead the next day feeling positively nauseous. The snow is up to my knees.

I’m behind Robin, determined to keep up — sliding my boots like pistons in a relentless skating death machine. It’s nothing like my mother’s NordicTrack. Midway across a river, I see water moving under the thin ice beneath me and yell, “Back up!”

My skis crack through into frigid water. I hurl my body forward — and my face into a mouthful of wet goop. Robin is as shaken as I am and sputters, “Whoa, really good job.” Despite her advanced wilderness E.M.T. training, she would have been helpless if I had fallen backward, anchored by my skis in the river, sodden with bulky clothes and a 70-pound pack.

I press on, too furious at myself for being here to remove twigs that are accumulating in my hair. We climb under and over a series of felled trees, each blanketed in fat flakes that layer us into the scenery as well. Everything hurts — my legs, my face, my lips. Forget adventure, I could be sipping an overpriced Bellini right now.

Gloaming is upon us when we arrive at our campsite, nine circuitous miles from where we began. Exhausted, I tug at the sticks in my hair when I realize they’re not sticks at all, but hair-cicles formed by the condensation of my breath.

Shivering, I pull on my bank robber head sock as the icy rivulets melt down my neck. I attempt to drink water, but my bottle is frozen solid. It’s 23 below.

Peter pulls out a garish 12-inch man-chete from his bag with boyish delight. I respond with my dinky Swiss army knife and follow him to collect firewood. He hauls back huge loads compared with my sad piles of chopsticks. I watch Karl reverently as he coaxes the flames with a musician’s steady patience. Bet Mozart didn’t have a fire starter badge.

My violent, chattering teeth wake me in the night. Panicked, I blow my stash of hand warmers, crossing my chest and sternum with them like a sacrificial blessing. They fire on my skin. I dream of being found frozen to death with bizarre third-degree burns by Mariska Hargitay.

Morning comes like a miracle. Fresh ice coats everything like a sugar glaze in the bright sun — delicately arching bows, gleaming metal pots, top crust of snow. A terrifying Candy Land.

I make it through the next three days by emulating my expert comrades. My brain is on reptile mode, distilling life to primal needs: food and warmth.

On our last night, we camp next to the lake separating us from the parking lot. I ask Peter how he can be sure it’s fully frozen. He agrees to investigate the integrity of the surface with Karl — I fall asleep hearing them coasting along its edge, yawping to the firmament.

The next morning, I’m focused on the skis in front of me like a good little schoolgirl. There is no sound on earth except for the click of our synchronized blades. We’re almost halfway across the lake as snowflakes fall faster, like advanced-level Tetris.

Peter shouts back for us to fan out, disperse our weight immediately. Then I see what he sees: a series of large puddles up ahead. The lake isn’t solid after all.

A strange calm comes over me as I cut my way through virgin snow, knowing that a semipermeable shell is all that keeps me from canoodling with the fishes. There’s no going back to shore just as there’s no going back to last year or last minute. Onward, imperfect and life-threatening though it may be. I pause for an instant to look straight up the midline of the vast white plain, glimpsing the profound stillness at the center of it all.

“True confessions,” I tell Peter later, feeling stronger and more vulnerable than ever before. “I had no experience on skis.”

“True confessions,” he replies, “I knew that the lake wasn’t completely frozen.”

Stupidity is called daring if you make it to the other side.

The glow of my apartment envelopes me like classic rock — nothing cool or fancy, but dependably pleasant. I turn my faucet on and off like an alien, thrilled with how it works. I stare at my bed considering how impossibly comfortable it is in that cozy room. I can’t wait to get back to the office tomorrow; show my cubemates that I didn’t die.

Having recalibrated my relationship with risk, I soon leave my job and make the documentary. And it will be hard in ways I cannot fathom. But all of that is to come.

For now I hit speed dial. “Chakra roll?” the voice asks.

“No,” I say slowly, smiling a smile she cannot see and smelling of a filth she cannot smell. “Spaghetti with wheat balls — extra spicy.”
631 2012-12-30 Tagong, whose altitude of about 12,000 feet makes it one of the highest towns in the world, offers an unfettered window onto the Tibetan people and culture. The region was part of Tibet until 1955, and its remoteness — to get there, you must take a single winding road several hours from the bustling provincial capital, Chengdu — has insulated it against significant change. The place has a closed-off feel, with a slow-placed existence that revolves around the major Tibetan monastery and its 60 or so resident monks. And it was easier than traveling to the Tibet Autonomous Region, which in addition to the visa and passport required to visit China, also requires a special entry permit that doesn’t promise unrestricted travel.

That sort of unfettered access was my reason for going, and two hours into my stay it was clear that Tibetan culture and Buddhism remain at the heart of life in Tagong, albeit with slight tweaks to accommodate the few thousand foreign visitors who make the journey each year: a few guesthouses, yak-cheese pizza and arranged horse-trekking trips into the plains outside of town.

Tagong itself is just a blip on the map: a stretch of ornate buildings leading to the gates of the monastery, all surrounded by endless peaks and plains. A few minivans leave or arrive throughout the day, offering seats to destinations as far away as Chengdu for about 120 renminbi ($19.50 at 6 renminbi to the dollar), but the rest of the time a horse being ridden up the main street is as likely a sight as a passing car.

Once in the recesses of Lhagang Monastery you can see monks devoting themselves to their faith with a calm assurance; across a wide river that runs alongside the town young apprentice monks study Buddhism at a monastic school; and up on a nearby hill, a handful of hermit monks live in silent worship.

“We have over a hundred young novices studying Buddhism who will eventually join us in becoming monks,” Dhondoup, a fresh-faced 25-year-old monk said to me in English as we stood on a shaded platform overlooking the courtyard of the monastery after the noon service.

In front of us, part of the monastery was undergoing construction to house these new recruits; a new two-story dormitory was being added. Bags of cement lay within the grounds, and amid the debris were dented 10-foot-high prayer wheels, their Tibetan text covered in dust.

There has been a monastery in Tagong since A.D. 652, when the Tibetan king Songtsen Gampo built the last of a series of 108 monasteries he had ordered constructed across his kingdom. (It is said to be where his Chinese bride had stopped on her way to their wedding in 640.) Over the next millennium and a half the monastery rose and fell in importance, changing allegiance several times to different Buddhist sects before its destruction during the Cultural Revolution (1966-76). In the 1980s work began on rebuilding the monastery, and today’s temple is slowly returning to some of its former glory and size.

As I wandered the halls and chambers, staring up at the many gold Buddha statues surrounding the wall, the newness of the physical structure seemed immaterial. This visit was more about the monks than the monastery.

Though all Tibetan Buddhists, they were a varied group. In one of the side reliquaries off the main hall, an aged monk smiled as I entered, and led me around the small, candlelit room where he has lived for the last three years, sleeping on a small cot. Stopping at one point, he showed me a picture of himself next to the Dalai Lama. “We are all Buddhist and he is our leader,” he said to me in Chinese.

Later in the afternoon I spotted a group of young monks playing basketball using a hoopless telephone pylon as a net on a grassy field across the town’s river, their robes billowing around them. There was no bridge in sight, but I removed my shoes to cross the ice-cold, knee-deep water. On the other bank I was quickly invited to join the game.

“We try to play basketball every day before our 6 p.m. studies,” said Laozang Tsere, a gregarious 18-year-old novice born in a nearby village.

A few minutes after I joined the game, a bell sounded. The novices quickly checked that their robes were on straight before heading back to their studies.

Class was in session for an even younger group of devotees in the main hall of the Sakya Monastic School, a smaller version of the main monastery, where boys sat crossed-legged on long rows of dark-red cushions, each facing another student. They debated Buddhist texts, gesturing to make their points. Dhondoup had explained to me that the novices study the finer points of Buddhist logic, philosophy and discourse in the hillside school for seven years before being allowed to join their brethren in Lhagang.

Sometime during the debates, I sneaked out of a side door and headed up a small path through a forest of multicolored prayer flags to the simple hillside homes of several hermit monks. From their dwellings the town below appeared even smaller, dwarfed by vast snowy peaks in the distance. In the foreground there was little but wide expanses of pastureland and other small hills adorned with colorful Buddhist prayer flags, placed there over the years by the monks and townspeople.

As I arrived outside of one door, a hermit beckoned me in, and, without uttering a word showed me around his small home, filled with Buddhas. Most of the room was taken up by the statues and Tibetan texts, with a small curtained-off area for him to sleep in. Back in town, the streets were emptying as the evening drew near; soon the monks — who must rise for 6 a.m. prayers — and locals had gone home. Viewed from this town perched on the roof of the world, with little in the way of light pollution save from a few guesthouse windows, the stars that glittered above the monastery were nothing short of majestic.

That evening I dwelled on the seemingly simple lives of the monks: their faith, their warmth and their absence of 21st-century distractions. It may be facile to assume that they had found fulfillment, but it was hard to shake the impression that I’d met a group of people who, having long ago discovered a few of the secrets to a content life, existed outside of time.

The following morning, as I rode in a different but equally dusty van out of town, the driver stopped at the highest pass, removed a stack of papers from his glove compartment and threw them into the air, letting them flutter away as he muttered a Buddhist prayer. Some drifted back down the mountain toward Tagong. And with that we drove on.
632 2012-12-30 And the Nominees Should Be ...
633 2012-12-31 New York City is a jungle, and we have the stories to prove it....
634 2012-12-31 Danish researchers found that the C-reactive protein, a byproduct of inflammation in the body, was associated with a greater risk of psychological stress and clinical depression....
635 2012-12-31 I live in two countries, have worked in just about all the rest and have had weapons drawn on me by child soldiers, terrorists and bandits. In none of those circumstances would being armed have increased my chances of being here today....
636 2012-12-31 Analysts and prospective buyers are preparing for horse trading to begin over the company's newspapers....
637 2012-12-31 As the Padmini taxi rolls into the sunset, a look back at its Mumbai manufacturer....
638 2012-12-31 The Apple TV set-top box can work with multiple iTunes accounts, as long as you have a recent Apple TV hardware and updated software for it....
639 2012-12-31 Housing advocates were largely unaware of the latest rounds of secret talks, which have been occurring for roughly a month. But some have criticized the government for not dealing more harshly with bankers in light of their lax standards for making and packaging them as investments, as well as their problems with modifying troubled loans and processing foreclosures.

A deal could be reached by the end of the week between the 14 banks and the nation’s top banking regulators, led by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency , four people with knowledge of the negotiations said. It was unclear how many current and former homeowners would receive money or when it would be distributed.

Told on Sunday night of the imminent settlement, Lynn Drysdale, a lawyer at Area Legal Aid and a former co-chairwoman of the National Association of Consumer Advocates, said: “It’s certainly a victory for consumers and could help entire neighborhoods. But the devil, as they say, is in the details, and for those people who have had to totally uproot their lives because of eviction it may still not be enough.”

In recent weeks within the upper echelons of the comptroller’s office, pressure was mounting to negotiate a banner settlement with the banks, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The reason was that some within the agency had started to realize that a mandatory review of millions of bank loans was not yielding meaningful examples of the banks’ wrongfully evicting homeowners who were current on their payments or making partial payments, according to the people.

Representative of banking regulators did not return calls for comment on Sunday.

The biggest action against the banks for foreclosure-related abuses has been the $26 billion settlement between the five largest mortgage servicers and the state attorneys general, Justice Department and the after allegations arose in 2010 that bank employees were churning daily through hundreds of documents used in foreclosure proceedings without properly reviewing them for accuracy.

The same banks in that settlement — , , , and — are included in the current negotiations.

Under the terms of the settlement being negotiated, $6 billion would come from banks to be used for relief for homeowners, including reducing their principal, helping them refinance and donating abandoned homes, the people said.

The proposed settlement would also halt a separate sweeping review of more than four million loan files that the comptroller’s office and the Federal Reserve required the banks undertake as part of a consent order in April 2011.

Under the terms of the order, the 14 banks had to hire independent consultants to pore through the loan records to determine whether the banks illegally charged fees, forced homeowners to take out costly or miscalculated loan payment amounts. Consultants initially estimated that each loan would take about eight hours, at a cost of up to $250 an hour, to go through.

The costs of the reviews have ballooned, though, according to people with knowledge of the reviews, in part because each loan file is taking up to 20 hours to review. Since its inception, the reviews have cost the banks about $1.5 billion, according to those people.

Pressure to reach a settlement with the banks has been building, particularly within the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, amid widespread frustration that the banks’ mandatory review of loan files was arduous and expensive, and would not yield promised relief to homeowners, according to five former and current banking regulators.

In private meetings with top bank executives, these people said, regulators have admitted that the reviews had gone awry. At one point this month, an official from the comptroller’s office said the agency had “miscalculated” the scope and requirements of the reviews, according to the people with knowledge of the negotiations.

When the settlement discussions heated up this month, some banking executives said they felt they would be vindicated by the regulators. These executives said that they had raised objections to the reviews early on, but those concerns were largely dismissed by regulatory officials, according to the people with knowledge of the negotiations.

Instead, officials from the comptroller’s office, these people said, have used the loan reviews as a negotiating tool, telling banks that they can either sign on to a large settlement or be forced to pay billions over several more years until the consultants finish the reviews.

When regulators approached the banks to broach a settlement this month, they met first with Wells Fargo and proposed that the banks pay $15 billion, according to the people familiar with the discussions. After negotiations, though, the regulators agreed to $10 billion.

All of the 14 banks are expected to sign on.
640 2012-12-31 Serena Williams joked that since the calendar still read 2012, she had to maintain this year’s dominant form. Opening her 2013 season Sunday, Williams needed 59 minutes to beat her fellow American Varvara Lepchenko, 6-2, 6-1, in the first round of the Brisbane International in Australia.

Williams won 31 of her last 32 matches during the 2012 season, including titles at Wimbledon, the Olympics, the United States Open and the WTA Championships. She was 58-4 over all.

The third-ranked Williams, winner of 15 Grand Slam singles titles, had minor toe surgery recently that forced her to withdraw from an exhibition in Thailand. But she moved freely throughout the match against the 21st-ranked Lepchenko.

¶ Venus Williams and John Isner led the United States to a 2-1 victory over South Africa at the Hopman Cup mixed team competition in Perth, Australia. Williams rallied to defeat Chanelle Scheepers, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. After Kevin Anderson beat Isner, 7-6 (0), 7-6 (5), the match came down to mixed doubles. Williams and Isner beat the South Africans, 6-3, 6-2.

Spain defeated France, 2-1, after Fernando Verdasco and Anabel Medina Garrigues won the mixed doubles against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Mathilde Johansson. (AP)
641 2012-12-31 Stoudemire said that he was still not as explosive as he would like to be and that he felt pain in his knee at certain points.

“I can do pretty much do anything, but it just feels sore when I do certain moves,” he said. “I don’t want to have that feeling because it forces me to overcompensate. I don’t want to have that problem.”

Stoudemire might have to deal with that issue regardless of how healthy he is. Coach Mike Woodson said Stoudemire, a six-time All-Star who has had three knee operations, might not get back to 100 percent.

“Just having him back in uniform is a plus when that time comes,” Woodson said. “He gives us another big that’s capable of scoring points and that can rebound the ball.”

Stoudemire will be asked to try to mesh with several of his teammates without the benefit of having practiced with some of them.

“I’ll try to put him in positions where he can find chemistry with his teammates,” Woodson said. “It might not come in practice. It might have to come in games, based on our schedule.”

Carmelo Anthony (hyperextended left knee) did not practice Sunday but did spend time shooting. The Knicks are listing him as day to day. ... Tyson Chandler (sprained right ankle) did not practice but was expected to play against the Trail Blazers. “I’m sure I’ll have Tyson for that game,” Mike Woodson said. ... Rasheed Wallace (stress fracture in his left foot) did not practice and was listed as day to day. Woodson said he was not sure if Wallace would practice Monday. ... Chris Copeland (bruised right hand) practiced, and iman Shumpert (left knee) did conditioning work. “He had a lot of pop in his step, but he couldn’t do any contact work yet,” Woodson said of Shumpert, who had surgery in May.

CLIPPERS 107, JAZZ 96 Jamal Crawford scored 11 of his 19 points in the fourth quarter and host Los Angeles beat Utah for its 17th straight win, becoming the third team in N.B.A. history to record a perfect month. The Clippers went 16-0 in December to join the 1995-96 San Antonio Spurs and 1971-72 Lakers as the only teams to go undefeated over a month. Caron Butler led the Clippers with 29 points. Al Jefferson scored 30 points to lead Utah. (AP)

SPURS 111, MAVERICKS 86 Tony Parker had 21 points and 9 assists, Manu Ginobili added 20 points and San Antonio handed host Dallas its sixth straight loss. Dirk Nowitzki had 8 points and was 3 of 9 from the field. Tim Duncan finished with 18 points, 10 rebounds and 3 blocks for the Spurs. Darren Collison scored 18 points to lead Dallas. (AP)

IN OTHER GAMES Isaiah Thomas scored 27 points as the Sacramento Kings handed the Boston Celtics their third straight lopsided loss on a California road swing, 118-96. Jason Terry and Paul Pierce scored 20 points each to lead the Celtics. ... Tayshaun Prince made two free throws with 10.9 seconds left to give Detroit a 96-94 victory over the Milwaukee Bucks after the Pistons squandered a 14-point lead at home. Prince finished with 20 points. Monta Ellis had 30 points and 9 assists for the Bucks. (AP)
642 2012-12-31 He has plenty of time to inquire. If three other results had also gone their way, the Giants (9-7) would have slipped into the playoffs at the last breath, but that longest of long shots was extinguished early on. Just moments after the Giants returned to their locker room — as guard Chris Snee ripped off his athletic tape and linebacker Mathias Kiwanuka headed for the showers — word came that the Chicago Bears had beaten the Detroit Lions, ensuring for the Giants that their season will be remembered for two atrocious performances in December instead of another surge in January.

“There’s always tomorrow,” safety Antrel Rolle said. “It just won’t be this year.”

The mood in the Giants’ locker room was not especially dreary, and there were no hushed tones or players blinking back tears. The library atmosphere one often finds after teams are eliminated was replaced by a typical postgame buzz. Some players even joked and bantered with one another. If anything, the overriding sentiment seemed to be one of acceptance.

The Giants knew their disappointing plight was self-inflicted. They were blasted in Week 15 by Atlanta and again in Week 16 by Baltimore, two disastrous losses in which their efforts bordered on incomprehensible. The formula for their demise was particularly jarring: the big-play offense produced no big plays. The vaunted defense accelerated its once-slow slide to mediocrity. And the coach, who is known for his ability to motivate, helplessly pushed whatever buttons he could find because the familiar ones seemed only to be making things worse.

All of it left the Giants in the uncomfortable position of relying on little more than hope. In the days leading to Sunday’s game, some players, including Justin Tuck, took to posting Twitter messages that quoted from Scripture about overcoming adversity and having faith. Coughlin lectured the team on restoring its good name. And during the game Sunday, much of the team — and plenty of fans — could be seen with necks craned and eyes planted squarely on the video boards that showed the out-of-town scores.

Early on, there was optimism, too, as the Giants jumped all over the Eagles (4-12) and the Lions stayed close to the Bears. Eli Manning threw three of his career-high five touchdown passes in the first quarter, and the Eagles, who spent most of the game looking as bad their record might indicate, never had a chance. Rueben Randle caught two of Manning’s scoring passes, and David Wilson, Ahmad Bradshaw and Victor Cruz also scored. Even fullback Henry Hynoski added the first touchdown of his career.

In the end, though, there was only this: none of it mattered.

“We got outplayed in Atlanta and in Baltimore and didn’t give ourselves a chance to win either game,” Manning said. “It hurts.”

Snee said: “It’s frustrating, and it will be for quite some time. I believe that we’re a better team than 9-7, but there is no ground to stand on. That’s our record, and the way we played the last two weeks, we don’t deserve to be in the playoffs.”

The players know there will be changes. There always are in the N.F.L., Kiwanuka said, “and in a year like this, you expect more than usual.” A significant overhaul to the coaching staff is not expected, though the defense, which entered the final week ranked 31st in the league, will surely be scrutinized.

General Manager Jerry Reese is expected to address reporters Monday, and his off-season path is clear. Some players with expensive contracts, like Tuck, may be asked to take pay cuts to free up salary-cap money for reinforcements. Others will be released. Veteran players like Bradshaw and Corey Webster might not return, and defensive end Osi Umenyiora has already said he does not expect to be back. He reiterated that Sunday, saying: “I’m happy to have been part of it all. If it’s the end, it’s the end.”

A few moments after he finished speaking with reporters, Umenyiora slipped on his coat and headed for the door. All around him, his teammates — at least for now — did the same. They had wanted to play well one final time together, had wanted to show once more that they were not as bad as they looked two weeks earlier.

“We wanted to show we still had our pride,” Kiwanuka said, and they did that. It just was not nearly enough.
643 2012-12-31 It’s unclear if the companies held their entire stakes until 2007, but most of the shares were still held by them or in affiliated companies.

In 2003, Ping An had a two for one stock split, meaning that all shareholders doubled their number of shares.

Controlled by the brother of Lee Shau Kee, the Hong Kong property tycoon who controls Henderson Land Development.

Partly controlled by relatives of Dai Xianglong, the former central bank chief who had oversight of

Owned by businesswoman Duan Weihong, and later partly by the relatives of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.